 Shaping the 
Connected World
ARM Holdings plc 
Strategic Report 2014 ARM works closely with many of today’s most innovative 
companies to create the technology that is shaping a 
more energy-efficient and connected world.
Our strategy is to develop and deploy energy-efficient 
technology; to enable innovation through a broad 
ecosystem of Partners, building on our shared success; 
and to create superior returns for our shareholders 
by investing in long-term growth.
Photo: Shanghai, China.
In 2014, the number of China’s internet users 
going online with a mobile device – such as a 
smartphone or tablet – overtook those doing so 
with a personal computer . 01
Governance and 
Financial Report
The Governance and Financial 
Report explains the way we 
operate, our approach to 
corporate governance, how 
we remunerate management 
and our ﬁnancial performance 
for 2014. 
Corporate 
Responsibility Report
The Corporate Responsibility 
Report outlines our approach 
to investing in sustainability and 
projects to enable more energy-
efficient technology, and how we 
attract and develop smart and 
innovative employees.
Investor Relations 
website
The Investor Relations website 
contains more information 
on what ARM does and how 
we connect with some of 
the world’s most innovative 
companies to shape the future 
of technology. Here you will ﬁnd 
our latest ﬁnancial results and 
recent case studies of ARM
®
 
technology in action.
ARM has designed its 201 4 reports to provide a comprehensive 
overview of the business. 
Overview
2014 reporting suite
Overview 
Non-ﬁnancial highlights 02 
Financial highlights 03 
Chairman’s overview 04
Vision 
CEO’s statement 08
Performance 
Our marketplace 16 
Our business model 20 
Strategy 22 
Key performance indicators 24 
Risk management 31
Commitment 
Our people 40 
Where we operate 42 
Corporate Responsibility 43 
Governance 46 
Remuneration 48
Financials 
Financial strategy 52 
Financial tables 58 
Glossary 60
How to use this document 
ARM’s Annual Report consists of two 
documents. The Strategic Report will give 
you a comprehensive and concise overview 
of the key information about ARM, and the 
Governance and Financial Report contains 
more details about our performance in 
2014. More information can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibility Report, and on the 
website at www.arm.com/ir.
Strategic Report
The Strategic Report contains information 
about the Group, how we make money 
and how we run the business. It includes 
an overview of our main markets, strategy, 
business model, key performance indicators 
and main areas of risk, and also our progress 
during 2014. The report also describes our 
approach to organisation and culture, and to 
governance and sustainability. It also includes a 
summary of our ﬁnancial strategy.
This Strategic Report has been approved by 
the Board of Directors.
A copy of the Governance 
and Financial Report can be 
downloaded from  
www.arm.com/reporting2014
A copy of the Corporate 
Responsibility Report can 
be downloaded from  
www.arm.com/reporting2014
The Investor Relations website 
can be found at  
 
www.arm.com/ir
Where to ﬁnd more:
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and Financial Report
Governance and  
Financial Report
ARM Holdings plc Corporate Responsibility Report 2014
Shaping corporate responsibility 
for a Connected World ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 02
Non-ﬁnancial highlights
ARM technology can be found in about 37% of 
the world’s smart electronic devices sold in 201 4
Our goal is to create a world 
of smart connected devices and 
services, all based on energy-
efficient technology, making 
life better for everyone.
Number of ARM licences signed 
91
121
110
121
163 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Shipments of ARM processor-based chips (bn) 
6.1
7.9
8.7
10.4
12.0 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Market share %
25%
28%
32%
35%
37% 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Investment in people number of employees
1,889
2,116
2,392
2,833
3,294 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
ARM’s market share grew 
to 37%. We retained 
our high share of chips 
into mobile devices, and 
increased penetration 
into key growth markets 
such as enterprise 
infrastructure and 
embedded intelligence.
In 2014, ARM Partners 
reported that they had 
shipped 12 billion ARM-
based chips, taking the 
total shipped to date to 
more than 60 billion.
ARM hired 461 net 
new employees in 2014. 
More than 50% joined R&D 
teams developing ARM’s 
next generation technology.
 1 ,1 98
37 %
 12 billion
+461 employees
At the end of 2014, ARM 
had signed 1,198 licences 
cumulatively with 389 
semiconductor companies. 03 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Financial highlights
Shaping a platform for growth
We create returns for our 
shareholders by investing in  
long-term growth opportunities.
Dollar revenues $
631.3
785.0
913.2
1,117.8
1,292.6 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Sterling revenues £m
406.6
491.8
576.9
717.8
795.2 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
IFRS diluted earnings per share pence
6.36
8.19
11.51
7.43
17.97 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Normalised diluted earnings per share pence
9.34
12.45
14.73
20.59
24.12 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Cash returns to shareholders £m
34.3
42.2
51.8
68.9
86.1 66.9
£m dividend /      £m buybacks
2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Normalised operating margin %
40.4
45.1
45.6
49.1
50.3 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
IFRS operating margin %
26.3
30.3
36.1
21.5
38.9 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Total cash £m
290.1
424.0
520.2
706.3
861.7 2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Dollar revenues
+16%
Full year dividend
7.02p
+23%
Between 2005 and 2008 ARM bought back shares worth 
£261 million. There were no buybacks from 2009 to 2013. 
Cumulatively ARM has returned more than £700 million to 
shareholders since 2004 through a combination of dividends 
and buybacks.
An explanation of “normalised” can be found 
at the beginning of the section “Our ﬁnancial 
strategy”, page 52. ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 04
Chairman’s overview
Creating the technology that shapes 
the connected world
Stuart Chambers
Chairman
ARM is the world’s leading semiconductor IP company. We develop 
and license technology that is at the heart of many of the digital 
electronics devices sold each year , from smartphones and tablets to 
sensors and servers. ARM’s microprocessor technology is helping to 
shape the world we live in as smart chips connect each of us to our 
friends, to our communities, to our work, and to our online lives. 
We have embraced the rapid pace of change in our digital world 
by developing technology that brings new possibilities to a globally 
connected population.
ARM is a fast-growing business in a dynamic 
and competitive market. In 2014 our customers 
reported that they had shipped 12 billion 
ARM-based chips, an increase of 16% on 2013. 
Just under half of those chips were shipped 
into mobile devices, including smartphones 
and tablets, where ARM has a high market 
share. An increasing number of chips were 
shipped into new markets, including enterprise 
networking infrastructure and embedded 
intelligent devices such as microcontrollers 
and chips for the Internet of Things.
There have been some challenges in 
2014. In the ﬁrst half of the year, inventory 
management in the consumer electronics 
supply chain led to a slowdown in the 
sale of chips, especially into smartphones. 
As the majority of ARM’s royalty revenues 
are generated from the sales of chips into 
consumer electronics, we saw slower royalty 
revenue growth in 2014 than in prior years. 
In this context, ARM has performed well. 
Group dollar revenues increased 16% and 
normalised diluted earnings per share by 17% 
(IFRS: 28%*). The Board has recommended 
an increase in the full year dividend for 2014 
of 23% and, during the year, approved the 
buyback of 7.9 million shares, demonstrating 
the Board’s conﬁdence in ARM’s long-term 
growth opportunities.
23% 
Full year dividend growth
28% 
IFRS diluted EPS growth*
17% 
Normalised diluted EPS growth
16% 
Dollar revenue growth
*Growth based on 2013 EPS before exceptional items. Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 05
The ARM team
The knowledge and creativity of our people 
and the ability to deliver customer satisfaction 
in an increasingly demanding and competitive 
environment are key determinants of 
our success. We hired net 461 additional 
employees, the majority of whom are 
engineers working in processor design and 
software development. These new hires were 
a mix of graduates and experienced talent from 
all over the world. 
Board changes 
In January 2014, ARM announced that Sir John 
Buchanan was stepping down from the ARM 
Board due to a medical condition. The Board, 
management and employees of ARM wish 
John well, and thank him for his contribution to 
the business. As for me, it is a privilege and a 
pleasure to succeed him as Chairman. ARM is 
an ambitious company with a great opportunity 
ahead of it and I am delighted to be part of 
the team.
In May 2014, ARM announced that Tim Score, 
ARM’s Chief Financial Officer, had decided to 
retire in May 2015. In his time as CFO Tim has 
been a key part of the team transforming ARM 
over the last 13 years. Tim joined ARM in 2002, 
and since the end of that year the company 
has grown normalised earnings per share at a 
CAGR of about 20%. On behalf of the Board, 
the management, and the wider ARM team, 
we thank Tim for his passion and service 
throughout this period of transformation.
Chris Kennedy has been appointed to succeed 
Tim Score as CFO, and will join the Board 
of ARM Holdings plc as a director once he 
has completed his commitments with his 
current employer.
Dr John Liu joined the Board on 1 December 
2014 as an independent non-executive 
director. John, a Chinese national, has many 
years of experience managing technology 
companies in Asia, particularly Greater China 
including Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd and 
Google Inc.
Two non-executive directors left the Board 
in 2014; Philip Rowley stepped down from 
the Board in May 2014 after serving his nine-
year term, and Eric Meurice stepped down 
in March 2014 in order to avoid a potential 
conﬂict of interest arising. We thank Philip for 
his hard work and diligence as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, and thank both 
Philip and Eric for their valuable contributions 
to Board discussions and decisions.
The above changes are consistent with our 
aim of having a Board of the right size and 
composition, and with the right balance 
of skills and expertise. Together we have 
continued to reﬁne ARM’s strategy for growth; 
to develop and deploy energy-efficient 
technology; to enable innovation through a 
broad ecosystem of partners, building on our 
shared success; and to create superior returns 
for our shareholders by investing in long-term 
growth. These investments are focused on 
our opportunities in the continuing growth 
of mobile devices, as well as networking 
infrastructure and the Internet of Things.
An expanding opportunity 
Finally, I would like to thank all of ARM’s 
employees for their effort and contribution in 
2014. I look forward to seeing how this exciting 
company, the technology it creates, and the 
broad ecosystem of semiconductor companies 
and supporting Partners, will shape the future 
for our increasingly connected world.
We have ensured that we have 
a Board of the right size and 
composition, and that the team 
has the right balance of skills 
and expertise.
More about people and culture on page 40
Read more in “Governance”, page 46 06 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 A new angle
3D Robotics develops innovative, ﬂexible and reliable 
personal drones and UAV technology for everyday 
exploration and business applications. The Pixhawk 
autopilot system is a complete solution for multi-
platform autonomous vehicles, based on the open-
source Pixhawk autopilot. It is powered by an 
STMicroelectronics STM32F427 MCU, featuring a 
ARM Cortex
®
-M4 microcontroller.
Find out more: 
3D Robotics drones were used in the ﬁlming  
of the adventure movie “Sugar Mountain”,  
released in November 2014. 
http:/ /goo.gl/2ldbYW
07 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
In this section:
CEO’s statement 08
rtex
®
-M4 microcontroller.
more:
tics drones were used in the ﬁlming 
venture movie “Sugar Mountain”,  CEO’s statement
Opportunities and challenges in  
an increasingly connected world
Fundamentally, we create technology that helps 
to make consumer and industrial electronics 
smarter, more capable and more energy-
efficient. We provide cost-effective processor 
technology that is deployed into the products 
that many consumers and businesses use every 
day. As these products sell in increasingly high 
volumes, they help drive ARM’s revenues. 
We can then invest in the development of 
new technology in order to generate superior 
returns for shareholders over the long term.
The ﬁrst ARM-based chips started to ship in 
1991, and by 2001, 1 billion ARM-based chips 
had been shipped. Today that cumulative 
number stands at over 60 billion, with 12 billion 
shipped in 2014 alone, up 16% on the previous 
year. Just under half of the chips sold by our 
customers last year went into mobile devices, 
and the remainder into a vast array of other 
end markets: digital TVs, cameras, white 
goods, WiFi routers, printers, disk drives and 
safety systems in cars.
08 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
One of the most asked questions by investors is: ARM has seen many 
years of fantastic growth, so how is it going to continue to grow from 
here? I believe that we have many opportunities ahead of us as mobile 
products become more capable; as more people in the world gain 
access to smarter devices; and also as ARM technology is increasingly 
used in a widening range of digital products from sensors to servers.
Today ARM has 1,198 processor licences signed 
with our Partners. Of the 163 that were signed 
in 2014, about a quarter are intended for use 
in mobile devices, so the other three quarters 
are helping to expand our opportunity into 
markets beyond mobile.
The past year was not without challenges. 
Sales of ARM-based chips into mobile devices 
and consumer electronics were impacted by an 
inventory correction, so our royalty revenue 
growth was less than we would normally have 
expected. These industry-wide inventory 
corrections occur from time to time, and this 
is the ﬁfth we have seen in the past decade. 
They have been relatively short-term, and 
it is important not to be diverted from our 
strategy. Careful management of our costs 
ensured that we were able to maintain our 
R&D investment plans whilst increasing proﬁts 
and cash returns to shareholders.
Over the next few pages I review some of 
ARM’s main opportunities and challenges 
and how we are responding to them.
2001: 1 billion ARM-based 
chips shipped
1 bn
2014: Over 60 billion  
ARM-based chips shipped
60bn
1991: 1st ARM-based  
chips started to ship 09
We develop technology 
that makes consumer and 
industrial products smarter , 
more capable and more 
energy-efficient.
Simon Segars 
Chief Executive Officer
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 10
T oday there are about 2 billion 
people who own a smartphone, 
and each of those smartphones 
contains at least one ARM-
based chip. 
CEO’s statement continued...
Mobile computing
Over the past decade the market for mobile 
phones has been transformed. The key 
selling point behind a mobile phone used to 
be the hardware, the physical phone itself. 
Consumers wanted to replace phones that 
use a grey-scale screen with a colour screen. 
They wanted phones which were thinner or 
lighter or had a longer battery life. Then, as 
mobile phones became smartphones, software 
and apps became the key differentiator. 
We now see apps stores with millions of apps 
from gaming to photography to productivity; 
there is an app for almost everything. Now, it is 
the service that is enabled by the smartphone 
that is important to many: improving ﬁtness, 
providing directions, ordering a meal, or 
booking a taxi.
We are already at the start of the next wave 
of mobile technology. In advanced economies, 
the smartphone is connecting to other devices 
such as smart watches and thermostats. 
This will extend the information and services 
available to you via your smart mobile device. 
Also, we are seeing the growth of LTE/4G 
networks which are dramatically increasing 
the bandwidth of network connectivity, and 
reducing the lag in communications. We expect 
that faster and more responsive networks will 
change the way we use smartphones, giving 
these devices the potential to be an even more 
essential part of our lives.
Of the 7 billion mobile subscriptions globally, 
only 2 billion are for smartphones. This is a 
huge opportunity for the industry as more 
people are choosing to upgrade from a 
basic phone to a smartphone. Many of the 
people using basic phones are located in the 
developing world, where only one in three 
people has access to the internet.* However, 
with lower-cost smartphones becoming more 
widely available, more people are now able to 
connect for the ﬁrst time.
Low-cost smartphones are being used in 
new and innovative ways to help alleviate 
local problems: 
 In countries where many people don’t have 
bank accounts, mobile phones are used to 
transfer money from phone to phone
 Low-cost peripherals can be used as a 
medical diagnostic tool that can help with 
health care in remote regions
 Educational material can be distributed 
electronically, either in written or spoken 
form, lowering the barriers to knowledge. 
We have seen examples where farmers 
have learnt how to improve the productivity 
of their crops and livestock, and parents 
have learnt how to prevent and treat 
childhood disease
The ongoing revolution in the use of mobile 
technology, in developed and emerging 
economies, is bringing new opportunities 
for creativity and innovation, based on ARM 
technology, which will help to shape a more 
connected world. 
* ITU Report “The World in 2014”
Xiaomi Smartphone 
The Xiaomi Redmi 1S smartphone is promoting 4G 
uptake in China by bringing Chinese consumers cost-
effective phones that are comparable to the world’s 
top smartphones. It is based on MediaTek
®
 MT6582 
SoC integrating an ARM
 
Cortex
®
-A7 CPU and an 
ARM Mali™-400 GPU. It was manufactured using a 
leading-edge 28nm processor, and has ARM TrustZone
®
 
technology support for system-level security.  11 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
With smartphones as an open 
platform, apps developers don’t 
need scale to start a business; 
they don’t need factories, 
distribution channels or global 
logistics. With mobile computing, 
you just need an idea. And we 
are seeing a similar trend in the 
Internet of Things (Io T).
In the same way that connecting mobile 
phones to the internet transformed how we 
communicate with each other and interact 
with our data, connecting other devices to the 
internet could further improve our lives and 
experiences. And this is the concept of the 
Internet of Things.
An IoT device may consist of several sensors, 
a microcontroller to monitor the sensors 
and a wireless chip to connect the device to a 
network. Today, the computer power needed 
to create an IoT device can be found in chips 
that are small enough to ﬁt into the dimple of a 
golf ball, cost only a few tens of cents and have 
a battery life that can last for months.
This has created the opportunity for truly 
ubiquitous computing. Many of the things 
around us can be connected to the internet, 
enabling us to control and interact with our 
environment in entirely new ways. Some of the 
ﬁrst IoT applications include:
 Managing irrigation systems to increase crop 
yields using less water .
 Remote medical monitoring for patients 
whilst allowing them greater freedom.
 Smarter cities supporting larger populations 
with less congestion. 
 Factories creating a greater variety of 
end products at a lower cost than mass 
manufacturing could ever achieve.
We are also seeing embedded intelligence 
enabling products to be used in entirely new 
ways. For example, footballs and basketballs 
are having location and spin sensors 
embedded within them to help athletes of 
all abilities improve their game – to bend the 
football into the goal, or hit the basket at the 
optimum angle.
The Internet of Things
The Arduino™ Zero is a simple and powerful ARM-
based Arduino development board. This board is based 
on the low-power and high efficiency of a 32-bit ARM 
Cortex-M0+ microcontroller powered by Atmel
®
 
SAMD21 MCU. The Zero board expands the Arduino 
family by providing increased performance to fuel the 
creativity of the maker community and beyond.
A new IoT product or service can be 
inexpensive to design and quick to bring to 
market. ARM and its Partners have worked 
together to create a suite of development 
boards, which can be combined with 
sensors and motors, to detect, control 
and communicate with almost anything. 
Combined with free software tools, and 
easy connectivity to a smartphone and 
cloud computing services, a prospective 
inventor can build a prototype for less than 
$100. This is encouraging a new generation 
of entrepreneurship and innovation that will 
change the world for all of us.
Connecting millions of IoT devices can be 
challenging and so in 2014 we announced the 
ARM mbed
TM
 IoT Device Platform that can 
connect and manage global networks of smart 
connected embedded computers. We will 
continue to invest in new technologies that 
enable the deployment of ARM-based chips. ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 12
Enterprise infrastructure 
At the end of 2014, more than 15 companies had licensed 
ARMv8-A technology for enterprise infrastructure 
applications. This market is a key growth area for ARM.
With more smartphones and 
tablets allowing everyone to 
create and access more data, 
faster and with lower latency, and 
with more Io T devices connecting 
and communicating across the 
network, we are witnessing a 
huge increase in the demands on 
mobile and wired networking 
infrastructure, all the way to the 
servers within data centres all 
over the world.
To meet these increasing demands, network 
operators are building a new generation of 
infrastructure with much greater capacity. 
To avoid an associated increase in electricity 
usage, they are choosing to use more 
energy-efficient chips for their base stations, 
switches and routers. This is creating 
opportunities for chips built using ARM’s 
most advanced technology, which can help 
deliver high performance with less energy than 
previous approaches.
We have already licensed our technology to 
nearly all the major semiconductor companies 
who are making chips for this market, and 
some of these chips are just beginning to 
ship into 4G and small-cell base stations. 
With our Partners, we are now working to 
ensure that there is an optimised software 
ecosystem to enable carriers and network 
operators to deploy their services easily on 
ARM-based networking equipment. Over the 
next few years we expect our market share in 
networking infrastructure to grow as more of 
our Partners start to ship ARM-based chips 
for networking infrastructure.
The ARMv8-A architecture has been the 
key technology to enable our Partners to 
gain share in servers. Processors based on 
ARMv8-A are able to manage very large 
amounts of data, can scale to a great many 
cores in a single chip, and support key server 
functionality such as error correction and 
acceleration for encryption. We started work 
on ARMv8-A in 2007, signed our ﬁrst licence 
in 2009 and saw the ﬁrst commercial chips ship 
into server applications in 2014. During 2015 
we expect several more companies will start to 
ship ARM-based server chips, and we may also 
see the ﬁrst large-scale server systems built. 
Competition
Our competition continued to be active in 
2014. There were new processors and chips 
announced by competitors, and they had 
new design wins and started new strategic 
initiatives. Some competitors are trying to win 
share in smartphones and tablets, and also to 
defend their share in markets where ARM’s 
technology is challenging them, such as in 
networking infrastructure and servers. 
ARM welcomes this competition – together 
with our Partners, we work hard to make 
our products as competitive as possible. 
During 2014, we saw our Partners introduce 
new technology based on ARM processors 
from the highest performance chips into 
servers and smartphones to low-cost, low- 
power chips for IoT. We have now signed 63 
licences with 38 companies for ARMv8-A 
technology, and in 2014 we started licensing 
two new ARMv8-A processors.
CEO’s statement continued...
Servers and networking infrastructure
ations. This market is a key growth area for ARM. 13 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Collectively, the ARM ecosystem is the 
strongest in the industry.
Developing the organisation
ARM has always taken a long-term view, as 
it can take many years for technology to go 
from an idea being discussed by one of our 
engineering teams to a design licensed to our 
Partners, and then to a chip, and then to an 
end-market product being shipped in millions. 
This long-term view inﬂuences how we invest 
in the business and how we develop the 
capability of the people who are at the heart 
of this business, and the tools and processes 
that support them. 
This long-term view does not prevent us from 
being nimble when new opportunities present 
themselves. For example, as we identiﬁed 
an opportunity to develop new products for 
the IoT, we formed a new team by combining 
a newly acquired company with parts of 
existing engineering and marketing teams. 
We were able to ensure that we had the right 
skills, technology, partnerships and industry 
connections to enable ARM to become the 
primary technology used in all of the IoT 
end markets.
Developing the ecosystem
ARM, its customers and a broader partnership 
of companies create an ecosystem of 
innovation and invention. It is critical to ARM’s 
long-term success that this ecosystem thrives 
and grows and adapts for the next generation 
of ARM-based technologies. For an original 
equipment manufacturer (OEM) to build 
a smartphone or a server or an internet-
connected sensor, they need technology from 
multiple companies to integrate together into 
a single end product. ARM and its ecosystem 
provide this technology from processor 
designs, to chip designs and manufacturing, 
to software tools and operating systems, to 
training and design services. 
As ARM technology enters new markets, we 
invest a lot of time and resources into bringing 
new companies into the ecosystem, and we 
help ensure that the relevant technology 
within the ecosystem works well together. 
We work with others within the ecosystem 
to establish standard speciﬁcations; we create 
not-for-proﬁt entities to enable technology 
collaboration to solve common problems; 
we use technology from multiple companies 
to build test chips and example products; 
and we share our technology plans with 
companies so we can align our plans for 
developing technology. 
ARM is continually investigating new markets 
and experimenting with new technologies to 
discover new opportunities to grow. Some of 
these new technologies will be extensions of 
our existing product portfolios, or we may 
be able to take our existing technology into 
new market areas. We may even get the 
opportunity to create a new technology in 
a brand new market.
We are now preparing for the next ten 
years of ARM’s growth. At the beginning 
of 2014 we reorganised the business, and 
combined all the divisions together into a 
single product development team. This is led 
by the President of Product Groups, who is 
responsible for developing all of our current 
product roadmaps. We have also recruited 
new executives into the positions of CIO, 
EVP People and General Counsel, and with 
the retirement of Tim Score, we will soon 
welcome Chris Kennedy as our new CFO.
I believe these changes will signiﬁcantly 
strengthen the ability of the business to 
deliver our current roadmap, and give us the 
ﬂexibility to explore new prospects and new 
directions, and together these will drive ARM’s 
opportunities for many years to come.
In addition, the whole company has placed 
emphasis on improving our agility and speed, 
and the effectiveness of the entire organisation. 
We have been asking: “How can this task 
be done faster and with higher quality?” and 
applying our culture of innovation to the way 
we do things.
Together we are creating an environment 
where it is easier to get things done, where 
information ﬂows and is easier to ﬁnd and 
share; where repetitive tasks are automated 
and where our collective brain power can 
be applied to the most value-add activities – 
innovating, thinking, listening, collaborating, 
learning from each other and partnering 
to build the most successful and strongest 
ecosystem the technology world has ever seen, 
and that will drive growth for years to come. 14 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 14 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 Supporting 
creativity 
everywhere
ARM is lowering the barriers to entrepreneurship by 
providing tools to create the next generation of ARM-
based devices. 
One of ARM’s undergraduate engineers designed a 
message board that connects wirelessly to a smartphone. 
This prototype took a few days to develop, and the 
components (excluding the phone) cost less than $100.
Visit www.mbed.org for  
low-cost development  
boards and libraries of  
free software.
15 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
In this section:
Our marketplace 00 
Our business model 00 
How we create value 00 
Strategy 00 
Key performance indicators 00 
Risk management 00
In this section:
Our marketplace 16 
Our business model 20 
Strategy 22 
Key performance indicators 24 
Risk management 31 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 16
Our marketplace
Where the market is now 
The semiconductor industry 
develops the chips that manage 
all of the world’s electronic 
devices. PCs, mobile phones and 
even modern washing machines 
have some form of chip providing 
their intelligence. Each generation 
of chip is typically smarter than 
its predecessor , enabling more 
capable and more efficient 
consumer and embedded 
products.
Overview of the semiconductor market 
Semiconductors, or silicon chips, are the 
electronic controllers that manage many 
of the digital devices that we use every day. 
Computers, mobile phones, televisions, 
washing machines and cars can contain many 
silicon chips. Also, many enterprise and 
industrial applications, from sensors to servers, 
are made smarter and more efficient by 
silicon chips.
The semiconductor ecosystem 
As consumer electronic products and industrial 
equipment have become more sophisticated, 
the chips that control them have become 
more complex and more costly to develop. 
The semiconductor industry has disaggregated 
into specialist companies that focus on each 
stage in the creation, design and manufacture 
of a silicon chip. This allows each company to 
invest and innovate in the area where they can 
add the most expertise in the value chain. 
Some companies specialise in designing the 
chip; other companies specialise in developing 
critical intellectual property (IP) components 
within the design; others in building the tools 
needed to manufacture the chips; others in 
the chip fabrication; and others in developing 
software, such as operating systems and apps. 
ARM works closely with all the leading 
companies within the semiconductor 
ecosystem to ensure that its technology 
works well with other companies’ products, 
that silicon chip designers can quickly build 
low-power and high-performance chips, and 
that OEMs can create complex programs using 
a combination of third-party and in-house 
operating systems and applications.
As silicon chip designs become more complex 
it is expected that the semiconductor industry 
will continue to license semiconductor IP . 
As the global leader, ARM is well-positioned 
to beneﬁt from this trend.
The market in 2014 
In 2014, approximately 65 billion silicon 
chips were manufactured.* Of these, some 
33 billion contained a processor. The processor 
is the brain of the chip, and controls not 
just the operation of the chip, but also the 
operation of the product that the chip goes 
into. ARM estimates that the total value of 
chips with processors sold in 2014 was about 
$80 billion, and that by 2020 the value of this 
market will have grown to about $120 billion. 
ARM processor designs were in 12 billion 
chips, a 37% market share. About half of the 
ARM-based chips went into mobile devices. 
Moreover, in recent years we have also 
started to gain share in important growth 
markets such as enterprise infrastructure and 
embedded intelligence.
Over the next few pages we look at the main 
markets for ARM’s technology.
*World Semiconductor Trade Statistics, January 2015 17 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Gionee P2S – low-cost phone
The Gionee P2S low-cost smartphone is based on a 
MediaTek
TM
 MT6572 SoC with an ARM Cortex
 
-A7 CPU 
and an ARM Mali-400 GPU. 
For many people, mobile computers, including 
smartphones and tablets, have become their 
primary device for sending emails, browsing 
the internet and engaging with friends on social 
networking sites. 
In 2014 most media attention was given to the 
premium end of the market, with launches of 
eagerly awaited new devices. These top-
of-the-range mobile devices introduce new 
features that often trickle down into mid-range 
and low-cost smartphones over subsequent 
years. Recently we have seen the introduction 
of larger screen sizes, better security and 
increased connectivity with 4G modems, 
cloud storage and local connections to 
health-related devices.
We also saw the introduction of very low-cost 
smartphones during the year, many costing 
less than $100 even without a subsidy, and 
some costing as little as $35. In emerging 
economies, phones at these low price points 
are connecting people to the internet for the 
ﬁrst time, especially in Africa, South America 
and some Asian countries. This is bringing new 
opportunities for better access to information 
and education, as well as entertainment. All of 
these low-cost phones need smart, low-power 
chips and this is expanding the size of the 
opportunity for our technology.
Progress for ARM in 2014
During 2014 many of the leading chip vendors 
announced that they were developing chips 
based on the latest ARMv8-A architecture. 
Companies including Qualcomm, MediaTek 
and Samsung announced plans to ship 
these chips either in late 2014 or early 2015. 
Several handset OEMs have introduced 
phones utilising ARMv8-A-based chips and 
we expect this technology to be deployed 
increasingly throughout 2015. ARMv8-A-based 
chips typically deliver a higher royalty than the 
previous generation.
2014 also saw the introduction of many 
chips using ARM’s big.LITTLE
TM
 technology. 
This places a high-performance processor 
alongside a high-efficiency processor, and 
allows each operating system task to be 
run on the processor best suited to the 
job. This enables OEMs to build extremely 
responsive devices with extended battery life. 
Mobile computing –  
connecting us to each other , and our data
All modern applications processor chips for 
smartphones and tablets contain a graphics 
processor. In 2014 ARM’s Mali™ graphics 
processor continued to gain share, especially 
in chips being used in the fast-growing market 
for mid-range and entry-level handsets. A Mali 
graphics processor can be found in over 75% 
of the application processors made by Chinese 
companies, and MediaTek started to ramp 
its Mali-based chips during 2014. In 2014 our 
customers shipped more than 550 million 
chips with Mali graphics, taking the cumulative 
number of Mali-based chips shipped to over 
1 billion.
ARM continued to see strong demand for its 
physical IP optimised for use with processors 
(POP IP), especially for mobile and consumer 
electronics. POP IP
TM
 enables a licensee 
to achieve high-performance, low-power 
processor implementations through specially 
optimised physical IP technology. During the 
year ARM signed 15 POP IP licences, including 
nine for our ARMv8-A processors and one for 
our Mali graphics processors. 
2014
$15bn
$25bn
2020
Mobile computing chip 
six-year forecast ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 18
Our marketplace continued...
Embedded intelligence – connecting billions  
of smart sensors into the Internet of Things
Many of the products and services we 
use every day are enabled by small smart 
microcontrollers or smartcards. For example, 
the control panels and electric motors in 
washing machines or elevators, the remote 
controls for TVs, and the chips in passports 
or credit cards. During 2014 the market for 
microcontrollers and smartcards grew 13% to 
18 billion devices. The average selling price of 
these chips was around 90 cents, which allows 
them to be integrated into low-cost products 
and make almost any device smart.
These tiny computers are also being 
combined with sensors and wireless 
radios, thereby adding new functionality to 
existing products and even creating entirely 
new types of products for consumers, 
enterprises, agriculture and infrastructure. 
Collectively these technologies are referred to 
as the Internet of Things (IoT). Although this is 
still a nascent market, it is expected to become 
very large. 
This large opportunity, combined with 
relatively low barriers to entry, is attracting 
many semiconductor IP companies who 
wish to compete for market share. ARM is 
well positioned for this market as we already 
have licensed our technology to many of the 
companies that currently sell microcontrollers.
Progress for ARM in 2014 
Over the past few years 200 companies have 
licensed ARM technology for use in these types 
of applications. ARM processors have the 
right balance of intelligence, size and energy-
efficiency for these tiny smart chips. In 2014 
a survey by Canalys indicated that about 80% 
of wearable devices sold contained at least one 
ARM-based chip. Our customers expect to 
gain high market share in other IoT applications, 
and there are now over 3,500 different smart 
sensor chips and intelligent microcontrollers 
available for IoT.
ARM is seeing an amazing amount of creativity 
and innovation across a huge range of markets 
as students and enterprises start to solve their 
problems using smart connected sensors. 
To accelerate this work, ARM and its Partners 
have provided low-cost development tools 
and online support, and have gathered a 
community of makers and inventors who are 
using ARM-based technology to create new 
products and solve long-standing problems.
There is much ongoing experimentation as 
companies and individuals seek to use smart 
connected sensors to solve age-old problems. 
Much of this experimentation is being 
enabled through development tools costing 
less than $20, and through easy connectivity 
with smartphone apps and cloud computing 
and storage.
During the year ARM announced several 
new products to help accelerate embedded 
intelligence products. ARM’s new Cortex
®
-M7 
processor delivers unprecedented 
performance for microcontroller chips. It has 
been licensed by ﬁve companies, including 
STMicroelectronics, which has already 
demonstrated working chips based on 
this technology. 
Our mbed IoT Device Platform includes a new 
product line for ARM: server software that 
enables companies to manage their networks 
of internet-connected devices.
ARM also announced another physical IP 
platform licence with a leading foundry at 
55nm. ARM now has physical IP agreements 
with four foundries at the 55nm node, the 
smallest geometry with general purpose 
embedded ﬂash, which is a requirement for 
many embedded and IoT applications.
The communication network of an electronic shelf label 
(ESL) system allows the price display to be automatically 
updated whenever a product price is changed. 
M2Communication’s turnkey ESL solution has been 
adopted by multiple stores with more than 6,000 labels 
applied, which provides superior performance in data 
transmission and ultra-low-power consumption. The 
access point, the router and 6,000 labels are all powered 
by ARM
®
 Cortex
®
-M0 based MCU from Nuvoton. They 
are expecting to have 250K labels applied in-store by the 
end of 2015.
2014
$15bn
$25bn
2020
Embedded intelligence chip 
six-year forecast 19 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Enterprise infrastructure equipment moves 
data around the world. It includes mobile 
phone base stations, WiFi hotspots in cafés 
and train stations, corporate networks, 
cable and satellite TV distribution, video-on-
demand servers and the entire data centre 
infrastructure that connects the internet 
together. Huge numbers of chips are needed 
within these systems and we estimate that 
there were about 1.5 billion chips sold for use 
in enterprise infrastructure in 2014, worth 
about $15 billion.
During 2014 many mobile operators 
continued to roll out their 4G/LTE networks. 
These networks are designed to handle the 
huge increase in data expected from the 
growing use of smartphones and tablets. 
Operators are creating more heterogeneous 
networks made up of macrocell base stations 
that provide coverage over wide zones, 
supported by small-cell base stations that 
boost data capacity in built-up areas. To make 
these complex network topologies easier to 
manage, operators are also deploying network 
function virtualisation systems that use server-
like technology to handle the huge amount of 
traffic generated by these networks.
Telecoms operators and data centre managers 
are now looking for lower power technology 
to better transport, distribute, analyse and 
store data across networks. This is leading to 
increased levels of innovation as companies 
manage the demand for faster data throughput, 
at constant energy loads. System-on-Chip 
designs based on ARM technology are well 
placed to provide lower power options for 
enterprise applications, such as servers and 
networking equipment.
Progress for ARM in 2014
Throughout 2014 there have been multiple 
announcements from ARM’s Partners.
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Applied 
Micro and Cavium announced that they were 
working on ARM-based chips for servers and 
core network applications. Applied Micro 
started shipping chips in Q2 2014; AMD and 
Cavium expect to have commercial chips early 
in 2015.
Leading server manufacturer, HP , shipped 
the ﬁrst ARM-based servers with chips 
from Applied Micro and Texas Instruments. 
PayPal gave details of how it is using those 
HP servers to detect signiﬁcant events 
(e.g. fraud) within payment data as it is 
collected in real time. 
With ARM-based servers becoming available 
in 2014, leading software companies Canonical, 
IBM, Oracle and Red Hat announced 
roadmaps to support ARM technology.
In 2014, ARM’s share of chips into networking 
infrastructure equipment was about 10%, 
up from 5% the year before. Many of these 
chips went into 4G base station equipment. 
4G mobile phone networks are based on a 
range of equipment from small cell, picocell and 
macrocell base stations to virtualised networks 
running in a server. This requires a wide 
variety of chips with different functionality and 
capabilities. By standardising these chips around 
the ARM architecture, network operators can 
simplify the development and maintenance of 
the software that runs on all these different 
types of chips.
These very complex chips are likely to be 
manufactured using the most advanced 
technology, and in October 2014, HiSilicon 
announced that it had manufactured the 
ﬁrst multi-core ARMv8-A-based chip using 
TSMC’s 16nm FinFET process. The chip 
contains 32 ARM Cortex-A57 processors, 
running at up to 2.6GHz, and will be deployed 
in next-generation wireless communications 
and routers.
Efficient enterprise infrastructure –  
moving more data, without using more energy
“With nearly 10 billion devices connected to the internet 
and predictions for exponential growth, we’ve reached 
a point where the space, power, and cost demands of 
traditional technology are no longer sustainable. HP 
Moonshot marks the beginning of a new style of IT that 
will change the infrastructure economics and lay the 
foundation for the next 20 billion devices. ”
2014
$ 15bn
$25bn
2020
Enterprise infrastructure chip 
six-year forecast ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 20
ARM is the world’s leading 
semiconductor intellectual 
property (IP) supplier . The 
technology we design is at the 
heart of many of the digital 
electronic products sold in 
the world. 
ARM has an innovative business model. 
We license our technology to a network 
of Partners, mainly leading semiconductor 
companies. Every licensee pays an upfront 
fee to gain access to our technology designs. 
They then incorporate our designs alongside 
their own technology to create smart, 
energy-efficient chips. ARM receives a 
royalty on every chip sold that uses one of 
our technology designs. Typically our royalty 
is based on the price of the chip.
Each ARM design is suitable for a wide range of 
end applications and can be re-used in different 
chip families addressing multiple markets. 
Each new chip family generates a new stream 
of royalties. An ARM design may be used in 
many different chips and may ship for over 
20 years.
Our business model
Business model 
Semi Co OEM
Ecosystem of Partners – creating products optimised for ARM technology
More efficient, effective consumer  
electronics and enterprise equipment
Industry and technology insight
Technology  
collaboration
Technology designs
Key
Product delivery
Knowledge and money
Smart chip
Licence fee
Royalty per chip
Future technology needs
Extraordinary  
people
Supply  
chain 21 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
How ARM creates value for its Partners
We design complex technology that would 
be expensive for our Partners’ R&D teams 
to develop. It is more cost-effective for 
our Partners to license the technology 
than develop it themselves. The design 
of a processor or a library of physical IP 
requires a large amount of R&D investment 
and expertise. In addition, the creation and 
development of an ecosystem of software 
and tools companies that support ARM’s 
technology and its licensees would be difficult 
to reproduce.
We estimate that a major semiconductor 
company would need to spend over 
$100 million each year to develop and maintain 
its own architecture. With ARM designing the 
architecture once and licensing many times, 
ARM is able to cover its own R&D costs and 
also reduce the cost for each semiconductor 
company. ARM’s Partners are then able to 
invest in the complementary technologies 
that go into a System-on-Chip. This leads to 
more choice in digital electronics for OEMs 
and consumers.
How ARM makes money
ARM endeavours to recover its costs from 
the licence revenues of each technology. 
Over the medium term, we expect ARM’s 
revenues and proﬁts to grow as our Partners 
design our technology into a broader range 
of end markets. Our customers include the 
world’s largest semiconductor companies and 
their regular royalty payments have become 
a reliable cash ﬂow.
How ARM creates value for its shareholders
ARM’s costs are largely people costs, and the 
majority of our people are R&D engineers 
working on future generations of technology. 
We will continue to invest in R&D, hiring more 
engineers and investing in productivity tools 
as new generations of technology become 
increasingly complex and costly to develop. 
We have relatively little capital expenditure, 
or other cash-intensive purchases, and hence 
our normalised proﬁts after tax convert to 
normalised cash generated, so the more proﬁts 
we earn, the more cash we generate.
ARM intends to return cash to shareholders 
over time through a growing dividend and 
buying back shares. 
ARM’s primary inputs and outputs
Inputs Outputs
Extraordinary people We are committed to hiring and developing some 
of the most innovative and imaginative engineers 
who, together with supporting teams, can develop 
and deploy next-generation processors and 
enabling technologies.
ARM technology designs
Licence fees and  
per-chip royalty 
Licence and  
royalty fees
ARM endeavours to recover the cost to develop 
each technology from each design’s licence fees. 
ARM balances the need for investment in new 
technologies with increasing returns to shareholders.
Returns to shareholders
Technology collaboration
Supply chain
ARM works closely with other companies within the 
semiconductor industry to share knowledge, align 
roadmaps and to develop compatible technologies. 
This ensures that our mutual customers are more 
easily able to build their products.
In 2014 ARM spent about £160 million on goods and 
services essential to our business operations. These 
were mainly costs related to essential business travel, 
property management, legal and accounting fees, 
and IT support and services.
Partners’ products 
aligned with ARM  
technology
Smoothly running  
global business
Industry insight and future 
technology insight
ARM monitors industry trends and shares these 
trends with other thought-leaders within the 
industry. This helps ensure that ARM’s technologies 
are suitable for chips going into future consumer 
electronics and enterprise equipment.
Next-generation  
ARM technology shaping  
a more connected world ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 22
ARM’s strategy is to develop 
and deploy energy-efficient 
technology; to enable innovation 
through a broad ecosystem of 
Partners building on our shared 
success; and to create superior 
returns for our shareholders by 
investing in long-term growth. 
 
We achieve this by gaining share 
in long-term growth markets; by 
increasing the revenue that ARM 
receives from each device; and 
by developing new technologies 
that can generate additional 
revenue streams.
Strategy and key performance indicators
Our strategy for long-term growth 
Our four growth drivers:
+
+
+
Increase value per smart device
Generate additional revenues from  
new technology
Invest in long-term growth
Gain share in long-term growth markets
Read more on page 27
Read more on page 28
Read more on page 29
Read more on page 24
ARM’s strategy may be impacted by the principal 
risks and uncertainties found on pages 31 to 37. 23 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Progress on strategy Key performance indicators
ARM has achieved over 95% market share 
of mobile handsets. As other end markets 
require smarter processors we expect 
ARM’s technology will increase its share 
of those markets.
As consumer products become smarter they 
often contain multiple ARM-based chips, 
including some with our latest technology, 
increasing our royalty opportunity. 
Smarter phones and TVs can generate 5–20 
times more royalty than a basic model.
ARM has introduced complementary 
technologies which we believe are suitable for 
R&D outsourcing and can command an upfront 
licence fee and an ongoing royalty.
ARM aims to create superior returns for 
shareholders by balancing investment in long-term 
growth opportunities with increases in proﬁts and 
cash generation.
Building the base of licences that will drive future royalties.
Growing the number of ARM-based chips.
Increasing share in target end markets.
Increasing the value that ARM receives for each smart 
device sold.
Developing and licensing new technology to generate  
additional revenue streams.
Investing in ARM’s people and systems. 
Growing normalised proﬁts, EPS,  
cash generation and dividends.
1467
89
Principal risks to strategy
1
1
5
2
4
6
34
7
7
5
7
Read more on pages 33–36
Read more on pages 33–36
Read more on pages 33–36
Read more on pages 35–37 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 24
Key performance indicator
Building the base of licences  
that will drive future royalties
Growth driver: 
Gain share in long-term 
growth markets
Every licence represents the opportunity for a 
future royalty stream. In recent years, ARM has 
added over 100 processor licences per year to 
its existing base of licences. In 2014, we signed 
163 processor licences, taking the licensing base 
to 1,198 licences. This growth in the number 
of licences signed is largely due to existing 
customers upgrading their ARM processor 
to the next generation; existing customers 
choosing to deploy ARM technology into 
another part of their product portfolio; and 
new customers taking their ﬁrst ever ARM 
processor licence. 
To maximise our share of end markets, 
our technology needs to be adopted and 
deployed by the leaders in each end market. 
ARM has made good progress in 2014 with 
58 companies already developing ARM-based 
chips deciding to license an additional ARM 
processor, and 38 companies deciding to use 
ARM technology for the ﬁrst time.
The future opportunity 
ARM expects that its customers will continue 
to re-equip their R&D teams with the 
latest processors for existing product lines. 
In addition, ARM’s technology is becoming 
increasingly relevant to markets such as 
enterprise infrastructure and embedded 
computing, leading to more new customers 
acquiring their ﬁrst ARM licence.
The Amazon Kindle Paperwhite brings 
together the pleasures of traditional 
reading with the convenience of 
e-reader technology. It is based on the 
Freescale i.MX 6SoloLite applications 
processor, which is powered by an 
ARM Cortex-A9 core.
Principal risks
12347
Read more on pages 33– 36
*Companies intending to use ARM technology
  in multiple end markets. 
Number of licences signed by end market in 2014
Embedded 39%
Mobile 27%
Enterprise 16%
Home 10%
Multiple* 8%
*Other includes architecture and subscription licences.
Number of licences signed by processor type in 2014
Classic 4%
Cortex-A family 27%
Cortex-R family 5%
Cortex-M family 47%
Mali 15%
Other* 2%
Number of ARM licences signed 
91
121
110
121
163
ARM signed 163 processor licences in 2014, taking the total number 
of processor licences signed to 1,198.
2014
2012
2011
2010
2013 25 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Key performance indicator
Growing the number  
of ARM-based chips
In 2014, ARM’s customers reported 12 billion 
chips shipped, a 16% increase over 2013. 
By comparison, the industry grew 4% in 
the equivalent period*. This demonstrates 
ARM’s increasing relevance to equipment 
manufacturers as they choose ARM-based 
chips over chips containing proprietary 
processor designs.
ARM’s total market share rose to 37%, up 
from 35% in the previous year. The mobile 
phone was the ﬁrst consumer electronic 
device where ARM-based chips started to 
be widely deployed. ARM’s Partners sold 
5.4 billion chips into mobile devices, driven 
by the growth in the number of smartphones 
and mobile computers.
ARM has seen rapid adoption of its processor 
technology into markets such as enterprise 
networking and microcontrollers. In 2014, 
ARM’s Partners reported that they had sold 
6.6 billion chips into non-mobile applications.
The future opportunity
ARM expects its unit shipments and 
royalty revenues to grow faster than the 
semiconductor industry as ARM continues to 
gain market share. Shipments of ARM-based 
chips are growing rapidly in microcontrollers 
as several major semiconductor vendors ramp 
into full production, and also in enterprise 
networking and energy-efficient servers.
Shipments of ARM processor-based chips (bn) 
6.1
7.9
8.7
10.4
12.0
Partners reported 12 billion ARM-based chips shipped in 2014, 
taking the cumulative number shipped to more than 60 billion.
2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Electric Imp™ provides an innovative and powerful 
platform that makes it simple to connect devices to the 
internet. Electric Imp’s proven WiFi-enabled solution 
has an ARM
®
 Cortex
®
-M3-based microcontroller 
featuring fully integrated hardware, software, OS, APIs 
and cloud services, which dramatically decreases cost and 
time to market.
* Source – WSTS, January 2015. Excludes memory  
and analog chips.
Image will be ﬁxed 
by retouching
Chip shipments by end market in 2014
Mobile 45%
Embedded 34%
Enterprise 16%
Home 5%
**Nearly all Mali graphics processors were in chips 
    containing a Cortex-A family processor. 
Chip shipments by processor type in 2014**
Classic 41%
Cortex-A family 19%
Cortex-R family 4%
Cortex-M family 36% ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 26
Key performance indicator
Increasing share in 
target end markets
ARM has either a high share or an increasing 
share in each of its key end markets including 
mobile phones, enterprise infrastructure 
and embedded intelligent chips. ARM has 
announced new technology developments 
that will enable our customers to improve 
their competitive position in each of these 
end markets.
Mobile computing 86%
For many years, smartphones and tablets 
have used ARM-based chips in most of 
the applications processors and baseband 
modems. Some laptops have shipped with 
ARM-based chips, and in early 2015 ARM 
introduced new processor designs that will help 
our customers to be even more competitive 
in laptops.
Enterprise infrastructure 10%
ARM has seen increased design activity in 
enterprise networking, with ARM’s market 
share in 2014 doubling over 2013. This is mainly 
due to ARM-based chips deployed into LTE 
base stations. With more design wins in mobile 
and wireline infrastructure, sales of ARM-based 
enterprise networking chips are expected to 
ramp gradually over the next few years. 
Embedded intelligence 24%
The microcontroller and connected sensor 
market is highly fragmented and OEMs 
are increasingly requesting that their 
semiconductor suppliers use a common 
processor architecture. ARM is often the 
choice as it is a suitable architecture that is 
available to all semiconductor suppliers, which 
will help our share continue to grow. 
The future opportunity
All of these target end markets have promising 
long-term growth prospects and ARM’s 
market share is either growing or is likely to 
be maintained at a high level. In addition many 
of ARM’s Partners have announced new 
products in these areas.
3G, WiFi or Bluetooth-connected 
Samsung Gear S keeps consumers 
connected, with or without a 
smartphone, featuring a 300mAh 
battery, 4GB memory, 512MB 
RAM and Tizen operating system. 
It is powered by the Qualcomm
®
 
Snapdragon™ 400, which is based 
on an ARM
®
 Cortex
®
-A7 CPU.
Market share
Mobile  
device*
Enterprise 
infrastructure
Embedded
intelligence**
2010 59% 0% 8%
201 1 71% 0% 15%
2012 78% 1% 18%
2013 85% 5% 19%
2014 86% 10% 24%
*  Main applications processor in a mobile computing device,  
including smartphones, tablets and laptops.
** Including microcontrollers and smartcards. 27 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Key performance indicator
Increasing the value that ARM receives 
for each smart device sold
Sales of chips into smart devices such as 
smartphones and high-end digital TVs generate 
higher royalty revenue than basic phones 
and TVs.
ARM’s royalty per device can increase as 
devices get smarter. Smarter devices may 
generate more royalty revenue because they 
may contain: more chips than basic models; 
more expensive chips than basic models; and 
more advanced ARM technology that can 
deliver a higher royalty per chip. 
During 2014, the total number of smartphones 
sold increased by about 20%*. We also saw 
sales of ARM-based mobile computers, such 
as tablets, grow to nearly 300 million*. 
ARM’s Cortex-A family (based on the 
ARMv7-A and ARMv8-A architectures) 
now has more than a 95% share of these 
smartphone application processors. Cortex-A 
processors typically command a higher 
percentage per chip royalty than previous 
ARM technology. Presently, only a small 
proportion of chips are deployed with ARM’s 
latest generation of processors based on the 
ARMv8-A architecture, or with ARM’s big.
LITTLE™ technology. Generally, both of these 
technologies result in ARM receiving further 
increases in the royalty percentage per chip.
The future opportunity 
ARM expects that consumer electronic devices 
will continue to become smarter and that they 
will incorporate more chips that could be ARM 
technology-based. ARM also expects that 
enterprise infrastructure equipment will start 
to use more highly integrated System-on-Chips 
which creates an opportunity for ARM’s most 
advanced technology.
In 2015, ARM expects multiple semiconductor 
companies will start to ship chips incorporating 
processors designed with its latest ARMv8-A 
architecture and big.LITTLE™ technology.
ARM typically receives more royalty revenue 
for a chip using an ARMv7-A-based processor 
than an ARMv6-based processor. And ARM 
typically receives an even greater payment 
for an ARMv8-A-based processor.
Growth driver: 
 Increase value per 
smart device
Principal risks
1457
Read more on pages 33–36
The MiTV 2 is a high-spec, great value 
smart TV designed by Xiaomi. It has 
a 49-inch screen, which supports 3D 
with 4K Ultra HD. This is based on a 
1.45GHz quad-core MStar
TM
 918 SoC 
integrating an ARM
®
 Cortex
®
-A9 
CPU and an ARM
®
 Mali™-450 GPU 
processor-based SoC.
Proportion of ARM’s latest architecture into 
smartphones**
2010 201 1 2012 2013 2014
ARMv6 50% 43%23% 6% 2%
ARMv7-A 50% 57% 77% 94% 89%
ARMv8-A 0% 0%0%0% 9%
*Gartner, December 2014. 
**ARM’s estimates based on customer royalty reports. ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 28
Key performance indicator
Developing and licensing new technology 
to generate additional revenue streams
Growth driver: 
Generate additional revenues 
from new technology
During 2014, ARM continued to develop new 
technologies that are suitable for licensing to 
semiconductor companies, and for generating 
additional royalty streams in the future. 
Multimedia IP for 3D gaming and HD video 
Many consumer electronic devices utilise 3D 
graphics and High-Deﬁnition (HD) video to 
improve the visual experience and make games 
more engaging. Mobile phones, digital TVs and 
computers are familiar and other applications 
such as in-vehicle infotainment, media players 
and navigation devices are emerging. 
During 2014, ARM signed 25 Mali multimedia 
IP licences, and leading technology companies 
such as Atmel and MediaTek announced 
computing, mobile and consumer devices 
incorporating chips based on ARM’s 
multimedia IP . During the year, our Partners 
reported shipping over 550 million chips 
containing a Mali graphics processor, up over 
35% compared with the previous year. 
Physical IP for advanced 
manufacturing processes 
ARM develops physical IP for use by leading 
semiconductor companies that manufacture 
chips using advanced manufacturing processes. 
ARM is the leading physical IP provider and 
is well placed as semiconductor companies 
increasingly outsource manufacturing to ARM’s 
foundry Partners. 
During 2014, ARM saw strong licensing, 
especially for advanced processes, signing nine 
foundry platform licences for ARM’s physical 
IP that will drive future royalty revenues. 
In addition, ARM signed 15 licences for POP 
IP (pre-conﬁgured physical IP components) 
which assists Partners in implementing ARM 
processors. Royalty revenue declined 6% year-
on-year due to some companies transitioning 
to the 20nm node, where ARM chose to 
develop a limited platform of technology as we 
expect companies to move rapidly to 16/14nm 
where ARM has a richer library of physical IP .
The future opportunity
With a growing base of customers just starting 
to sell their chips in high quantities, we expect 
that the number of chips enabled by ARM’s 
physical IP and Mali graphics technology will 
continue to grow in the future. 
Physical IP revenues ($m) 
41.3 43.8
49.2 48.7
52.2 56.2
65.3 63.8
60.2 83.9
Physical IP licensing/physical IP royalty.
2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Mali multimedia processor licences signed 
11
19
17
19
25
ARM signed 25 Mali processor licences in 2014, taking the total  
number of licences signed to 105.
2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Principal risks
1467
Read more on pages 33–36 29 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Key performance indicator
Investing in ARM’s people  
and systems
Growth driver: 
Invest in long-term 
growth
ARM specialises in designing innovative 
technology and developing a sophisticated 
community of Partners to bring that 
technology to market. Our people are our 
strength for designing the next generation of 
technology, delivering it to our customers, 
and for growing and maintaining the ARM 
partnership. ARM invests in our people 
through hiring a mix of graduates and seasoned 
industry experts, developing them and 
providing a supportive culture to maximise 
their capability and potential.
In 2014, ARM hired a net additional 461 people. 
The majority of our new hires were engineers 
to increase our research and development 
capability. Most of this investment was in our 
processor and multimedia engineering teams 
to take advantage of the opportunities for 
new ARM technology in servers, computing 
and 3D graphics.
As a result of this investment, normalised 
expenditure on research and development 
rose to £168 million in 2014, representing 21% 
of revenues and 13% growth year-on-year. 
Expenditure on research and development 
under IFRS was £224 million, representing 28% 
of revenues and 10% growth year-on-year.
ARM invests in the infrastructure our engineers 
need to develop and test complex technology, 
and to liberate and amplify the creativity of 
everyone in the organisation. In 2014, we 
commissioned a new data centre in Austin, 
which hosts some of our development tools 
and test software.
ARM’s investment in developing its people and 
infrastructure helps to create an environment 
where everyone can grow and excel, and be 
rewarded for their contribution. See page 40 
for more information.
The future opportunity
ARM expects to continue to invest in its people 
as we develop our engineering capability and 
operational execution. As ARM technology is 
designed into more end markets, we expect 
the business to generate more proﬁts.
Number of employees at year-end
1,191 1,889
1,382 2,116
1,652 2,392
1,987 2,833
3,294 2,370
Number of engineers/total employees.
2014
2012
2011
2010
2013
Our people are our strength for 
designing the next generation of 
technology, delivering it to our 
customers, and for growing and 
maintaining the ARM Partnership.
Principal risks
56789
Read more on pages 35–37 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 30
Key performance indicator
Growing normalised proﬁts, EPS,  
cash generation and dividends
ARM’s business model and exposure to 
structural growth markets mean that it is 
well positioned to grow proﬁts, to generate 
cash and to support a growing dividend. 
ARM intends to cover most of its operational 
costs from the licence revenues of each 
new technology. 
ARM’s ﬁnancial discipline focuses investment 
in areas of maximum opportunity such 
as the recruitment of more engineers to 
develop the next generation of technology. 
As our customers include the world’s largest 
semiconductor companies, their regular royalty 
payments have become a reliable cash ﬂow. 
Given our broad base of Partners and end 
markets, ARM is not overly reliant on any one 
company or consumer product for its future 
proﬁts and cash.
During 2014, ARM generated £340 million 
of cash. The increase in cash generation is 
primarily due to the increase in revenue. 
Since 2004, ARM has returned more than 
£700 million of cash to shareholders through a 
combination of share buybacks and dividends. 
In 2014 ARM increased the full year dividend by 
23% to 7.02 pence.
The future opportunity
Over the medium term, ARM expects to grow 
revenues faster than costs, whilst continuing to 
invest in R&D, and so continue to grow proﬁts, 
earnings per share and cash returns.
ARM’s key ﬁnancial growth metrics over the past ﬁve years
Dollar  
revenues
2010–2014 CAGR
Normalised earnings  
per share
2010–2014 CAGR
Normalised 
operating expenses
2010–2014 CAGR
Dividend per share
2010–2014 CAGR
Sterling  
revenues
2010–2014 CAGR
IFRS earnings  
per share
2010–2014 CAGR
IFRS operating  
expenses
2010–2014 CAGR
ARM receives over 95% of its revenues in US dollars. 
We have grown our US dollar revenues at an average 
of 20% over the past ﬁve years, including 16% in 2014. 
Sterling revenues grew more slowly in 2014 as the 
value of sterling strengthened compared with the 
US dollar.
ARM balances investment in the business with 
growing proﬁts.
ARM has continued to invest in R&D, developing new 
technologies and new products and services, which 
will help drive revenue growth for years to come.
Over the past ﬁve years the cash returned to 
shareholders via the dividend has increased at 
a 25% CAGR.
In 2014, ARM also initiated a limited buyback 
programme to offset any dilution from employee 
remuneration and bought back 7.9 million shares.
20 %
27 %
13 %
25 %
18 %
30%
13 % 31 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
ARM has a robust risk 
management process in place 
to identify key risks; assign 
ownership for each risk at 
a senior management level; 
identify both existing and planned 
management activities against 
each risk; assess the residual 
likelihood and impact of each risk; 
and ensure ongoing monitoring 
and reporting of each key risk.
Risk management
Identifying and managing risks 
At a strategic level, our risk management 
objectives are to:
 Identify ARM’s most signiﬁcant strategic and 
operational risks
 Develop plans to manage the risks identiﬁed, 
with a clear owner assigned to each risk
 Ensure that business growth plans are 
properly supported by an effective risk 
management infrastructure
 Help executives improve the control and  
co-ordination of risk taking across 
the business
 Ensure that ARM’s assurance activities are 
focused on the organisation’s key risks
Strategic risks are managed through a number 
of regular forums where key risks are discussed 
and existing management activities challenged. 
These include regular sessions with both the 
Board and senior management.
Operational risks are managed in accordance 
with the ARM Management System (AMS), 
which deﬁnes key policies and processes 
across the organisation. ARM has a number 
of processes in place to provide assurance 
on compliance with the AMS.
Risk review process
Strategic and operational risks are identiﬁed, 
prioritised and reported on within the 
Corporate Risk Register (CRR). The CRR 
includes a description of the overall risk, 
the risk factors, the risk owner and the risk 
management activities, including operational 
and oversight activities as deﬁned in the “three 
lines of defence” model. Residual risks are 
assessed in terms of likelihood and impact and 
mapped onto a Risk Heatmap. Further risk 
mitigation plans are deﬁned to reduce the 
residual risk if judged necessary. Risk mitigation 
plans are managed within the relevant 
objectives of the Group’s operations and 
functions. Risks are identiﬁed through senior 
management discussion (top down) and regular 
reporting from every part of the business 
(bottom up). 
The CRR is monitored by the Risk Review 
Committee, chaired by Mike Muller, Chief 
Technology Officer. The Risk Review 
Committee meets on a quarterly basis to 
review the CRR. Each risk owner is required 
to review and demonstrate that risks are 
being appropriately managed. A more detailed 
explanation of the Risk Review Committee’s 
activities is included in the Governance and 
Financial Report 2014 on pages 25 to 26. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
overseeing the risk management framework 
and ensuring that the risk review process 
is operating effectively. The Executive 
Committee and the Board review the CRR 
on a regular basis.
Internal audit assurance
ARM’s internal audit function develops an 
annual audit plan to provide assurance that the 
risk management activities identiﬁed to mitigate 
risks are designed and operating effectively 
and that corrective action is being taken 
where necessary.
ARM’s principal risks and uncertainties
ARM’s strategy is to develop and deploy 
energy-efficient technology; to enable 
innovation through a broad ecosystem of 
Partners, building on our shared success; and 
to create superior returns for our shareholders 
by investing in long-term growth. ARM’s 
principal risks may impede ARM’s progress in 
executing this strategy. The table on the next 
page shows ARM’s principal risks and which 
element of the strategy each could impact. ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 32
Strategic risks Primary strategic areas affected Change in 2014
A change in the industry business dynamic 
may lead to loss of market share and/or 
reduction in value of IP
A competitor’s product or technology may 
lead to loss of market share
ARM may face challenges managing its 
business in new geographic markets
ARM’s technology may not meet customer 
requirements in the future
Signiﬁcant concentration in our customer 
base may increase the risk to ARM’s growth 
ambitions
ARM’s current people, processes and/or 
infrastructure may not be adequately scalable 
to meet our growth ambitions
We could suffer signiﬁcant damage to our 
brand and reputation
ARM may have to defend itself against third-
parties who claim that we have infringed their 
proprietary rights
Fundamental assumptions that underpin 
ARM’s valuation may be undermined, leading 
to a sudden depreciation of share price
1
4
7
2
5
8
8
3
6
9
Gain share in long-term growth markets
Increase value per smart device
Generate additional revenues from new technology
Investing in long-term growth
Not materially changed
Risk materially increased
Risk materially decreased
Key
Likelihood
Impact
LOW
LOW
MEDIUM
MEDIUM
HIGH
HIGH
6
5
3
1
4
2 9
Risk management continued...
7 33 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
A change in the industry business dynamic may lead to loss  
of market share and/or reduction in value of IP
We work in the highly competitive and fast-moving semiconductor industry. Many companies 
within this industry are well resourced and may consider processor and physical IP as attractive 
markets for them to enter. Start ups and open source technology initiatives could develop 
alternative ways for companies to design their chips. The cost of developing software is 
increasing in many end markets, which may also result in new technologies that might not suit 
ARM’s current product portfolio or skill set. We may not be able to adapt to these changes, 
resulting in a loss of market share.
Mitigation
ARM has over 380 Partners, and more 
than 1,000 companies in its ecosystem. 
Each company utilises ARM technology in 
parts of their business, and we meet with 
leading companies within our industry 
and related sectors to discuss their 
business context and strategy. ARM is well 
positioned to detect any change within 
the semiconductor industry and act 
accordingly. ARM’s management team 
reviews our strategy and our long-term 
product development plans to test that we 
are developing the technology to meet the 
future needs of the industry.
Change in 2014
ARM has gained share in key markets such 
as enterprise infrastructure and the Internet 
of Things, and retained a high share of 
application processors in smartphones and 
tablets. Competition from well-ﬁnanced 
companies has continued, and has gained 
some share in the tablet market.
1
A competitor’s product or technology may lead to loss  
of market share
ARM faces competition both from large semiconductor companies and from smaller IP companies. 
Intel is developing x86-based processors for use in PCs and servers, and is looking to deploy these 
chips in markets such as tablets, mobile phones and embedded markets, including the Internet 
of Things. There are many small semiconductor IP companies competing with ARM, especially 
in emerging markets, such as the Internet of Things where there are lower barriers to entry. 
Any success by our competition would result in a reduction in royalty revenue to ARM. 
Mitigation
ARM works closely with leading semiconductor 
companies who together have a long history 
of developing cost-efficient, low-power chips. 
It has developed into a highly competitive 
market and OEMs have enjoyed a wide choice 
of chips with different capabilities and pricing. 
ARM’s established ecosystem includes many 
software and chip design engineers who 
understand how to build ARM-based chips and 
write software optimised for ARM processors. 
ARM invests in this ecosystem to help further 
reduce the total cost of developing and 
maintaining a portfolio of ARM-based chips.
Change in 2014
During 2014, ARM’s Partners announced 
advanced new chips based on our latest 
ARMv8 processors for a wide range of markets 
including smartphones, tablets, consumer 
electronics, enterprise networking and servers. 
Competitors have announced new alternative 
processors and chip designs. In 2014, these 
have seen limited adoption in smartphones, 
and some adoption in tablets. Longer term they 
may be able to increase share in both markets.
2 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 34
Risk management continued...
ARM may face challenges managing its business  
in new geographic markets 
Chinese semiconductor companies have become responsible for an increasingly signiﬁcant 
proportion of ARM’s revenues, and we expect that proportion to continue to grow. India has 
had a strong semiconductor presence for many years, although revenues from that region are 
smaller. ARM has little knowledge and experience of the markets in Russia, South America and 
Africa, which have different political and regulatory cultures to the markets in which we are 
established. In these regions, local governments are supporting and funding local technology 
companies, which could give rise to new competitors and new markets.
Mitigation
ARM has well-established processes for 
product speciﬁcation and development, and 
we work with thought-leaders within various 
industries to ensure our technology is suitable 
for next-generation digital products. We spend 
some of our R&D budget on long-term 
programmes to investigate how new scientiﬁc 
developments might impact the industry, and 
how technologies in adjacent markets might 
impact ARM and our ecosystem.
Change in 2014
ARM’s latest processor architecture is now 
widely adopted, and in 2014 was deployed 
in consumer electronics and enterprise 
infrastructure products. ARM introduced 
several new products during the year, all 
of which licensed within expectations. 
We continued to track marketplace 
developments by working with thought-leaders 
within the industry, and in adjacent markets.
ARM’s technology may not meet customer  
requirements in the future
The technology industry is characterised by rapid change, as new innovation continually improves 
the way that chips are designed and manufactured, how they are deployed by OEMs and how they 
are used by consumers. A change in the end market that does not favour ARM or our business 
model could occur, requiring ARM to either change its investment approach or risk losing share. 
Either way, ARM could become less proﬁtable in the future as a result of such a market change.
3 4
Mitigation
ARM has had offices in both China and India 
for many years, and 22% of our workforce is 
split between these two countries. 
We have regional development offices to 
support the other regions, and combined 
with regular visits by management, we track 
opportunities and meet local decision makers. 
Change in 2014
ARM grew its headcount in Asia (including 
India) by 15% in 2014, and opened a 
CPU design centre in Taiwan to work on 
technology for the Internet of Things. 
Industry regulators in some regions have 
become more actively engaged with domestic 
and foreign technology companies which can 
have uncertain outcomes. 35 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
5
Signiﬁcant concentration in our customer base may increase  
the risk to ARM’s growth ambitions
Changes in technology trends and/or economic conditions may cause further consolidation of 
companies in the semiconductor sector, thereby reducing the number of customers that ARM 
may sell its technology to and potentially making ARM more dependent on a smaller number 
of customers. Any change to the product plans of a major customer may have an impact on 
the technology that ARM was developing, and so result in both additional costs and a delay 
in revenues. 
Mitigation
We have licensed our processor technology 
to over 380 Partners, about half of whom are 
now paying royalty revenues. Much of our 
royalty and licence revenues are generated 
by the top 20 semiconductor companies. 
ARM typically develops multiple processors 
each year, reducing the impact of a customer 
deciding not to license a particular product.
Change in 2014
In 2014, we saw consolidation amongst 
some of our customers through acquisition 
in consumer electronics, networking 
and microcontroller markets, and saw 
some companies exit the mobile market. 
This consolidation has resulted in fewer, 
larger customers, and so an increase in the 
level of potential risk. 
In 2014, 65% of ARM’s revenue came from 
our top 20 customers, down from 68% 
in 2013. ARM signed 38 new customers 
mainly in fast-growing markets such as 
microcontrollers and the Internet of Things.
ARM’s people, processes and/or infrastructure may not be 
adequately scalable to meet our growth ambitions
We have grown our headcount rapidly over the last few years, as we have hired more engineers 
to develop the next generation of processors and the supporting technology that our customers 
need. If this growth rate continues we may ﬁnd our existing organisational structure, culture 
and infrastructure cannot be adapted to meet the greater number of staff.
Mitigation
Our multi-year planning process includes 
product development reviews alongside long-
term investment plans for recruitment, training, 
facilities and IT. We also hold regular surveys 
of employees to measure job satisfaction and 
engagement levels across the organisation, and 
in sufficient detail to identify early problems 
with speciﬁc teams, locations or departments.
Change in 2014 
ARM hired net 383 engineers and 78 
supporting staff in 2014, and we extended our 
office in Taiwan to include more development 
capability. During the year, we undertook 
an efficiency and effectiveness programme 
which took a detailed look at each team and 
made sure that we had the correct skill set and 
capability in each area. 
6 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 36
Risk management continued...
We could suffer signiﬁcant damage to our  
brand and reputation 
ARM’s technology is used in billions of consumer and enterprise products, many of which are 
depended on by individuals and businesses, and are used to store, manage or transmit huge 
amounts of personal, conﬁdential or proprietary information. A fault or bug associated with one 
of ARM’s products could damage ARM’s corporate reputation and lead to a loss of brand value. 
ARM technology is becoming increasingly complex, which could increase the likelihood of a fault 
or bug.
Change in 2014
In 2014, ARM opened a new data centre in 
Austin, Texas, which will be used to increase 
the testing capability of the Company, so 
that we can better detect and ﬁx bugs before 
delivery to customers.
Mitigation
ARM continues to invest in the veriﬁcation and 
validation of its technology. ARM has rigorous 
quality assurance and veriﬁcation and validation 
processes to reduce the risk of faults or bugs. 
ARM regularly gathers feedback from its 
customers and Partners to determine whether 
the perception of ARM is changing, and ensure 
that corrective action can be taken early if 
customers are becoming less satisﬁed with our 
products or behaviour. 
ARM may have to defend itself against third-parties who  
claim that we have infringed their proprietary rights
Whilst we take great care to establish and maintain the integrity of our products, we may have to 
protect our intellectual property or defend our technology against claims that we have infringed 
others’ proprietary rights. From time to time, third-parties may assert patent, copyright and other 
intellectual property rights to our technologies. Any claim brought against us or our licensees 
could result in substantial costs and we may be bound to indemnify our licensees under the terms 
of our licence agreements.
Mitigation
We focus on designing and implementing 
our products without the use of intellectual 
property belonging to third-parties, except 
under strictly maintained procedures and with 
the beneﬁt of appropriate licence rights. In the 
event that a third-party successfully proves 
that it has intellectual property rights covering 
a product that we have licensed to customers, 
we will take steps to either purchase a licence 
to use the relevant technology or work around 
the technology by developing our own solution 
so as to avoid infringement of that third-party’s 
intellectual property rights. 
Change in 2014
In 2013, ARM was part of a consortium 
of companies that acquired rights to the 
patent portfolio of MIPS Technologies Inc., 
which removes the potential risk of future 
litigation from those patents. In early 2014, 
ARM acquired the patent portfolio outright. 
ARM is involved in no major patent suits at the 
time of writing.
8 7 37 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Fundamental assumptions that underpin ARM’s valuation may  
be undermined, leading to a sudden depreciation of share price
ARM’s valuation is based on the ﬁnancial markets’ view of our growth opportunity and the 
value of ARM’s assets. Revisions to assessments of our future markets could impact estimated 
cash ﬂows. Changes to assumptions about the value of ARM’s assets, including goodwill, could 
lead to the impairment of certain of ARM’s assets. 
Operational risks
In addition to the strategic risks, ARM closely manages its operational risks. Many of these relate 
to the execution of the day-to-day running of the business including, but not limited to: 
Mitigation
At least once each year, we present to the 
ﬁnancial markets the latest forecasts on the 
growth of the semiconductor industry and 
ARM’s view of our opportunity to win share 
within that market.
Change in 2014 
In addition to our quarterly results, ARM 
hosted two investor days during 2014 
which gave updates on our progress in new 
markets such as the Internet of Things and 
enterprise networking. The content of these 
events can be found on the ARM website at 
www.arm.com/ir.
 Efficient development of new technology
 Patenting new ideas and inventions
 Effective project and 
programme management
 Exploration into new business opportunities
 Managing the ecosystem of companies 
that support ARM technology
 Ensuring that the business is able to operate 
its systems and processes, and is able to 
quickly recover from any failure
 Ensuring that the business has adequate 
protection against cyber-attack
 Timely recruitment and training 
of employees
 Management of conﬁdential information and 
commercially sensitive data
9
Mitigation
As previously described, operational risks 
are managed in accordance with the ARM 
Management System which deﬁnes key 
policies and processes across the organisation. 
All employees are required to review 
these policies and processes annually, and 
training is provided when new procedures 
are introduced.
Change in 2014 
ARM instigated a number of programmes to 
improve the efficiency of ARM technology 
development, and to make the business more 
agile when serving our customers. ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 38 39
In this section:
Our People  42 
Where we operate  44 
CSR   45 
Governance  48 
Renumeration  50
39 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Connecting 
people to 
their data
SimPrints Biometric Scanner will help improve the 
lives of people living in regions with poor infrastructure 
by accurately linking people to their digital records in 
the delivery of mobile services such as health care, 
microﬁnance, and aid distribution. This advanced prototype 
is powered by a Freescale Kinetis KL0x low-power 
microcontroller based on an ARM Cortex-M0+ processor. 
In addition, a low-cost mbed board from Freescale, the 
FRDM-KL05 which is also based on an ARM Cortex-M0+ 
processor, is used in the manufacturing process to upload 
software into the scanner’s microcontroller.
Find out more: 
www.simprints.com/ our-technology
In this section:
Our people  40 
Where we operate  42 
Corporate responsibility 43 
Governance  46 
Remuneration  48 40 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
ARM’s people are our strength for designing the next generation 
of technology, delivering it to our customers, and for growing 
and maintaining the ARM partnership. Our business relies on the 
intelligence, skills and abilities of these highly talented individuals and 
teams whose creativity and ideas keep ARM the world’s leading 
designer of semiconductor IP . As a result, ARM requires a high-
performance, high-engagement organisation where everyone can 
challenge and encourage each other to reach their full potential. 
The organisation works to “Enable the Extraordinary” and ensure 
that ARM provides a world-class work experience, attracts the best 
people and facilitates their effective engagement with each other . 
By focusing on the three components of capability, culture and 
connection, we help ARM become an increasingly successful business.
Our people
Shaping the organisation that is  
connecting the world
Jenny Duvalier
EVP People
ARM’s people strategy:
Enabling the Extraordinary
We strive to enable the extraordinary 
through a comprehensive people strategy 
that includes:
 Capability Securing our leading position 
for the future by growing the capabilities 
of our people 
 Culture Delivering a working experience 
that gives our people a reason to 
choose to invest their time at ARM, 
every day
 Connection Inspiring and enabling our 
people to connect with one another , 
and create innovative technologies
Gain share in long-term growth markets
Increase value per smart device
Generate additional revenues from new technology
Investing in long-term growth
Key 41 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Engagement
ARM’s success is dependent on a highly engaged and productive 
workforce. ARM regularly conducts an engagement survey and 
action planning process that provides an opportunity for the 
business to respond to feedback about the working experiences 
of our people. In 2014, 82% of the organisation completed the 
survey; of those, 92% stated they are proud to work at ARM. 
By comparing our results with similar organisations globally, we 
found that ARM outperformed the average for other high-
technology companies and scored similarly to market-leading 
companies from a range of sectors.
For 2015 we will go beyond traditional measures by providing 
feedback on whether our work environment supports 
productivity, and whether it can maintain it for the long-term. 
A multi-faceted approach will allow us to sustain our position 
as a high-performance, high-engagement organisation.
ARM Values
The current set of ARM Values articulate the behaviours which 
we seek to demonstrate in delivering our work; the Values form 
an integral part of our performance management process. 
ARM has grown rapidly over the years; we have more people, 
in more countries and across more technology areas. In 2015, 
through collaboration and consultation with colleagues 
across ARM, we will re-articulate our Values as a set of 
core beliefs about ourselves. ARM’s identity is part of our 
organisation’s unique essence, supporting our strategic intent, 
our propositions to customers and colleagues, and providing 
competitive advantage. 
Events
ARM’s business requires frequent collaboration with 
technologists across a wide range of disciplines, which we 
facilitate through regular international events. The Global 
Engineering Conference is attended by one in ﬁve of ARM’s 
engineers and provides an opportunity to knowledge-share, 
problem-solve and network with colleagues. The Global 
Graduate Conference taught 170 graduates the skills needed 
to make a smooth transition from academia to business.
ARM’s success relies on strong external relationships. 
Every August, about 600 customers attend the ARM Partner 
Meeting to improve collaboration and their responsiveness to 
changing market conditions. In October, 4,000 developers from 
across our ecosystem assembled for the 10th ARM TechCon 
event. From industry-leading companies to start ups, TechCon 
provides a learning environment for developers and engineers 
who are creating products around ARM’s technology.
TeamARM
The ARM corporate responsibility (CR) programme is 
focused on four areas: education, health, the environment and 
local communities. 
TeamARM is the employee engagement element of ARM’s CR 
approach. Its objective is to encourage employees across our 
offices globally to raise money and give their time to beneﬁt 
local communities and wider society. This helps our people build 
rapport with each other and develop an emotional connection 
to the business. Introduced during 2014, TeamARM entitles 
everyone in the business to a minimum of one volunteering 
day per year, and we aim to reach 20% participation in the 
programme in 2015.
Hiring the best people 
ARM’s headcount has doubled in the last ﬁve years. This growth 
continued in 2014 as net total headcount grew by 461, or 16%. 
We look to hire the best and brightest individuals who have 
the capacity to innovate, invent and create new products and 
designs that will shape our future. 
We invest in our employees by hiring a mix of graduates 
and seasoned industry experts, developing them and 
providing a supportive culture to maximise their capability 
and potential. A signiﬁcant graduate intake (169 in 2014) is 
a fundamental component of ARM’s recruitment practices 
as it is an investment in the Group’s future and enables 
internal succession. 
ARM also engages with young people before they leave 
education by participating in STEM (science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics) initiatives globally and offering 
opportunities for shorter-term work experience. This robust 
pipeline of talented individuals is vital for our continued growth.
Developing the best people
To sustain our position at the vanguard of the industry, ﬁnding 
and attracting the best people is not enough; we must also 
provide a ﬂow of attractive and rewarding opportunities for 
their development and progression. We invest signiﬁcantly 
in helping people develop their potential through activities 
such as coaching, mentoring and on-the-job learning, as well 
as structured programmes covering technical, functional 
and leadership skills. This is supported by e-learning and our 
internal TV channel, ARM TV, which hosts regular educational 
content and news about the business with nearly 300 videos 
uploaded during the year. In 2014, about 10,000 training days 
(60%/40% internal/ external) were delivered to maintain a 
culture of constant growth and ensure our world-class people 
remain extraordinary.
More about Team ARM in our CR Report 
www.arm.com/reporting2014
Capability 
Strengthening the organisation,  
teams and individuals
Culture  
Giving our people the best  
working experience 
Connection 
Enabling colleagues to engage with  
each other , and with ARM 42 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
Where we operate
Our global presence
employees in  
18 countries
3,294
of the world’s population 
used an ARM-based 
product in 2014
>80%
ARM-based chips were 
reported as shipped 
globally in 2014
12bn
The majority of ARM’s revenues are earned from semiconductor 
companies that are based all over the world. These companies sell 
their ARM-based chips to OEMs building consumer electronics, 
which are also based in all major economies. The OEMs sell 
their products to consumers and enterprises in every country. 
ARM’s royalty revenues are derived from the chips in these OEM 
products, and ARM therefore beneﬁts from the growth in all 
economies and countries around the world. Demand for consumer 
products has been growing rapidly, especially in emerging markets 
such as Brazil and China.
ARM has 35 offices in 18 countries. These offices both support 
local customers and also beneﬁt from the skills and knowledge 
that have developed in certain regions. For example, our engineers 
in Scandinavia are specialists in multimedia technologies such as 
video and graphics processing. During 2014 ARM opened offices 
in Budapest and Dublin, and expanded its engineering activities 
in Hsinchu, Taiwan.
ARM is listed on the 
London Stock Exchange and 
NASDAQ in New York 
389 
processor licensees in  
20 countries 43 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
As ARM’s technology increases in 
use around the world, connecting 
people with their environment 
in new and exciting ways, so 
ARM’s corporate responsibility 
(CR) programme expands its 
reach and impact. Inspired by 
ARM’s business model, the CR 
programme operates through 
multiple strategic partnerships. 
We support transformative 
projects through a combination 
of ARM technology, the ARM 
ecosystem and our people’s skills.
Our approach to corporate responsibility takes 
into account our most material sustainability 
issues and is shaped by our engagement with 
a wide range of stakeholders, including our 
customers, the companies that make up the 
ARM ecosystem, our employees, our local 
communities and wider society.
In 2014 we began a stakeholder engagement 
programme. This process is continual, but 
work carried out across all aspects of the 
business has already reﬁned our understanding 
of our stakeholders’ areas of greatest interest. 
This understanding has helped us to update 
and simplify the four focus areas of ARM’s CR 
programme: education, health, environment 
and communities. More information can be 
found on page 45.
Corporate Responsibility
Connecting the ARM Partners 
to shape a better world
Further information and 
detailed case studies can 
be found in our separate 
CR Report and reporting 
supplement. These are 
available for download 
from www.arm.com/ 
reporting201 4.
Code Club 
Code Club supports volunteer programmers working 
with primary schools to run clubs that provide an 
opportunity for children to learn how to code. The clubs 
are free for children to attend and for schools to host. 
Code Club brings together volunteers with teachers, 
schools and venues and provides course materials and 
projects to be used in the club sessions. The projects 
teach children how to program by showing them how to 
make computer games, animations and websites. ARM 
has been a leading sponsor of this organisation since its 
inception and will continue to support Code Club as it 
expands its coverage throughout the UK. 44 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
Our main principles are:
 Building an ecosystem. This allows 
ARM and its Partners to achieve more 
than they could if operating alone. 
By developing a shared purpose with 
our CR Partners, we deliver a bigger 
impact at lower costs
 Working with other experts in their 
ﬁelds. Our projects are informed by 
robust evidence and are driven by the 
advice and experience of specialists
 Encouraging collaboration amongst 
Partners through promotion, facilitation 
and funding. This enables ARM and our 
CR Partners to deliver the best solutions 
in the best possible way, supporting 
replicable open-source models
 Innovation and creativity from ARM 
and our CR Partners enables us to 
tackle complex problems where 
solutions are not obvious nor have 
an established precedent
Performance highlights in 201 4
Our involvement with member organisations 
such as the United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC) ensures that we are working 
closely with our industry peers and other 
leading global businesses, keeping in touch 
with emerging issues and opportunities. 
ARM is represented on both the Global 
Compact LEAD and UK network’s advisory 
boards. LEAD is a group of 50 multi-nationals 
selected out of over 10,000 UNGC members 
because of their history of engagement and 
commitment to corporate responsibility.
We are always looking for ways to improve our 
systems and processes so that we remain at the 
forefront of developments and trends in CR. 
As a result, and taking into account feedback 
from stakeholders, we have begun a variety of 
internal projects to improve our systems and 
processes and to improve our reporting. 
As an IP company, we don’t have an extensive 
supply chain of raw materials coming into the 
business. However, we do purchase a wide 
range of goods and services from over 900 
suppliers. During 2014 we began a process to 
better understand this supply chain. This year 
we are reporting some high-level data and 
during 2015 we will expand our understanding 
to address supply chain sustainability.
Another signiﬁcant advance we have made this 
year has been the adoption of KPIs relating to 
each of the four CR focus areas. These allow 
us to measure performance, and ensure 
that our objectives stay aligned with ARM’s 
strategic vision. Most importantly, these 
new measures test that we are continuing to 
deliver our CR strategy effectively and we are 
communicating transparently.
Measuring the impact
During 2014 we spent time working with 
our CR Partners to develop an approach to 
measure and report on the performance of 
the CR strategy. The primary objective is to be 
able to determine the impact of projects using 
a transparent, simple and credible method. 
We have adopted a three-tiered approach to 
measuring and reporting project performance. 
This expands upon guidance published by the 
London Benchmarking Group (“From Inputs 
to Impacts, 2014”). We will be rolling out this 
approach to all of our major CR Partners 
in 2015.
Corporate Responsibility continued...
ARM’s four strategic principles of 
Corporate Responsibility
The CR strategy is inspired by the 
ARM business model delivering 
stronger , long-term charitable 
partnerships and ensures that 
clear beneﬁts are delivered back 
to the business.
Gain share in long-term growth markets
Increase value per smart device
Generate additional revenues from new technology
Investing in long-term growth
Key 45 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
The focus areas that matter to us
Education
Our education programme seeks to inspire 
the next generation of engineers. We have 
established a connected education programme 
with our charity CR Partners that takes young 
people on a journey of learning from the age 
of nine through to university where the role of 
CR overlaps with our recruitment activities. 
This programme operates on a local, national 
and international scale. For example, we 
support national projects in countries where 
we have offices, but we also support projects 
to enhance learning opportunities in some of 
the poorest countries in the world.
During 2014 we continued to deliver great 
results through our collaborative project with 
Villiers Park, Smallpeice Trust and Arkwright 
Scholarships Trust. This four-way partnership 
is delivering a connected programme taking 
talented young people from the age of 14 
through their core learning and exams and 
into university. This programme complements 
other initiatives we are supporting that are 
designed to inspire young people towards 
a STEM career. These include projects such 
as Code Club, a UK national scheme which 
is designed to teach coding to children aged 
between 9 and 1 1. The Design our Tomorrows 
programme is another excellent example 
where ARM is partnering with experts at the 
University of Cambridge Faculty of Education 
to develop teaching materials for schools. 
These practical curriculum guides are designed 
to encourage innovation, engineering and 
design for ages 10–14 and use social topics 
such as care for the elderly, food production 
and conservation to demonstrate the design 
and application of technologies such as sensors 
and IoT. The materials have been designed 
speciﬁcally to engage more girls in the subject 
whilst remaining just as interesting to boys.
At a worldwide level, in September 2014 we 
became a Founding Partner of the Global 
STEM Alliance. This partnership was founded 
by the New York Academy of Sciences 
with the objective of “empowering the next 
generation of scientiﬁc Innovators”. Over the 
next year we will support the Academy to 
assess how their work can help ARM’s UK 
Partners and how some of the projects we 
are working on might be scaled up to deliver 
global beneﬁts. The Global STEM Alliance also 
offers our people the opportunity to support 
students all around the world. 
Health
We believe that ARM technology and 
expertise can make a signiﬁcant contribution 
to improving access to affordable health care. 
Our projects range from supporting health-
focused technology start up businesses and 
marrying them with an established charity such 
as UNICEF or USAID to deliver impact on 
a global scale.
Examples of projects that have demonstrated 
signiﬁcant potential during 2014 include the 
collaboration between the Oxford Centre 
for Affordable Healthcare Technologies and 
SimPrints, who have developed an affordable 
and robust way of linking people with their 
medical records. SimPrints started life at 
an ARM-sponsored Humanitarian Centre 
hackathon in 2013 and won the Cambridge 
University Entrepreneurs competition. 
SimPrints also won a prestigious Saving Lives 
at Birth award in 2014 to fund ﬁeld trials and is 
now partnering with Johns Hopkins University 
and BRAC (a Bangladeshi development 
organisation) to take its product to Bangladesh.
Environment
Taking a responsible approach to the 
environment is good business practice as 
well as essential in helping the world to tackle 
climate change issues. ARM has a low impact 
on the environment in relation to the size 
of its business but we strive to improve our 
environmental reporting and performance. 
In addition to minimising our direct emissions, 
ARM technology can play an important role in 
reducing global emissions by enabling greater 
efficiencies in areas such as factory automation 
and building control. In addition to this, our 
technology is at the heart of new strategies 
that will deal with other environmental and 
resource challenges such as the management  
of energy grids and water resources. 
Progress towards our 2020 targets for reducing 
carbon emissions and energy consumption 
slowed in 2014 due to a growth in employee 
numbers and the size of our global estate. 
Since the end of 2009 we have achieved a 
16% reduction in carbon intensity relative to 
headcount against a target of delivering a 30% 
reduction by 2020. Over the same period, our 
energy intensity based on kWh per employee 
has decreased by 16% against a target of 
15%. Our 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) score improved from 75% to 82% for 
disclosure at performance level C.
Our communities
How we engage, respect, support and work 
with all our communities is a vital aspect of 
our business. This includes how we engage not 
only with our people within ARM but also with 
the local communities surrounding our offices 
around the world.
Our communities are not limited to where our 
people work and live. Our CR programme is 
global and we are contributing to projects that 
increase access to technology for the billions 
of people who currently do not beneﬁt from 
the social empowerment and wellbeing that it 
can bring. 
Looking forward
Our CR projects help tens of thousands of 
people each year and we want to do more. 
In 2015 we will continue to improve our 
communication about the vital impact the 
projects we support are having but we will also 
start to show how we can move from helping 
thousands of people to improving the lives 
of millions. 
Our full CR Report, prepared in accordance 
with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 
guidelines at the comprehensive level, 
describes how we are going to do this and 
gives many case studies and examples. See  
www.arm.com/reporting2014. 46 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
Corporate governance framework 
The Group’s corporate governance framework 
is built around three pillars:
 Organisation, structure and process
 The internal control framework
 Independent assurance
Having a well-deﬁned governance framework 
and operating with integrity in all we do is vital 
to maintain the trust of investors, customers, 
our employees and other stakeholders. The  
Board is keenly aware of its responsibility 
to provide leadership, operate with 
transparency and promote ethical behaviour 
and collaboration throughout the Group. 
We seek to nurture a working environment in 
which the highest standards of behaviour are 
established, demonstrated and maintained in all 
our activities.
Last year for the ﬁrst time we created the 
Annual Report as two documents, and 
following positive feedback from shareholders 
and other interested parties in 2014, we 
are continuing this approach. This Strategic 
Report contains an update on ARM’s progress 
during the year, an outline of our approach 
to governance and summary ﬁnancial results. 
The separate Governance and Financial Report 
gives more detail on governance at ARM and 
our full accounts. We welcome any further 
feedback and you can contact us via the 
Investor Relations website at www.arm.com/ir.
Directors and succession planning 
The Board reﬂects a balance between 
technology sector, commercial, ﬁnancial 
and general business skills, with a highly 
experienced international team leading the 
business in both executive and non-executive 
roles. There are well-deﬁned differences in 
roles between the executive and non-executive 
directors. Their combined contributions as 
an experienced and healthily diverse Board 
add value to the debate, decision making and 
development of strategy that are so crucial to 
the Group’s success. 
 International capability was extended in 2014 
by the appointment of John Liu to the Board 
on 1 December 2014. He is based in China 
and has extensive experience of operating in 
the burgeoning Asia technology sector
 We were also very pleased to identify Chris 
Kennedy as our new Chief Financial Officer . 
He has more than 20 years of international 
experience in senior ﬁnancial roles, most 
recently at easyJet plc where he has served as 
Chief Financial Officer and a member of the 
Board since 2010
The Nomination Committee is developing 
candidate briefs for further searches for 
independent non-executive directors with 
appropriate skills, experience and diversity to 
complement our existing Board members and 
maintain, collectively, an effective Board. 
The roles and speciﬁc expertise of the current 
members of the Board are set out in the 
“Biographies” section of the Governance and 
Financial Report.
Governance
Governance at ARM
ARM is committed to good 
corporate governance, 
corporate responsibility and 
the highest ethical standards 
in all we do. 
Patricia Alsop 
Company Secretary 47 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Diversity
The Board currently comprises three executive 
directors, the Chairman and ﬁve independent 
non-executive directors. At the year-end there 
were seven men (78%) and two women (22%), 
which broadly reﬂects the gender diversity 
of ARM’s workforce as a whole. In terms of 
location, one of the non-executive Board 
members is located in the USA, one is based 
in China and the remainder are in the UK.
Development of strategy
The Board’s work on deﬁning our short- and 
long-term strategic priorities at this important 
stage in the Group’s development is receiving 
increased focus. A detailed strategy review 
was undertaken in September 2014 and the 
next in-depth strategy meeting is scheduled for 
April 2015. This meeting will focus on progress 
since the September meeting and future plans 
to take advantage of the opportunities that 
have been identiﬁed. These opportunities are 
in areas that include the Internet of Things, 
efficient networking, ARM-powered servers 
and security applications. 
The Executive Committee develops and 
implements the strategy approved by the 
Board. It also ensures that the risks identiﬁed 
through the business planning process, 
particularly corporate-level risks, are managed 
and mitigated as far as is possible. 
Biographies of the Executive Committee 
appear on the Group’s website at 
www.arm.com.
Ethics and values
All employees are required to act fairly, 
honestly and with integrity, and to conﬁrm each 
year that they have read and understand the 
Group’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, 
a copy of which is published on the corporate 
website at www.arm.com. The Group has 
signed the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and has adopted a speciﬁc Human Rights 
Policy within our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics. This is in addition to our existing 
policies on conﬂict minerals, business ethics, 
discrimination and export controls.
The Group’s ethos and culture is also 
enshrined in ARM’s three core beliefs, which 
were reviewed and refreshed during 2014 and 
guide how our people behave and make the 
decisions that deliver our vision and strategic 
goals, now and in the future. The objective is 
to encourage teamwork, drive innovation and 
creativity, and help everyone within the Group 
to reach their full potential.
Corporate responsibility
Full details of our CR strategy and 
achievements can be found in the main CR 
Report at www.arm.com/reporting2014 and a 
summary of highlights from the year is included 
in the CR section of this Strategic Report.
Investor relations
The Board makes considerable efforts to 
establish and maintain good relationships 
with shareholders and the wider investment 
community. There is regular dialogue with 
institutional investors during the year, except 
during close periods. The main channel of 
communication continues to be through the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer and the VP of Investor Relations. 
The Chairman, the Senior Independent 
Director and the other directors are available 
to engage in dialogue with major shareholders 
as appropriate. Contact details for the investor 
relations team can be found on the inside back 
cover of this report.
Remuneration
ARM’s remuneration policy, which was 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting, seeks to align the interests 
of executive directors, senior management 
and shareholders, and is structured to enable 
the Group to attract, motivate and retain the 
talent required to deliver the business strategy. 
The approved policy is included at the end of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the 
Governance and Financial Report. 
The Board is cognisant of the general sensitivity 
relating to executive director remuneration. 
We are committed to the principle that 
there should be no reward for failure. 
We believe that the increased emphasis on 
long-term performance-related pay, longer 
holding periods and increased shareholding 
requirements are appropriate and ensure 
that ARM’s remuneration policy does not 
encourage inappropriate risk taking. This was 
implemented through the Long Term Incentive 
Plan approved by shareholders in 2013 and 
operated for the ﬁrst time in 2014.
Diversity of the Board
Men 78%
Women 22%
Diversity of managers
Men 89%
Women 11%
Diversity of the Group
Men 84%
Women 16% 48 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
Total directors’ pay
In line with ARM’s long-standing commitment 
to ethical values and culture, our aim is to 
ensure that remuneration policies and practices 
drive behaviours that are in the long-term 
interests of the Group and its shareholders. 
Pay for performance and no reward for failure 
continue to be key principles. At the same time, 
pay and beneﬁts must be at a level that will 
attract, retain and motivate high-calibre people 
with the skills necessary to achieve our goal of 
sustained growth in corporate performance.
We operate in a global market, with the 
majority of our revenues being earned from 
companies located outside the UK and with 
more than half our employees being based 
outside the UK. The Group’s continuing strong 
performance is due principally to the proven 
abilities of our executive team.
Linking pay to ARM’s strategy and KPIs
ARM’s directors are remunerated by base 
salary, conditional awards under the Long 
Term Incentive Plan and by a performance-
related bonus. 
The Group’s strategy, key performance 
indicators and progress towards them are 
described in more detail on pages 22 to 30 
of this report. The adoption of revenue and 
normalised operating proﬁt as performance 
measures for the bonus targets demonstrates 
alignment of executive reward with our 
strategic goals.
KPIs and linkage to bonus targets
Single ﬁgure remuneration
The table below sets out the total remuneration received by each executive director relating 
to 2014.
Executive director
Total amount  
of salary  
£
All taxable 
beneﬁts 
£ 
Bonus 
payments 
£
Money and 
other assets 
receivable 
for periods of 
more than one 
ﬁnancial year
£
All 
pension-related 
beneﬁts 
£
Total
£
Simon Segars 2014 515,000  154,655 280,826 1,277,508 56,024 2,284,013
Simon Segars 2013 400,000 73,186 543,454 1,207,360 44,000 2,268,000
Tim Score 2014 427,450 27,004 211,896 1,825,432 45,481 2,537,263
Tim Score 2013 415,000 26,031 599,374 1,727,783 44,156 2,812,344
Mike Muller 2014 293,550  14,924 146,019 1,259,822 33,112 1,747,427
Mike Muller 2013 285,000 14,940 403,718 1,193,633 32,148 1,929,439
Total 2014 1,236,000 196,583 638,741 4,362,762 134,617 6,568,703
Total 2013 1,100,000 1 14,157 1,546,546 4,128,776 120,304 7,009,783
This table has been audited by the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Explanation of single ﬁgure remuneration
The single ﬁgure remuneration table provides details of pay and beneﬁts earned by a director in 
respect of the particular calendar year. Not all of the remuneration is paid in that year.
Remuneration 
Aligning remuneration with strategy
Gain share in long-term growth markets
Increase value per smart device
Generate additional revenues from new technology
Investing in long-term growth
Key
 Revenue  
Grow ARM’s business by winning 
market share, attracting new 
customers and entering new markets
 Normalised operating proﬁt 
Generate increased returns 
for shareholders 49 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
For the ﬁrst half of 2013, Simon Segars’ salary 
was £300,000. Following his appointment as 
CEO on 1 July 2013 his salary increased to 
£500,000, resulting in an average for the year of 
£400,000. From 1 January 2014, his salary was 
increased by 3% from £500,000 to £515,000.
All the executive directors receive family 
health care and annual travel insurance as to 
part of their beneﬁts in kind. In addition, Tim 
Score has the use of a company car with fuel 
beneﬁt and Mike Muller receives car and fuel 
allowance. Simon Segars received £143,332 
(2013: £61,283) for living, transportation and 
other allowances as part of his placement in 
the US.
The bonuses earned during 2014 were paid 
in full in February 2015. The 2013 bonus was 
awarded under the former Deferred Annual 
Bonus (DAB) Plan (which operated for the last 
time in respect of performance in 2013) and 
50% was deferred and will become payable in 
shares after three years.
The money and other assets receivable for 
periods of more than one ﬁnancial year are the 
amounts received by directors on the vesting 
of shares in February 2015. These shares were 
awarded in February 2012 under two schemes: 
the Long Term Incentive Plan and the matching 
element of the former DAB Plan. The amounts 
received are included in the single ﬁgure 
remuneration for 2014 since the performance 
periods for these schemes both concluded 
in 2014.
Share prices applicable to grant and vesting 
of share awards:
February 2012 – 568.0 pence 
February 2013 – 924.5 pence  
February 2014 – 896.0 pence 
February 2015 – 1,087.0 pence
2015 fees
Fees paid to the Chairman and the standard non-executive director fee will remain at the same 
level in 2015 as for 2014, as will the additional fee paid to the Senior Independent Director. 
The Committee Chairman’s fee will increase from £16,000 to £20,000 per annum. This is 
believed to more fairly reﬂect the workload undertaken by Committee chairmen.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive directors in respect of 2013 and 2014 and 
proposed to be paid in 2015 are set out below.
Director
 Total proposed fee 
201 5  
£
 Actual fee 2014  
£
 Actual fee 201 3  
£
Stuart Chambers (appointed 27 January 2014) 400,000 338,333 –
Andy Green* 60,000 64,000 55,000
Larry Hirst 80,000 76,000 55,000
John Liu** (appointed 1 December 2014) 60,000 5,000 –
Janice Roberts** 60,000 67,592 61,399
Kathleen O’Donovan 96,000 92,000 70,000
Eric Meurice (retired 31 March 2014) – 20,000 27,500
John Buchanan (retired 1 May 2014) – 76,897 390,000
Philip Rowley (retired 1 May 2014) – 20,230 70,000
*  A one-off additional fee of £4,000 was paid to Andy Green in 2014 for attending ARM Asia Advisory Group meetings to reﬂect the 
additional time commitment.
**  Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who are based outside the UK and travel to the UK for Board meetings 
as follows: Janice Roberts £2,500 per meeting, John Liu £2,000 per meeting. This is to reﬂect their additional time commitment.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are not eligible to participate in bonus 
or share incentive arrangements. Their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other 
beneﬁts, and no element of their fees is performance-related. 50 50 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 51 51 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Innovating in 
the data centre
In 2014, leading server manufacturer, HP , shipped the ﬁrst 
ARM-based server systems with chips from Applied Micro 
and Texas Instruments. With ARM-based servers now 
available, leading software companies Canonical, IBM, 
Oracle and Red Hat announced roadmaps to support 
ARM technology.
PayPal has developed a unique approach for analysing 
real-time server data and producing organised, intelligent 
results. They used a Texas Instruments (TI) 66AK2Hx 
processor that integrates eight c66x DSP cores and four 
ARM Cortex-A15 cores using TI’s KeyStone™ II architecture 
running in HP’s Moonshot server platform. With this 
system, PayPal is able to correlate thousands of event 
streams and analyse 3 million transactions every second, 
totalling 25 terabytes in data every hour. This analysis can 
then be used to detect fraud, system glitches and other 
anomalous events.
Find out more: 
http:/ /goo.gl/PRA635
In this section:
Financial strategy 52 
Financial tables 58 
Glossary 60 52 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
At ARM’s Annual General Meeting in May 201 4, it was announced 
that I would be retiring in 201 5. In the 1 3-year period since I joined 
ARM, the Group has had a strategic goal to deliver superior 
shareholder returns by investing in the long term. T o reach our 
objectives, we have invested in new licensable technology, nurtured 
the ARM ecosystem and supported our Partners as they take 
ARM technology into new markets. We have balanced the ﬁnancial 
demands of our rapid expansion with the need to deliver returns to 
our shareholders. 
201 4 was another year of progress. We expanded our customer 
base to 389 of the world’s most innovative and creative companies, 
released new products such as the Cortex-M7 and mbed device 
platform, and funded industry initiatives that will increase the appeal of 
ARM technology in the enterprise market. We increased the capacity 
of the organisation by recruiting talented people and delivered a 1 7% 
increase in normalised earnings per share (EPS).
Financial strategy
Our ﬁnancial strategy
Tim Score
Chief Financial Officer
We believe that normalised ﬁgures allow for clearer comparisons of performance from year to year, and enable users of the 
accounts to better assess the underlying ﬁnancial performance of the Group. Figures referred to as “normalised” in this narrative 
exclude charges relating to amortisation of intangible assets that have arisen on acquisitions; share-based payment charges 
relating to the issuance of ARM share-based remuneration to employees of the Group; acquisition-related charges; 
Linaro-related charges; ARM’s share of the results in joint ventures; changes in the value of and proﬁt on disposal of available-for-
sale investments; restructuring charges; and exceptional items. Reconciliations of normalised costs and expenses to IFRS costs 
and expenses are shown in tables accompanying this narrative. 
ARM’s ﬁnancial strategy:
 Grow proﬁts through revenue 
expansion and increased efficiency
 Invest for the long term in new 
technologies and our ecosystem 
 Be transparent in dealings with 
customers, suppliers and tax authorities
 Manage cash returns, investments 
and capital for the long-term beneﬁt 
of shareholders
Gain share in long-term growth markets
Increase value per smart device
Generate additional revenues from new technology
Investing in long-term growth
Key 53 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Growing proﬁts through revenue expansion 
and increased efficiency
During 2014, ARM achieved record dollar 
revenues of $1,292.6 million, an increase of 16% 
over the previous year. 2014 sterling revenues 
of £795.2 million were up 1 1% year-on-year.
Licensing revenues reached new highs as 
more semiconductor companies chose to 
design ARM technology into their chips. 
During the year we signed 163 licences with 
105 semiconductor companies. Of these, 
67 companies were existing customers that 
upgraded their portfolio of ARM technology; 
the remaining 38 companies acquired their 
ﬁrst-ever ARM processor licence. Total dollar 
licensing revenues in 2014 were $580.8 million, 
up 30% year-on-year.
In the last ﬁve years, dollar licensing revenues 
have grown at a compound annual growth 
rate (CAGR) of 29%. This growth rate has 
been driven by our strategy of developing new 
ARM technologies and nurturing a supportive 
ecosystem that expands the opportunities 
for our licensees. This has enabled existing 
customers to take ARM technology into new 
areas and encouraged other companies to 
select an ARM processor for the ﬁrst time. 
After this sustained period of accelerated 
growth in licence revenue, we expect licence 
revenue growth in full-year 2015 to be 
consistent with our medium-term guidance for 
licence revenues. 
In 2014, royalty revenues grew 7%, generated 
from our Partners’ sales of more than 12 billion 
ARM-based chips. This growth was lower 
than the historical trend because device 
manufacturers reduced their inventories 
of semiconductors in the period, and this 
impacted chips sales by our licensees. 
See page 8 for more details. in the last ﬁve 
years, dollar royalty revenues have grown 
at a CAGR of 20%, outperforming the 
semiconductor industry’s CAGR of 7%.
We expect that our royalty revenue growth 
will continue to outpace the semiconductor 
industry over the medium term. The drivers 
for this outperformance are our ongoing 
market share gains and the trend for modern 
devices to use increasing amounts of ARM 
technology, as outlined in our business 
strategy (see page 22). In particular, we see 
opportunities arising from the continued 
adoption of smartphones around the world; 
growth in mobile computing; the deployment 
of ARM processors in servers and networking; 
and the emergence of the Internet of Things.
A comparison of revenues by revenue stream 
between 2014 and 2013 is shown in note 2 to 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Increasing efficiency
As indicated in last year’s Strategic Report, 
the Group’s internal operational structure 
was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to 
create an organisation that is more scalable 
and more accountable, and that offers 
our customers a more integrated product 
portfolio. As a result, ARM now has a single 
product development team reporting into 
the EVP and President of Product Groups. 
The re-organisation has meant signiﬁcantly 
greater integration of the engineering teams in 
ARM, with improved co-ordination to deliver a 
Selected ﬁnancial data/IFRS 
201 4 
£m
201 3 
£m
201 2 
£m
201 1 
£m
2010 
£m
Revenues 795.2 714.6 57 6.9 49 1.8 406.6
Cost of revenues (37.8) (39.3) (31.9) (27.7) (26.1)
Gross proﬁt 757.4 675.3 545.0 464.1 380.5
Total operating expenses before exceptional items (448.4) (420.5) (336.9) (3 1 5.2) (273.5)
Exceptional items – (101.3) –––
Total operating expenses after exceptional items (448.4) (521.8) (336.9) (315.2) (273.5)
Proﬁt from operations 309.0 153.5 208.1 148.9 107 .0
Operating margin 38.9% 21.5% 36.1% 30.3% 26.3%
Investment income, net 11.0 13. 1 13.6 8.0 3. 1
Share of post-tax results in joint venture (3.5) (4.0) (0.7) – –
Proﬁt before tax 316.5 162.6 221.0 156.9 1 10.1
Tax (61.1) (57 .8) (60.3) (44.3) (24.1 )
Proﬁt for the year 255.4 104.8 160.7 1 12.6 86.0
Dividends paid 86.1 68.9 51.8 42.2 34.3
Capital expenditure 31.3 17.0 33.2 13.0 7.4
Research and development expenditure 224.2 202.9 166.3 165.4 139.7
Cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term 
deposits and similar instruments
866.3 71 3.5 527 .6 429 .0 291.8
Shareholders’ funds 1,528.3 1,3 1 1.4 1,206.1 1,06 1.2 894.9
Employees at end of year (number) 3,294 2,833 2,392 2,1 16 1,889 54 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
ARM ﬁled 171 patent applications 
worldwide in 2014, bringing the total 
number of patents owned by ARM to over 
2,500, with approximately 1,400 patent 
applications pending. 
Nurturing our ecosystem
To ensure that ARM’s products offer 
an attractive value proposition to our 
Partners, we are in continuous dialogue with 
semiconductor designers and manufacturers, 
OEMs and equipment developers, software 
and hardware tools vendors, and software and 
training providers. We nurture this ecosystem 
by providing technical support to our licensees, 
discussing the long-term needs of chip vendors 
and device makers, and promoting awareness 
of our long-term product development 
roadmap. Each year we hold a technology 
conference (ARM TechCon) where 4,000 
engineers and developers discuss ARM’s 
roadmap and share their knowledge and 
experience of using ARM technology, whilst 
discussing their plans for developing future 
ARM-based products.
ARM invests in industry initiatives to 
standardise aspects of ARM-based technology. 
For example, the ARM Server Base System 
Architecture (SBSA), announced in 2014, 
ensures that operating system software 
for servers will be compatible with ARM-
based chips from a wide range of suppliers. 
This enhances the marketability of chips from 
all our Partners that have chosen to target the 
server market. Similarly, ARM makes a regular 
ﬁnancial contribution to Linaro, a not-for-
proﬁt organisation that optimises open-source 
software for the ARM architecture.
In the year to 31 December 2014, ARM’s 
normalised sales and marketing spend was 
£81.0 million (IFRS: £93.2 million), compared 
with £76.7 million in 2013 (IFRS: £89.4 million). 
The year-on-year increase reﬂects the 
increased investment in customer support 
and marketing activities.
We continue to invest in the IT, HR, ﬁnance 
and legal teams that support the deployment 
of ARM’s technology and in the development 
of the infrastructure of the organisation. 
In the year to 31 December 2014, ARM’s 
normalised general and administrative costs 
were £1 10.5 million (IFRS: £131.0 million), 
compared with £101.5 million in 2013 (IFRS: 
£128.2 million). 
Transparency in our dealings with customers, 
suppliers and tax authorities
ARM treats all customers, suppliers and other 
third-parties with professionalism, courtesy 
and respect. Our success is closely aligned with 
that of our customers and therefore it is in our 
long-term interest to enter into contracts that 
are mutually beneﬁcial. ARM aims to pay all 
suppliers within terms; the weighted average 
number of days that suppliers’ invoices were 
outstanding at 31 December 2014 was 22 days 
(2013: 24 days).
ARM is committed to paying the correct taxes 
in each relevant jurisdiction and follows a policy 
of full disclosure in its dealings with the tax 
authorities worldwide. The Board regularly 
reviews key developments that may inﬂuence 
the Group’s global tax position.
Many governments encourage innovation 
by offering tax incentives to companies 
that develop new technologies. ARM uses 
legitimate tax exemptions and reliefs to 
minimise its tax liabilities. A large proportion 
of ARM’s products are developed in the 
UK, where the government offers R&D 
tax incentives, namely R&D tax credits and 
the Patent Box, to companies with R&D 
commitments. On 1 1 November 2014, the UK 
and German governments published a joint 
statement that all preferred IP regimes may 
only confer beneﬁts to companies that incur 
the expenditures contributing to the IP income. 
This will mean that the way in which the UK 
Patent Box operates will be changing when the 
new rules are introduced.
ARM also develops technology in the US and 
France, where the respective governments 
also offer R&D tax credits. In 2014, ARM’s 
normalised effective tax rate was 16.7% (IFRS: 
19.3%), which reﬂects the beneﬁt of the Patent 
Box legislation and other R&D credits.
ARM’s normalised proﬁt before tax in 2014 
was £41 1.3 million (IFRS: £316.5 million).
ARM’s total tax contribution worldwide 
in 2014 amounted to £145.3 million 
(2013: £162.5 million), of which £107.0 million 
(2013: £133.8 million) related to tax collected 
on behalf of the tax authorities for employee 
payroll taxes; £30.8 million (2013: £23.3 million) 
related to corporation taxes; £2.0 million 
(2013: £1.7 million) related to property taxes; 
and £5.5 million (2013: £3.7 million) related to 
other taxes.
uniﬁed product roadmap, aimed at addressing 
speciﬁc market needs. We therefore have only 
one reportable segment.
Whilst continuing to invest in our business 
for long-term growth, we also maintain 
tight controls over costs, looking to achieve 
operational efficiencies wherever possible. 
Over the years, ARM’s revenues have grown 
more quickly than costs, giving rise to an 
increase in normalised operating proﬁts, from 
£164.3 million in 2010 to £400.3 million in 2014. 
In the same period, IFRS operating proﬁt rose 
from £107.0 million to £309.0 million.
Investing in new technologies and in our 
ecosystem
As semiconductor technology becomes more 
complex, the cost of designing chips and 
microprocessors increases. This trend beneﬁts 
ARM in that it encourages our customers to 
outsource more of their technology needs; 
it also means that each generation of ARM 
technology demands a greater engineering 
effort than the last. Because our products take 
several years to develop, each new project 
requires a long-term ﬁnancial commitment. 
At 31 December 2014, ARM employed 
2,370 engineers, a 19% increase in the year 
(2013: 1,987). This represented 72% of ARM’s 
total employees (2013: 70%).
Normalised research and development 
expenditure in 2014 was £167.8 million (IFRS: 
£224.2 million), compared with £148.3 million 
in 2013 (IFRS: £202.9 million), with the increase 
reﬂecting our ongoing investment in new 
technology development.
Financial strategy continued... 55 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Managing cash returns, investments and capital 
for the long-term beneﬁt of shareholders
ARM’s business model is highly cash generative. 
Since the beginning of 2010, ARM has paid 
out £283.3 million in dividends, and our net 
cash balance has grown from £141.8 million 
to £861.7 million at the end of 2014.
The directors are recommending payment 
of a ﬁnal dividend in respect of 2014 of 4.5 
pence per share which, taken together with 
the interim dividend of 2.52 pence per share 
paid in October 2014, gives a total dividend 
in respect of 2014 of 7.02 pence per share, an 
increase of 23% over 5.7 pence per share in 
2013. The total cash outﬂow from dividends 
paid in 2014 amounted to £86.1 million 
(2013: £68.9 million).
Since 2010, our dividend has grown at a CAGR 
of 25%. In 2014, the recommended dividend 
per share was equal to 29% of our normalised 
diluted EPS (39% of IFRS diluted EPS).
Subject to shareholder approval, the ﬁnal 
dividend for 2014 will be paid on 15 May 
2015 to shareholders on the register on 
24 April 2015.
At the start of 2014, ARM’s total share count 
was 1.41 billion shares, a similar level to that 
at the commencement of the rolling share 
buyback programme undertaken between 
2005 and 2008. During that period ARM 
bought back 213 million shares (being 16% 
of issued share capital) at a total cost of 
£261 million. It is our intention to maintain a 
ﬂat share count over time by offsetting dilution 
from share-based remuneration with share 
Normalised costs and expenses reconciled to IFRS costs and expenses 
Normalised 
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Intangible 
amortisation  
and 
acquisition-
related 
charges
£m
Impairment  
of 
investments  
net of proﬁt  
on disposals
£m
Restructuring
£m
Linaro-related 
charges
£m
IFRS
£m
2014
Cost of revenues 35.6 2.2–––– 37.8
R&D expenses 167.8 46.9 9.5––– 224.2
Sales and marketing expenses 81.0 12.0 0.2––– 93.2
General and administrative 
expenses 110.5 10.5 0.7 0.7 8.6 – 131.0
Total operating expenses 359.3 69.4 10.4 0.7 8.6 – 448.4
2013
Cost of revenues 37.2 2.1–––– 39.3
R&D expenses 148.3 45.1 9.5––– 202.9
Sales and marketing expenses 76.7 12.1 0.6––– 89.4
General and administrative 
expenses 101.5 14.7 1.5 3.5 – 7 .0 128.2
Total operating expenses 
before exceptional items 326.5 71.9 1 1.6 3.5 – 7 .0 420.5
Exceptional items – ––– 101.3– 101.3
Total operating expenses 
after exceptional items 326.5 71.9 1 1.6 3.5 101.3 7 .0 521.8
buybacks. In 2014, ARM bought back 7.9 million 
shares at a total cost of £66.9 million.
Acquisitions and investments
The rapid pace of technological change in the 
semiconductor industry presents opportunities 
for ARM to apply its business model to new 
products or into new markets. On occasion, 
ARM has identiﬁed strategic opportunities to 
buy in IP rather than developing it internally. 
Such opportunities can take the form of 
acquisitions, licensing or acquiring third-party 
patents, or making investments in start-up 
companies. In addition to bolstering our 
IP portfolio, acquisitions large and small 
have brought many talented people into 
our organisation.
In 2014, ARM spent £12.6 million on two 
acquisitions. The larger of these was Duolog, 
a leader in design conﬁguration and integration 
technology for the semiconductor industry. 
Duolog extends ARM’s market reach for ARM 
CoreLink™ Interconnect and Controllers and 
ARM CoreSight™ debug and trace roadmaps. 
ARM also acquired Offspark, a company with 
expertise in digital security.
In 2013, ARM spent a total of £20.0 million on 
two acquisitions: Sensinode and Geomerics. 
The technology developed with Sensinode has 
been integrated into ARM’s new mbed OS 
and mbed device server products that were 
announced in October 2014.
More details on these acquisitions can be found in 
note 20 to the ﬁnancial statements. 56 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
Financial strategy continued...
The following table shows non-GAAP measures used in this report, including reconciliations from the IFRS measures. They exclude 
acquisition-related charges; share-based payment costs and related payroll taxes; restructuring charges; proﬁt on disposal and impairment 
of available-for-sale investments; share of results in joint venture; Linaro-related costs; and exceptional items.
201 4 
£m
201 3 
£m
201 2 
£m
201 1 
£m
2010 
£m
Proﬁt from operations (per 
income statement) 309.0 153.5 208.1 148.9 107 .0
Intangible amortisation and acquisition-related charges 10.4 11 .6 8.8 6. 4 11 . 4
Share-based payment costs and related payroll taxes 71.6 74.0 45.4 57 .7 4 1.9
Restructuring charges 8.6 ––– (0.4)
Proﬁt/loss on sale/impairment of investments 0.7 3.5 0.6 1.8 –
Linaro-related charges – 7.0 – 6.9 4.4
Exceptional items – 101.3–––
Normalised proﬁt from operations 400.3 350.9 262.9 221.7 164.3
Normalised operating margin 50.3% 49.1% 45.6% 45.1% 40.4%
Investment income, net 11.0 13. 1 13.6 8.0 3. 1
Normalised proﬁt before tax 41 1.3 364.0 276.5 229.7 167 .4
Tax (per IFRS income statement) (61.1) (57 .8) (60.3) (44.3) (24.1 )
Tax impact of above charges (7.5) (15.6) (1 1.0) (14.2) ( 1 7 .0)
Normalised proﬁt after tax 342.7 290.6 205.2 171.2 126.3
Normalised diluted EPS (pence) 24.12 20.59 14.70 12.45 9.34
IFRS diluted EPS (pence) 17.97 7.43 1 1.5 1 8. 1 9 6.36
Analysis of cash and normalised cash ﬂow
201 4 
£m
201 3 
£m
201 2 
£m
201 1 
£m
2010 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 54.1 43.8 46.3 26.8 29.4
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 620.8 544.1 340.0 319.1 247.4
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 191.4 125.6 1 4 1.3 83.1 1 5.0
Less: interest accrued (4.6) (7.2) (7.4) (5.0) (1.7)
Normalised net cash, at end of year 861.7 706.3 520.2 424.0 290.1
Less:
Normalised net cash, at start of year (706.3) (520.2) ( 424.0) (290.1 ) (141.8)
Cash inﬂow from exercise of share options (6.8) (6.0) (5.6) (8.5) (24.0)
Cash inﬂow from sale of available-for-sale securities – ––– (0.1)
Add back:
Cash outﬂow from payment of dividends 86.1 68.9 51.8 42.2 34.3
Cash outﬂow from purchase of own shares 66.9 ––––
Cash outﬂow from advance payment to the MIPS 
patent consortium – – 104.5––
Cash outﬂow/(inﬂow) from investments and 
acquisitions (net of cash acquired) 16.9 25.6 (8.8) 17.3 1 1.0
Cash outﬂow from investment in joint venture – 3.7 7.5 – –
Cash outﬂow from restructuring payments 5.1 ––– 4.5
Cash outﬂow from other acquisition-related payments 4.3 4.6 3.8 3.1 –
Cash outﬂow from share-based payroll taxes 8.5 16.3 14.4 1 2.4 3.2
Cash outﬂow from payments related to Linaro 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.4 2.7
Cash outﬂow from IP indemnity and similar charges – 41.8 –––
Normalised net cash generation 339.9 344.5 267.3 203.8 179.9 57 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Treasury policy
The Group has established treasury policies 
aimed both at mitigating the impact of foreign 
exchange ﬂuctuations on reported proﬁts and 
cash ﬂows, and at ensuring appropriate returns 
are earned on the Group’s cash resources. 
Total cash, cash equivalents, deposits and 
similar instruments were £861.7 million 
net of accrued interest of £4.6 million as at 
31 December 2014 (2013: £706.3 million net of 
accrued interest of £7.2 million).
ARM’s treasury policy on currency risk is 
to reduce the Group’s exposure to foreign 
exchange ﬂuctuations by matching assets with 
liabilities wherever possible. Since the majority 
of the Group’s revenues are earned in US 
dollars, the Group enters into contracts to sell 
US dollars for sterling in order to match US 
dollar cash inﬂows. This is achieved by using a 
mixture of spot trades, forward contracts and 
currency options.  
The Group holds the majority of its cash in 
sterling in order to reduce foreign exchange 
risk. Funds are typically invested into a 
combination of term deposits and other 
similar low-risk instruments. ARM places 
money with banks with the higher Moody’s or 
Fitch credit ratings and the larger UK building 
societies, and each institution may only hold a 
limited percentage of the Group’s total cash. 
Counterparties are all approved in advance by 
the Board.
Net investment income was £1 1.0 million for 
2014 compared with £13.1 million in 2013. 
The decrease is due primarily to the lower 
interest rates available on cash deposits in 2014.
Further information on ﬁnancial risk 
management (including currency, interest 
rate, securities price, credit and liquidity risks) 
is provided in notes 1 (c), 1 1 and 17 to the 
ﬁnancial statements on pages 85, 97 and 103 
of the Governance and Financial Report.
Principal risks and uncertainties
In line with the guidance for the preparation of 
an operating and ﬁnancial review, the principal 
risk factors faced by the Group are identiﬁed 
in the “Risk management and principal risks” 
section on pages 31 to 37. Details of other 
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are 
noted within the annual report on Form 20-F 
for the year ended 31 December 2014, which is 
available on ARM’s website at www.arm.com.
Further details of the Group’s internal controls 
and risk management procedures are included 
in the Governance and Financial Report.
Tim Score 
Chief Financial Officer 
From time to time, ARM enhances its patent 
portfolio by acquiring rights to third-party 
IP . In the ﬁrst quarter of 2014, ARM took full 
ownership of the patent portfolio developed 
by MIPS Technologies Inc., acquiring the 
rights it did not already have for $4 million. 
This acquisition resulted in an adjustment to 
the carrying value of that portfolio; ARM’s 2013 
IFRS accounts include a non-cash exceptional 
charge of £59.5 million relating to that 
adjustment. The 2013 accounts also include an 
exceptional charge of £41.8 million relating to 
the acquisition of another patent portfolio and 
the indemniﬁcation of a licensee’s legal costs 
relating to that patent portfolio.
More details on the exceptional items can be 
found in note 6 to the ﬁnancial statements.
ARM occasionally invests in innovative 
companies that operate in ARM’s key markets. 
Any such investments are made on commercial 
terms, usually alongside venture capital 
ﬁrms and other ﬁnancial investors. At the 
end of December 2014, ARM’s investment 
portfolio was valued at £23.7 million 
(2013: £13.9 million). 58 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
Financial tables
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December
201 4 
£m
201 3 
£m
Revenues 795.2 714.6
Cost of revenues (37.8) (39.3)
Gross proﬁt 757.4 675.3
Operating expenses
R&D (224.2) (202.9)
Sales and marketing (93.2) (89.4)
General and administrative (131.0) (1 28.2)
Total operating expenses before exceptional items (448.4) (420.5)
Exceptional items – (101.3)
Total operating expenses after exceptional items (448.4) (521.8)
Proﬁt from operations 309.0 153.5
Investment income 11.3 13.3
Interest payable and similar charges (0.3) (0.2)
Share of results in joint venture (3.5) (4.0)
Proﬁt before tax 316.5 162.6
Tax (including £8.6 million in respect of exceptional items in 2013) (61.1) (57.8)
Proﬁt for the year 255.4 104.8
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings 255.4 104.8
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of shares 1,406.2 1,396.4
Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 14.9 15.4
Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,421.1 1,41 1.8
Basic EPS (pence) 18.2p 7.5p
Diluted EPS (pence) 18.0p 7.4p
All the proﬁt for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations.  59 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
For the year ended 31 December
201 4 
£m
201 3 
£m
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 54.1 43.8
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 620.8 544.1
Fair value of currency exchange contracts – 5.1
Embedded derivatives 2.6 –
Accounts receivable 138.6 136.2
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets – 1.2
Prepaid expenses and other assets 43.2 39.8
Current tax assets 8.9 6.9
Inventories 2.7 3.0
Total current assets 870.9 780.1
Non-current assets:
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 191.4 125.6
Loans and receivables 3.0 3.0
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 23.7 13.9
Investment in joint venture 3.0 6.5
Prepaid expenses and other assets 1.7 1.6
Property, plant and equipment 43.4 33.6
Goodwill 567.0 525.9
Other intangible assets 77.2 82.9
Deferred tax assets 55.9 65.3
Total non-current assets 966.3 858.3
Total assets 1,837.2 1,638.4
For the year ended 31 December
201 4 
£m
201 3 
£m
Liabilities 
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 11.7 7.0
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 4.8 –
Embedded derivatives – 7.0
Accrued and other liabilities 80.6 88.1
Finance lease liabilities 3.9 2.7
Current tax liabilities 31.9 18.8
Deferred revenue 127.4 156.7
Total current liabilities 260.3 280.3
Non-current liabilities:
Accrued and other liabilities – 2.6
Finance lease liabilities 2.6 1.5
Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 0.1
Deferred revenue 45.6 42.5
Total non-current liabilities 48.6 46.7
Total liabilities 308.9 327.0
Net assets 1,528.3 1,31 1.4
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company
Share capital 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 24.9 18.1
Capital reserve 354.3 354.3
Share option reserve 61.4 61.4
Retained earnings 991.8 820.6
Revaluation reserve 4.3 –
Cumulative translation adjustment 90.9 56.3
Total equity 1,528.3 1,31 1.4
Consolidated balance sheet 60 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
Glossary
Key terms explained
Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs. LTE Long-term Evolution (or 4G) is the next-generation wireless standard for mobile 
phones. It is optimised for data streaming allowing internet connections at speeds 
similar to broadband in the home.
big.LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip; one (big) that 
delivers high performance when needed with the other (LITTLE) running most 
of the time enabling long battery life.
Mali ARM’s family of specialist multimedia processors including 3D graphics, video and 
display technologies.
CAGR Compound annual growth rate. Microcontroller (MCU) A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which can be used in many 
applications. Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or an MCU.
Cortex Family of ARM processors. Original equipment manufacturer 
(OEM) 
An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones. For 
example Apple, HTC or LG.
DTV Digital TV. Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARM’s processor technology.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor 
companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips. These chips are typically 
manufactured by a foundry. For example MediaTek, Marvell and Qualcomm.
POP IP Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement a 
processor on a speciﬁc foundry’s manufacturing process.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on behalf of 
fabless semiconductor companies. For example TSMC and UMC.
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
Intellectual property (IP) ARM designs technology for use in computer chips. The general term for the 
products that are designs only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology. The royalty 
is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is reported as 
“royalty revenue”.
Internet of Things (IoT) An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet 
either directly or indirectly via a smartphone. From pedometers to thermostats 
to streetlights.
STB Set-top box.
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners.  
They pay an upfront free, which is reported as “licence revenue”.
System-on-Chip (SoC) An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into 
a single chip. Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU. Equiniti Shareholder Services
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
BN99 6DA, UK 
Phone: 0871 384 2139 
www.equiniti.com
Ian Thornton
Head of Investor Relations 
ARM Holdings plc 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 400796 
Email: ian.thornton@arm.com
Phil Sparks
Investor Relations Manager 
ARM Holdings plc 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 405566 
Email: philip.sparks@arm.com
Laura Faid
Investor Relations Associate 
ARM Holdings plc 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead SL6 8L T 
Phone: +44 (0)1628 427800 
Email: laura.faid@arm.com
If want to inform us of a change of address 
or have lost your share certiﬁcate or have 
an enquiry about dividend payments 
please contact:
For all other enquires please contact one of  
ARM’s investor relations team:
Designed and produced by  
Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper 
which is certiﬁed by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and 
contains 100% recycled waste. The paper is Process Chlorine 
Free (PCF) made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental 
management system accreditation. 
This report was produced using the pureprint
®
 environmental 
print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, 
independently audited process that reduces the environmental 
impact of the printing process. Printed using vegetable oil 
based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certiﬁed to ISO 14001 
environmental management system and registered to EMAS 
the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered 
trademarks of ARM Limited. ARM7, ARM9, ARM1 1, POP and 
Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
Contact details
Auditors’ statement 
The auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial 
statements and the auditors’ statement 
under section 496 of the Companies 
Act on whether the information given in 
Strategic Report and Directors’ report 
(for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 
2014) is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial 
statements were both unqualiﬁed and can 
be found on page 62 of the Governance 
and Financial Report. ARM Holdings plc
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMHoldings
pinterest: ARMLtd
facebook.com/ARMfans
youtube.com/armﬂix ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 
Governance and Financial Report
Governance and  
Financial Report Welcome to our Governance and Financial Report. This explains 
our commitment to a strong and effective governance system, 
corporate responsibility and the highest ethical standards, and our 
detailed ﬁnancial statements. 01 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
2014 reporting suite
ARM has designed its 201 4 reports to provide a comprehensive overview of the business. 
More detailed information is available online at www.arm.com/ir . 
Governance  
Chairman’s introduction  02  
Board of directors  06  
Corporate governance 08
 Audit Committee report 18 
 Nomination Committee report 23 
 Corporate Governance report 25 
Directors’ report  29 
Directors’ Remuneration Report  34
Financial Report  
Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc  62 
Consolidated income statement  68 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  68 
Consolidated balance sheet  69 
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement  70 
Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity  71 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements  72 
Company balance sheet/UK GAAP  1 17 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements/UK GAAP  1 18 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc  125
Glossary and Group directory  
Glossary  128 
Group directory  129 
Key shareholder information  131
How to use this document 
ARM’s Annual Report consists of two 
documents. The Strategic Report will give 
you a comprehensive and concise overview 
of the key information about ARM, and the 
Governance and Financial Report contains 
more details about our performance in 
2014. More information can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibility report, and on the 
website at www.arm.com/ir .
Governance and Financial Report
The Governance and Financial Report 
explains the way we operate, our approach 
to corporate governance, how we 
remunerate management and our ﬁnancial 
performance for 2014.  
Strategic Report
The Strategic Report contains information about ARM, how 
we make money and how we run the business. It includes 
an overview of our main markets, our strategy, business 
model, key performance indicators and main areas of risk, as 
well as our progress during 2014. The report also describes 
our approach to organisation and culture, governance and 
sustainability, and includes a summary of our ﬁnancial strategy.
A copy of the Strategic Report can be downloaded from  
www.arm.com/reporting2014
Corporate Responsibility Report
The Corporate Responsibility Report outlines our approach 
to investing in sustainability and projects to enable more 
energy-efficient technology, and how we attract and develop 
smart and innovative employees.
A copy of the Corporate Responsibility Report can be 
downloaded from  
www.arm.com/reporting2014
Investor Relations Website
The Investor Relations Website contains more information 
on what ARM does and how we connect with some of the 
world’s most innovative companies to shape the future of 
technology. Here you will ﬁnd our latest ﬁnancial results and 
recent case studies of ARM technology in action.
The Investor Relations Website can be found at  
www.arm.com/ir
Where to ﬁnd more:
ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014
Shaping the 
Connected World
ARM Holdings plc Corporate Responsibility Report 2014
Shaping corporate responsibility 
for a Connected World ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 02
Chairman’s introduction
Our commitment to a strong 
and effective governance system
This report explains the Board’s commitment to good corporate 
governance, corporate responsibility and the highest ethical 
standards. One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to 
promote effective governance which is integral to ensuring that 
we remain a successful and sustainable company. 
The Board actively considers long-term 
strategy, monitors, challenges and supports 
the work of the Executive Committee, 
and is responsible for Board and executive 
management succession. My role as 
Chairman is to provide the leadership to 
ensure high quality decision making in all 
areas of strategy, performance, responsibility 
and accountability. 
As a Board, we also have ultimate 
responsibility for the Group’s performance, 
for overseeing the management and for 
mitigation of the risks that we face to levels 
that are commensurate with the nature of 
our business. We seek to do this through a 
strong and effective governance system and 
by setting and following the standards that we 
expect from all our employees. During 2014, 
the Board endorsed our improved risk 
assessment and reporting framework and 
documented our approach to risk appetite. 
Dear shareholder
I would like to welcome you to ARM’s 2014 
Governance and Financial Report. I was 
delighted and privileged to take over the role 
as Chairman of ARM on 1 March 2014, having 
joined the Board as Chairman Designate 
on 27 January 2014. In this introduction, 
I outline what we have achieved during my 
ﬁrst year in terms of gaining insights from 
shareholders, refreshing the Board, improving 
its effectiveness and working with the 
executive team to evolve the Group’s short- 
and longer-term strategic goals.
Having a well-deﬁned governance framework 
and operating with integrity in all we do 
is vital to maintain the trust of investors, 
customers, our employees and other 
stakeholders. The Board is keenly aware of its 
responsibility to provide leadership, operate 
with transparency and promote ethical 
behaviour and collaboration throughout 
the Group. We seek to nurture a working 
environment in which the highest standards 
of behaviour are established, demonstrated 
and maintained in all our activities. 
Stuart Chambers
Chairman 03 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Ethics and values
All employees are required to act fairly, 
honestly and with integrity, and to conﬁrm 
each year that they have read and understand 
the Group’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, a copy of which is published on 
the corporate website at www.arm.com. 
Our Human Rights Policy is incorporated in 
this Code.
As part of our commitment to the highest 
standards of business conduct and ethics, 
we continue to implement communication 
and training programmes in 2015 to ensure 
that employees worldwide understand 
the requirements of all relevant legislation, 
including the UK Bribery Act 2010 (and 
its global reach) and the principles and 
importance of compliance with competition 
law and anti-trust law. The Compliance 
Committee reviews a range of activities 
across the Group, sets appropriate policies 
and procedures, and takes the lead in 
ensuring compliance with them. It reports 
on its activities to the Board through the 
Audit Committee.
The Group’s ethos and culture is also 
enshrined in ARM’s three core beliefs, which 
were reviewed and refreshed during 2014 and 
guide how our people behave and make the 
decisions that deliver our vision and strategic 
goals, now and in the future. The objective 
is to encourage teamwork, drive innovation 
and creativity and to help everyone within the 
Group to reach their full potential.
Directors and succession planning
The Board reﬂects a balance between 
technology sector, commercial, ﬁnancial 
and general business skills, with a highly 
experienced international team leading the 
business in both executive and non-executive 
roles. There are well-deﬁned differences 
in roles between the executive and non-
executive directors and their combined 
contributions as an experienced, but healthily 
diverse Board add value to the debate, 
decision making and development of strategy 
that are so crucial to the Group’s success. 
Our international capability was extended in 
2014 by the appointment of John Liu to the 
Board on 1 December 2014. He is based in 
China, an increasingly important market for 
the Group, and has extensive experience of 
operating in the burgeoning Asia technology 
sector. His biography appears on page 7 
and details of the process to appoint him 
are included in the Nomination Committee 
report on page 23. 
We were also very pleased to identify 
Chris Kennedy as our new Chief Financial 
Officer. He will join the Board as soon as 
he has completed his commitments in his 
current role and a further announcement 
will be made in due course. He has more 
than 20 years of international experience 
in senior ﬁnancial roles in a broad range of 
sectors, most recently at easyJet plc where 
he has served as Chief Financial Officer 
and a member of the board since 2010. 
His biography appears on page 7 and details 
of the process to appoint him are included in 
the Nomination Committee report on page 
23. As announced in May 2014, Tim Score, 
who has been Chief Financial Officer since 
2002, has decided to retire in 2015. Tim has 
played a major role in ARM’s leadership team 
for the last 13 years which has contributed 
to the increase in ARM’s revenues, proﬁts 
and returns to shareholders over a sustained 
period. He has also successfully developed 
strong relationships with the analyst and 
investor community worldwide.
The Group’s ethos and 
culture is also enshrined in 
ARM’s three core beliefs, 
which were reviewed and 
refreshed during 201 4 and 
guide how our people 
behave and make the 
decisions that deliver our 
vision and strategic goals. 
Stuart Chambers
Chairman ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 04
Patricia Alsop, who has been Company 
Secretary since 2003, has decided to retire 
in May 2015. She will be succeeded by Philip 
Davis, who will take over the role in addition 
to his responsibilities as General Counsel.
John Buchanan stepped down as Chairman 
on 1 March 2014 due to a medical condition 
and he and Philip Rowley both retired from 
the Board on 1 May 2014 immediately 
following the AGM. In addition, Eric Meurice 
stepped down from the Board on 31 March 
2014. We thank all of them and wish them 
well for the future. 
The Nomination Committee is developing 
candidate briefs for further searches for 
independent non-executive directors with 
appropriate skills, experience and diversity 
to complement our existing Board members 
and maintain, collectively, an effective Board. 
The roles and speciﬁc expertise of the 
current members of the Board are set out in 
the Biographies section on pages 6 and 7.
Diversity
The Board currently comprises three 
executive directors, the Chairman and ﬁve 
independent non-executive directors. At the 
year-end there were seven men (78%) and 
two women (22%) which broadly reﬂects 
the gender diversity of ARM’s workforce as a 
whole. In terms of location, two directors are 
located in the USA, one is based in China and 
the remainder are in the UK.
The Board noted the publication of Lord 
Davies’ Review into Women on Boards in 
February 201 1 and the proposals published 
by the European Commission in November 
2012 (the latter of which includes an objective 
that 40% of non-executive directors should 
be women by 2020). We believe that diversity 
should be considered broadly, as well as 
focusing on gender. It is important to achieve 
the correct balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board. We will continue 
to make appointments on merit and also to 
value diversity in its broadest context.
Chairman’s introduction continued...
Gender split of Board
Men 78%
Women 22%
Gender split of Senior Managers
Men 89%
Women 11%
Gender split of employees
Men 84%
Women 16% 05 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Development of strategy
The Board’s work on deﬁning our short- 
and long-term strategic priorities at this 
important stage in the Group’s development 
is receiving increased focus. We undertook 
a detailed strategy review in September 
2014 and the next in-depth strategy meeting 
is scheduled for April 2015. This meeting 
will focus on progress since the September 
meeting and future plans to take advantage of 
the opportunities that have been identiﬁed. 
These opportunities are in areas that include 
the Internet of Things, efficient networking, 
ARM-powered servers and security 
applications. More details are included in the 
Strategic Report that forms the other part of 
ARM’s Annual Report 2014.
Corporate governance framework 
The Group’s corporate governance 
framework is built around three pillars:
 Organisation, structure and processes.
 The internal control framework.
 Independent assurance.
ARM has its primary listing on the London 
Stock Exchange and is also listed on the 
NASDAQ Stock Market in the US. 
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Throughout 2014, the Group complied 
fully with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (September 2012) and also with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US). The Board 
values good corporate governance and this 
is reﬂected in our governance principles, 
policies and practices, and our everyday 
working processes. This approach is backed 
by continuous improvement based on 
measurement against internal and external 
audits by both Lloyds Register Quality 
Assurance and the Group’s external auditors, 
benchmarking and a rigorous approach to 
risk management. 
Remuneration
ARM’s remuneration policy, which was 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 
AGM, seeks to align the interests of 
executive directors, senior management and 
shareholders, and is structured to enable 
the Group to attract, motivate and retain 
the talent required to deliver the business 
strategy. The approved policy is included for 
completeness at the end of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. The Remuneration 
Committee, under Larry Hirst’s 
chairmanship, appointed new remuneration 
advisers in 2014. 
The Board is cognisant of the general 
sensitivity relating to executive director 
remuneration. We are committed to the 
principle that there should be no reward for 
failure. We believe that base salaries should 
be appropriately competitive and that the 
higher emphasis on long-term performance-
related pay, longer holding periods and 
increased shareholding requirements are fair 
and ensure that ARM’s remuneration policy 
does not encourage inappropriate risk taking. 
This was implemented through the Long 
Term Incentive Plan approved in 2013 and 
operated for the ﬁrst time in 2014.
Corporate responsibility
Full details of our CR strategy and 
achievements can be found in the main CR 
report www.arm.com/reporting2014 and 
a summary of highlights from the year are 
included in the CR section of the Strategic 
Report on page 43.
Last year for the ﬁrst time we created 
the Annual Report as two documents: 
a Strategic Report containing an update 
on ARM’s progress during the year, an 
outline of our approach to governance 
and summary ﬁnancial results; and a 
separate Governance and Financial Report 
giving more detail on governance at ARM 
and our full accounts. We believe that 
these two documents together fulﬁl the 
best practice guidelines given by the UK 
Government’s Department for Business 
Innovation and Skills. Reporting in this way 
was well received by shareholders and 
other interested parties in 2014. As ever we 
welcome any further feedback and you can 
contact us via the investor relations website at 
www.arm.com/ir.
During 2014, the Board played an important 
role in ensuring that the Group’s performance 
targets were achieved in the challenging and 
competitive economic environment. I hope 
the following reports from the various Board 
Committees demonstrate that setting the 
corporate governance framework continues 
to be a key focus for the Board. We must 
always be conscious of the fact that the 
Board’s primary responsibility is to promote 
the long-term success of the Group for 
the beneﬁt of customers, employees and 
shareholders and I am conﬁdent that we are 
well positioned to continue to provide value 
to all our stakeholders.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman 
17 February 2015 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 06
ARM’s Board has the breadth 
and depth of experience 
necessary to guide the Group as 
it seeks to take full advantage of 
new opportunities and contend 
with new challenges. Biographical 
details of the directors as at the 
date of this report are as follows:
Committees
Nomination Committee (Chairman) (from 1 March 2014)
Current directorships
Rexam plc (Chairman)
Tesco plc (independent non-executive director)
Time on Board
1 year 1 month
Expertise
Stuart Chambers joined the Board as Chairman designate 
on 27 January 2014 and became Chairman on 1 March 2014. 
He brings a strong track record and a wealth of board and 
executive experience both in the UK and globally. Up to 
2009, he was the Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet 
Glass Group, which acquired Pilkington plc in 2006, where 
he was Chief Executive. Prior to the glass industry, Stuart 
held a number of senior positions at Mars, Inc., having 
previously spent ten years in several European roles at Royal 
Dutch Shell plc. He has also served in the past as a non-
executive director on three other plc boards and chaired 
three remuneration committees. 
Committees
None
Current directorships
Global Semiconductor Alliance (director)
EDA Consortium (director)
Dolby Laboratories, Inc. (non-executive director and Audit 
Committee member) (appointed 3 February 2015)
Time on Board
10 years 1 month
Expertise
Simon Segars joined the Board in January 2005 and 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013. 
His previous roles include President, leading the IP divisions 
and representing them on the Board, EVP and General 
Manager of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions and prior 
to that, EVP , Engineering, EVP , Worldwide Sales and EVP , 
Business Development. He joined ARM in early 1991 and 
worked on many of the early ARM CPU products. He led the 
development of the ARM7
TM
 and ARM9
TM
 Thumb
®
 families. 
He holds a number of patents in the ﬁeld of embedded 
CPU architectures.
Committees
Risk Review Committee
Compliance Committee
Current directorships
The British Land Company PLC (Chairman of the 
Audit Committee)
Pearson plc (non-executive director and Audit 
Committee member)
Time on Board
12 years 1 1 months
Expertise
Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer and 
director in March 2002. Before joining ARM, he was Finance 
Director of Rebus Group Limited. He was previously Group 
Finance Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller at 
LucasVarity plc and Group Financial Controller at BTR plc. 
He will be retiring from the Board in 2015.
Committees
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nomination Committee
Current directorships
IG Group Holdings plc (Chairman)
Dock On AG (Chairman)
Avanti Communications Group plc (non-executive director)
Networking People (UK) Limited (Chairman)
UK Government Connected Digital Economy Catapult 
(CDEC) (Chairman)
ABESU (Trustee and director)
Time on Board
4 years 
Expertise
Andy Green joined the Board in February 201 1. He was CEO 
of Logica plc from 2008 to 2012 and was on the board of BT 
Group plc from 2001 to 2007. He is Deputy Chair of The 
Tech Partnership, President UK Space, and is on the board of 
the CBI. He is a Companion of the Chartered Management 
Institute. He has attended audit, risk and remuneration 
committee meetings over many years during his executive 
roles; he currently chairs two nomination committees and is 
a member of a remuneration committee.
Board of directors
The experience of the team
Stuart Chambers 58 
Chairman
Simon Segars 47  
Chief Executive Officer
Andy Green 59  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Tim Score 54  
Chief Financial Officer 07 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Committees
Remuneration Committee (Chairman from 1 January 2014)
Current directorships
MITIE Group plc (non-executive director)
Time on Board
4 years 1 month
Expertise
Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 201 1. He is the 
former Chairman of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa. 
He retired from IBM in 2010 having previously held a wide 
range of senior positions since joining the company in 1977. 
He currently chairs the Imperial College Data Science 
Institute Advisory Board. He is also an Ambassador to 
Monitise plc and on the International Advisory Board for 
British Airways. Former roles include being a UK Business 
Ambassador, a Commissioner for the Commission for 
Employment and Skills, and Chair of e-skills UK (the 
UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information 
Technology). He is a member of the audit, remuneration and 
nomination committees at MITIE. He was awarded a CBE 
in 2006.
Committees
Audit Committee (Chairman)
Nomination Committee
Current directorships
Invensys Pension Trustee Ltd (Chairman)
Trinity Mirror plc (non-executive director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee)
D S Smith Plc (non-executive director)
Time on Board
8 years 2 months
Expertise
Kathleen O’Donovan joined the Board in December 
2006. Previously she was a non-executive director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committees of the Court of the 
Bank of England, Great Portland Estates plc, EMI Group 
plc and Prudential plc and a non-executive director of O2 
plc. Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer of BTR plc 
and Invensys plc, and before that she was a Partner at  
Ernst & Young.
Committees
Nomination Committee
ARM Asia Advisory Group
Current activities
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd (Chief Business Officer)
Digital China Holdings Limited (non-executive director)
Time on Board
2 months
Expertise
John Liu joined the Board on 1 December 2014. He is also 
a member of the Board of Trustees of Beijing Normal 
University Education Fund. Former roles include senior 
executive positions in various companies including as 
Corporate Vice President and Head of Greater China for 
Google Inc.; China CEO of SK Telecom Co., Ltd in Korea 
and Country Director of Greater China of Singapore 
Telecommunications Limited. He is based in China.
Committees
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Current directorships
Benhamou Global Ventures (Partner) 
RealNetworks, Inc. (non-executive director, Chair of 
Compensation Committee and member of Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee)
Zebra Technologies Corporation (non-executive director 
and member of Compensation Committee)
Ronald McDonald House, Stanford (President of the Board 
of Directors)
Time on Board
4 years 1 month
Expertise
Janice Roberts joined the Board in January 201 1. She is a 
Partner at Benhamou Global Ventures, a Silicon Valley-based 
venture capital ﬁrm, where she invests in early stage technology 
companies. Prior to that, she was a Managing Director of the 
Mayﬁeld Fund from 2000 to 2013, where she invested in the 
mobile, wireless, communications and consumer technology 
industries. Previously, she held various executive positions at 
3Com Corporation, including President Palm Computing, 
President 3Com Ventures and Senior Vice President, Business 
Development and Global Marketing. Prior to 3Com she was 
Managing Director of BICC Data Networks Ltd. 
Committees
Risk Review Committee (Chairman)
Current directorships
Intelligent Energy Limited
Trustonic Limited
Time on Board
13 years 4 months
Expertise
Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM. Before joining 
the Group, he was responsible for hardware strategy and 
the development of portable products at Acorn Computers. 
He was previously at Orbis Computers. At ARM he 
was VP, Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business 
Development until October 2000 when he was appointed 
Chief Technology Officer. In October 2001, he was 
appointed to the Board.
The forthcoming appointment of Chris Kennedy as Chief 
Financial Officer was announced on 8 January 2015. He will 
join the Board as soon as he has completed his commitments 
at easyJet where he has been CFO since 2010. He brings 
to ARM more than 20 years of international experience 
in senior ﬁnancial roles in a broad range of sectors, most 
recently at easyJet plc where he was a key part of the 
management team that transformed its performance. 
Prior to this he worked at EMI plc and was appointed to the 
board of EMI’s holding company, Maltby Ltd in 2008 as CFO 
and then Chief Investment Officer.
Larry Hirst 63 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Mike Muller 55 
Chief Technology Officer
Janice Roberts 59 
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Kathleen O’Donovan 57  
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
John Liu 51  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Chris Kennedy 51 
Chief Financial Officer  
(designate)  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 08
Corporate governance
A balanced Board structure
This section and the Directors’ Remuneration Report detail how 
the Group has applied the principles of good governance contained 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code (September 201 2). 
Compliance statement 
The Group has complied with the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(September 2012) throughout 2014 and 
to the date of this document. The Group 
also achieved full compliance with the 
requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act 2002 (US) for the ninth successive 
year. The Company’s American Depositary 
Shares are listed on NASDAQ and we are 
therefore subject to and comply fully with 
NASDAQ rules, US Securities laws and 
Securities and Exchange Commission rules to 
the extent that they apply to foreign private 
issuers. We explain in the reports below 
how we applied the provisions and principles 
of the FCA Listing Rules, the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code throughout the year.
Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the 
overall conduct of the Group’s business. 
The Board’s core activities include:
 providing leadership for the Group;
 active engagement in developing the 
Group’s long-term strategy;
 monitoring executive actions, standards 
of conduct, performance against business 
plans and budgets and ensuring that the 
necessary ﬁnancial resources and people 
are in place for the Group to meet 
its objectives;
 obtaining assurance that material risks to 
the Group are identiﬁed, that appropriate 
systems of risk management and control 
exist to mitigate such risks and deﬁning the 
Group’s appetite for risk; 
 Board and executive 
management succession;
 responsibility for the long-term success of 
the Group having regard to the interests 
of all stakeholders; 
 responsibility for ensuring the 
effectiveness of and reporting on our 
system of corporate governance.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
speciﬁcally reserved for its decision, 
which include:
 Group strategy and major 
business decisions;
 annual budgets and long-term plans;
 major capital expenditure, acquisitions, 
disposals and investments;
 ﬁnancial reporting, controls and 
ﬁnancial structure; 
 shareholder communications;
 key policies; 
 key advisers.
The schedule was reviewed in February 2015. 
Composition and operation of the Board
At the end of 2014, the Board comprised 
three executive directors (the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the 
Chief Technology Officer), the Chairman, and 
ﬁve independent non-executive directors. 
Stuart Chambers became Chairman on 
1 March 2014 having been appointed to the 
Board as Chairman designate on 27 January 
2014. Their biographies appear on pages 6 
and 7 .  09 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Chairman
Stuart Chambers
Key objectives:
leadership, operation and 
governance of the Board.
Board
Nine directors – three executive directors, the Chairman  
and ﬁve independent non-executive directors.
Key objectives: 
the overall conduct of the Group’s business and setting the Group’s strategy.
Nomination  
Committee
Three independent  
non-executive directors, 
Chairman Stuart Chambers
Key objectives: 
to make recommendations to the 
Board for future appointments to 
ensure that the Board comprises 
individuals with appropriate skills, 
knowledge and experience to be 
effective in discharging its 
responsibilities and to review 
succession planning.
Risk Review Committee
Two executive directors, four other 
Executive Committee members and three 
senior executives, Chairman Mike Muller.
Key objectives: 
to manage the process to identify and evaluate risks 
which may impact the Group’s strategic and 
business objectives and to oversee management 
activities designed to mitigate such risks.
Executive Committee
14 members including the executive 
directors, key group and function heads, 
Chairman Simon Segars.
Key objectives: 
to focus on strategy, the day-to-day running  
of the business, ﬁnancial and competitive 
performance, organisational development, 
succession planning and implementation of policies.
Compliance Committee
One executive director, four other 
Executive Committee members and four 
senior executives. Chairman Philip Davis.
Key objectives: 
to oversee compliance throughout the business 
with all relevant international regulations.
Remuneration  
Committee
Three independent  
non-executive directors, 
Chairman Larry Hirst
Key objectives: 
to review and make 
recommendations to the Board on 
executive remuneration regarding 
the appropriate level for executive 
directors’ salaries, annual bonus 
targets and performance measures 
for senior management share-based 
compensation.
Chief Executive  
Officer
Simon Segars 
 
Key objectives: 
to manage the Group’s business and, 
with the Executive Committee, 
to implement Group strategy 
and policies.
Audit  
Committee
Three independent non-
executive directors, Chairman 
Kathleen O’Donovan
Key objectives: 
to provide effective ﬁnancial 
governance and to assist the Board 
in ensuring the integrity of the 
Group’s ﬁnancial reporting. T o 
provide oversight for the external 
and internal audit processes, to 
review the risk management 
framework, the effectiveness of risk 
management processes and the 
system of internal control. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 10
Conﬂicts
The Board is fully aware of the other 
commitments of the Chairman and the 
executive and non-executive directors. 
All directors have completed conﬂicts of 
interest questionnaires and any planned 
changes in their directorships outside the 
Group are subject to prior approval by 
the Board. No conﬂicts of interest arose 
in 2014 or to date in 2015, and no other 
situations have been identiﬁed that might 
lead to a conﬂict of interest. In circumstances 
where a potential conﬂict arises, the Board 
(excluding the director concerned) would 
consider the situation and either authorise 
the arrangement in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of 
Association or take other appropriate action.
Non-executive directors’ expertise
Kathleen O’Donovan has been the Senior 
Independent Director since January 201 1. 
In this capacity she acts as a sounding 
board for the Chairman and provides 
a communication channel between the 
Chairman and the non-executive directors. 
She is also available to discuss matters with 
shareholders, if required. In early 2014, she 
led the Nomination Committee through 
the process to conclude the appointment of 
Stuart Chambers as Chairman. 
John Liu (who is based in Beijing), Janice 
Roberts (who is based in Silicon Valley), 
Larry Hirst, and Andy Green all have a broad 
understanding of the Group’s technology 
and the practices of major international 
technology companies. Kathleen O’Donovan 
is a ﬁnancial expert with a strong ﬁnancial 
background. Directors’ biographies 
are set out on pages 6 and 7 and their 
beneﬁcial interests in the share capital of 
the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Independence 
The Board reviewed the independence of 
the non-executive directors on appointment 
and continues to do so on an ongoing basis. 
Kathleen O’Donovan, who has now served 
for eight years, remains highly committed and 
continues to be regarded as independent. 
The Nomination Committee has 
commenced the process to recruit a further 
non-executive director who is a ﬁnancial 
expert to take over as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. In her capacity as Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee, Kathleen O’Donovan’s 
independence is demonstrated on many 
occasions each year through her robust 
approach to questioning management. 
The other non-executive directors have 
shorter service and are regarded as 
independent in character, judgement and 
behaviour, based on both participation and 
performance at Board and Committee 
meetings. There are no relationships or 
circumstances that are likely to affect the 
judgement of any of them. It is the policy 
of the Board to review the continued 
appointment of non-executive directors 
after six years’ service. Stuart Chambers was 
regarded as independent at the time of his 
appointment as Chairman.
Board meetings 
Board and Committee papers are circulated 
electronically before each meeting. 
The business considered at each Board 
meeting includes the Chief Executive 
Officer’s report on the status of the business, 
(incorporating industry and strategic 
developments) and the Chief Financial 
Officer’s report (incorporating ﬁnancial, 
market and investor-related information). 
On a cyclical basis, Board agendas also include 
detailed assessments of risk, governance, 
corporate responsibility, public affairs, 
performance of the business and geographical 
areas, competitive landscape, R&D and 
organisation/succession planning. 
In the event that a director is unable to attend 
a meeting or participate by conference call, 
they receive and read the documents for 
consideration at that meeting, and have the 
opportunity to relay their comments and, if 
necessary, to follow up with the Chairman or 
the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting. 
The non-executive directors are encouraged 
to suggest matters for Board discussions, and 
in 2014 they were active in contributing to the 
agenda for the strategy review and ensuring 
the amount of time spent on strategic 
and operational issues was appropriately 
balanced. The September 2014 strategy 
meeting enhanced the Board’s understanding 
of the competitive landscape and agreed 
short- and longer-term strategic objectives. 
The meeting focused on the Group’s current 
and future activities in China. Three guest 
speakers with in-depth knowledge of 
the technology landscape in China gave 
presentations and participated in question 
and answer sessions with the Board and local 
management. An additional strategy meeting 
has again been scheduled during 2015 and 
strategy will continue to be covered regularly 
at Board meetings during the year. 
Corporate governance continued... 11 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
During 2014, the non-executive directors 
encouraged the executive team to allocate 
resources to accelerate the development 
of technology in the Internet of Things 
arena and to explore new business areas 
for investment. 
Key senior executives attend Board meetings 
throughout the year, which gives the non-
executive directors visibility of executive 
talent below executive director level, direct 
information about business developments, 
and informs them about potential 
management succession. In particular, each 
year the general managers of the IP group 
present a review of past performance against 
key objectives and KPIs, and their proposals 
for the coming year.
During 2014, the Chairman held three 
meetings with the non-executive directors 
without the executives present, and the 
non-executive directors met on one occasion 
without the Chairman being present.
The table on this page shows directors’ 
attendance at scheduled Board meetings, 
conference calls and ad hoc meetings which 
they were eligible to attend during the 2014 
ﬁnancial year.
Board attendance
Board Meetings attended/ 
Board meetings eligible for 
Conference calls & ad hoc meetings 
attended/calls & meetings eligible for
Number of scheduled meetings 6 5
Stuart Chambers (appointed 27 January 2014) 6/6 5/5
Simon Segars 6/6 5/5
Andy Green 6/6 4/5
Larry Hirst 6/6 5/5
John Liu (appointed 1 December 2014) 1/1 0/0
Mike Muller 6/6 5/5
Kathleen O’Donovan 6/6 5/5
Janice Roberts 6/6 5/5
Tim Score 6/6 3/5
Sir John Buchanan (retired 1 May 2014) 2/3 0/1
Philip Rowley (retired 1 May 2014) 2/3 1/1
Eric Meurice (retired 31 March 2014) 2/2 0/0
Chairman 
Stuart Chambers joined the Board on 
27 January 2014 and took over from Sir 
John Buchanan as Chairman on 1 March 
2014. He is Chairman of Rexam plc and 
an independent non-executive director of 
Tesco plc.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for 
running the Board and the Chief Executive 
Officer has executive responsibility for the 
operations and results of the Group, and 
also for making proposals to the Board in 
relation to the strategic development of the 
Group. The Board recognises that the roles 
of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
are distinct (as described below) and also 
the importance of maintaining an excellent 
working relationship between them. 
During 2014, there were regular meetings 
and calls between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive Officer outside 
Board meetings, including a visit by the 
Chairman to the Group’s office in San Jose. 
These discussions provided and continue to 
provide opportunities for the exchange of 
information, mentoring and regular updates 
on the business objectives and priorities that 
the Chairman set for the Chief Executive 
Officer for 2014. These priorities are 
described in more detail on pages 12 and 41.
The Chairman participated in various Group 
events during 2014 to meet managers and 
employees across the organisation, including 
the Global Engineering Conference attended 
by around 600 ARM engineers and a 
conference held by the IT team. He also met 
with shareholders during the year, attended 
the Analyst and Investor Day and the Annual 
Partner Meeting, which is the Group’s major 
customer event.  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 12
Main responsibilities of the Chairman include:
 leadership of the Board and creating the 
conditions for overall Board and individual 
director effectiveness, and a constructive 
relationship with good communication 
between the executive and non-
executive directors;
 ensuring that the Board as a whole 
plays a full and constructive part in the 
development of strategy and overall 
commercial objectives;
 chairing the Nomination Committee, 
which initiates succession planning 
to retain and build an effective and 
complementary Board;
 ensuring that there is effective 
communication with shareholders and 
that members of the Board develop an 
understanding of the views of the major 
investors in the Group;
 promoting the highest standards 
of integrity, probity and corporate 
governance throughout the Group, 
particularly at Board level; 
 ensuring that the performance of the 
Board as a whole, its Committees 
and individual directors is formally and 
rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
Chief Executive Officer
Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive 
Officer include:
 proposing and developing the Group’s 
strategy and overall commercial 
objectives in conjunction with the 
Executive Committee;
 day-to-day management of the Group’s 
business with the Executive Committee;
 chairing the Executive Committee;
 maintaining a close working relationship 
with the Chairman; 
 meeting regularly with ARM’s leading 
customers for executive discussions on 
broad strategic and industry trends;
 hosting discussions with inﬂuential 
media outlets;
 fostering good relationships with 
ARM’s larger shareholders and major 
ﬁnancial institutions; 
 representing ARM in various industry 
organisations and professional 
associations, and activities within the local 
community and at international level.
Company Secretary
Patricia Alsop acts as Secretary to the 
Board and Board Committees and all Board 
members have individual access to her 
advice. She ensures that the Board receives 
all relevant information in a timely manner, 
organises induction and training programmes 
for new directors, and facilitates the Board 
evaluation in years when this is conducted 
internally. She is also responsible for ensuring 
that the correct Board and Committee 
procedures are followed and advises the 
Board on corporate governance matters. 
The established procedure under which 
directors can, where appropriate, obtain 
independent legal or other professional 
advice at the Group’s expense is also 
administered through her.
Philip Davis will take over the Company 
Secretary role on Patricia Alsop’s 
retirement from the Group in May 2015. 
This is in addition to his responsibilities as 
General Counsel.
Corporate governance continued... 13 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Annual Report, information and 
communication with shareholders and other 
stakeholders
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the Annual Report and the 
quarterly earnings releases, and for ensuring 
that they present a balanced assessment of 
the Group’s position, lies with the Board. 
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility 
for managing the Group to the Executive 
Committee and has a number of other 
Committees, details of which are set out on 
the following pages.
Investor relations
The Board makes considerable efforts to 
establish and maintain good relationships 
with shareholders and the wider investment 
community. There is regular dialogue with 
institutional investors during the year, except 
during close periods. The main channel of 
communication continues to be through the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer and the VP of Investor Relations. 
The Chairman, the Senior Independent 
Director and the other directors are 
available to engage in dialogue with major 
shareholders as appropriate. 
The Board encourages communication 
with private investors and part of the 
Group’s website is dedicated to providing 
information for all investors, including 
responses to frequently asked questions, the 
investment case, product information, press 
releases, RNS and Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) announcements, 
and an interactive online version of the 
Annual Report. 
At present, over 30 sell-side analysts write 
research reports on the Group and their 
details appear on the Group’s website. 
Shareholders can also obtain telephone 
numbers from the website, enabling them 
to listen to earnings presentations and audio 
conference calls with analysts. In addition, 
webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations 
are made available through the website. 
Members of the Board develop an 
understanding of the views of major 
shareholders through any direct contact 
that may be initiated by shareholders, or 
through analysts’ and brokers’ brieﬁngs. 
The Board also receives feedback from the 
Group’s brokers and ﬁnancial PR advisers, 
who in turn obtain feedback from analysts 
and brokers following investor roadshows. 
All shareholders can register to receive the 
Group’s press releases via the internet. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 14
Annual General Meeting
The Board actively encourages participation 
at the AGM, scheduled for 30 April 2015, 
which is the principal forum for dialogue 
with private shareholders. The Circular 
and Notice of AGM are being sent to 
shareholders concurrently with the 
distribution of this report, which is well in 
advance of the required 20 working days 
before the meeting. A presentation is 
made outlining recent developments in the 
business and an open question-and-answer 
session follows to enable shareholders to 
ask questions about the business in general. 
The Chairman, who chairs the Nomination 
Committee, will be present at the AGM. 
He will arrange for the respective chairs of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees to 
be available to answer questions and for all 
directors to attend.
All resolutions proposed at the 2015 AGM 
will be decided on a poll and the voting results 
will be published via RNS and the SEC, and 
will also be available on the Group’s website.
In addition to the ordinary business, 
resolutions will also be proposed at the 2015 
AGM to:
 authorise the directors generally to allot 
up to £232,891 in nominal amount of 
ordinary shares;
 authorise the directors to allot up to a 
further £232,891 in nominal amount of 
ordinary shares in connection with a rights 
issue (as deﬁned in the Notice of AGM); 
 authorise the directors to allot ordinary 
shares (or sell treasury shares) for cash 
(i) otherwise than in connection with a 
“pre-emptive offer” (as deﬁned in the 
Notice of AGM) up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £35,304, or (ii) in 
connection with a pre-emptive offer 
up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£35,304, or (iii) in connection with a rights 
issue up to a further nominal amount of 
£35,304, in each case as if section 561(1) 
of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply 
to such allotment (or sale). The period of 
authorisation will in each case expire at the 
earlier of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM 
or on 30 June 2016.
Board evaluation
The Board undertakes an annual review of its 
effectiveness. Following the external review 
undertaken by Independent Audit in 2013, an 
internally facilitated evaluation was conducted 
in 2014. The Chairman and the Company 
Secretary developed a new questionnaire 
and the focus of the 2014 evaluation was the 
extent of progress in relation to the four key 
action areas identiﬁed in the 2013 review.  
Corporate governance continued... 15 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
These were:
2013 action areas identiﬁed Action taken in 2014
Ensuring that the Board and Committees have the skills 
and experience they need going forward
We recruited John Liu as an additional non-executive 
director with extensive expertise in Asia, particularly in 
China. The membership of all committees was reviewed 
during 2014 and changes were made to the composition 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. The Nomination Committee is developing 
candidate briefs for further searches in 2015 for 
independent non-executive directors with appropriate 
skills, experience and diversity to complement our 
existing Board members and maintain, collectively, an 
effective Board.
Further improving the culture and dynamics in the 
Boardroom, with each Board member developing 
a clear understanding of the Board’s role and their 
individual role
The consensus from the 2014 Board evaluation is that 
culture and dynamics in the Boardroom have improved 
during the year and Board members’ roles are better 
deﬁned and understood. Board members agreed to aim 
to spend more time together outside formal meetings 
and the Board will continue to discuss and review this 
during 2015.
Reviewing the KPIs and Board information and ensuring 
they are ﬁt for purpose
The review concluded that the KPIs and information 
provided to the Board were broadly ﬁt for purpose. 
However, some enhancements were proposed, trialled 
and have now been built into the Board reports. KPIs 
are described in more detail in the Strategic Report on 
pages 23 to 30. This action area has been removed from 
the priorities list for 2015. 
Exiting the year with greater clarity and a more 
harmonised Board view on the long-term vision for the 
business and the consequent strategic priorities
ARM’s vision, mission and strategy were reviewed and 
refreshed during 2014. The consensus from the 2014 
Board evaluation is that there is a better understanding 
of the long-term vision for the business and consequent 
strategic priorities. These were reviewed in detail at the 
September Strategy meeting which was unanimously 
agreed to have been well prepared and focused on 
appropriate areas for future development. These areas 
include developing technology to address servers and 
networking infrastructure and the market associated 
with the Internet of Things. More details are contained 
in the Strategic Report on page 22 to 23.
The Chairman had a detailed individual discussion with 
each non-executive director during 2014, in addition to 
his regular conversations with the CEO.
A process is in place for the Senior Independent 
Director to meet with each non-executive director 
individually to provide feedback on the Chairman and on 
any issues of concern.
The 2014 evaluation covered:
 Board structure and dynamics;
 Board meetings;
 Meeting administration;
 Board committees – Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination;
 Strategy review;
 Risk management, corporate governance 
and corporate responsibility;
 Key challenges for 2015.
The overall conclusion was that individual 
Board members are satisﬁed that the Board 
works well and operates effectively in an 
environment where there is constructive 
challenge from the non-executive directors. 
They are also satisﬁed with the contribution 
made by their colleagues and that Board 
Committees operate properly and efficiently. 
The three remaining action areas referred 
to above will continue to be priorities in 
2015, with continued enhancement of the 
induction and ongoing training process for 
Board members identiﬁed as an additional 
area of focus.
An internally facilitated Board evaluation 
will take place during 2015 and the Board 
intends to continue with a cycle of external 
evaluations every three years with internal 
evaluations in between.  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 16
Induction
A personalised induction programme is 
arranged for new directors, tailored to their 
speciﬁc requirements, the aim of which is to 
introduce them to key executives across the 
business and to enhance their knowledge and 
understanding of the Group and its activities. 
In 2014, this included a comprehensive 
induction programme for Stuart Chambers, 
who was appointed to the Board on 
27 January 2014 and took over the Chairman 
role on 1 March 2014. This included several 
days with the Chief Executive Officer in 
Silicon Valley to see the Group’s operations 
and meet senior executives based there, in 
addition to a series of individual meetings 
with Board members, senior executives 
and external advisers based in the UK. 
The Chairman has regular meetings and 
calls with the CEO, CFO, CTO, Company 
Secretary and EVP People. A similar induction 
programme is underway for John Liu with a 
focus on the Group’s activities in Asia. He has 
become a member of the Group’s Asia 
Advisory Group which meets three times 
each year.
All members of the Board are encouraged 
to spend time outside Board meetings with 
members of the Executive Committee 
and senior management and a number 
of individual meetings took place during 
2014, which will continue during 2015. 
All Board members are invited to attend 
the annual ARM Partner Meeting in the UK, 
which is the Group’s key customer event 
of the year and/ or the ARM TechCon in 
the US. Board members are also invited 
to attend the annual Analyst and Investor 
Day. These events offer the opportunity 
to understand more about the business, 
products, technology development roadmap, 
customer base and investor perspective.
Training
Board members receive guidance on the 
regulatory regimes and corporate governance 
framework that the Group operates under. 
In particular, during 2014 the Board received 
an update from the Company Secretary 
on current governance topics including 
executive remuneration and Board diversity. 
The Board also participated in a detailed 
workshop led by the Group’s external 
auditors covering recent and forthcoming 
developments in corporate governance, 
audit, reporting, ﬁnancial accounting and tax. 
John Liu attended a session with the Group’s 
external lawyers covering the responsibilities 
of being a director of a UK listed company. 
The Group has a commitment to training 
and all directors, executive or non-executive, 
are encouraged to attend suitable training 
courses at the Group’s expense. 
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
are published on the Group’s website at 
www.arm.com.
Corporate governance continued... 17 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is responsible for 
developing and implementing the strategy 
approved by the Board. In particular, the 
Committee is responsible for ensuring 
that the Group’s budget and forecasts are 
properly prepared, that targets are met, 
and for generally managing and developing 
the business within the overall budget. 
In addition, the Committee ensures that 
risks identiﬁed through the Business Planning 
process, particularly corporate-level risks, 
are managed and mitigated to the greatest 
extent possible. Variations from the budget 
and changes in strategy require approval from 
the main Board of the Group. The Executive 
Committee, which meets monthly, 
now comprises:
 the Chief Executive Officer 
 the Chief Financial Officer
 the Chief Technology Officer 
 the Chief Operating Officer
 the Chief Information Officer 
 the EVP and President Product Groups 
 the EVP and President of Commercial and 
Global Development 
 the Chief Marketing Officer 
 the EVP Strategy 
 the EVP and President ARM 
Greater China 
 the EVP Technical Operations
 the EVP People 
 the General Counsel 
 the Company Secretary 
Executive Committee meetings are attended 
by other senior operational personnel, as 
appropriate. In recognition of the increasing 
importance of Asia as both a market and an 
engineering base, the EVP and President of 
ARM Greater China, who is based in China, 
became a full member of the Executive 
Committee on 1 July 2014, having previously 
been an observer. 
Biographies of the members of the Executive 
Committee appear on the Group’s website at 
www.arm.com. 
Management structure
The Group has a traditional UK Board 
structure with a unitary Board comprising 
the Chairman, executive and non-executive 
directors. The Audit and Remuneration 
Committees are made up of independent 
non-executive directors and they, together 
with the Nomination Committee, report 
to the Board. Each of the operations and 
functions of the Group report to the 
Executive Committee. The Risk Review 
Committee reports periodically to the 
Executive Committee, Audit Committee and 
the Board. The VP Business Assurance/Head 
of Internal Audit also has a separate reporting 
line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 18
Audit Committee report
“The Committee’s key objectives are to provide effective ﬁnancial 
governance and to assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of the 
Group’s ﬁnancial reporting. The Committee oversees the external 
and internal audit processes, and reviews the risk management 
framework, the effectiveness of the risk management processes, 
and the system of internal control. The Committee will continue 
to evolve its activities in the light of guidance from regulators and 
prevailing economic conditions.”
Committee composition and meeting 
attendance during 2014
Name of director Position
Meetings 
attended/eligible 
meetings
Kathleen O’Donovan Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairman 6/6
Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 6/6
Andy Green (appointed 1 May 2014) Independent non-executive director 3/3
Philip Rowley (retired 1 May 2014) Independent non-executive director 2/3
Eric Meurice (retired 31 March 2014) Independent non-executive director 2/2
Kathleen O’Donovan has chaired the 
Committee since January 201 1. She is 
qualiﬁed as the Committee ﬁnancial expert 
as deﬁned in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 
(US) and has recent and relevant ﬁnancial 
expertise in compliance with the Code 
provision C3.1. The external auditors, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the 
VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business 
Assurance/Head of Internal Audit, the Head 
of Tax and the Company Secretary attend 
all meetings in order to ensure that all the 
information required by the Committee for it 
to operate effectively is available. The Group 
Chairman and other Board members also 
attend Committee meetings from time 
to time. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
reports to the Board on how the Committee 
has discharged its responsibilities.
Representatives of the Group’s external 
auditors have a private session with 
the Committee prior to each meeting, 
without other management being present. 
The Chairman of the Committee also has 
separate meetings with the VP Business 
Assurance/Head of Internal Audit, the 
Chairman of the Risk Review Committee, 
the external auditors, the Chief Financial 
Officer, the Company Secretary, the VP 
Investor Relations and the VP Finance, ARM 
Group during the year. This is to discuss their 
ongoing work and any areas of concern, 
and also to enable certain members of 
management, such as the Chief Information 
Officer and the General Counsel, to report 
on key areas of risk and control.
During 2014, the Chairman of the 
Committee and the external audit partner 
again organised a meeting for the UK-based 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) audit 
and tax teams and the ARM ﬁnance and 
tax teams to discuss the audit approach, 
to understand the planning for the year-
end, and to gain insights into the corporate 
governance environment and the Group’s 
expectations from the internal and external 
audit processes.
Kathleen O’Donovan
Committee Chairman 19 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Principal activities 
The principal activities of the Committee 
during 2014 were the monitoring and 
reviewing of:
 the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of 
the Group and any formal announcements 
relating to the Group’s ﬁnancial 
performance and reviewing any signiﬁcant 
ﬁnancial reporting judgements and the 
clarity of disclosures;
 the Group’s risk management framework 
and process and the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal controls over 
ﬁnancial reporting;
 the status of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance 
and testing for the Group’s reporting 
under its SEC obligations;
 the framework for ensuring compliance 
with legal requirements, accounting 
standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and the 
requirements of the SEC;
 the assessment of going concern, in 
advance of its consideration by the Board;
 the work and results of Business 
Assurance and Internal Audit in relation 
to the 2014 Audit Plan and approving the 
Audit Plan for 2015;
 the effectiveness and integrity of the 2014 
external audit process; including assessing 
the external auditors’ independence and 
objectivity, the effectiveness of the audit 
process and fees, the engagement of the 
external auditors to supply non-audit 
services and assessing their nature, extent 
and cost effectiveness; as well as making 
recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the appointment, remuneration and 
resignation or dismissal of the Group’s 
external auditors;
 the process and procedures whereby 
employees can raise concerns regarding 
potential impropriety;
 the effectiveness of the Audit Committee 
and our own Terms of Reference.
The integrity of ﬁnancial reporting
The Committee reviewed the integrity 
of the ﬁnancial statements of the Group 
and all formal announcements relating 
to the Group’s ﬁnancial performance. 
Each quarter, the Committee reviewed 
accounting papers prepared by management 
on areas of ﬁnancial reporting judgement 
and matters giving rise to exceptional items. 
These included:
 consideration of the accounting treatment 
of substantial transactions, including any 
judgemental matters in relation to revenue 
recognition for major licence contracts 
with customers, which concluded 
that revenue had been accounted 
for appropriately;
 consideration of the appropriate operating 
segments and cash generating units of the 
Group which concluded that the business 
now has one reportable segment;
 reviewing the Adjusted Performance 
Measures used by the Group and 
referred to as normalised performance 
measures. Our aim is to ensure they are 
properly derived, consistently treated 
and transparently presented, and are 
appropriately balanced with regard to the 
required IFRS measures. We review the 
work by the ﬁnance team, the Disclosure 
Committee and the external auditors;
 consideration of the judgements 
surrounding the goodwill impairment 
review performed in the fourth quarter 
of 2014. In light of the continuing strong 
performance of the Group in the year, 
the Committee was comfortable 
with management’s assessment that, 
after considering various scenarios 
incorporating various sensitivity and stress 
tests, no impairment in carrying value 
was required;
 consideration of management’s judgement 
regarding the level of provision required to 
be carried in relation to ongoing litigation 
involving either the Group or its licensees, 
and in particular where the Group may 
be required to indemnify its licensees, 
including receiving regular updates from 
the Group’s General Counsel;
 consideration of the key judgements 
made in estimating the Group’s tax charge 
and review of any provisions in respect 
of ongoing tax matters, together with 
assessment from independent experts;
 consideration of the Group’s tax strategy 
and key developments that may inﬂuence 
the Group’s global tax position;
 reviewing reports from the Compliance 
and Disclosure Committees relating to any 
matters relevant to the ﬁnancial reporting 
of the Group. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 20
Fair, balanced and understandable
In line with the requirement in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012) based on both internal and external 
audit reviews and conﬁrmations from 
management, the Committee and the Board 
believe that the Annual Report taken as a 
whole is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
The effectiveness of risk management, 
internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley control 
framework
We believe that an effective and robust 
risk management framework and system 
of internal control is essential to achieving 
a reliable business performance. On behalf 
of the Board we review the effectiveness 
of these processes with regard to the 
key operational, ﬁnancial and compliance 
controls. This is an area of evolution in 
the light of business circumstances, the 
marketplace and regulation. We note the 
continued focus and improvement in this area 
during the year.
In conjunction with management and the 
Risk Review Committee, the Committee 
continued to oversee the Group’s risk 
assessment and reporting framework, 
with assistance and guidance from external 
advisers. The format for the Corporate 
Risk Register, Risk Assurance Matrix and 
Risk Heatmap has evolved further during 
2014, with feedback from the Board being 
provided through the ongoing strategic 
risk appetite discussions and the continual 
assessment of the risk factors in current 
operations. Group Risk Registers are also 
now established for each of the operations 
and functions of the Group and are normally 
reviewed and updated twice a year. The risk 
management arrangements are reviewed and 
discussed at Executive Committee meetings 
throughout the year. 
We have seen continued improvement in the 
transparency and active ownership of risk 
management throughout the organisation, 
driven and supported by a strong tone at the 
top. We have noted the growing strength of 
the three lines of defence. We are pleased 
with the progress achieved, however there 
remains more still to do and work in these 
areas will be ongoing in 2015.
More details regarding the risks and their 
management during the year are included on 
pages 31 to 37 in the Strategic Report. 
The COSO framework of internal control 
continues to be implemented across the 
organisation. The processes and procedures 
for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the signiﬁcant business, operational, 
ﬁnancial, compliance and other risks have 
been successfully integrated into day-
to-day business operations through our 
internal control system known as the ARM 
Management System (AMS) and associated 
Audit Assurance System.
The AMS is fully documented and 
compliance is monitored through audits and 
periodic controls testing during each year. 
The effectiveness of individual controls is 
also reviewed with their owners within the 
operations and functions of the Group to 
ensure efficacy and relevance. The Business 
Assurance function reports on the status of 
the AMS to the Audit Committee at least 
twice each year. The Compliance and Audit 
Committees also monitor the satisfactory 
remediation of any identiﬁed control issues 
with Group-level signiﬁcance.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and 
approved the system of internal control, 
including internal controls over the 
consolidation process and ﬁnancial reporting, 
which have been in place for the year under 
review and up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report and ﬁnancial statements, 
and has reported to the Board on any 
relevant matters.
Compliance with the Listing Rules of the 
FCA, the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (US)
The Audit Committee has reviewed the 
framework for ensuring compliance with  
the requirements of the FRC, SEC and UK 
Corporate Governance. Throughout 2014, 
the Group complied fully with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012), the Listing Rules of the FCA and also 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US). 
Going concern
In advance of the consideration by the Board 
on going concern, the Audit Committee 
reviewed the 2015 budget and longer-term 
plans and considered any reasonably likely 
scenarios that may occur. The Committee 
is satisﬁed that, at the time of approving 
the ﬁnancial statements, it is appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the ﬁnancial statements of both the Group 
and the parent Company. This view was 
supported by a sensitivity analysis and stress 
tests undertaken at the year-end which 
showed that some extreme assumptions 
would have to be made before there is a 
negative impact.
Audit Committee report continued... 21 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
The work of Business Assurance and 
Internal Audit 
The Committee noted further improvements 
in the development and effectiveness of the 
Business Assurance/Internal Audit function 
in 2014. In particular, the Audit Assurance 
System (which provides improved document 
control, risk assessment and reporting) was 
reviewed and further improvements were 
completed. We reviewed the resources of 
the team and the plans for their deployment 
during the year. We also noted the key 
relationships between the Assurance team 
and the Compliance and Risk Review 
Committees, as well as the working 
relationship with the external auditors PwC 
and Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance.
ARM’s Internal Audit function develops an 
annual audit plan to provide assurance that 
the risk management activities identiﬁed to 
mitigate the risks are designed and operating 
effectively and that corrective action is being 
taken where necessary.
As well as the Committee’s formal meeting 
with the VP Business Assurance/Head 
of Internal Audit, the Chairman of the 
Committee meets with him informally 
throughout the year in order to provide the 
opportunity for open and timely dialogue. 
Typically there is a discussion about the 
content and quality of papers intended for 
the Committee, emerging business risks, the 
quality of engagement with Internal Audit and 
any concerns that may have arisen.
External audit plan and approach
During the year we reviewed PwC’s audit 
strategy, the audit approach, key areas 
of focus, materiality and the audit plan. 
PwC explained their risk-based approach, 
including the interaction with their work 
on internal control for the purposes of 
expressing an opinion under section 404 
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The results 
of those procedures were reported in 
December 2014 and January and February 
2015. No material misstatements remained 
unadjusted in the ﬁnancial statements.
In addition to the private meetings held with 
the external auditors and the Committee, 
the Chairman of the Committee meets with 
the PwC team on a regular basis to provide 
the opportunity for an open communication 
regarding any concerns, as well as to 
understand their assessment of key 
judgements as they arise.
Auditor effectiveness and partner rotation
PwC have been the Group’s auditors since it 
listed on the London Stock Exchange in April 
1998. The external auditors are required 
to rotate the audit partner responsible for 
the Group and subsidiary audits every ﬁfth 
year-end. The last audit partner rotation took 
place early in 2012. The Committee considers 
that the relationship with the auditors is 
working well and remains satisﬁed with their 
objectivity and effectiveness. The Committee 
is also satisﬁed with the quality of challenge, 
scepticism and execution by the auditors 
and this view is supported by a review of the 
effectiveness of the external audit process, 
which was undertaken in December 2014 
and reported on in January 2015 involving 
Board members and senior managers who 
interact with the auditors. The review looked 
at the robustness of the audit, and the 
quality of delivery, people and service, and 
concluded that the auditors are effective, and 
that the 2014 audit process had worked well. 
Some minor areas were noted for continuing 
improvement and will be monitored in 2015.  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 22
Audit Committee report continued...
Process and procedures whereby employees 
can raise concerns regarding potential 
impropriety
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy 
which sets out procedures for employees to 
report concerns about any unethical business 
practices to senior management in strict 
conﬁdence and without fear of recrimination. 
The Audit Committee receives details of 
any such conﬁdential reports from the 
Compliance Committee. There were three 
whistleblowing reports in 2014, all of which 
were reviewed by the Audit Committee. 
None of these cases were found to involve 
any ﬁnancial or other loss to the Group. 
All were thoroughly investigated (in one case 
involving a more detailed on-site investigation 
by members of the Internal Audit team) 
and appropriate actions were taken. 
These involved reinforcing Group policies and 
procedures with employees in the relevant 
locations through additional training and 
increased management supervision. All of 
these matters are regarded by the Audit 
Committee as being closed.
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee and 
our own Terms of Reference.
A review of the effectiveness of the Audit 
Committee was undertaken in December 
2014 and reported on in January 2015. The  
review involved Audit Committee members, 
members of senior management who 
interact with the Audit Committee and the 
external auditors. The review considered the 
Committee processes and the knowledge 
and behaviour of the Committee members 
and concluded that the Audit Committee 
is effective. Some minor areas were noted 
for continuing improvement and will be 
monitored in 2015.
The Audit Committee reviews its Terms of 
Reference on an annual basis and is satisﬁed 
that they are appropriate. The Terms of 
Reference have been agreed with the Board.
Tenure of external auditors
On the basis of the Committee’s continued 
satisfaction with the performance and 
effectiveness of PwC (as described above), 
it has not considered it necessary to date to 
require the ﬁrm to tender for the audit work. 
The Committee is actively monitoring the 
EU audit directive and ongoing discussions in 
this area at the Financial Reporting Council, 
the EU and the Competition Commission. 
Taking account of the changes to the 
regulatory regime relating to mandatory 
audit tendering, the Committee expects to 
conduct an audit tender before 2018.
Auditor independence 
The auditors are required to, and do, 
communicate with the Committee at least 
annually as to whether there are any threats 
to their independence and objectivity and, 
if there are, what safeguards have been 
applied. The Committee has also reviewed 
the auditors’ transparency report, paying 
particular attention to the sections covering 
internal controls, independence policies and 
the results of external regulator reviews. 
Having reviewed the safeguards in place, and 
the contents of the transparency report, 
as well as noting the regular and recent 
rotation of the audit partner, the Committee 
is satisﬁed that the auditors’ procedures are 
sufficient to maintain their independence 
and objectivity. The Committee has also 
considered the level of non-audit fees and 
believes that these are at a level which 
does not compromise their objectivity or 
independence in any way.
There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Group’s choice of external 
auditor. The Committee also keeps under 
review the value for money of the audit. 
Policy on auditors providing non-audit 
services
To avoid the possibility of the auditors’ 
objectivity and independence being 
compromised, there is an agreed policy in 
place on the provision of non-audit services 
by the auditors, which sets out arrangements 
for approving:
 services that require general pre-approval 
by the Committee;
 services that require speciﬁc pre-
approval by the Committee before 
work commences; 
 services that cannot be provided by 
the auditors.
This non-audit services policy is reviewed 
annually. The Group’s tax advisory work 
is carried out by the auditors only in cases 
where they are deemed to be best suited 
to perform the work in a cost-effective 
manner, given their familiarity with the 
Group’s business. In other cases, the Group 
has engaged another independent ﬁrm 
of accountants to perform tax advisory 
work. The Group does not normally award 
general consulting work to the auditors, 
although they did provide advice on the 
Group’s procurement model in 2014. 
From time to time, the Group will engage 
the auditors to perform work on matters 
relating to benchmarking of the internal 
audit function, human resources, and royalty 
audits. Total fees for non-audit services were 
£52,000 for taxation services and £78,000 
for royalty, procurement and other services.  
This represents 15% of the amount spent on 
audit and audit-related services. A breakdown 
of fees paid to the auditors can be found in 
note 5 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
Kathleen O’Donovan
Committee Chairman
17 February 2015 23 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Nomination Committee report
“The Committee’s three key tasks in 201 4 were concluding the 
appointment of Stuart Chambers as the new Chairman, appointing 
Chris Kennedy, who will join the Board as CFO as soon as he 
has completed his current commitments and appointing John 
Liu who joined the Board on 1 December 201 4 as an additional 
independent non-executive director . These appointments resulted 
from extensive externally conducted reviews of candidates.”
Stuart Chambers
Nomination Committee Chairman  
(from 1 March 2014)
As announced on 27 January 2014, it was 
with much regret that Sir John Buchanan 
stepped down as Chairman on 1 March 
2014, and retired from the Board at the AGM 
on 1 May 2014 due to a medical condition. 
The Committee, led for this purpose by the 
Senior Independent Director, was active in 
2013 and early 2014 in ﬁnalising arrangements 
for my appointment as Chairman. I joined 
the Group on 27 January 2014 as Chairman 
Designate and took over as Chairman on 
1 March 2014.
The Committee has reviewed the skills, 
experience and attributes of the current 
non-executive directors, which has informed 
the qualities to be sought when making 
future non-executive director appointments. 
Our goal is to ensure that the Board and its 
committees comprise individuals with the 
requisite skills, knowledge and experience 
to maximise effectiveness in discharging our 
duties. In particular, this led us to search 
for a non-executive director with direct 
knowledge and experience of doing business 
in Asia, particularly Greater China, which 
resulted in the appointment of John Liu.  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 24
Nomination Committee composition and 
meeting attendance during 2014
Name of director Position
Meetings 
attended/eligible 
meetings
Stuart Chambers Chairman (Chairman from 1 March 2014) 5/5
Kathleen O’Donovan Senior Independent Director 5/5
Andy Green Independent non-executive director 5/5
Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director (retired 1 May 2014) 1/1
Sir John Buchanan 
 
Chairman (retired as Chairman on 1 March 2014 and 
from the Board on 1 May 2014)
0/0 
During the year, the activities of the 
Committee included engaging external search 
ﬁrms to seek and introduce candidates and 
interviewing a number of candidates in each 
case for the following roles:
 Chairman, which resulted in the 
Committee recommending the 
appointment of Stuart Chambers;
 Independent non-executive director, 
which resulted in the Committee 
recommending the appointment of 
John Liu;
 Chief Financial Officer, which resulted 
in the Committee recommending the 
appointment of Chris Kennedy.
The Chairman led the processes for 
the appointment of John Liu and Chris 
Kennedy, in the latter case working closely 
with the CEO to whom the role reports. 
Kathleen O’Donovan, in her capacity as the 
Senior Independent Director, led the process 
for the appointment of the new Chairman, 
chairing relevant meetings of the Nomination 
Committee and a number of conference calls 
between Committee members. 
The external search ﬁrms were Zygos in 
the case of the Chairman recruitment, Egon 
Zehnder in relation to the non-executive 
director recruitment and Russell Reynolds for 
the CFO recruitment. There is no connection 
between the Group, or any individual 
director and any of the search ﬁrms.
Nomination Committee report continued...
In addition to leading the process 
for Board appointments and making 
recommendations to the Board in relation to 
new appointments, the Committee’s general 
responsibilities include:
 reviewing succession planning, Board 
composition and balance; 
 considering the roles and capabilities 
required for each new appointment, based 
on an evaluation of the skill, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the 
existing directors. During 2014, the Board 
identiﬁed the skills and attributes required 
for the Board collectively and developed 
a detailed matrix mapping individual 
Board members’ attributes against these. 
This provides an informed basis for future 
searches and recruitment.
Our policy on diversity is set out in more 
detail in the Directors’ report. In summary, 
we are committed to recruitment which 
is based on equal opportunities for all, 
irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, 
disability, religious affiliation, sexual 
orientation or marital status. During 2015, 
the Committee will continue to review the 
composition of the Board and its committees 
to ensure that we continue to maintain, 
collectively, a highly effective Board. 
Stuart Chambers 
Chairman (from 1 March 2014)
17 February 2015 25 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Corporate Governance report
Internal control/risk management
The Group fully complies with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012)’s provisions on internal control, having 
established procedures to implement in full 
the Turnbull Guidance “Internal Control: 
Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code”. The Group’s risks are 
managed within a systematic process of risk 
identiﬁcation and assessment. The detailed 
risk management process is explained in the 
Risk management and principal risks section 
on pages 31 to 37 of the Strategic Report.
The Group notes the provisions of the 
updated UK Corporate Governance 
Code published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in September 2014, and applying 
to the Group’s accounting period beginning 
1 January 2015. The Group is complying fully 
with the provisions of the updated Code and 
will report on this in its 2015 Annual Report.
The Audit Committee is responsible 
for ensuring that the risk management 
framework and process is operating 
effectively. The Risk Review Committee 
reviews the Corporate Risk Register (CRR), 
Group Risk Registers and Risk Heatmap 
normally on a quarterly basis. The Audit 
Committee also reviews these documents 
and the Risk Assurance Matrix, discusses as 
appropriate with the Chairman of the Risk 
Review Committee and reviews the minutes 
of its meetings. The Executive Committee 
and the Board also review these documents 
at least twice each year. The Board conﬁrms 
that the necessary actions have been or are 
being taken to remedy any signiﬁcant failings 
or weaknesses identiﬁed from this process in 
a timely manner.
The Board has overall responsibility for 
ensuring that the Group maintains an 
adequate system of internal control and 
risk management, and for reviewing its 
effectiveness, while implementation of 
internal control systems is the responsibility 
of management. The Group has implemented 
an internal control system designed to 
help ensure:
 the effective and efficient operation of 
the Group by enabling management 
to respond appropriately to signiﬁcant 
risks to achieving the Group’s 
business objectives;
 the safeguarding of assets from 
inappropriate use or from loss and fraud, 
and ensuring that liabilities are identiﬁed 
and managed;
 the quality of internal and 
external reporting;
 compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations and with internal policies on 
the conduct of the Group’s business; and
 the ability to recover in a timely manner 
from the effects of disasters or major 
accidents that originate outside the 
Group’s direct control.
Compliance with section 404 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US) has been 
successfully achieved for each ﬁnancial year 
since it became effective for foreign private 
issuers in 2006. This is reported on in more 
detail in the Annual Report on Form 20-F 
that is ﬁled with the SEC. The processes and 
procedures for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the signiﬁcant business, operational, 
ﬁnancial, compliance and other risks facing 
the Group have been successfully integrated 
into day-to-day business operations through 
our internal control system. This is known 
as the ARM Management System (AMS) and 
associated Audit Assurance System and is 
proven to provide a sustainable solution for 
ongoing compliance.
The AMS, which covers ﬁnancial, compliance 
and operational controls, is fully documented 
and compliance is monitored through audits 
and periodic controls testing during each 
year. The effectiveness of individual controls 
is also reviewed with their owners within the 
operations and functions of the Group to 
ensure efficacy and relevance. The Business 
Assurance function reports on the status of 
the AMS to the Audit Committee at least 
twice each year. The Compliance and Audit 
Committees also monitor the satisfactory 
remediation of any identiﬁed control issues 
with Group-level signiﬁcance. 
The Audit Committee has reviewed and 
approved the system of internal control, 
including internal controls over the 
consolidation process and ﬁnancial reporting, 
which have been in place for the year under 
review and up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report and ﬁnancial statements. 
These controls consist of extensive reviews 
by qualiﬁed and experienced individuals, 
underpinned by a system of checklists which 
ensures that all elements of the ﬁnancial 
statements and appropriate disclosures are 
considered and accurately stated. The Audit 
Committee reports to the Board on matters 
of ﬁnancial reporting and internal controls.
The CRR, risk appetite and a draft set of 
guiding principles were reviewed by the 
Board in January 2014 and provided a 
good starting point to review plans for the 
development and implementation of the 
Group’s strategy. Risk appetite will continue 
to be discussed and reﬁned during 2015. 
During 2014, the Board conﬁrmed that the 
level of residual risk is regarded as acceptable 
and within normal parameters for a company 
operating in ARM’s sphere of business.
Control systems are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a 
fast-moving, high-technology business and 
can, therefore, provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Remuneration Committee
A description of the composition, 
responsibilities and operation of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 34.
The Group has a number of other 
committees and bodies that contribute to the 
overall control environment. These include:
Risk Review Committee
Membership of the Risk Review Committee 
was expanded during 2014 and now 
comprises the Chief Technology Officer, the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating 
Officer, the EVP and President Product 
Groups, the Chief Information Officer, the 
VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business 
Assurance/Head of Internal Audit, the 
VP Planning and the Company Secretary. 
The Group’s process for the identiﬁcation, 
ownership, mitigation and reporting of risk 
was enhanced further during 2014 with 
reﬁnements to the CRR and the introduction 
of Group Risk Registers. The Committee 
established a CRR some years ago, which 
summarises the key risks faced by the 
Group. The CRR includes a description 
of the overall risk, the risk factors, the risk 
owner and the risk management activities 
including operational and oversight activities 
as deﬁned in the “three lines of defence” 
model. Residual risks are assessed in terms 
of likelihood and impact and mapped onto a  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 26
Risk Heatmap. Further risk mitigation plans 
are deﬁned to reduce the residual risk if 
judged necessary. The sources of assurance 
are deﬁned on a separate Risk Assurance 
Matrix. Each risk on the CRR is owned by a 
member of the senior management team. 
Risk mitigation plans are managed within the 
relevant objectives of the Group’s operations 
and functions. 
The Risk Review Committee typically meets 
on a quarterly basis to review the CRR 
and identify other risks that need to be 
incorporated. Each risk owner is required to 
review and demonstrate that residual risks 
are being appropriately mitigated via the risk 
mitigation plans, which are normally updated 
bi-annually. Changes that could impact the 
CRR are reviewed by the Committee.
The Risk Review Committee reports to 
the Audit Committee throughout the year. 
Each quarter, the Board and the Audit 
Committee receive copies of the minutes 
of Risk Review Committee meetings, the 
CRR and the Risk Heatmap. These provide 
greater visibility of the range of risks, the 
ways in which such risks are mitigated, and 
an assessment of the level and acceptability 
of residual risk. The Committee reports 
formally on the CRR to the Executive 
Committee twice a year, where its ﬁndings 
are considered and challenged. 
More information on industry trends 
and associated risks and opportunities 
are included in the Risk management and 
principal risks section of the Strategic 
Report on pages 31 to 37 and in the Annual 
Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 
31 December 2014 which is available on the 
Group’s website at www.arm.com.
Compliance Committee
The Compliance Committee consists of 
the General Counsel (Chairman), the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, 
the Company Secretary, the VP Business 
Assurance/Head of Internal Audit, the Chief 
Information Officer, the General Manager 
Partner Enablement, the Director Global 
HR Services and the Business Assurance 
Audit Manager. It oversees compliance 
throughout the business with all relevant 
international regulations, export controls, 
trading requirements and standards, including 
direct oversight of ﬁnancial, employment, 
health and safety, environmental, business 
Corporate Governance report continued...
continuity and security processes and policies. 
The Compliance Committee reports to the 
Executive Committee and its minutes are 
reviewed by the Audit Committee and the 
Board. The Chairman of the Compliance 
Committee is available to discuss matters 
as appropriate with the Audit Committee 
and Board.
Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee comprises the 
Chief Executive Officer (Chairman), the 
Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance, ARM 
Group, the General Counsel, the VP Investor 
Relations and the Company Secretary. It is 
responsible for ensuring that disclosures 
made by the Group to its shareholders and 
the investment community are accurate, 
complete and fairly present the Group’s 
ﬁnancial condition in all material respects. 
The Disclosure Committee reports to the 
Audit Committee and Board.
Management structure 
In addition, there are various committees, 
governance review teams and operational 
review meetings that span the Group. 
These include the regular Executive 
Committee meetings chaired by the Chief 
Executive Officer and the weekly Business 
Review Meeting chaired by the Chief 
Operating Officer, the purpose of which 
is to monitor and control all main business 
activities, revenue forecasts and other 
matters requiring approval. In addition, as 
part of the overall structure, management 
reviews (with representatives from the 
operations and functions) revenues, orders 
booked, costs, product and project delivery 
dates, and levels of defects found in products 
in development. Relevant issues are escalated 
to the Executive Committee which, in 
turn, raises relevant issues to the Board of 
the Group.
The four governance review teams report to 
the Compliance Committee, which in turn 
reports to the Executive Committee. 
Internal audit function
The Group has an internal audit function that 
meets the criteria set out in the key practice 
standards prescribed by the Institute of 
Internal Auditors. This internal audit function 
develops an annual audit plan to provide 
assurance that the risk management activities 
identiﬁed to mitigate risk are designed and 
operating effectively and that corrective 
action is being taken where necessary. 
The internal audit function undertook a 
range of ﬁnancial and operational audits 
in 2014 in line with the plan agreed with 
the Audit Committee. Additional internal 
audit resource is provided by co-sourcing 
arrangements with independent third-parties. 
In December 2014, the Group successfully 
achieved certiﬁcate renewal for:
 ISO 27001, the international standard for 
Information Security Management; and 
 ISO 22301, the international standard for 
Business Continuity Management.
The Group also has certiﬁcation for ISO 
9001, the international standard for Business/ 
Quality Management, which was maintained 
throughout the year.
The Group’s management system (AMS) 
documents processes and responsibilities 
across all functions and operations. As an 
autonomous part of this system, the internal 
audit function carries out a programme of 
audits to assess its design and operating 
effectiveness, resulting in continuous 
maintenance and improvement of the system, 
adapting to changes in business operations 
as necessary. 
To demonstrate compliance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the internal audit 
function also maintains the documented 
controls over ﬁnancial reporting and 
conﬁrms the operation of them either by 
direct testing or through a monitored self-
assessment programme. The management 
system is audited externally by Lloyd’s 
Register Quality Assurance for compliance 
with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, 
ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2012 and as 
part of their business assurance approach, 
they support our Sarbanes-Oxley 
compliance activity. 27 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Any signiﬁcant control failings identiﬁed 
through the internal audit function or the 
external auditors are brought to the attention 
of the Compliance Committee and undergo 
a detailed process of evaluation of both 
the failing and the steps taken to remedy it. 
There is then a process for communication 
of any signiﬁcant control failures to the Audit 
Committee. There were no material control 
failures during 2014 or up to 16 February 
2015, being the latest practicable date before 
the printing of this report.
Whistleblowing policy
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy 
which sets out procedures for employees to 
report concerns about any unethical business 
practices to senior management in strict 
conﬁdence and without fear of recrimination. 
The policy was reviewed and updated during 
2014 with the aim of increasing employees’ 
understanding of the circumstances in which 
they should raise concerns and the process to 
do this. If they prefer, they can report matters 
anonymously through an independent 
third-party telephone line. The third-party 
telephone line is tested regularly to ensure 
that employees can use it if they have 
occasion to. The Audit Committee receives 
details of any such conﬁdential reports from 
the Compliance Committee. See page 22 for 
more information.
We have also translated the whistleblowing 
policy into Chinese (simpliﬁed and 
traditional), Japanese and Korean to ensure 
correct understanding in those countries. 
In 2015 to date there have been no 
whistleblowing reports.
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption measures
The Group’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, which is available on the Group’s 
website, and the Company Rules incorporate 
appropriate provisions to meet our 
obligations under the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
A training and communication programme 
is in place to ensure that employees 
understand the requirements of the Act and 
the reporting procedures. This is targeted at 
employees in roles or working in countries 
that are regarded as higher risk. 
Arrangements with contractors and suppliers 
have been and will continue to be reviewed 
and updated to reﬂect the requirements 
of the Act. The Compliance Committee 
oversees the reporting procedures and 
monitors and escalates reports in appropriate 
circumstances. There were no reports of 
concern during 2014 or up to 16 February 
2015, being the latest practicable date before 
the printing of this report.
Human rights and equal opportunities
The Group has signed the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and has 
integrated relevant human rights principles 
into its policies for employees and 
contractors. There is growing interest 
worldwide in the issue of the impact of 
business on human rights.
As a result of our work with Shift, a specialist 
NGO working on business and human 
rights in 2013, we are conﬁdent that our 
risk in this area is low. We have adopted 
a speciﬁc Human Rights Policy within our 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, in 
addition to our existing policies on conﬂict 
minerals, business ethics, discrimination and 
export controls. Our Human Rights Policy 
underlines our commitment to trying to 
avoid any adverse impact on human rights 
in the way we conduct our operations, and 
designates contact points within the senior 
executive team for any employee to seek 
advice on any issue that might have human 
rights implications.
The Group strives for equal opportunities 
for all its employees and does not tolerate 
any harassment of, or discrimination against, 
its staff. A more detailed description of our 
policies on diversity and equal opportunities 
is included in the Directors’ report on page 
29. The Group endeavours to be honest and 
fair in its relationships with its customers and 
suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen, 
respecting the laws of the countries in which 
it operates.
ARM University Programme
The ARM University Programme aims to 
increase the Group’s and our Partners’ 
reach in academia worldwide with the 
objective of training the next generation 
of engineers on ARM-based technologies. 
By building multiple channels with diverse 
partners, the programme once again 
doubled its adopted course and laboratory 
base worldwide in 2014. This was achieved 
through closer collaboration with the wider 
ARM ecosystem, new partnership models 
and novel streamlined methods to produce 
new education kits across a broad range of 
hardware platforms and academic topics. 
The past year also saw the development 
of an online strategy with new content and 
delivery channels designed to meet the 
expectations of today’s student population. 
As we develop this further in 2015 and 
beyond, the programme will partner with 
industry, governments and academia to 
create new forms of learning content and 
delivery platforms. We believe this to be 
the best way to meet the often conﬂicting 
demands of high-quality, low-cost and widely 
accessible tuition. Embracing state-of-the-
art technologies such as e-Learning will be 
a key ingredient in this new extension to 
the programme.
The Group and our Partners are already 
seeing the beneﬁts of the ARM University 
Programme’s activities as it educates tens 
of thousands of students worldwide on 
ARM technologies, preparing them for 
the numerous employment opportunities 
available in the ARM ecosystem. 
Environmental, social, corporate governance 
and ethical policies 
While the Group is accountable to its 
shareholders, it also endeavours to take into 
account the interests of all its stakeholders, 
including employees, customers and suppliers 
and the local communities and environments 
in which it operates. The Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer take 
responsibility for these matters, which are 
considered at Board level. 
Full details of our CR strategy and 
achievements can be found in the main 
CR report on our website (www.arm/
reporting2014) and a summary of highlights 
from the year are included in the Sustainability 
section of the Strategic Report on page 43. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 28
The Group regularly monitors employees’ 
awareness of Group policies and procedures, 
including its conduct and ethical policies. 
Employees and temporary contractors 
reconﬁrm their understanding of key policies 
each year to help reinforce awareness. 
The Group operates from a global 
portfolio of offices located in 18 countries. 
The portfolio is made up entirely of offices 
since the Group has no manufacturing 
activities. As such there are no hazardous 
substances nor complex waste streams to be 
managed as part of our business operations. 
The Group’s principal activity involves the 
use of IT-based engineering tools to create 
intellectual property. With the exception of 
development systems products, the majority 
of “products” sold by the Group comprise 
microprocessor core and physical IP designs 
that are delivered electronically to customers.
The Group’s ongoing environmental impact 
analysis informs management about key 
environmental factors and how it can reduce 
the impacts associated with them. In 2014, 
the Group’s advanced compute resource 
requirement continued with the completion 
of a second major data centre hub in Austin, 
Texas. Alongside our Cambridge data 
centre, this installation has received CEEDA 
(Certiﬁed Energy Efficient Datacentre 
Award) accreditation for energy-efficiency 
and recently, it was awarded the accolade of 
Green Data Centre of the year at the North 
American DCD Awards ceremony.
In 2014, ARM continued to strive for 
environmental accreditation in its new build 
projects. Two signiﬁcant projects, scheduled 
for completion in 2015 and 2016, have had 
environmental performance incorporated 
into the design briefs and will achieve either 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) Accreditation or the 
equivalent Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Methodology 
(BREEAM). These building standards ensure 
high environmental performance of the 
Group’s built environment throughout its 
entire lifecycle.
The Group has continued to partner with 
companies working in the low-impact building 
technology ﬁeld. We have installations in 
place with Intellisense, Enlight and Alert Me 
in our Cambridge offices, improving our 
environmental performance using energy-
efficient ARM technology. Areas such as 
lighting control and environmental monitoring 
of plant for improved building efficiency are 
being developed with these partners and will 
be extended to other key sites and new build 
projects. The Group continued to enhance its 
environmental data collection and reporting 
ability during 2014 to support the work of our 
Energy Use and Climate Change Committee 
(EUCCC). This is an Executive-sponsored 
steering group that directs activity relating 
to environmental stewardship and the 
management of our environmental aspects.
The Group’s environmental policy is 
published on our website within the 
CR report. 
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the 
Articles of Association enable the Group 
to send information to shareholders 
electronically and make documents available 
through the website rather than in hard copy, 
which provides both environmental and cost 
beneﬁts. Shareholders can opt to continue 
receiving a printed copy of the Annual 
Report, subject to availability.
Health and safety
The Group operates in an industry and in 
environments which are considered low 
risk from a health and safety perspective. 
However, the safety and welfare of 
employees, contractors and visitors is a 
priority in all Group workplaces worldwide. 
The Group continues to improve its 
management systems in this area with an 
audit programme that includes external 
auditing of processes and offices.
More detail about the Group’s approach to 
environmental matters and health and safety 
is included in the CR report.
Articles of Association
ARM’s Articles of Association may be 
amended only by a special resolution at a 
general meeting of shareholders. 
Directors’ authority
The directors are responsible for the 
management of the business of ARM and 
may exercise all powers of ARM subject to 
applicable legislation and regulation and the 
Articles of Association.
At the 2014 AGM, the directors were given 
authority to buy back a maximum number of 
140,891,000 ordinary shares at a minimum 
price of 0.05 pence each. The maximum 
price was an amount equal to 105% of the 
average of the closing mid-market prices of 
ARM’s ordinary shares as derived from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for 
the ﬁve business days immediately preceding 
the day on which such ordinary shares are 
contracted to be purchased. This authority 
will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of 
the 2015 AGM or 30 June 2015. During 2014, 
a total of 7,852,543 shares were re-purchased 
and are held in treasury. Share buy backs are 
expected to continue to be made at a level 
which will broadly offset dilution resulting 
from employee share grants.
A resolution will be proposed as a special 
resolution at the 2015 AGM to give ARM 
authority to acquire up to 141,146,000 
ordinary shares following expiry of the 
current authority. The directors will use this 
authority only after careful consideration, 
taking into account market conditions 
prevailing at the time, other investment 
opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and 
the overall position of ARM. In particular, 
this authority will be exercised only if the 
directors believe that it is in the best interests 
of shareholders generally and will increase 
earnings per share.
Business model
A detailed description of ARM’s business 
model is set out on pages 20 to 21 of the 
Strategic Report.
By order of the Board
Patricia Alsop
Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report continued... 29 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Future developments
The Group’s stated objective is to 
establish a global standard for its RISC 
architecture, physical IP and other products 
in the embedded microprocessor and 
semiconductor markets. The directors 
believe that, in order to achieve this goal, it is 
important to expand the number and range 
of potential customers for its technology. 
The Group intends to enter into licence 
agreements with new customers and to 
increase the range of new technology 
supplied to existing customers. 
Relationships will continue to be established 
with third-party tools and software vendors 
to ensure that their products will operate 
with the Group’s products. As a result of its 
position in the semiconductor industry, the 
Group is presented with many opportunities 
to acquire complementary technology or 
resources and it intends to continue to make 
appropriate investments and acquisitions 
from time to time.
Going concern
After dividend payments of £86.1 million the 
highly cash generative nature of the business 
enabled the Group to increase its cash, cash 
equivalents and deposits to £861.7 million 
(net of accrued interest of £4.6 million) at 
the end of 2014. This was an increase from 
£706.3 million (net of accrued interest 
of £7.2 million) at the start of the year. 
After reviewing the 2015 budget and longer-
term plans and considering any reasonably 
likely scenarios that may occur, the directors 
are satisﬁed that, at the time of approving 
the ﬁnancial statements, it is appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the ﬁnancial statements of both the Group 
and the parent Company. This view was 
supported by a sensitivity analysis and stress 
tests undertaken at the year-end which 
showed that some extreme assumptions 
would have to be made before there is a 
negative impact.
Description of operations, principal activities 
and review of business
The principal operations and activities of the 
Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, 
marketing, research and development of 
RISC-based microprocessors, graphics and 
video processors, display technology, physical 
IP and associated systems IP , software and 
tools. The nature of the global semiconductor 
industry is such that most of the Group’s 
business originates overseas and, to serve 
its customers better, the Group has sales 
offices around the world. These include eight 
offices in the US, three in PR China and three 
in the rest of Asia. The Group has design 
offices worldwide with the larger engineering 
operations based in Cambridge, UK, San 
Jose and Austin, USA, and Bangalore, India. 
A full list of the Group’s offices is included on 
page 129.
More information about the business, its 
operations and key performance indicators 
is set out in the Strategic Report in the Our 
marketplace section on pages 16 to 19, the 
Our business model section on pages 20 
to 21, the Strategy and key performance 
indicators section on pages 22 to 30, the 
Financial Strategy section, on pages 52 to 
57, the Risk management section on pages 
31 to 37, and the Corporate Responsibility 
summary on pages 43 to 45. The Group’s 
statement on corporate governance can be 
found in the Corporate Governance report 
on pages 8 to 28 of this Governance and 
Financial Report. The Risk management 
section and the Corporate Governance 
report form part of this section and are 
incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Dividends
The directors recommend payment of 
a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the year to 
31 December 2014 of 4.5 pence per share 
which, subject to approval at the AGM on 
30 April 2015, will be paid on 15 May 2015 
to shareholders on the register on 24 April 
2015. This ﬁnal dividend, combined with the 
interim dividend of 2.52 pence per share paid 
in October 2014, makes a total of 7.02 pence 
per share for the year, an increase of 23% on 
the total dividend of 5.7 pence per share for 
2013. The total cost of dividends paid or to be 
paid in respect of the year to 31 December 
2014 is approximately £99 million.
Share buyback programme
The Group bought back 7,852,543 shares 
with a nominal value of 0.05 pence per share 
during 2014 at an average cost of 852.2 pence 
per share. This represents 0.6% of the issued 
share capital of the Group. These shares are 
held in treasury and will be used to satisfy 
equity awards to employees. The purpose 
of the share buyback programme is to 
offset dilution and maintain the issued share 
capital at a broadly constant level. No shares 
have been re-purchased to date in 2015. 
The rolling authority to buy back shares 
given by the shareholders at the AGM in May 
2014 remains in place and a resolution to 
authorise the directors to make purchases in 
appropriate circumstances will be proposed 
at the 2015 AGM. 
Directors’ report
Additional statutory information
The directors present their report and the audited ﬁnancial statements of the Group for the year 
ended 3 1 December 201 4. The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with the 
Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and T ransparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (September 201 2). ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 30
Directors’ report continued...
Research and development (R&D)
Development of IP is at the heart of the 
Group’s activities and 72% of the Group’s 
workforce is employed in engineering 
activities. Within this, R&D is of major 
importance and, as part of its research 
activities, the Group collaborates closely 
with universities worldwide and plans to 
continue its successful engagement with 
Michigan University. 
Key areas of product development for 2015 
include the development of further energy-
efficient, high-performance processors, such 
as ARM cores based on symmetric multicore 
and superscalar technology. 
The Group is investing in future physical 
IP development including low-power, 
low-leakage technologies for a range of 
chip manufacturing processes, to ensure 
leadership in this market. In addition, the 
Group will continue to develop and deliver 
tools, graphics processors and system 
IP to enable its customers to design and 
programme SoCs.
The Group incurred R&D expenses of 
£224.2 million in 2014, representing 28% 
of revenues, compared with £202.9 million 
in 2013, representing 28% of revenues. 
R&D expenses have been charged in 
full to the income statement since the 
requirements for capitalisation were not 
met. The requirements for capitalisation are 
considered in more detail in note 1 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Donations
The directors decided that an increase in 
charitable giving was appropriate during 2014 
and the Group made donations as follows: 
 
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Promotion of education 916 362
Other 153 106
Medical research 69 62
Local charities 93 68
Environmental 102 90
Total 1,333 688
ARM’s investment of £2.5 million in an 
interest-free charitable bond in Future 
Business, made in 2010, remains in place. 
Future Business is a Cambridge-based social 
enterprise, which provides business advice, 
coaching and affordable workspace to 
entrepreneurs, start-up businesses, charities 
and voluntary organisations.
ARM employees are encouraged to offer 
their time and expertise to help charities and 
other groups in need. The Group operates 
a Matching Gift Donation programme 
for individual employees’ fundraising 
efforts. The Group does not make any 
political donations. 
More details of the Group’s charitable work 
and fundraising activities can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibility report available 
on the Group’s website at www.arm.com/
reporting2014.
Global Green House Gas Emissions
Our report covers emissions within 
operations that fall under the Group’s 
ﬁnancial control. As such data used 
represents our global operations with 
regional conversion factors applied 
as required. 
Our emission factors are from Defra/DECC 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting. Our environmental impact 
assessment of ARM’s operations includes 
energy use and air travel as our material 
CO
2
e contributors. We have excluded 
non-material emissions related to refrigerant 
losses in air conditioning systems, motor cars 
and waste streams.
The increase in our carbon emissions 
intensity in 2014 is due to growth in employee 
numbers from 2,833 at the start of the 
year to 3,294 people at the year-end, with 
a corresponding increase in the size of our 
global estate. 
Further detail on our emissions and the 
Group’s management of those emissions 
can be found in our Carbon Disclosure 
Project Submissions.
Reported Emissions 2014 2013
Scope 1 and 2 Emissions  
Combustion of Fuel, Operation of 
Facilities and Electricity and Cooling 
Purchased (tonnes CO 2e) 1 3,741 1 1,067
CO 2e Intensity (tonnes CO 2e per 
employee/contractor) 3.82 3.37
Scope 3 Emissions  
Business Travel (tonnes CO 2e) 1 1,642 10,186 31 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Directors in the year
The following served as directors of 
the Company during the year ended 
31 December 2014:
 Stuart Chambers (Chairman from 1 March 
2014 – appointed 27 January 2014)
 Simon Segars (Chief Executive Officer)
 Tim Score (Chief Financial Officer)
 Mike Muller (Chief Technology Officer)
 Andy Green (independent non-
executive director) 
 Larry Hirst CBE (independent non-
executive director)
 John Liu (independent non-executive 
director – appointed 1 December 2014)
 Kathleen O’Donovan (Senior Independent 
Director and ﬁnancial expert) 
 Janice Roberts (independent non-
executive director)
 Sir John Buchanan (former Chairman – 
retired 1 May 2014) 
 Philip Rowley (former independent non-
executive director and ﬁnancial expert – 
retired 1 May 2014)
 Eric Meurice (independent non-executive 
director – retired 31 March 2014) 
Election and re-election of directors 
John Liu joined the Board on 1 December 
2014 as an independent non-executive 
director and will be standing for election at 
the 2015 AGM. All of the other directors 
will be standing for re-election at the 2015 
AGM. In line with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012), all directors will present themselves 
for re-election annually (if eligible) unless the 
directors have agreed otherwise.
See pages 6 to 7 for the biographies of the 
directors at the date of this report.
The interests of the directors in the 
Company’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all 
of which were beneﬁcially held, are disclosed 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The directors have the beneﬁt of directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance.
Appointment of directors
ARM shareholders may by ordinary 
resolution appoint any person to be a 
director. ARM must have not less than two 
and no more than 16 directors holding office 
at all times. ARM may by ordinary resolution 
from time to time vary the minimum and/ or 
maximum number of directors.
The directors may appoint a director to ﬁll 
a casual vacancy or as an additional director 
to hold office until the next AGM, who shall 
then be eligible for election.
Share capital
At 31 December 2014, ARM’s share 
capital comprised a single class of ordinary 
shares of 0.05 pence each and there were 
1,412,160,836 ordinary shares in issue, of 
which 7,852,543 were held in treasury 
(2013: no shares held in treasury). The rights 
attached to treasury shares are restricted 
in accordance with the Companies Act. 
The rights attached to ordinary shares are 
as follows: 
1.  On a show of hands at a general meeting, 
every shareholder present in person (or, 
in the case of a corporation, present at the 
meeting by way of a representative) and 
entitled to vote shall have one vote and 
every proxy present who has been duly 
appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote 
on the resolution shall have one vote.
2.  On a poll, every shareholder present in 
person (or in the case of a corporation, 
present at the meeting by way of a 
representative) or by proxy and entitled to 
vote shall have one vote for every ordinary 
share held.
3.  Shareholders are entitled to a dividend 
where declared or paid out of proﬁts 
available for such purposes.
4.  Shareholders are entitled to participate in a 
return of capital on a winding-up.
The notice of the AGM speciﬁes deadlines for 
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy 
or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions 
to be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes 
are counted and the numbers for, against or 
withheld in relation to each resolution are 
announced at the AGM and published on 
ARM’s website after the meeting. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 32
There are no restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares in ARM other than:
 restrictions that may from time to time 
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, those relating to market abuse 
and insider dealing);
 restrictions that may be imposed pursuant 
to the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority under which certain 
employees of ARM require the approval 
of the Company to deal in shares;
 restrictions on the transfer of shares that 
may be imposed under article 61.2 of 
ARM’s Articles of Association or under 
Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in 
either case following a failure to supply 
information required to be disclosed 
following service of a request under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006;
 restrictions on transfer of shares held 
under certain of the Company’s employee 
share plans while they remain subject to 
the plan.
Substantial shareholdings
The directors are aware of the following 
substantial interests in the issued share capital 
of the Company as at 16 February 2015:
Percentage of issued 
ordinary share capital
BlackRock, Inc 5.07
Baillie Gifford & Co 5.01
Thornburg Investment 
Management 5.01
Fidelity Management and 
Research Corporation 4.92
Janus Capital Management LLC 4.00
Save for the above, the Company has not 
been notiﬁed, as at 16 February 2015, of any 
material interest of 3% or more or any non-
material interest exceeding 10% of the issued 
share capital of the Company. 
Directors’ report continued...
Qualifying indemnity provision
Article 139 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association provides for the indemniﬁcation 
of directors of the Company against liability 
incurred by them in certain situations, and is 
a “qualifying indemnity provision” within the 
meaning of section 236 of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
The qualifying indemnity was in force during 
the ﬁnancial year and up to the date of signing 
the Annual Report.
Change of control
All of ARM’s equity-based plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. 
Outstanding awards and options would 
normally vest and become exercisable on a 
change of control, subject to the satisfaction 
of any performance conditions at that time.
There are no signiﬁcant agreements to which 
ARM is a party that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control.
Diversity and equal opportunities
The Group has a strong demand for highly 
qualiﬁed staff. It is proud of its diverse 
workforce which is made up of people of 
all ages from cultures and countries around 
the world. The Group is committed to 
promoting and ensuring equal treatment. 
No worker (potential or existing), client or 
customer will be discriminated against on 
grounds of their gender, sexual orientation, 
marital or civil partner status, gender 
reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic 
or national origin, religion or belief, disability 
or age. 
Disability is not seen to be an inhibitor 
to employment or career development. 
Appropriate arrangements are made for the 
continued employment and training, career 
development and promotion of disabled 
persons employed by the Group. In the 
event of any staff becoming disabled while 
with the Group, their needs and abilities 
would be assessed and the Group would, 
where possible, seek to offer alternative 
employment to them if they were no longer 
able to continue in their current role. 
Employee involvement
To help reach the best decision, and one that 
all employees can support, it is important 
that we include the views of those outside 
of the management team in the decision-
making process. To this end, internal 
conferences and communications meetings 
involving employees from all parts of the 
Group in discussions on future strategy 
and developments are held regularly. 
Furthermore, employee share ownership 
is encouraged and all employees are able 
to participate in one of the Group’s share 
ownership schemes. It does not presently 
operate any collective agreements with any 
trade unions.
Information about the Group’s employees 
and policies are contained in the Our 
people section of the Strategic Report. 
Information about environmental matters, 
social and community policies and their 
effectiveness is contained in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of the Strategic Report 
and in the full Corporate Responsibility 
report available on our website.
Financial instruments
The Group’s ﬁnancial risk management and 
policies and exposure to risks in relation to 
ﬁnancial instruments are detailed in note 1c.
Essential contracts
There are no parties with whom the Group 
has contractual or other arrangements that 
are essential to the business of the Group.
No company accounted for more than 
10% of Group revenues in 2014 (2013: one 
company accounted for 12%). 33 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 1 10 Fulbourn Road, 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK, on 30 April 2015 
at 2.00pm. A presentation will be made at 
this meeting outlining recent developments 
in the business. All voting at the meeting 
will be conducted on a poll where every 
shareholder present in person or by proxy 
will have one vote for each share of which 
they are the owner. The Group will convey 
the results of the poll on the website after 
the AGM. Shareholders are invited to submit 
written questions in advance of the meeting. 
Questions should be sent to The Company 
Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 1 10 Fulbourn 
Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK.
A resolution to reappoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
to the Group will be proposed at the AGM. 
Details of other resolutions to be proposed 
at the meeting are set out in the Circular and 
Notice of AGM 2015, which will be made 
available to all shareholders together with a 
proxy card.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, and the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial 
year. Under that law the directors have 
prepared the Group ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union, and the parent 
Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the directors must 
not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless 
they are satisﬁed that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the Company, and of the proﬁt or loss 
of the Group for that period. In preparing 
these ﬁnancial statements, the directors are 
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
 make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 state whether IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in 
the Group and parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements respectively; 
 prepare the ﬁnancial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, with regards to the Group ﬁnancial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Annual 
Report included on the Group’s website in 
accordance with the UK legislation governing 
the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and 
functions are listed in the biographies on 
pages 6 to 7, conﬁrm that to the best of 
their knowledge:
 the Group ﬁnancial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group; 
 this Directors’ report on pages 29 to 
33, and the Financial strategy section on 
pages 52 to 57 and the Risk management 
sections on pages 31 to 37 of the Strategic 
Report include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditors
In the case of each director in office at the 
date the Directors’ report is approved, that:
(a) so far as the director is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
(b) the director has taken all the steps that 
he or she ought to have taken as a director 
in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
By order of the Board
Patricia Alsop
Company Secretary 
ARM Holdings plc 
Company Number: 2548782 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 34
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder
Having taken over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
on 1 January 201 4, I am pleased to present you with ARM’s 
Directors’ Remuneration Report for 201 4.
We very much value shareholders’ comments on and long-standing 
support for our remuneration strategy. This was demonstrated 
again at the 201 4 AGM where resolutions to approve our 
Remuneration Policy and the Implementation report each received 
more than 97% of votes cast in favour . The full details are set out in 
the statement of voting on page 52. We are aware of shareholders’ 
preference that companies should not make frequent changes to 
policy and we will propose changes only if we believe that they 
would lead to better alignment between pay, strategy and long-
term business performance. No changes are proposed for 201 5 
and if any changes are proposed for 201 6, we will consult with 
shareholders in the second half of 201 5. 
The Committee seeks to ensure that a consistent policy on pay 
applies across the Group and takes account of pay and beneﬁts 
applicable to employees below executive director level. In line with 
our long-standing commitment to ethical values our aim is to ensure 
that remuneration policies and practices drive behaviours that are in 
the long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders.
Larry Hirst
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 35 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Group performance in 2014 
Notwithstanding the tough global market 
conditions that continued during 2014, we 
out-performed our international peer group 
of technology companies over the last three 
years, which resulted in 93.1% vesting of the 
LTIP awards made in 2012 when the share 
price was 568 pence per share and full vesting 
of the DAB Plan matching share awards 
made in respect of 201 1. Bonuses earned by 
executive directors in respect of performance 
in 2014 were in the range of 49.6 to 54.5% 
of salary. 
Key activities of the Committee in 2014 
and 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s salary
In line with good practice for internal 
promotions, Simon Segars was appointed as 
Chief Executive Officer in July 2013 initially on 
a below-market salary, which was increased 
by 3% in January 2014. During the year, the 
Committee reviewed his salary and overall 
package against practice in UK companies of 
similar size and complexity (with reference 
to revenue and market capitalisation). 
The Committee also took into account 
Simon Segars’ strong performance in the 
role since his appointment and concluded 
that his salary should be aligned with the 
external market. This review concluded that 
an increase of 1 1.65% from £515,000 for 
2014 to £575,000 for 2015 was appropriate 
given his capability and performance and the 
scale and complexity of the Group. The new 
salary is within our Remuneration Policy 
and is consistent with ARM’s philosophy 
of setting salaries, bonuses and beneﬁts at 
appropriately competitive levels, with the 
main emphasis on long-term, performance-
driven share-based rewards. 
It is anticipated that future increases for the 
Chief Executive Officer will be more closely 
aligned with those applicable to employees 
generally and will, as usual, be subject to 
continued high performance from both the 
individual and the Group. 
New Chief Financial Officer’s package
The Committee also approved a pay and 
beneﬁts package for Chris Kennedy on 
his appointment as Chief Financial Officer. 
The salary at appointment is £475,000 and 
the ongoing package will be in line with our 
Remuneration Policy. A one-off deferred 
cash and share award will be made in line with 
share beneﬁts foregone from his previous 
employer on exit, which is within the clear 
boundaries set by our Remuneration Policy. 
The Committee believes that this is the 
appropriate package given the skills and 
experience of the person appointed and 
the nature of the role. Details are set out on 
page 39.
Other activities included:
 approval of a base pay increase for the 
executive directors of 3.00% for 2014 and 
3.00% for the CTO for 2015 compared 
to the weighted average increases for the 
workforce as a whole of 4.35% for 2014 
and 4.78% for 2015; 
 approval in principle of pro-rated vesting 
under the LTIP and Deferred Annual 
Bonus (DAB) Plan for Chief Financial 
Officer Tim Score on his retirement from 
the Group in 2015. These payments are 
in line with our Remuneration Policy 
on the basis that he meets the good 
leaver criteria under the plans. No other 
payments are being made in connection 
with his retirement;
 review of individual directors’ and Group 
performance against bonus targets 
for 2014;
 setting of performance targets for the 
bonus plan for 2015;
 reviewing of performance targets for 
the LTIP awards in 2015, which will be 
unchanged for those used in 2014;
 appointment of Mercer in 2014 as 
independent remuneration consultants 
to advise both the Committee and 
the Group following a review of 
alternative providers.
There were no other areas where the 
Committee exercised discretion in 2014 or to 
date in 2015.
Remuneration principles
The key focus of remuneration at ARM is 
long-term performance. Salaries, bonuses 
and beneﬁts are set at competitive levels 
overall with the main emphasis on long-term, 
performance-driven share-based reward. 
In particular:
 A signiﬁcant proportion (i.e. more than 
70%) of total potential remuneration is 
performance-related;
 Salaries, bonuses and beneﬁts are 
appropriately competitive but are 
generally no higher than market median;
 The largest element in the remuneration 
package is the long-term incentive. 
This offers the possibility for executives to 
earn signiﬁcant sums when performance is 
above the target range and the share price 
appreciates. However, if performance is 
below the target range, no shares will vest. 
50% of the shares that do vest after three 
years are subject to further deferral;
 Annual bonus is driven primarily by 
ﬁnancial performance. Bonus payments 
are impacted by strategic goals and 
individual objectives. No payments 
are made if ﬁnancial performance is 
below threshold;
 Our shareholding requirements (200% 
of salary for executive directors and 
executive committee members) help to 
maintain commitment over the long-term 
and ensure the interests of our senior 
management team are aligned with those 
of shareholders. Details of directors’ 
holdings are set out on page 49. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 36
Other key principles are:
 Benchmarking provides a useful reference 
point but not a target range for salaries, 
incentives or other beneﬁts.
 Remuneration packages should be as 
simple as possible, given the scale and 
complexity of the business and the 
requirements of investors. For this reason, 
generally only two incentive plans are in 
operation for executive directors – an 
Annual Bonus which is payable in cash and 
awards under the LTIP which are payable 
in shares.
 The Group’s strategy and business 
objectives are the primary considerations 
when selecting appropriate performance 
measures for our incentive plans. 
Finally, ARM is a people business that 
depends on being able to attract, develop and 
retain top quality talent. The Remuneration 
Committee takes an active interest in the 
level and structure of pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group, including how they 
compare to those of the executive directors. 
It has always been part of ARM’s ethos and is 
essential to our culture of collaboration and 
innovation to include all of our employees in 
our equity plans. 
Dilution
We believe it is important for us to continue 
to have ﬂexibility to make awards above the 
level of 5% over ten years. We make share 
awards to all of our employees and also we 
need to be able to compete worldwide to 
attract and retain the high-calibre engineers 
and executives we require. Dilution over the 
past ﬁve years has been 4.58%.
We continue to take an active interest in 
investors’ views on remuneration policy, 
which we were able to discuss directly with 
many shareholders through the consultation 
undertaken in 2013 in connection with the 
new LTIP and in early 2014 over the EPS 
targets applicable to the new LTIP . 
Building on the new reporting structure 
implemented last year in line with the 
remuneration disclosure regulations, the rest 
of this report comprises two sections:  
 Firstly an Implementation report 
explaining remuneration arrangements 
for the directors as they operated in 
2014 and explaining the linkage between 
Group performance and remuneration. 
This report will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
 Secondly (for information) our 
Remuneration Policy, which was 
overwhelmingly supported by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM and to 
which no changes are proposed for 2015. 
We look forward to receiving your continued 
support at the AGM on 30 April 2015.
Larry Hirst
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued...
Contents of the Remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration 
(Implementation report)  37
Single ﬁgure remuneration table    37
New Chief Financial Officer package 39
Remuneration details  40
Chairman and non-executive directors’ 
remuneration   48
Remuneration Committee – composition 
and activities in 2014  51
Remuneration Policy (as approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM) 54
Relative importance of elements of total remuneration in 2014
Long-term 
share scheme 
Fixed remuneration 
(including pension)
Annual bonus
24%
10%
66% 37 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
We set out below how our Remuneration Policy was implemented during 2014 and how we plan to implement it in 2015.
Single ﬁgure remuneration: 
Executive Director
Total  
amount  
of salary 
£
All  
taxable  
beneﬁts 
£ 
Bonus  
payments 
£
Money and other  
assets receivable  
for periods of 
more than one  
ﬁnancial year 
£
All  
pension-related  
beneﬁts 
£ 
Total 
£
Simon Segars 2014 515,000 154,655 280,826 1,277,508 56,024 2,284,013
Simon Segars 2013 400,000 73,186 543,454 1,207,360 44,000 2,268,000
Tim Score 2014 427,450 27,004 211,896 1,825,432 45,481 2,537,263
Tim Score 2013 415,000 26,031 599,374 1,727,783 44,156 2,812,344
Mike Muller 2014 293,550 14,924 146,019 1,259,822 33,112 1,747,427
Mike Muller 2013 285,000 14,940 403,718 1,193,633 32,148 1,929,439
Total 2014 1,236,000 196,583 638,741 4,362,762 134,617 6,568,703
Total 2013 1,100,000 1 14,157 1,546,546 4,128,776 120,304 7,009,783
This table, as well as the explanation below, has been audited by the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Explanation of single ﬁgure remuneration:
The single ﬁgure of remuneration table provides details of pay and beneﬁts earned by a director in respect of the particular calendar year. 
Not all of the remuneration is paid in that year.
For the ﬁrst half of 2013, Simon Segars’ salary was £300,000. Following his appointment as CEO on 1 July 2013 his salary increased to £500,000, 
resulting in an average for the year of £400,000. From 1 January 2014 his salary was increased by 3% from £500,000 to £515,000.
All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their beneﬁts in kind. In addition, Tim Score has the 
use of a company car with fuel beneﬁt and Mike Muller receives car and fuel allowance. Simon Segars received £143,332 (2013: £61,283) for 
living, transportation and other allowances as part of his placement in the US. 
The bonuses earned during 2014 were paid in cash in February 2015. The 2013 bonus was awarded under the former Deferred Annual Bonus 
(DAB) Plan (which operated for the last time in respect of performance in 2013) and 50% was deferred and will become payable in shares after 
three years. Details of the awards made in February 2014 in respect of these deferrals are set out on page 43.
The money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one ﬁnancial year are the amounts received by directors on the vesting 
of shares in February 2015. These shares were awarded in February 2012 under two schemes: the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and 
the matching element of the former DAB Plan. The amounts received are included in the single ﬁgure of remuneration for 2014 since the 
performance period for these schemes both concluded in 2014.
Share prices applicable to grant and vesting of share awards:
February 2012 – 568.0 pence 
February 2013 – 924.5 pence  
February 2014 – 896.0 pence 
February 2015 – 1,087.0 pence
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 38
Remuneration summary:
From 2014 remuneration for executive directors comprises three principal elements:
Base salary: to provide an appropriately competitive level of base salary in order to enable the Group to recruit, retain and motivate 
executive directors of the calibre required to achieve the Group’s business strategy and goal of sustained growth in corporate performance. 
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the 
remuneration of executive directors. 
Annual bonus: maximum of 125% of base salary, paid in cash with the goal of incentivising executive directors to achieve proﬁt and revenue 
targets that each account for 50% of target bonus. These targets are directly linked to the Group’s short-term ﬁnancial and strategic goals and 
are regarded as the best drivers to increase market share and continue the Group’s outperformance of semiconductor market growth. 85% of 
base salary is payable at target. Bonus is subject to an individual performance multiplier, which ﬂexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the 
overall maximum of 125% of salary. 
LTIP: annual conditional share awards are made at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for vesting of between 0% and 200% of that amount 
after three years dependent on achievement of performance conditions. Dividend shares are added at vesting. The performance measures and 
rationale for choosing them are described in more detail on page 44. 
There are further holding periods of one year for 25% of the vested shares and two years for a further 25% of the vested shares. During these 
holding periods, shares may not normally be sold even if the participant has left the Group. 
Full details of our Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM is set out on pages 54 to 60.
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) continued...
Structure of executive directors’ remuneration % of salary
Base salary
Potential DAB match
Cash bonus Potential DAB
LTIP
600
500
400
300
200
100
%
Former New 39 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Base salary increases for 2014 and 2015
Executive directors’ annual base salaries were increased as follows: 
From 1 January  
2014
% increase  
2013-2014 
From 1 January  
2015
% increase  
2014-2015
Simon Segars £515,000 3% £575,000 11.65%
Tim Score £427 ,450 3% £427,450 0.00%
Mike Muller £293,550 3% £302,360 3.00%
For 2014, the average increase in base salaries for the executive directors was 3.00% and the average increase for the workforce as a whole 
was 4.35%. For 2015 the weighted average increase is 5.57% for the executive directors and 4.78% for the workforce as a whole. The reason 
for the higher increase for the executive directors is the larger than average increase for Simon Segars. In line with good practice for internal 
promotions, Simon Segars was initially appointed as Chief Executive Officer on a below-market salary. During the year, the Commit tee 
reviewed his salary and overall package against practice in UK companies of similar size and complexity (including revenue and market 
capitalisation). The Committee also took into account Simon Segars’ strong performance in the role since his appointment in July 2013 and 
concluded that his salary should be aligned with the external market. This review concluded that an increase of 1 1.65% from £515,000 for 
2014 to £575,000 for 2015 was appropriate given the capability and performance of the individual and the scale and complexity of the Group. 
The new salary is consistent with ARM’s philosophy of setting salaries, bonuses and beneﬁts at competitive levels, with the main emphasis on 
long-term, performance-driven share-based rewards. It is anticipated that future increases for the Chief Executive Officer will be more closely 
aligned with those applicable to employees generally and will, as usual, be subject to continued high performance from both the individual and 
the Group.
Across the Group, the increase for 201 5 is in a range of 3.84% for the US rising to 9 .03% in Asia, reflecting local market conditions and salary inflation. 
New Chief Financial Officer package
The appointment of Chris Kennedy as Chief Financial Officer designate was announced on 8 January 2015. He will join the Board as a director 
and Chief Financial Officer once he has completed his current commitments. The key elements of the package, which are in line wit h our 
Remuneration Policy are:
Salary – £475,000;
Bonus – maximum 125% of salary, to be pro-rated for actual service in 2015, subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other 
executive directors and an individual performance multiplier;
One-off cash award – a payment of £950,000 (less payroll taxes) will be made in January 2016 to compensate for part of the equity beneﬁts 
foregone in his previous role and will be subject to clawback in the event of resignation or termination for cause in the following 12 months;
RSU award – a grant of restricted stock units to compensate for the remainder of equity beneﬁts foregone in his previous role with a value of 
up to £950,000 (the number of restricted stock units to be based on the share price at the date of grant);
LTIP award – an award in line with Policy, to be pro-rated for actual service in 2015, based on the closing share price on the day prior to award 
and subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other executive directors as set out in the Remuneration policy on page 54;
Pension – an employers’ contribution of 10% of salary. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 40
Annual bonus plan for 2014
For 2014 onwards, bonuses are paid wholly in cash. Target bonus is 85% and maximum bonus is 125% of base salary (after application of an 
individual performance multiplier).
Individual performance conditions linked to business strategy are speciﬁc to each executive director and are set annually. These ﬂex the amount 
of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary. The Committee reviews the extent of achievement of 
speciﬁc individual performance conditions in arriving at the individual performance multiplier.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust bonus targets for any ﬁnancial year to reﬂect intervening events including acquisitions or disposals. 
No such discretion was exercised in 2014.
Key Performance Indicators and linkage to bonus targets
The Group’s strategy, key performance indicators and progress towards achieving them are described in more detail in the Strategic Report 
on pages 22 to 30. The adoption of revenue and normalised operating proﬁt as performance measures for the bonus targets demonstrates 
alignment of executive reward with our strategic goals.
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) continued...
Increase market penetration
Increase value per smart device
Generate revenues from complementary technology
Investing in long-term growth
Key
 Revenue  
Grow ARM’s business by winning 
market share, attracting new 
customers and entering new markets
 Normalised Operating Proﬁt 
Generate increased returns 
for shareholders 41 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
2014 Bonus targets and achievement
The targets that applied to the 2014 bonus and the achievement against those targets were:
(Audited):
Threshold Budget Target Achievement Bonus % achieved 
Normalised Operating Proﬁt £332.6m £421.2m £449.6m £425.6m 28.86%
Group Revenue US$1,1 17.8m US$1,279.2m US$1,354.2m US$1,292.6m 29.46%
Bonus % of Target 0% 50% 100% 58.32%
Bonus % of salary 0% 42.5% 85% 49.57%
* NOP for bonus purposes is calculated using the Group budget exchange rate of £1:US$1.55 for 2014.
General
 For each element, bonus pays out linearly between the threshold and the budget and between the budget and the target.
 Above target, bonus continues to pay out linearly. Over-achievement of either the proﬁt or revenue targets can compensate for a shortfall 
in the other (subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary).
Annual bonus payment for 2014
The executive directors received the following bonus payments in respect of the performance of the Group in 2014 (audited):
Director
Salary  
£
Bonus %  
achieved
Individual  
multiplier
Total bonus  
%
Percentage 
of salary %
Bonus paid  
£
Simon Segars 515,000 58.32 1.10 64.15 54.53 280,826
Tim Score 427,450 58.32 1.00 58.32 49.57 21 1,896
Mike Muller* 293,550 58.32 1.00 58.32 49.57 145,519
* In addition to his annual bonus, Mike Muller received a £500 bonus for ﬁling a patent.
Annual bonus for 2014 – achievement of individual performance measures
It should be noted that, when applied to the executive directors, the individual performance multiplier normally falls within a relatively narrow 
range at the upper end. This results from the fact that maintaining a very high level of performance is a pre-requisite to continuation in the 
role of executive director. Performance is reviewed in-depth on at least an annual basis by the Chief Executive Officer (for the other executive 
directors) and by the Chairman for the Chief Executive Officer. These assessments are then reviewed by the Remuneration Committee. 
For performance in 2014, the individual performance conditions included objectives related to the following areas:
Simon Segars Succession planning and key appointments 
  Executive team effectiveness 
  Progress in development of strategy
Tim Score Organisational scaling 
  Investment strategy
Mike Muller IoT business strategy 
  Investment strategy to complement R&D activities 
  University programme
The individual multipliers approved by the Committee are shown in the table above. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 42
Bonus history 2010-2014
The bonus targets set by the Committee 
for each year are intended to be stretching 
but motivational. The average bonus paid 
to the executive directors over the past ﬁve 
years was 1 19% of salary (with a range from 
52% payout for 2014 to 150% for 201 1) as 
shown below: 
Annual bonus for 2015
Bonus in respect of 2015 will be paid entirely 
in cash. Each year the Committee considers 
the most appropriate metrics to apply 
for the following ﬁnancial year. Growth in 
revenue and proﬁt are regarded as the most 
appropriate drivers to increase market share 
and continue the Group’s outperformance 
of semiconductor market growth. They are 
the focus of our quarterly reporting to 
shareholders and to the market. The bonus 
structure for 2015 will be in line with that 
described above for 2014. The numerical 
ﬁnancial targets and individual performance 
conditions will be speciﬁc to 2015 and will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the 2015 Annual 
Report. The Committee is of the opinion 
that the numerical values of targets for the 
Annual Bonus Plan are commercially sensitive 
because they include budgeted numbers 
within the range of outcomes and it would 
be detrimental to the Group to disclose 
them in advance of, or during, the relevant 
performance period. The actual targets are 
disclosed retrospectively in the following 
ﬁnancial year.
Former Deferred Annual Bonus Plan  
(DAB Plan)
Under the former DAB Plan, which operated 
for the last time in relation to 2013, 50% 
of bonus was compulsorily deferred into 
shares, which do not vest for three years. 
For the remaining awards, the last of which 
will vest in February 2017, at normalised 
EPS growth equal to the increase in the 
Consumer Prices Index (CPI) plus 4% per 
annum, the deferred shares will be matched 
on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when normalised 
EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% per 
annum. The deferred shares can be forfeited 
in the event of gross misconduct and the 
matching shares are subject to forfeiture for 
“bad leavers”.
Average percentage bonus paid over the past ﬁve years to executive directors
200%
150%
100%
50%
0% 2010 201 1 2012 2013 2014
% of base salary
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) continued...
Notes:
1.  For 2010, maximum bonus was limited to 
125% of base salary. 
2.  For 201 1, 2012 and 2013, maximum bonus 
was 150% of base salary.
3.  For 2014 onwards, maximum bonus is 
125% of base salary. 43 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Former DAB Plan vesting in 2014 (audited)
Shares representing the deferred element of bonus earned in 2010 and awarded in 201 1 vested on 8 February 2014, with the maximum  
2:1 ratio of matching shares being earned. This ratio was achieved because normalised EPS growth before inﬂation was 120%, which is greater 
than CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period. The amounts are shown below:
Director
Shares  
deferred  
as part of 2010 
bonus awarded in  
201 1  
Number
Matching  
shares  
Number
Matching  
shares  
value  
£
Dividend  
shares  
Number
Total  
award  
Number
Simon Segars 26,391 52,782 472,927 456 79,629
Tim Score 37,847 75,694 678,218 654 1 14,195
Mike Muller 26,084 52,168 467,425 451 78,703
Total 90,322180,6441,618,5701,561272,527
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 896.0 pence (based on the closing market price the previous day). 
Former DAB Plan vesting in 2015 (audited)
Shares representing the deferred element of bonus earned in 201 1 and awarded in 2012 vested on 12 February 2015, with the maximum 2:1 
ratio of matching shares being earned. This ratio was achieved because normalised EPS growth before inﬂation was 92.8%, which is greater 
than CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period. The amounts are shown below:
Director
Shares  
deferred  
as part of 201 1 
bonus awarded in  
201 2  
Number
Matching  
shares  
Number
Matching  
shares  
Value  
£
Dividend  
shares  
Number
Total  
award  
Number
Simon Segars 35,387 70,774 769,314 661 106,822
Tim Score 50,572 101,144 1,099,435 945 152,661
Mike Muller 34,991 69,982 760,704 654 105,627
Total 120,950241,9002,629,4532,260365,110
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 1,087 pence (based on the closing market price on the previous day). 
The total number of deferred shares held under the former DAB Plan by the executive directors is:
Director
Shares  
deferred  
as part of  
the 2012 bonus  
Number
Shares  
deferred  
as part of  
the 2013 bonus  
Number
Total  
Number 
Simon Segars 20,045 30,327 50,372
Tim Score 28,637 33,447 62,084
Mike Muller 18,900 22,501 41,401
Total 67,58286,275153,857 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 44
LTIP vesting in 2015 (audited)
The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2012 were satisﬁed in respect of the performance 
period ended 31 December 2014 to the extent of 93.1% plus dividend shares which vested on 12 February 2015, as follows:
Director
Conditional award 
Number
Vested award 
Number
Dividend shares 
Number
Total award 
Number
Market value  
at vesting  
£
Simon Segars 49,295 45,893 859 46,752 508,194
Tim Score 70,422 65,562 1,227 66,789 725,997
Mike Muller 48,415 45,074 843 45,917 499,1 18
Total 168,132156,5292,929159,4581,733,309
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 1,087 pence (based on the closing market price on the previous day).
The amount vested above is based on the total shareholder return calculated by using the average share price from 1 January to 31 March at 
the commencement of the performance period and the average share price from 1 October to 31 December at the end of the performance 
period, as shown below:
Comparator Group
ARM TSR 
percentile rank Vesting multiplier
FTSE 350 Index 59.1% 84.1%
FTSE All World Technology Index 63.9% 102.1%
Overall 93.1%
The assessment of ARM’s TSR percentile rank is independently veriﬁed by Kepler Associates.
The amounts earned by each executive director are included in the money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one ﬁnancial 
year in the single ﬁgure remuneration table on page 37. The awards received by the executive directors in February 2015 are as follows:
Director
Market value of 
LTIP at vesting  
£
Market value of 
DAB matching 
shares at vesting  
£
Total received 
£
Simon Segars 508,194 769,314 1,277,508
Tim Score 725,997 1,099,435 1,825,432
Mike Muller 499,1 18 760,704 1,259,822
Total 1,733,309 2,629,453 4,362,762
LTIP – performance measures for 2014 and 2015
Performance measures for the LTIP were selected after careful consideration by the Committee, following consultation with larger 
shareholders. The Committee believes that the use of both TSR and EPS performance measures provide the best alignment to the Group’s 
long-term ﬁnancial and strategic goals and encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder value. 
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) continued... 45 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
The EPS range was set for awards made in 2014 and, following review in December 2014, the Committee has decided that it should continue 
unchanged for 2015. The Committee will review, applicability of performance conditions on an annual basis, so that in the event that exceptional 
circumstances arise, such as material corporate activity or substantial changes in market conditions, their impact can be considered against 
subsequent annual awards. If changes are to be proposed for any prospective LTIP award, it would be the Committee’s intention to conﬁrm any 
such change to shareholders in advance.
Analysts’ targets are acknowledged as important reference points for the markets, but there are a number of factors beyond the control of the 
Group and the executive directors that may impact medium- to long-term EPS performance (such as macro or semiconductor industry cycles 
and currency ﬂuctuations). These may have impacts that would not necessarily be seen as underperformance by the Group. The Committee 
is also keen not to encourage short-term views or behaviour where, in theory, investment in the long-term future (either organically or by 
acquisition) may be discouraged if the EPS range is set at too high a level.
Summary of share awards under the LTIP and DAB
Details of conditional awards made in the year to 31 December 2014 under the LTIP and deferred shares granted under the DAB Plan in the 
year to 31 December 2014 to the directors are as follows (audited):
Director
Type of  
award
Basis of  
award
Date of  
award
Number of  
shares
Share price at  
award date  
****£
Vesting  
date 
***
Face value 
*£
% vesting at 
threshold 
**
Simon Segars LTIP 187.5% of salary 8 February 2014 107,770 8.96 8 February 2017 1,931,238 50%
Simon Segars DAB 50% of bonus paid in respect of 2013 8 February 2014 30,327 8.96 8 February 2017 543,460 100%
Tim Score LTIP 187.5% of salary 8 February 2014 89,449 8.96 8 February 2017 1,602,926 50%
Tim Score DAB 50% of bonus paid in respect of 2013 8 February 2014 33,447 8.96 8 February 2017 599,370 100%
Mike Muller LTIP 187.5% of salary 8 February 2014 61,429 8.96 8 February 2017 1,100,808 50%
Mike Muller DAB 50% of bonus paid in respect of 2013 8 February 2014 22,501 8.96 8 February 2017 403,218 100%
 * Face value represents the amount receivable under the award based on the maximum number of shares receivable under the LTIP and the maximum number of matching shares under the 
DAB Plan at the mid-market closing price on the business day prior to grant.
**    Threshold f or the L TIP is 50% vest when certain TSR-related criteria are met. All DAB shares will vest after three years. Additional matching shares may be granted depending on EPS growth ( see page 42 f or details ).
*** There are further holding periods of one year for 25% of the vested shares and two years for a further 25% of the vested shares under the LTIP .
**** Share price at award date is based on the closing market price on the previous day.
TSR (FTSE 350) 
TSR (FTSE All World 
Technology) 
EPS
TSR and EPS performance measures
EPS: 25% of this element vests at threshold 
and 100% at the upper performance target 
(straight-line in between). Threshold is 
three years’ EPS growth of 15% per annum 
(including CPI) and the upper performance 
target is three years’ EPS growth of 22% per 
annum (including CPI)
TSR (FTSE 350): three-year TSR growth 
relative to the FTSE 350: 25% of this element 
vests at median and 100% vests at upper 
quintile (straight-line in between)
TSR (FTSE All World Technology Index): 
25% of this element vests at median and 
100% vests at upper quintile (straight-line 
in between) ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 46
LTIP awards for 2015
The following conditional awards over ordinary shares were made under the LTIP on 12 February 2015: 
Director
Conditional award 
Number
Simon Segars 99,183
Tim Score –
Mike Muller 52,1 15
The mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on 1 1 February 20 1 5, being the business day prior to the date of these conditional awards, was 1 ,087 pence.
Performance graphs
A performance graph showing the Company’s TSR together with the TSRs for the FTSE All-World Technology Index and the FTSE 350 from 
31 December 2008 is shown below. The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Company’s shares was 1 1 1 2% over this period compared with 96% for the FTSE All-World T echnology Index for the same period.
The Committee considers the FTSE All-World Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, 
Asia and Europe and therefore reﬂects the global environment in which the Group operates. In addition, the Index includes many companies 
that are currently the Group’s customers, as well as companies that use ARM technology in their end products.
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) continued...
3500
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
Dec 09 Dec 08 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 14 Dec 13
ARM   FTSE All-World Technology Index   FTSE 350
ARM total shareholder return performance from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2014 47 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
CEO’s pay for the last six ﬁnancial years
Year 2009 2010 201 1 2012 2013 2014
CEO’s total single ﬁgure £*
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 2,010,584 7,570,679 7,744,982 6,709,569 3,415,729 –
Simon Segars (appointed CEO 1 July 2013) ––––
2,064,907 2,284,013
CEO’s total single ﬁgure £ 2,010,584 7,570,679 7,744,982 6,709,569
5,480,636 2,284,013
Bonus % of maximum award % 67% 100% 100% 85%
91 % 44%
LTIP % of maximum vesting % 91% 100% 100% 100%
92% 47%
DAB matching % of maximum vesting % 0% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100%
*  Warren East retired on 30 June 2013 and was succeeded by Simon Segars. The CEO’s total single ﬁgure for 2013 represents the pay, beneﬁts and pension received by Warren East for the ﬁrst  
half of the year as well as the market value at vesting of the shares received by him on his retirement under the rules of the LTIP and DAB Plan. This ﬁgure also includes the pay, beneﬁts, bonus  
and pension received by Simon Segars for the second half of the year as well as the market value of the shares received by him under the LTIP and DAB Plan in respect of the ﬁnancial year to  
31 December 2013. The percentages of maximum awards and vesting achieved in 2013 are those received by Simon Segars.
Pensions
The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase 
scheme. For executive directors, the normal rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executive’s basic salary, or 1 1% in the case of the 
Chief Executive Officer (plus, if applicable, additional amounts in accordance with the Group’s salary sacriﬁce scheme). Full det ails of Group 
contributions are set out in the directors’ emoluments table later in this report. Since 201 1, to the extent that contributions cannot be made in 
a tax-efficient way at the 10/1 1% of basic salary level, the difference is paid as an additional cash allowance (and subject to ap propriate tax and 
other deductions). Contributions to the scheme or the alternative cash allowance have been fully paid with respect to the year.
Compensation for loss of office (audited)
No payments were made during 2014 to former executive directors by way of compensation for loss of office, or pay in lieu of notice.
Payments to past directors (audited)
No payments were made to past directors during 2014.
Non-executive directors
In line with fee arrangements in place in other companies of similar size and complexity, the executive directors implemented the following fee 
arrangements from 1 January 2014:
 A standard fee of £60,000 per annum
 Additional fees for Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director of £16,000 per annum ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 48
Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration
Fees paid to the Chairman and the standard non-executive director fee will remain at the same level in 2015 as for 2014, as will the additional 
fee paid to the Senior Independent Director. The Committee Chairmen’s fee will increase from £16,000 to £20,000 per annum. This is believed 
to more fairly reﬂect the workload undertaken by Committee Chairmen.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive directors in respect of 2013 and 2014 and proposed to be paid in 2015 are set out below:
Director
 Total proposed fee 
2015  
£
 Actual fee 2014 
(audited)  
£
 Actual fee 2013 
(audited)  
£
Stuart Chambers (appointed 27 January 2014) 400,000 338,333 –
Andy Green* 60,000 64,000 55,000
Larry Hirst 80,000 76,000 55,000
John Liu** (appointed 1 December 2014) 60,000 5,000 –
Janice Roberts** 60,000 67,592 61,399
Kathleen O’Donovan 96,000 92,000 70,000
Eric Meurice (retired 31 March 2014) – 20,000 27,500
John Buchanan (retired 1 May 2014) – 76,897 390,000
Philip Rowley (retired 1 May 2014) – 20,230 70,000
 * A one-off additional fee of £4,000 was paid to Andy Green in 2014 for attending ARM Asia Advisory Group meetings to reﬂect the additional time commitment.
**   Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who are based outside the UK and travel to the UK for Board meetings as follows: Janice Roberts $2,500 per meeting, John Liu £2,000 per 
meeting. This is to reﬂect their additional time commitment. 
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements. 
Their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other beneﬁts, and no element of their fees is performance-related.
The potential awards held by the executive directors under the LTIP as at 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Director Date of award
Minimum potential 
number of shares 
receivable 
Number
Maximum potential 
number of shares 
receivable 
Number
 Market value at 
date of award 
£
 Maximum 
potential value at 
date of award 
£
Simon Segars 8 February 2012 – 98,590 5.68 559,991
8 February 2013 – 64,898 9.245 599,982
13 August 2013 – 22,560 8.865 199,994
8 February 2014 – 215,540 8.96 1,931,238
Total –401,588 3,291,206
Tim Score 8 February 2012 – 140,844 5.68 799,994
8 February 2013 – 89,778 9.245 829,998
8 February 2014 – 178,898 8.96 1,602,926
Total –409,520 3,232,918
Mike Muller 8 February 2012 – 96,830 5.68 549,994
8 February 2013 – 61,654 9.245 569,991
8 February 2014 – 122,858 8.96 1,100,808
Total –281,342 2,220,793
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) continued... 49 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
The potential matching shares on the awards held by the executive directors under the DAB Plan as at 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Director Date of award
Minimum potential 
number of shares 
receivable 
Number
Maximum potential 
number of shares 
receivable 
Number
 Market value at 
date of award 
£
 Maximum 
potential value at 
date of award 
£
Simon Segars 8 February 2012 – 70,774 5.68 401,996
8 February 2013 – 40,090 9.245 370,632
8 February 2014 – 60,654 8.96 543,460
Total – 171,518 1,316,088
Tim Score 8 February 2012 – 101,144 5.68 574,498
8 February 2013 – 57,274 9.245 529,498
8 February 2014 – 66,894 8.96 599,370
Total – 225,312 1,703,366
Mike Muller 8 February 2012 – 69,982 5.68 397,498
8 February 2013 – 37,800 9.245 349,461
8 February 2014 – 45,002 8.96 403,218
Total – 152,784 1,150,177
Directors’ shareholdings in the Company (Audited)
There is no requirement in the Articles of Association for directors to hold shares in the Company. There is a requirement for executive 
directors to hold shares to the value of 200% of their salary as set out in the Remuneration Policy on page 54. All of the executive directors 
have holdings well in excess of this requirement.
The directors’ beneﬁcial interests in the Company’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence are as follows:
Director
Shareholding at 
 date of report  
Number
Shareholding at  
31 December 2014 or date 
of retirement if earlier 
Number
Shareholding 
requirement met 
Number
Shares held  
under DAB at  
31 December  
2014  
Number
Maximum potential 
shares under LTIP 
(excluding dividend 
shares) at 31 
December 2014  
Number
 Maximum 
potential  
matching shares 
under DAB at 31 
December 2014 
Number
Stuart Chambers (appointed 27 January 2014) 10,000 10,000 N/A – – – 
Simon Segars 630,660 557,222 Yes 85,759 401,588 171,518
Tim Score 799,388 883,080 Yes 1 12,656 409,520 225,312
Mike Muller 1,305,760 1,425,442 Yes 76,392 281,342 152,784
Andy Green – – N/A – – – 
Larry Hirst – – N/A – – – 
John Liu (appointed 1 December 2014) – – N/A – – –
Kathleen O’Donovan – – N/A – – – 
Janice Roberts – – N/A – – – 
Sir John Buchanan (retired (1 May 2014) N/A – N/A – – – 
Philip Rowley (retired 1 May 2014) N/A 40,000 N/A – – – 
Eric Meurice (resigned 31 March 2014) N/A – N/A – – – 
In addition to the interests disclosed above, the executive directors have interests in dividend shares that could be awarded under the former 
and current LTIPs and the former DAB Plan, the amount of which will depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are satisﬁed and 
on the dividends declared during the performance period. The maximum potential shares under the LTIP and the matching shares under the 
DAB plan are subject to performance conditions.  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 50
Details of options exercised by directors during the year are as follows (Audited):
Director
Number  
of shares
 Exercise  
price  
£
Market price  
on date of  
exercise  
£
 Gains on  
exercise  
£
Tim Score 18,208 0.854 8.48 1 38,854
No director has any outstanding interest in options at the date of this report. Except as described above, there have been no changes in 
directors’ interests under the Group’s equity schemes since the end of the 2014 ﬁnancial year up to the date of approval of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
The Company’s register of directors’ interests contains full details of directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe and conditional awards 
under the LTIP .
Share dilution 
It is proposed that the Group will continue to manage dilution within the context of maintaining award levels within a 10% limit over ﬁve years 
(excluding rolled over Artisan options), the limit that has applied since 2003. We are aware that this is higher than the limit of 5% over ten years 
in respect of discretionary awards and 10% over ten years in respect of all schemes adopted by many UK companies and preferred by many 
institutional investors. The reasons for this higher limit, which was approved by shareholders when the former LTIP was introduced, are at least 
as strong today. These are:
 the broad-based nature of our equity plans, under which shares are provided to all employees and are a key part of the Group’s employee 
reward package; and 
 the need to be able to compete with US companies worldwide for the high-calibre engineers and executives required to secure the Group’s 
future success.
The Committee is keenly aware of this issue, and expects to keep well below the 10% upper limit. Dilution over the past ﬁve years has been 
4.58%.
The following information is unaudited: 
Comparison of CEO and employee pay and beneﬁts
Director CEO* Employees
Increase, from 2013 to 2014, in:
    Base Salary 3.0% 4.8%
    Beneﬁts and pension** 98.5% 4.0%
    Bonus -48.3% -41.2%
*  The percentages for the CEO reﬂect the pay and beneﬁts for Warren East for the ﬁrst half of 2013 and for Simon Segars for the second half of 2013.
**    The increase in the beneﬁts and pension of the CEO in 2014 was due to allowances paid to Simon Segars as a result of his placement in the US compared to 2013 when the CEO beneﬁts 
included allowances for Simon Segars for only the second half of the year from his date of appointment as CEO.
Annual report on remuneration (Implementation report) continued... 51 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
This graph shows the amount spent over the past three years on the remuneration of all employees (including the executive directors) 
compared with the amounts spent on other signiﬁcant outgoings (i.e. distributions to shareholders, investment in research and development 
and tax). These were the three most signiﬁcant outgoings for the Group in the last ﬁnancial year (excluding the exceptional items in 2013). 
Staff pay includes salary, bonus, social security costs, pension and healthcare costs and share-based payment charges.
External roles
It is the Company’s policy to allow executive directors to hold non-executive positions at other companies and to receive remuneration for 
their services. The Board believes that experience of the operations of other companies and their boards and committees is valuable to the 
development of the executive directors.
Details of executive directors’ roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows:
Simon Segars became a non-executive director of Dolby Laboratories, Inc. on 3 February 2015. He received an award of 7,759 RSUs with 
a market value of $38.66 per share on that date. This award vests in full on the earlier of the ﬁrst anniversary of award and the day before 
the 2016 annual stockholder meeting. Tim Score became a non-executive director of The British Land Company plc on 20 March 2014 and 
received shares in the company with a gross cash value of £52,730 up to 31 December 2014. He was a non-executive director of National 
Express Group plc until 25 February 2014 and he received remuneration totalling £16,242 up to that date (2013: £60,500 for the full year). 
He became a non-executive director of Pearson plc on 1 January 2015. Mike Muller is a non-executive director of Intelligent Energy Limited and 
he received fees totalling £49,1 10 up to 31 December 2014 (2013: £40,000). 
Remuneration Committee
In this section we describe the composition and activities of the Committee during 2014. 
Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2014:
Name of director Position
Meetings attended/
eligible meetings
Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director (Committee Chairman from 1 January 2014) 5/5
Andy Green Independent non-executive director 5/5
Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 5/5
Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director (retired 1 May 2014) 1/1
Outside these meetings there were meetings and video/audio conference calls at which the candidates for external remuneration advisers gave 
presentations and the Committee discussed and agreed the appointment of new advisers, and at which the Committee discussed and agreed 
the remuneration package for the new Chief Financial Officer.
Given their diverse business experience, the independent non-executive directors who made up the Committee in 2014 offer a balanced view 
and international expertise in relation to remuneration matters for the Group. Their biographies appear on pages 6 to 7.
Relative importance of spend on pay £m and percentage change
350
50
100
150
200
250
300
Staff pay Dividends 
to shareholders
Research and
development costs
Tax
2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014
292.5
235.7
316.4
24.1%
8.2%
80.1
62.5
99.0
28.2%
23.6%
202.9
166.3
224.2
22.0%
10.5%
57.8
60.3 61.1
-4.1%
5.7% ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 52
Operation of the Committee
The Chief Executive Officer, the EVP People and the VP Reward are normally invited to attend for at least part of each meeting to ensure 
that the Committee is able to obtain their views on the level of compensation for executive directors and other senior executives. The Group 
Chairman also normally attends meetings by invitation. The Company Secretary advises the Committee on corporate governance matters 
and acts as Secretary to the Committee. These individuals are not present when their own remuneration is discussed. External advisers also 
attend meetings by invitation. Their advice and recommendations are used as a guide but do not in any way replace the Committee’s own 
deliberations and decisions.
The Committee’s terms of reference are published on the corporate website at www.arm.com.
The principal items of business dealt with by the Committee during 2014 and early 2015 are described in the Committee Chairman’s 
initial letter.
External advisers
The Committee has access to independent professional advice on remuneration matters. Following a competitive tender process, Mercer was 
appointed by the Committee in April 2014 in place of Towers Watson and also provides advice to management. Mercer is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code of Conduct, which incorporates principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, 
competence, due care and conﬁdentiality. On the basis of Mercer’s conﬁrmation of adherence to this Code and the detailed advice they have 
given since appointment, Committee members are satisﬁed that their advice is objective and independent. It is also satisﬁed that their fees are 
in line with market practice. Fees are charged at an hourly rate based on an agreed fee rate and fee quotations are provided in advance for any 
signiﬁcant elements of work. 
Work undertaken by Mercer for the Committee in 2014 included analysis and advice on the package for the new Chief Financial Officer, 
review and making recommendations in relation to the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2014, analysis of executive benchmarking data 
and preparation for and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings. Total fees of £63,000 were paid to Mercer in 2014. In addition, 
Mercer provided advice to the People Team on aspects of reward and incentives. Towers Watson also undertook work for the Committee 
in early 2014 which included preparation and attendance at a Remuneration Committee meeting, advice on EPS targets for the LTIP , review of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2013, bonus plan documentation and shareholder communications. Total fees of £40,000 were paid 
to Towers Watson for advice to the Committee during the year (2013: £52,000). Towers Watson continue to provide executive benchmarking 
data for use by the Group (not included in the fees). The Committee also received advice from Kepler Associates who provided independent 
veriﬁcation of Total Shareholder Return (TSR) calculations for the LTIP . Kepler also provided a valuation model for the LTIP to the Group to 
assist with the calculation of share compensation charges.  
2014 AGM – Statement of voting
At the 2014 AGM voting was as follows:
Remuneration report: 97.49% vote in favour out of a total of 1,108,180,964 votes cast (with 2.51% votes against and 5,759,821 votes withheld).
Remuneration Policy: 97.58% vote in favour out of a total of 1,099,892,91 1 votes cast (with 2.42% votes against and 14,047,874 votes withheld).
Remuneration Policy 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy in the table on pages 54 to 60 was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 1 May 
2014. It applies to the executive directors at the date of this report and is intended to apply for three years from adoption in relation to any new 
executive director appointments.
We believe that sustained growth can be successfully achieved only with a high level of employee engagement and motivation. We believe that it 
is in shareholders’ best interests that the Group is able to attract the best talent in the world within our specialised market. All elements of pay 
and beneﬁts set out in the policy table are regarded as necessary to recruit, retain and motivate appropriately skilled executives and align their 
remuneration to the long-term success of the Group. The structure of appropriately competitive base salaries and higher potential incentives 
supports both short- and long-term strategy and has proved both motivational and successful in achieving strong business performance over 
the past few years. 
Annual report on remuneration (Policy) continued... 53 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
This Remuneration Policy section of the report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large- and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The Committee has also taken into account the principles set out in 
Schedule A to the UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2014) published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority and the ABI’s Principles of Remuneration published in November 2013.
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the 
remuneration of executive directors. It also takes account of pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group. In particular, the Committee is mindful 
of the fact that all employees receive share awards under the Group’s equity plans.
The Committee does not speciﬁcally consult with employees when setting and reviewing remuneration policy for the executive directors; 
however, it does review the salary increases for all Executive Committee members against the general employee pay award each year to ensure 
that there is fairness. Employees have an opportunity to raise any concerns over pay and beneﬁts through the annual employee engagement 
survey or direct with their line manager. The EVP People and the VP Reward attend meetings by invitation and are available to answer the 
Committee’s questions on wider employee remuneration matters.
Shareholding requirements
In order to align executives’ interests with those of shareholders over a longer time period, from 2014 onwards all Executive Committee 
members are required to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary (an increase from the previous level of 100% of base salary). For other 
participants in the LTIP , the shareholding requirement has increased from 50% to 100% of base salary. 
Unvested shares under the LTIP and former DAB Plan do not count towards the shareholding requirements. Until these levels are achieved, no 
more than 50% of shares received through vesting under the DAB Plan and LTIP (after the automatic sale of shares to satisfy tax liabilities) can 
be disposed of by participants. For 2014 a transitional arrangement applied for participants below Executive Committee level under which 20% 
of net shares vesting must be retained. This increased to 50% for 2015 onwards.
Service contracts 
Our policy is that notice periods for executive directors are of one year’s duration and each of the executive directors’ service contracts reﬂects 
this. These agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis and contain restrictive covenants 
for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Group’s customers, 
non-dealing with customers, and non-solicitation of the Group’s suppliers and employees. In addition, each service contract contains an 
express obligation of conﬁdentiality in respect of the Group’s trade secrets and conﬁdential information and provides for the Group to own any 
intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the ﬁnancial year are as follows:
Director Date
Simon Segars 17 July 2014
Tim Score 1 March 2002
Mike Muller 31 January 1996 
Service contracts for the executive directors and appointment letters for the Chairman and non-executive directors are available to view in the 
Corporate Governance section of our website at www.arm.com .
The term of appointment for non-executive directors is three years, which can be rolled forward for two further periods each of three years, 
which would be subject to annual review. Appointments are subject to termination on three months’ notice. Fees paid to non-executive 
directors are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January.  ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 54
Remuneration Policy for executive directors 
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Base salary
To provide an appropriately 
competitive level of base salary 
in order to enable the Group 
to recruit, retain and motivate 
executive directors of the 
calibre required to achieve the 
Group’s business strategy and 
goal of sustained growth in 
corporate performance.
Base salaries are reviewed annually by the 
Committee and are paid monthly in cash.
Increases generally apply from January in each 
year. In its annual review or on promotion, the 
Committee considers the following:
 Pay levels at companies of similar size (by 
reference to market capitalisation and 
revenue) on a geographic and global basis.
 External market conditions.
 Pay and beneﬁts elsewhere in the Group.
 Individual performance, skills, experience 
and potential.
 Corporate performance on 
environmental, social and corporate 
governance issues.
Clawback does not apply to base salary (in 
accordance with contractual agreements).
Base salaries are set at an 
appropriate level for each role, 
taking account of the factors 
described in this table.
Generally, salaries are no higher 
than market median, although 
higher salaries may be paid, if 
necessary, to recruit externally 
or to retain key executives.
In normal circumstances 
base salary increases will be 
determined by reference to 
average increases for employees 
across the Group.
Greater increases may be 
approved if there is a substantial 
change in a director’s role 
or responsibilities or if the 
salary is signiﬁcantly below the 
current market rate. In such 
circumstances, increases may 
be phased over a number 
of years and be conditional 
on performance.
None, although the overall performance of 
each executive director is considered by the 
Committee when reviewing base salaries. 
Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay 
in lieu of notice may be made at the discretion 
of the Group. This would include base salary 
and contractual beneﬁts (pro-rated where 
applicable) and any untaken holiday.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also 
be paid by the Group.
Annual report on remuneration (Policy) continued... 55 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Performance-related bonus
(in respect of 2014 ﬁnancial year 
onwards) 
To incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly 
linked to the Group’s short-term 
ﬁnancial and strategic goals.
Bonus, if earned, is paid wholly in cash for 
2014 onwards.
Paid annually after the Preliminary 
Announcement for the prior year end.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Individual performance measures are focused 
on objectives that are speciﬁc to each 
executive director.
Clawback: provisions exist that require 
bonus to be forfeited (i.e. offset of bonus 
accruing in that year) or an equivalent value 
repaid in exceptional circumstances. These 
include material misstatement of published 
results and misconduct causing a material 
loss and would apply for two years from the 
payment of such bonus. The proportion of 
the bonus that would be repayable (and could 
be 100%) would depend on the extent to 
which the original bonus exceeds that which 
would have been paid if the results had been 
correctly stated, and also taking into account 
any negative impact of the re-statement.
Maximum bonus: 125% of 
base salary.
Bonus payable at target: 85% of 
base salary.
Target means the achievement 
of appropriate maximum 
targets in respect of both 
Normalised Operating Proﬁt 
(NOP) and total revenue 
and prior to any personal 
performance adjustment.
Bonus payable at threshold:  
0% of base salary 
Threshold means the minimum 
level of performance before 
bonus starts to accrue.
Amount is subject to achievement of two 
performance targets and then adjusted for 
individual performance: 
 NOP (50% of target bonus).
 Total revenue (50% of target bonus).
 Individual performance measures speciﬁc 
to each executive director, which ﬂex the 
amount of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25.
Revenue and proﬁt growth are regarded as 
the most appropriate short-term metrics for 
continuing the Group’s performance.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust 
bonus targets for any ﬁnancial year to reﬂect 
intervening events including acquisitions 
or disposals.
The numerical values of targets for any particular 
ﬁnancial year will not be disclosed in advance or 
during that year as the Committee considers this 
information to be commercially sensitive. The 
actual targets will be disclosed in the following 
ﬁnancial year.
Performance-related bonus 
(in respect of years up to and 
including 2013)
To incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly 
linked to the Group’s short-term 
ﬁnancial and strategic goals.
Revenue and proﬁt growth 
are regarded as the most 
appropriate short-term 
metrics for continuing the 
Group’s performance.
Bonus earned in respect of 2013 was subject 
to the provisions of the DAB Plan. This was the 
ﬁnal operation of the DAB Plan.
Bonus was split 50% cash and 50% deferred 
shares based on NOP , total revenue and 
individual performance.
There is compulsory deferral into shares for 
three years.
Bonus matching applies to deferred shares in 
the range of 0.3 for 1 to 2 for 1 match subject 
to three-year EPS growth of CPI + 4% to CPI 
+ 12% per annum respectively.
Deferred and any matching shares in relation 
to 2013 performance will be received in 
February 2017.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.*
Provisions exist that could result in immediate 
forfeiture of shares in the event of dismissal 
for gross misconduct, as determined by the 
Committee and at its discretion.
Maximum and target bonus 
opportunity of 150% and 100% 
of salary respectively.
The targets for 2013 bonus were:
 50% of target bonus was dependent on 
achieving a NOP target of £313.5 million** 
with 0% payout at £257.7 million rising in a 
linear way to 25% at £294.6 million. 
 The NOP portion of bonus can continue to 
accrue linearly above the target of £313.5 
million on a straight-line basis, subject to the 
overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
 50% of bonus was dependent on achieving 
a US$ revenue target of US$1,096 million** 
with 0% payout at US$913.2 million rising to 
25% at $1,030.1 million.
 The revenue portion of bonus can continue 
to accrue above the target of US$1,096 
million so that for every 1% increase in 
revenue, bonus is increased by 2.5% of the 
target, subject to the overall maximum of 
150% of base salary.
 Bonus amount is then subject to an individual 
performance multiplier which ﬂexes the 
payment by 0.75 to 1.25 again subject to the 
overall maximum of 150% of base salary. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 56
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Long-Term Incentive  
Plan 2013 
(ﬁrst operation in 2014)
T o incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked 
to the Group’s long-term ﬁnancial 
and strategic goals.
T o align executive directors’ 
interests with those of the 
shareholders through the 
performance conditions and 
share retention obligations. 
Annual conditional share awards are made 
at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for 
vesting of between 0% to 200% after three 
years dependent on achievement of the 
performance conditions, with a maximum of 
375% of base salary.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to 
additional holding periods with 25% released 
after four years and the remaining 25% 
released after ﬁve years. During these new 
holding periods, shares may not be sold even if 
the participant has left the Group.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
Malus: The Committee has discretion to 
reduce a share award (including to nil) prior 
to vesting where there are exceptional 
circumstances, which include a material 
misstatement in the Group’s published results, 
misconduct by the executive director that is 
deemed to have caused or contributed to a 
material loss as a result of reckless, negligent 
or wilful actions, or inappropriate values 
or behaviour.
Clawback: The Committee has discretion 
to clawback shares and executive directors 
have an obligation under the Rules to transfer 
shares or pay over the proceeds of sale in 
exceptional circumstances (as described 
above). If sold at less than market value, the 
obligation is to pay market value at the date 
of disposal. Clawback would be less any tax 
and social security paid or due to be paid. The 
Committee has discretion to set the length of 
the clawback period, which would normally be 
two years from acquisition of the shares.
Maximum limit of 600% in 
exceptional circumstances as 
determined by the Committee. 
By way of example, exceptional 
circumstances could include the 
hiring of an exceptional senior 
executive director in a highly 
competitive market where we 
need to make an exceptional 
offer in order to recruit.
For the 2014 award vesting is based on:
three-year Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
growth relative to the FTSE All-World 
Technology Index (25%).
three-year TSR growth relative to the  
FTSE 350 (25%).
three-year normalised EPS growth (50%) with 
threshold at 15% annual growth (including CPI) 
and the upper performance target at 22% 
annual growth (including CPI).
25% of the respective TSR elements vest for 
median performance with 100% vesting for 
upper quintile performance.
Similarly 25% of the normalised EPS element 
vests at threshold performance with 100% 
vesting at the upper performance target with 
straight-line interpolation between these 
two points.
The Committee will review the performance 
conditions for new awards annually.
The Committee has discretion to waive or 
change a performance condition if anything 
happens that causes the Committee reasonably 
to consider it appropriate, provided that any 
changed performance condition will be no more 
difficult to satisfy than the original condition 
was intended to be at the time the award 
was granted.
Shareholding requirement
T o align executive directors’ 
interests with those of 
shareholders over a longer time 
period, they are required to 
build a shareholding of 200% of 
base salary.
Until 200% of salary is achieved, no more than 
50% of shares received through the DAB Plan 
and LTIP (after the automatic sale of shares to 
satisfy tax liabilities) can be disposed of.
Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count 
towards the shareholding requirements.
Annual report on remuneration (Policy) continued... 57 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Long-Term Incentive Plan
(in respect of years up to and 
including 201 3)
T o incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked 
to the Group’s long-term ﬁnancial 
and strategic goals.
T o align executive directors’ 
interests with those of the 
shareholders through the 
performance conditions and 
share retention obligations. 
Annual conditional awards normally at 100% 
of salary with the potential for the award to 
vest at between 0% and 200% of salary for 
upper decile performance at the end of the 
three-year performance period.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
Maximum award limit of 400% 
in exceptional circumstances was 
never used.
Vesting is based on:
three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE All 
World Technology Index (50%).
three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE 350 
(50%).
Threshold vesting commencing at median 
ranking of TSR group (25% of respective TSR 
elements rising to 100% vesting for an upper 
decile ranking on a straight-line basis).
The Committee has discretion to waive or 
change a performance condition in the event of 
circumstances which cause the Committee to 
reasonably consider that:
(a)  the amended Performance Condition would 
be a fairer measure of performance and 
would be no easier to satisfy; or
(b)  the Performance Condition should 
be waived.
Pension
T o provide pension contributions 
in line with market practice, 
which will enable directors to plan 
for retirement.
10% of base salary for executive directors and 
1 1% for the Chief Executive Officer is paid 
either into the Group Personal Pension Plan 
or overseas equivalent, or as a cash allowance 
(subject to payroll deductions) for those in 
excess of the lifetime allowance applicable in 
the UK.
1 1% of base salary. Not applicable. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 58
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Other beneﬁts
T o provide competitive 
beneﬁts in line with market 
practice to enable the Group to 
recruit and retain high-calibre 
executive directors.
To reward innovation 
and invention.
Other beneﬁts are provided appropriate 
to the location of the executive director 
and include provision of a car or car and 
fuel allowance, long-term sickness and 
disability insurance, death in service beneﬁt, 
and healthcare and travel insurance for the 
executive director and family.
Executive directors may also receive patent 
bonuses in line with the scheme operated 
by the Group from time to time for patent 
applications and on grants of patents.
Reasonable market cost of 
providing beneﬁts.
The Committee reserves the 
discretion to provide such 
situation-speciﬁc beneﬁts as 
may be required in the interests 
of the Group’s business, such 
as relocation. Full details 
of the exercise of any such 
discretion would be provided 
to shareholders in the next 
Remuneration report.
Not applicable.
Overseas beneﬁts/
Relocation allowances
T o provide competitive beneﬁts 
in line with market practice to 
enable the Group to recruit and 
retain high-calibre executive 
directors and move them to 
alternative locations when 
required by the needs of 
the business.
Executives based in countries outside 
their home country receive other beneﬁts 
appropriate to the country in which they 
are working.
In the event that an executive director agrees 
to move from their home country temporarily, 
the relocation arrangements may include:
Housing allowance or settlement of 
actual costs;
Disturbance allowance to enable essential 
household purchases to be made;
Cost of living and transportation allowance for 
the duration of the assignment;
Flights home for executive and family;
School fees for executive director’s children;
Cost of personal tax advice;
Cost of visas for executive and family;
Cost of transporting executive and family’s 
personal effects;
Legal and estate agents fees associated with 
properties in home and overseas locations.
Reasonable market cost of 
providing beneﬁts for the 
duration of the term abroad.
Not applicable.
Annual report on remuneration (Policy) continued... 59 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
One-off recruitment cash/
equity awards
T o provide an appropriately 
attractive package to persuade an 
external hire to accept an offer 
of employment and/or to buy 
out equity that would be lost on 
leaving previous employment.
An award of restricted stock units (RSUs) 
or a grant of options may be made under 
the Employee Equity Plan to a new recruit to 
compensate for equity awards foregone with 
previous employer and/or provide equity 
that vests in the three years prior to potential 
vesting of the ﬁrst LTIP award. 
Alternatively, a cash payment or an additional 
LTIP award may be made to compensate.
Payment may be on taking up appointment 
or to coincide with vesting dates under the 
previous employer’s plan.
Malus and clawback provisions would apply.
The maximum would be a sum 
equal to the value of equity 
foregone, taking account of 
performance conditions attached 
to the award, likelihood of 
vesting, and accelerated payment.
The Committee has discretion to determine 
appropriate performance conditions for any 
award of RSUs, any LTIP award, or any grant of 
options taking account of the circumstances of 
each individual case. Performance conditions 
would normally be applied on an equivalent basis 
to those applicable to awards made to other 
executive directors in the same calendar year. 
Performance conditions may, but would not 
necessarily be applied to any cash payment.
Other Contributory  
Equity Plans 
Executive directors are eligible 
to participate in the share plan 
applicable to the country where 
they work. 
These plans provide an 
opportunity for executive 
directors to voluntarily invest in 
the Group.
ARM currently operates a Save as You 
Earn Option Scheme in the UK (and some 
other countries) and an Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan in the US (and some other 
countries), which enables employees to buy 
shares at a discount of up to 20% of market 
value through regular monthly or fortnightly 
payroll deductions.
The maximum participation 
limits will not exceed those set by 
the relevant tax authorities from 
time to time.
Not applicable.
Fees for non-executive 
roles held outside the 
Group 
To provide executive directors 
with opportunities to widen their 
knowledge and experience of 
the operation of other company 
boards and committees, they are 
permitted to hold non-executive 
positions at other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to retain 
any fees paid and/or shares offered in 
connection with external non-executive roles 
that they undertake.
The amounts received are 
disclosed annually. 
Details are provided on page 51.
Not applicable. ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014 60
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Non-executive directors’ 
(NED) and Chairman’s fees
T o attract and retain an 
appropriately experienced 
Chairman and independent non-
executive directors of suitable 
calibre to fulﬁl a range of different 
roles including ﬁnancial expert/
Audit Committee Chairman, 
Senior Independent Director and 
Committee Chairmen.
T o pay fees that reﬂect 
responsibilities and workload 
undertaken, and which are 
competitive with peer companies. 
NED fees are proposed by the executive 
directors and approved by the Board as a 
whole. The Chairman’s fee is proposed by the 
Committee and approved by the Board as 
a whole with the Chairman taking no part in 
the decision.
NED appointments are terminable on three 
months’ notice.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and 
take account of fees paid for similar roles by 
peer companies.
The NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible 
to receive bonuses, pension contributions and 
nor can they participate in the LTIP or other 
equity plans. 
The overall fees paid to non-executive 
directors will remain within the limit stated 
in our Articles of Association, currently 
£1.0 million, as approved at the 2014 AGM.
Fees are set at an appropriate 
level taking into account the 
factors outlined in this table.
Additional fees are paid to the 
SID and Committee Chairmen.
An additional fee is paid to 
NEDs based outside the UK 
who undertake long-haul travel 
to attend Board meetings in 
the UK, to reﬂect the additional 
time commitment.
Not applicable.
Legacy arrangements 
(pre 27 June 2012)
None.
 *  Dividend shares are additional shares added at vesting equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid during the deferral period for the DAB Plan and LTIP .
**  Calculated at the Group budget exchange rate of £1:US$1.60.
In the event of termination of an executive director’s contract of employment, compensation would be based on salary and contractual beneﬁts 
during the notice period and whether the departing director is deemed to be a good leaver under the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan, the 2013 
LTIP , the former LTIP , and the former DAB Plan.
Annual report on remuneration (Policy) continued... 61 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Contractual provisions/Plan Rules Exit Payment Policy
Service contracts Payment of contractual entitlements, including payment in lieu of 
notice in appropriate circumstances, where certainty and protection 
of restrictive covenants are in the best interests of the Group.
Termination payments would take into account the particular 
circumstances relevant to each individual situation.
Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay in lieu of notice may 
be made at the discretion of the Group.
This would include base salary and contractual beneﬁts (pro-rated 
where applicable) and any untaken holiday.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also be paid by 
the Group.
LTIP For good leavers conditional awards under the LTIP would 
normally vest pro-rata to time served and the extent to which the 
performance conditions are satisﬁed at the date of termination 
of employment.
For bad leavers, unvested share awards would lapse on termination 
of employment.
In relation to both the LTIP and Bonus Plan: in assessing whether 
an executive director is a good leaver in retirement circumstances, 
the executive director is required to conﬁrm future intentions to 
the Committee (including that he or she will not accept a full-time 
executive role in a commercial organisation). If the Committee 
determines that the executive director is a good leaver and 
subject to satisfaction of performance targets, pro-rated vesting of 
entitlements under the old and new LTIPs and bonus plans would 
normally be approved.
The holding periods described in the Remuneration Policy table 
would apply to any shares that vest under the LTIP .
Bonus Plans There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus. In the event of 
death or leaving as a result of disability or ill health, pro-rata bonus 
may be paid for the year of cessation.
Bad leavers would not receive performance-related bonus awards in 
relation to the year of cessation.
Clawback provisions exist that require bonus to be forfeited (i.e. 
offset of bonus accruing in that year) or an equivalent value repaid 
should it be necessary for the Group to re-state to a material extent 
the ﬁnancial results on which the bonus was awarded within two 
years of the payment of such bonus. The proportion of the bonus 
that would be repayable (which could be 100%) would depend on 
the extent to which the original bonus exceeds that which would 
have been paid if the results had been correctly stated, also taking 
into account any negative impact of the re-statement.
Former DAB Plan Deferred shares under the former DAB Plan would vest 
on termination. Deferred shares can be forfeited in certain 
circumstances. Matching shares vest, to the extent the performance 
conditions are satisﬁed, for good leavers only.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board. 
Larry Hirst 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
17 February 2015 62 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Report on the Group ﬁnancial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, ARM Holdings plc’s Group ﬁnancial statements (the “ﬁnancial statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
ARM Holdings plc’s ﬁnancial statements comprise:
• the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014; 
• the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended; 
• the consolidated cash ﬂow statement for the year then ended; 
• the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the year then ended; and 
• the notes to the ﬁnancial statements, which include a summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than in the 
notes to the ﬁnancial statements. These are cross-referenced from the ﬁnancial statements and are identiﬁed as audited.
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
• Overall Group materiality: £15.7 million, which represents 5% of proﬁt before exceptional items and taxation. 
• We conducted full scope audit procedures over ARM Limited and ARM Inc.  
• We performed speciﬁc audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes at other 
Group companies. 
•  Taken together, the Group companies over which we performed our audit work accounted for 99% of the Group’s 
third-party revenues and proﬁt, and over 90% of the Group’s expenses and net assets.
Our audit focussed on the following areas based on materiality and risk:
• revenue recognition; 
• litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual Property (“IP”) risk; 
• taxation; 
• share-based payment charges; and 
• changes in presentation resulting from the Group’s internal reorganisation.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the ﬁnancial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors have made subjective judgements, for example in respect of signiﬁcant accounting estimates that involved 
applying management-determined assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also 
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that  
represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effor t, are identiﬁed 
as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these speciﬁc areas in order to provide an 
opinion on the ﬁnancial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. 
This is not a complete list of all risks identiﬁed by our audit. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of ARM Holdings plc
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas 
of focus 63
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Revenue recognition
See note 1b to the ﬁnancial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 1 9 for the 
directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates. 
The timing of licence revenue recognition (which makes up 45% of the Group’s 
gross revenue of £795.2 million) is inherently complex.
Recognition of licence revenue involves a number of signiﬁcant judgements by the 
directors, including:
 determining whether contracts contain deliverables which should be separated 
for revenue recognition purposes and the most appropriate revenue 
recognition methodology for each of those elements;
 determining the allocation of consideration on a fair value basis between 
components of multi-element contracts as noted above (where this can be 
supported based on evidence of stand-alone selling prices) and whether the 
consideration is deemed probable where a contract incorporates extended 
payment terms; and
 assessing the degree of completion of contracts which are accounted for on a 
“percentage of completion” basis.
As described in note 1b, royalty revenues earned on sales by the Group’s customers 
of products containing ARM technology are recognised when the Group receives 
notiﬁcation from the customer of product sales, which is typically in the quarter 
following shipment. 
In addition, ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition for every audit conducted under these auditing standards because of 
the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls that the 
Group uses to ensure the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised, 
including controls over the degree of completion of revenue contracts at year-end. 
We found the operation of these controls to be effective, which 
provided us with audit evidence that licence revenue had been 
recorded accurately and in the correct period, in accordance with 
the Group’s accounting policies. Because signiﬁcant judgements 
are made in recognising revenue, we performed further testing of 
revenue contracts. 
We read a sample of licence contracts selected on a high value basis and assessed 
whether the revenue recognition methodology was consistent with accounting 
standards and had been applied consistently. Where a contract contained multiple 
elements, we considered management’s judgements as to whether there were 
elements that should be accounted for separately, and, in such cases, challenged the 
judgements made in the allocation of the consideration to each element. 
We evaluated and challenged the signiﬁcant judgements (including assumptions 
used) and estimates made by management in applying the Group’s policy to speciﬁc 
contracts and separable elements of contracts, and we obtained evidence to 
support them, including details of contractual agreements, delivery records, time 
records/sheets, cash receipts and project plans. We noted no instances of 
inappropriate revenue recognition arising in our testing.
For the contracts selected we inspected original signed contracts, re-performed 
management’s calculations and agreed the revenue recognised to the underlying 
accounting records. We did not identify any material exceptions in our testing.
We obtained management’s calculations of the degree of completion of contracts at 
year-end. We agreed a sample of source data used in management’s calculations to 
supporting evidence, and evaluated the judgements applied. We also considered the 
historical outturn of judgements made in prior periods. We did not identify any 
material exceptions in our testing.
We tested royalty revenues by agreeing a sample of amounts recognised to 
customer notiﬁcations and cash receipts. No material exceptions were 
noted from our testing.
In response to the presumed risk of fraud, where revenue was recorded through 
journal entries we tested a sample of journals to establish whether there were any 
unusual items. No such items were identiﬁed from our testing.
Litigation risk
See note 1b to the ﬁnancial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 1 9 for the 
directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note 
24 for further information.
The Group has exposure to patent infringement disputes, sometimes directly, but in 
most cases through indemnity provisions in its contracts with customers.
Judgements are made in determining the extent and amount of any provisions 
required or disclosures made for contingent liabilities. 
We discussed litigation with the Group’s in-house legal counsel and obtained 
conﬁrmations from external legal advisers. We assessed the adequacy of provisions 
recognised and disclosures made in the Group ﬁnancial statements. We found 
that the determination of whether provision was required and the 
amount of any such provision were consistent with the legal advice 
and management’s assessment of potential settlement costs, based, 
where appropriate, on latest information including the extent to 
which each matter has evolved.
Where indemniﬁcation costs with a licensee and litigation settlements through 
purchase of a licence were expensed during the year, we vouched these to evidence 
of payment and examined the associated settlement contracts. We did not 
identify any material exceptions.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 64 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Taxation
See note 1b to the ﬁnancial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 1 9 for the 
directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note 
7 for speciﬁc taxation disclosures. 
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge of £61.1 million is subject to a number 
of complexities, in particular because the Group operates in several jurisdictions. 
Tax provisioning in relation to ongoing enquiries with local tax authorities is a speciﬁc 
area of judgement. In addition, the estimated impact on the Group’s UK deferred 
tax balances of the UK patent box regime and the level of provisioning in relation to 
identiﬁed tax risks is judgemental.
Using specialised tax knowledge in relevant jurisdictions, we tested the Group’s 
tax computations and assessed and challenged the judgements made considering 
their consistency with applicable legislation and practice, including evaluating 
management’s assessment of the likely resolution of uncertain tax positions. We 
tested the calculation of the impact of the UK patent box regime on the Group’s 
effective current and deferred tax rates, evaluating the judgements made in 
determining the level of current and future taxable proﬁt within the scope of this 
regime, and checked the application of the methodology to applicable legislation. 
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
We read the Group’s correspondence with local tax authorities in the UK and US 
during the year and assessed the implications for tax provisioning. The evidence 
that we obtained from reading this correspondence supported the 
directors’ decisions regarding the level of tax provisioning.
Share-based payment charges 
See note 1b to the ﬁnancial statements for the directors’ disclosures of the related 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note 2 1 for more information. 
The calculation of the Group’s share-based payment expense of £68.5 million is 
subject to a number of management determined assumptions in estimating the 
fair value of share awards granted in the year and the number of awards that are 
expected to vest. The Monte-Carlo option pricing model used to fair value the 
LTIP awards granted in 2014 is complex and requires technical expertise in choosing 
appropriate assumptions such as, volatility and the calculation of the average 
correlation for the FTSE 350 and FTSE All World Technology Index. There is a 
risk that assumptions used may be signiﬁcantly under or over stated, which could 
materially impact the Group’s share-based payment expense.
 
We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in place over the calculation 
and recording of the share-based payment expense. We substantively tested the 
Group’s share-based payment calculations and the associated tax computations and 
challenged management’s assumptions in estimating the fair value of awards granted 
during the year and the number of awards that are expected to vest by considering 
the outturn of historical estimates made by management and market data. We 
traced inputs to the fair value calculation to underlying grant documents, option 
scheme rules and comparable market data. We did not identify any material 
exceptions in our testing.
We focussed on and challenged the assumptions used in the Monte-Carlo option 
pricing model for the LTIP awards granted in 2014 by comparing them to external 
market data and other third-party evidence. We found that the assumptions 
used in the Monte-Carlo option pricing model were comparable with 
market data and other third-party evidence.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued... 65
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Changes in presentation resulting from the Group’s internal 
reorganisation
See note 1b to the ﬁnancial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 1 9 for the 
directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies and reporting impact of the Group’s 
internal reorganisation and note 1 3 for more information on goodwill.
From 1 January 2014, the Group reorganised its internal operational structure as 
explained in note 1b. Consequently, the directors have re-evaluated the Group’s 
internal reporting systems in order to identify the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(“CODM”) of the Group following the internal reorganisation, and therefore the 
operating segments of the Group based on the regular reporting reviewed by the 
CODM that is used to make decisions about the allocation of resources within the 
Group and assess its performance. As described in note 1b, the directors have 
determined that with effect from the second half of 2014 the Group now has a 
single reportable operating segment.
The directors have further re-evaluated the Group’s cash-generating units 
(“CGUs”) in light of the reorganisation. The directors have performed their annual 
goodwill impairment review at the operating segment level. As a result, we focussed 
on the risk that:
 the directors’ evaluation of the Group’s operating segments is inconsistent with 
the regular reporting reviewed by the CODM and used to make decisions 
about the allocation of resources within the Group and assess its performance, 
and therefore that there could potentially be more than one operating segment 
requiring disclosure; and
 the directors’ evaluation of the Group’s CGUs did not identify the smallest 
identiﬁable group of assets that generates cash inﬂows that are largely 
independent of the cash inﬂows from other assets or groups of assets, and 
therefore the annual goodwill impairment test was not performed to a 
sufficiently detailed level.
The performance of the annual goodwill impairment review at the operating 
segment level means that there is substantial headroom in the annual impairment 
test to support the Group’s goodwill balance of £567.0 million. The level of 
judgement in the annual goodwill impairment test is signiﬁcantly reduced as 
compared to 2013, when the test was performed using three CGUs and allocations 
of cash ﬂows performed in determining the value in use of the PIPD CGU. 
We challenged the directors’ evaluation of the Group’s operating segments and 
CGUs by performing the following:
 The Group has identiﬁed the CEO and Executive Committee to be the 
CODM. We inspected minutes of meetings and evaluated the Group’s internal 
reporting structure in assessing whether these evidenced that the CEO 
and Executive Committee were responsible for making decisions about the 
allocation of resources within the Group and in reviewing both ﬁnancial and 
non-ﬁnancial performance;
 We inspected minutes of meetings involving the CODM and the regular ﬁnancial 
reporting provided to the CODM in order to assess whether this identiﬁed 
more than one reportable operating segment of the Group; and
 We evaluated the detailed internal ﬁnancial reporting to assess whether 
there are any identiﬁable groups of assets generating cash inﬂows largely 
independently of the cash inﬂows from other assets or groups of assets, and 
thus whether there potentially exists a CGU which is smaller than the operating 
segment level.
The evidence that we examined supported the directors’ conclusion 
that there is one reportable operating segment and that there is no 
CGU below operating segment level, with appropriate disclosure 
given of the changes in presentation that result from this.
We also examined the directors’ annual impairment assessment at the operating 
segment level, and challenged management’s assumptions relating to the discount 
rate used, the achievability of forecast revenues and proﬁts, and the terminal 
growth rate, as disclosed in note 13, that have been made in calculating the value 
in use of the Group. We found that there was sufficient headroom in 
the calculations for it not to be sensitive to reasonable changes in 
the assumptions.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements as 
a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates. 
The Group ﬁnancial statements are a consolidation of 31 companies, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and head office entities.
Our Group audit focused on the two largest companies of the Group (ARM Limited and ARM Inc.) which contribute 99% of the Group’s third-
party revenues and proﬁts, and more than 80% of the Group’s expenses and net assets. We performed full scope audit procedures at ARM 
Limited and ARM Inc. We also performed speciﬁed audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes at other Group 
companies, representing approximately 9% of the Group’s expenses.
All audit work in respect of the Group ﬁnancial statements, including that on the Group consolidation, disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements 
and all the areas of focus, was performed by the Group engagement team (including visits to ARM Inc.’s US-based operations) with the 
exception of taxation, where assistance was received from other PwC network ﬁrms in respect of judgements made in respect of tax charges 
in overseas jurisdictions.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 66 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Materiality
The scope of our audit is inﬂuenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to 
evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the ﬁnancial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the ﬁnancial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £15.7 million (2013: £13.2 million).
How we determined it 5% of proﬁt before exceptional items and taxation.
Rationale for benchmark 
applied
This is, in our view, the most relevant measure of the performance of the Group, and provides us with a 
consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring disproportionate 
impact of exceptional items.
 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identiﬁed during our audit above £0.8 million 
(2013: £0.6 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the ﬁnancial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the 
directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the ﬁnancial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded 
that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 information in the Annual Report is: 
− materially inconsistent with the information in the audited ﬁnancial statements; or 
−  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
     − is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
 the statement given by the directors on page 20, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
 the section of the Annual Report on page 19, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued... 67
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by 
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the ﬁnancial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 33, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
What an audit of ﬁnancial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
ﬁnancial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Company ﬁnancial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Charles Bowman (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
17 February 2015 
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 68 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Revenues 2 795.2 714.6
Cost of revenues (37.8) (39.3)
Gross proﬁt 757.4 675.3
Operating expenses
Research and development (224.2) (202.9)
Sales and marketing (93.2) (89.4)
General and administrative (131.0) (128.2)
T otal operating expenses before exceptional items (448.4) (420.5)
Exceptional items 6 – (101.3)
T otal operating expenses after exceptional items (448.4) (521.8)
Proﬁt from operations 309.0 153.5
Investment income 11.3 13.3
Interest payable and similar charges (0.3) (0.2)
Share of results in joint venture 27 (3.5) (4.0)
Proﬁt before tax 5 316.5 162.6
T ax (including £nil in respect of exceptional items (2013: £8.6 million)) 7 (61.1) (57.8)
Proﬁt for the year 255.4 104.8
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings 255.4 104.8
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of shares 1,406.2 1,396.4
Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 14.9 15.4
Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,421.1 1,411.8
Basic EPS 18.2p 7.5p
Diluted EPS 18.0p 7.4p
All the proﬁt for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations. The Company has opted to 
present its own accounts under UK GAAP as shown on pages 117 to 124. 
Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 8 and 26 of the ﬁnancial statements respectively.
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December Note
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Proﬁt for the year 255.4 104.8
Other comprehensive income/(loss):
Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (net of tax of £1.1 million (2013: £nil))
*
11 4.3 –
Currency translation adjustment
*
34.6 (17.9)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 38.9 (17.9)
T otal comprehensive income for the year 294.3 86.9
* These items may be reclassiﬁed to the income statement if certain conditions are met.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the ﬁnancial statements. 69 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 December Note
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 17 54.1 43.8
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 17 620.8 544.1
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 17 – 5.1
Embedded derivatives 17 2.6 –
Accounts receivable 9 138.6 136.2
Available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets 11, 17 – 1.2
Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 43.2 39.8
Current tax assets 8.9 6.9
Inventories 2.7 3.0
T otal current assets 870.9 780.1
Non-current assets:
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 17 191.4 125.6
Loans and receivables 17 3.0 3.0
Available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets 11, 17 23.7 13.9
Investment in joint venture 27 3.0 6.5
Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 1.7 1.6
Property, plant and equipment 12 43.4 33.6
Goodwill 13 567.0 525.9
Other intangible assets 14 77.2 82.9
Deferred tax assets 7 55.9 65.3
T otal non-current assets 966.3 858.3
T otal assets 1,837.2 1,638.4
Liabilities 
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 17 11.7 7.0
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 17 4.8 –
Embedded derivatives 17 – 7.0
Accrued and other liabilities 15 80.6 88.1
Finance lease liabilities 16 3.9 2.7
Current tax liabilities 31.9 18.8
Deferred revenue 127.4 156.7
T otal current liabilities 260.3 280.3
Non-current liabilities:
Accrued and other liabilities 15 – 2.6
Finance lease liabilities 16 2.6 1.5
Deferred tax liabilities 7 0.4 0.1
Deferred revenue 45.6 42.5
T otal non-current liabilities 48.6 46.7
T otal liabilities 308.9 327.0
Net assets 1,528.3 1,311.4
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company
Share capital 18 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 24.9 18.1
Capital reserve 354.3 354.3
Share option reserve 61.4 61.4
Retained earnings 991.8 820.6
Revaluation reserve 4.3 –
Cumulative translation adjustment 90.9 56.3
T otal equity 1,528.3 1,311.4
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the ﬁnancial statements. The ﬁnancial statements on pages 68 to 116 were approved by the Board 
of directors on 17 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Simon Segars, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Score, Chief Financial Officer 70 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
For the year ended 31 December Note
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Proﬁt before tax 316.5 162.6
Investment income (net of interest payable and similar charges) (11.0) (13.1)
Share of results in joint venture 3.5 4.0
Proﬁt from operations 309.0 153.5
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation of property , plant and equipment and intangible assets 35.6 28.0
Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments 68.5 59.2
Provision for impairment of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (including non-cash exceptional item of £nil 
(2013: £59.5 million)) 1.0 66.3
Proﬁt on disposal of available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets (0.3) (3.3)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.6
Provision for doubtful debts 0.3 4.0
Non-cash foreign currency losses/(gains) 3.4 (3.6)
Movement in fair value of currency exchange contracts 9.9 (3.7)
Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives (9.6) 4.4
Changes in working capital
Accounts receivable (4.0) (19.8)
Inventories 0.3 (0.7)
Prepaid expenses and other assets (9.9) (8.8)
Accounts payable 4.5 1.1
Deferred revenue (24.8) 53.1
Accrued and other liabilities (11.6) 8.3
Cash generated by operations before tax 372.4 338.6
Income taxes paid (30.8) (23.3)
Net cash from operating activities 341.6 315.3
Investing activities
Interest received (net of interest paid of £0.3 million (2013: £0.2 million)) 13.3 13.2
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (20.4) (13.5)
Purchases of other intangible assets (10.0) (31.8)
Purchases of available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets 11 (5.0) (8.9)
Proceeds on disposal of available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets 2.2 5.5
Purchase of short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments, net (145.1) (188.5)
Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash and borrowings acquired 20 (12.8) (21.1)
Investment in joint venture 27 – (3.7)
Provision of long-term loan – (0.7)
Net cash used in investing activities (177.8) (249.5)
Financing activities
Proceeds received on issuance of shares 18 6.8 5.9
Purchase of own shares 19 (66.9) –
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (86.1) (68.9)
Repayment of borrowings (1.2) (1.1)
Repayment of ﬁnance lease liabilities (6.4) (3.3)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (153.8) (67.4)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 10.0 (1.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 43.8 46.3
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 (0.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  54.1 43.8
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the ﬁnancial statements. 71 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Consolidated statement of changes 
in shareholders’ equity
Attributable to the owners of the Company
For the year ended 31 December
Share  
capital 
£m
Share  
premium  
account 
£m
Capital
reserve*
£m
Share  
option
reserve**
£m
Retained  
earnings 
£m
Revaluation 
reserve*** 
£m
Cumulative  
translation  
adjustment 
£m
Total 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2013 0.7 12.2 354.3 61.4 703.3 – 74.2 1,206.1
Proﬁt for the year –––– 104.8 – – 104.8
Other comprehensive loss:
Currency translation adjustment ––––– – (17.9) (17.9)
T otal comprehensive income/(loss) for 
the year –––– 104.8 – (17.9) 86.9
Shares issued on exercise of share options 
and awards (note 18) – 5.9––– –– 5.9
Dividends (note 8) –––– (68.9) – – (68.9)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes –––– 59.2 – – 59.2
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards –––– 22.2 – – 22.2
– 5.9 – – 12.5 – – 18.4
Balance at 31 December 2013 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 – 56.3 1,311.4
Proﬁt for the year –––– 255.4 –– 255.4
Other comprehensive income:
Unrealised holding gain on available-for -sale ﬁnancial 
assets (net of tax of £1.1 million) ––––– 4.3 – 4.3
Currency translation adjustment ––––– – 34.6 34.6
T otal comprehensive income for the year –––– 255.4 4.3 34.6 294.3
Shares issued on exercise of share options 
and awards (note 18) – 6.8 ––– –– 6.8
Dividends (note 8) –––– (86.1) –– (86.1)
Purchase of own shares (note 19) –––– (66.9) –– (66.9)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes –––– 68.5 –– 68.5
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards –––– 0.3 –– 0.3
– 6.8 –– (84.2) –– (77.4)
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.7 24.9 354.3 61.4 991.8 4.3 90.9 1,528.3
* Capital reserve. In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. was credited to reserves on consolidation in accordance with Section 131 of the 
Companies Act 1985. The reserve has been classiﬁed as a capital reserve to reﬂect the nature of the original credit to equity arising on acquisition. 
** Share option reserve. This represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004. 
*** Revaluation reserve. The Company includes on its balance sheet equity investments that are not publicly traded, which are classiﬁed as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. These are carried at fair value. Unrealised holding 
gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within the revaluation reserve (except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, in which case losses would be recognised within the 
income statement). Any unrealised gains within this reserve are undistributable.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the ﬁnancial statements. 72 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1 The Group and a summary of its signiﬁcant accounting policies and ﬁnancial risk management
1a General information about the Group
The business of the Group
ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies (“ARM” or “the Group”) design microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and 
software, and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded 
microprocessor applications.
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell 
microcontrollers, application-speciﬁc integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-speciﬁc standard processors (ASSPs) based on ARM’s technology 
to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARM’s technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture 
and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital televisions and PC 
peripherals, enterprise networking and servers, and smart cards and microcontrollers.
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems companies 
and other systems designers.
The Group’s principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Paciﬁc.
Incorporation and history
ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales. The registered office of the Company is 
110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK.
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer (UK) Limited and Acorn Computers Limited, and 
operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc. 
Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998. 
Group undertakings include ARM Limited (incorporated in the UK), Geomerics Limited (incorporated in the UK), ARM France SAS (incorporated 
in France), ARM Germany GmbH (incorporated in Germany), ARM Norway AS (incorporated in Norway), ARM Sweden AB (incorporated in 
Sweden), ARM Finland Oy (incorporated in Finland), ARM Ireland Limited (incorporated in Republic of Ireland), ARM Hungary KFT (incorporated 
in Hungary), ARM Inc. (incorporated in the US), ARM Electronic T echnology (Shanghai) Co. Limited (incorporated in PR China), ARM KK 
(incorporated in Japan), ARM Korea Limited (incorporated in South Korea), ARM T aiwan Limited (incorporated in T aiwan), and ARM Embedded 
T echnologies Pvt. Limited (incorporated in India).
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
The signiﬁcant accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by 
the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention as 
modiﬁed by: the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale (AFS) ﬁnancial assets; ﬁnancial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income 
statement (including embedded derivatives and derivative instruments).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 73 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements 
that affect the amounts reported in the ﬁnancial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated 
and are based on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. The resulting accounting estimates will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are 
discussed below.
Segmental reporting
The Group’s internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more 
accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio. As at 31 December 2014, the Group’s internal organisation and management 
structure reﬂect this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is provided with ﬁnancial 
information. The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based on consolidated results of operations. The directors believe that the 
CODM is the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee of the Group. At 30 June 2014, the changes had not been fully reﬂected in the 
Group’s internal reporting systems and therefore the interim results were issued under the previous structure. The reporting systems were fully 
updated for the re-organisation in the second half of 2014. As a result, the Group now has one reportable segment.  
Impairment of goodwill
The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually. This requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the assets to which goodwill is 
allocated. As discussed in detail in note 13, estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash ﬂows 
from the assets and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash ﬂows. The discount rate is based 
on an estimate of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 10% (2013: 10%) (pre-tax discount 
rate of approximately 11% (2013: 11%)). The Group now reviews the carrying value of its assets including goodwill at the operating segment level.
Revenue recognition
The Group makes signiﬁcant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies. In particular , as discussed in detail in the revenue recognition 
policy on page 75, estimates are made in relation to the use of the percentage-of-completion accounting method, which requires that the extent 
of progress toward completion of contracts can be anticipated with reasonable certainty. The use of the percentage-of-completion method is 
itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insigniﬁcant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained. 
The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future 
economic beneﬁt to the Group. In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, 
it is assumed that the fair value of each element can be estimated reliably. The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the 
assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policy affect the amounts reported in the ﬁnancial 
statements. If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the ﬁnancial statement s.
Provisions for income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Signiﬁcant judgement is required in determining the world-wide provision for 
income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of 
business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Provisions are 
calculated based upon advice received from tax advisors and relevant correspondence received from tax authorities. Provisions are re-assessed 
at each period end date based upon any relevant new information received. Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is different from the 
amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. 74 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Legal settlements and other contingencies
Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlements requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and settlement fees 
the Group is expecting to incur , either where suits are ﬁled against the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required 
to indemnify a licensee. The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions received from 
external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required.
Contingent consideration for an acquisition is recognised at fair value as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent conditions are 
expected to be satisﬁed. This requires the directors to estimate the acquiree’s future ﬁnancial performance, typically more than one year 
post acquisition.
Participation in trust to acquire patent rights
During 2013, the Group participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights and has made various judgements regarding 
these transactions. 
The directors believe that the Group does not control or have signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the trust since, amongst other factors it does not 
have voting rights on the board or signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the relevant activities of the trust. The results of the trust have therefore not been 
consolidated or equity accounted in the Group ﬁnancial statements. The Group determined that the participation in the consortium conferred 
on the Group two separate rights: an intangible asset, conferring the right to use the assets in the Group’s own business, and an AFS ﬁnancial 
asset conferring the right to certain potential future revenue streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust. The amount expected to be 
recovered through this licensing programme was estimated by the Group in conjunction with the management of the trust, which has considerable 
experience of managing the assets of similar trusts. 
The Group assesses its intangible assets for impairment at each reporting date and has reviewed the valuation of the patent rights acquired in this 
transaction. Given the design freedom that these rights provide and the size of the future opportunity afforded, the directors have concluded that 
no impairment of the patent rights is required.
In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the portfolio was instead put up for sale by auction. 
The Group acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million (£2.4 million), which have been accounted for as an additional intangible asset. 
The auction process means that there are no further potential cash ﬂows in relation to the AFS ﬁnancial asset and at the end of 2013, the asset was 
therefore impaired down to the value of the Group’s share of the auction proceeds, resulting in a non-cash exceptional charge of $98.5 million 
(£59.5 million).
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requires the directors to estimate the likelihood of payment forfeiture by customers.
New standards, amendments and interpretations
New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no new or amended standards adopted by the Group in the year which have had a material impact on the Group.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 75 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted
IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” addresses the classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 
was issued in July 2014. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial instruments. IFRS 9 retains 
but simpliﬁes the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for ﬁnancial assets: amortised cost, fair value 
through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and fair value through proﬁt and loss. The basis of classiﬁcation depends on the entity’s business 
model and the contractual cash ﬂow characteristics of the ﬁnancial asset. Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair 
value through proﬁt and loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI but not recycling. There is now a new 
expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For ﬁnancial liabilities there were no changes to 
classiﬁcation and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated 
at fair value through proﬁt and loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. 
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument and for the “hedged ratio” to be the same as the one 
management actually uses for risk management purposes. Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently 
prepared under IAS 39. The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted, subject 
to EU endorsement. The Group is currently assessing IFRS 9’s full impact. 
IFRS 15 “Revenue recognition” deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of ﬁnancial 
statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash ﬂows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. 
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the beneﬁts 
from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 “Revenue” and IAS 11 “Construction contracts” and related interpretations. The standard 
is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier application is permitted, subject to EU adoption. The Group is 
currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15.
Revenue recognition
The Group follows the principles of IAS 18 “Revenue”, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies. In principle, therefore, revenue 
associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisﬁed:
• The Group has transferred to the buyer the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods. 
• The Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over the goods sold.
• The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
• It is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group.
• The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisﬁed:
• The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
• It is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group.
• The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably.
• The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees’ ARM technology-based 
products, revenues from support, maintenance and training and the sale of development boards and software toolkits.
Licence revenues:
Revenue from standard licence products that are not modiﬁed to meet the speciﬁc requirements of each customer is recognised when all of the 
conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been satisﬁed:
• The signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and the IP has been delivered to 
the customer .
• Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over licensed IP is relinquished at the point at which the IP is delivered to the customer .
• The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that is not deemed to be reliably 
measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably.
• It is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group; any economic beneﬁts of the transaction that are 
deemed unlikely to ﬂow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will ﬂow to the Group. 76 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
The majority of the Group’s revenues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are therefore very few 
direct costs associated with the sale of goods; where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing 
agreements in place with the Group’s suppliers.
Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the speciﬁc requirements of each customer . Revenue from the sale of 
such licences is recognised on a percentage-of-completion basis over the period from signing of the licence to completion of ARM’s contractual 
obligations. Under the percentage-of-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period 
in which the likelihood of such losses is determined. The percentage-of-completion is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual 
time incurred to date in the project compared with the total estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance. 
After project completion, provisions for additional post-delivery warranty work are recognised in research and development expenses.
Where invoicing milestones in licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due signiﬁcantly outside the period over which the customisation 
is expected to be performed or signiﬁcantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it 
is probable that economic beneﬁts associated with these milestones will ﬂow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be 
included in the arrangement consideration.
In particular , it considers:
• whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoicing milestone is in some 
way dependent on customer activity;
• whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Group’s contractual obligations have been, or will be, fulﬁlled;
• whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that a 
future invoice may be raised; 
• the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the conclusions reached.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with such future milestones 
will ﬂow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient 
evidence that it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group. The Group does not discount future 
invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the individual components based 
on each component’s fair value, where fair value is the selling price of an item when sold separately. Where a component in a multiple-component 
agreement has not previously been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, but not 
limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component relative to the book prices of the other 
components in the agreement. If fair value of one or more components in a multiple-component agreement is not determinable (where such 
component is not considered incidental to the overall arrangement), the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such fair value is determinable, or 
the component has been delivered to the licensee. Where, in substance, two or more components of a contract are linked and fair values cannot 
be allocated to the individual components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the components as if they were a single component.
Agreements including rights to unspeciﬁed future products (as opposed to unspeciﬁed upgrades and enhancements) are accounted for using 
subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement, or an 
estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is speciﬁed, beginning with the delivery of the ﬁrst product.
Royalty revenues:
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Group’s customers of products containing ARM technology. Royalty revenues are recognised when it 
is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group, and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, 
which the Group considers to be receipt of notiﬁcation from the customer of product sales. Notiﬁcation is typically received in the quarter 
following shipment of the products by the customer .
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 77 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Other revenues:
In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support (in the form of support, maintenance 
and training) which consists of the right to receive services and/or unspeciﬁed product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a when-and-
if-available basis. Fees for post-delivery service support are generally speciﬁed in the contract. Revenue related to post-delivery service support is 
recognised based on fair value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates. Where renewal rates are speciﬁed, revenue for 
post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the 
Group with the licensee. Services such as training that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated 
and priced in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately. Revenue is recognised as services are performed and it is probable that the 
economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group.
Sales of software, including development systems, which are not speciﬁcally designed for a given licence (such as off-the-shelf software) are 
recognised upon delivery, when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer . At that time, the Group has 
no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued. 
For all types of revenue, if the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded 
as amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable. The excess of amounts invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as 
deferred revenue.
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the 
assets, including any intangible assets identiﬁed, and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses. 
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair value 
of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the 
directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further consideration will be payable.
(b) Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-
line basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is expected to beneﬁt from them. Costs that are directly attributable to the development 
of new business application software and that are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into operational use, 
are capitalised. External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic beneﬁt of the asset acquired.
Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination, the directors are primarily 
responsible for determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets. 
In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the criteria set out in IFRS 3 (revised), 
“Business combinations”, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill. Management tracks the status of in-process research and 
development intangible assets such that their amortisation commences when the assets are brought into use. 
Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted (if appropriate) at 
each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal economic lives used 
for this purpose are:
Computer software Three to ﬁve years
Patents and licences Three to eleven years
In-process research and development One to ﬁve years
Developed technology One to seven years
Existing agreements and customer relationships  One to six years
Core technology Five years
Trademarks and tradenames One to ﬁve years
Order backlog One year 78 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Income taxes
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries 
where the Group’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates individual positions taken in tax returns 
with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
From April 2013, the beneﬁt of UK research and development is recognised under the UK’s Research and Development Expenditure Credit 
(RDEC) scheme. The beneﬁt is recorded as income included in proﬁt before tax, netted against research and development expenses as the RDEC 
is of the nature of a government grant. 
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based 
on temporary differences between the ﬁnancial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws 
that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of 
an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable 
proﬁt or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will arise against which the temporary 
differences will be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset, where the taxation authority permits a single net payment.
In 2013, a decision to elect into the UK patent box regime was made. The UK patent box regime seeks to tax all proﬁts attributable to patented 
technology at a reduced rate of 10%. The rules are to be phased in over ﬁve years from 1 April 2013 – a company will be entitled to only 60% of 
the deduction in ﬁnancial year 2013/14, rising to 100% by 2017/18. As “relevant” patent box proﬁts are taxed at 10% and other proﬁts are taxed 
at UK statutory rates, deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the average rates expected to apply on realisation or settlement.
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employee share 
options or vest of share awards under each jurisdiction’s tax rules. As explained under “Share-based payments” below, a compensation expense 
is recorded in the Group’s income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards. As there 
is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded. The deferred tax asset arising is calculated 
by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future (based on the Company’s share price at the balance sheet 
date) with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement. If the amount of estimated future tax 
deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against 
retained earnings.
Impairment of non-ﬁnancial assets
Non-ﬁnancial assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually 
for impairment. Non-ﬁnancial assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the non-ﬁnancial asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. Non-ﬁnancial assets other than goodwill that suffered 
an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The annual impairment tests in 2014 and 2013 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill. Furthermore, no trigger events have 
been identiﬁed that would suggest the impairment of any of the Group’s other intangible assets.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 79 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Impairment of non-ﬁnancial assets continued
The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that tangible ﬁxed assets are impaired. If there is such an indication, the 
Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets’ recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets’ fair values less costs to sell 
and their values-in-use. If the recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written 
down to their recoverable amounts.
In the case of equity securities classiﬁed as AFS, a signiﬁcant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an 
indicator that the securities are permanently impaired. If any such evidence exists for AFS ﬁnancial assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the 
difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that ﬁnancial asset previously recognised 
in the income statement – is recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are 
not reversed.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under “Accounts receivable” below.
Provisions
Provisions for legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; and it is more 
likely than not that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount of the outﬂow can be reliably estimated.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the ﬁnancial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the ﬁnancial 
performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the signiﬁcance of their nature.
Segment reporting
The Group’s internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more 
accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio. As at 31 December 2014, the Group’s internal organisation and management 
structure reﬂect this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is provided with ﬁnancial 
information. The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based on consolidated results of operations. The directors believe that the 
CODM is the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee of the Group. At 30 June 2014, the changes had not been fully reﬂected in the 
Group’s internal reporting systems and therefore the interim results were issued under the previous structure. The reporting systems were fully 
updated for the re-organisation in the second half of 2014. As a result, the Group now has one reportable segment.
Principles of consolidation 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries. Intra-group transactions, including 
sales, proﬁts, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation. All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies.  80 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Principles of consolidation continued
• Business combinations
 The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition. Assets and liabilities existing at the date of 
acquisition are recorded at their fair values reﬂecting their condition at that date.
 Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an individual basis and treated as either part of the acquisition consideration or as 
employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement.
• Subsidiaries 
 Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed 
to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that 
control ceases.
• Associates 
 Associates are all entities over which the Group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% 
and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the 
investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Group’s share of the proﬁt or loss of 
the investee after the date of acquisition.
• Joint ventures
 Joint ventures are all arrangements in which the Group has joint control with one or more other parties, whereby each party has a right to a 
share of the net assets of the arrangement. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the 
equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Group’s share of 
the proﬁt or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
Research and development expenditure
All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred. Where a product is technically feasible, production and sale are 
intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs 
are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product. The Group believes its current process 
for developing products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of technological feasibility, which is evidenced by a working 
model. Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been signiﬁcant and, therefore, no costs 
have been capitalised to date.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is 
incurred. Any collaborative agreement whereby a third-party agrees to partially fund the Group’s research and development is recognised over the 
period of the agreement as a credit within research and development expenses.
Government grants
Grants in respect of speciﬁc research and development projects are recognised as receivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be 
received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with. They are credited to the income statement in the same period as the related 
research and development costs for which the grant is compensating. The grant income is presented as a deduction from the related expense.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 81 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. In accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-based payments”, equity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is predominantly measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing 
model. A Monte-Carlo simulation is used for certain share awards that have market-based performance conditions. The fair value determined 
at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group operates Save As Y ou Earn (SAYE) schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP) in the US, India, Asia Pac countries 
and certain European countries. Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares 
on the date of announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and end of the scheme 
for the ESPP . The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months. 
The Group has recognised a compensation charge in respect of the SAYE plans and ESPPs. The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
The Group also has an L TIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above.
The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, and general 
and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
Employer’s taxes on share options
Employer’s National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of certain share options and vesting 
of share awards. In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction. A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of 
the relevant options and awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards.
Retirement beneﬁt costs
The Group contributes to deﬁned contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension 
schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, T aiwan, PR China, Israel and India. The Group contributes to these plans based upon various ﬁxed 
percentages of employee compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Operating leases
Leases in which a signiﬁcant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classiﬁed as operating leases. Costs, net of 
any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on such 
a basis.
Finance leases
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. Assets held 
under ﬁnance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or , if lower , at the present value of the minimum lease payments, 
each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a ﬁnance lease liability. 
Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement. 82 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
that entity operates. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
(b) Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency of each Group entity 
at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at 
closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative expenses.
(c) Group companies The results and ﬁnancial positions of all Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyper-inﬂationary economy) not 
based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows:
(i)  Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
(ii)  Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the rates of exchange at the time of each transaction during 
the period.
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken through other comprehensive income via the 
cumulative translation adjustment.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other comprehensive income are 
recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rates of exchange.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated 
in a currency other than the functional currency of the business. The Group’s currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from 
exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged. 
The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each 
period end. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The fair 
value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments. 
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income 
statement. The Group does not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Embedded derivatives
In accordance with IAS 39 “Financial instruments: recognition and measurement”, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. From time to time, 
the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency (typically US dollars) that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity nor 
the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative partner . Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group carries 
such derivatives at fair value. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses.
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference 
to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 83 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Dividends
Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the 
movement in shareholders’ equity. A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year , excluding those held as treasury stock, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: those being share options granted to 
employees and directors where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and the 
awards and contingently issuable shares granted under the Company’s RSU, DAB Plan, and L TIP schemes. As at 31 December 2014, no shares 
granted under the 2013 and 2014 L TIPs with market-based performance conditions were included since the current expectation is that these 
shares will not vest. Shares granted with EPS related performance conditions and those granted under the 2012 L TIP (for which the performance 
period is now concluded) have been included to the extent that it is expected that the shares will vest. 
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on the face of the consolidated 
income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, and other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less. The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments
The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months and maturing in less than one year to 
be short-term deposits. Deposits with a maturity date of greater than one year from the balance sheet date are classiﬁed as long-term.
The Group has also placed money with certain banks in the form of Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes which have similar characteristics to term 
deposits and may be short- or long-term.
Accounts receivable
Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Accounts receivable are ﬁrst assessed individually for impairment. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial difficulties of the debtor , probability that the debtor will 
enter bankruptcy or ﬁnancial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (more than 90 days overdue) are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable may be impaired. Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of 
receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement within general and administrative expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the 
allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative 
expenses in the income statement. 84 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended 
use. External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic beneﬁt of the asset.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss. Depreciation of these assets commences when the 
assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, 
if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal 
economic lives used for this purpose are:
Freehold buildings  25 years
Leasehold improvements  Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter
Computer equipment  Three to ﬁve years
Fixtures, ﬁttings and motor vehicles  Three to ﬁve years
Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred. Asset lives 
and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within general and 
administrative expenses in the income statement.
Financial assets
The Group classiﬁes its ﬁnancial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, and available-
for-sale. The classiﬁcation depends on the purpose for which the ﬁnancial assets were acquired. Management determines the classiﬁcation of 
ﬁnancial assets at initial recognition.
(a) Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are ﬁnancial assets held- 
for-trading – that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Assets in this category are classiﬁed as 
current assets. They are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement. Speciﬁcally, the Group’s 
currency exchange contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of “ﬁnancial 
assets at fair value through the income statement” are presented in the income statement within general and administrative expenses in the period 
in which they arise.
(b) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are classiﬁed as 
non-current assets. “Accounts receivable”, “cash and cash equivalents”, and “short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments” are classiﬁed as 
“Loans and receivables” (see note 17).
Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
(c) Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets AFS ﬁnancial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classiﬁed in any of the 
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance 
sheet date.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 85 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1b Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Financial assets continued
Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classiﬁed as AFS and are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs. Given that the 
markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. The estimated fair value of these investments 
approximated to cost less any permanent diminution in value (based on estimates determined by management), except where independent 
valuation information is obtained. Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of related taxes, through other 
comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where there is evidence of permanent impairment (in which case the loss is recognised 
through the income statement within general and administrative expenses or exceptional items where appropriate). When securities classiﬁed as 
AFS are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled through the income statement.
Accounts payable
Accounts payable are recognised at face value as they are settled within 12 months.
Treasury shares 
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental 
costs is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are 
subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income 
tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Share capital
Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
1c Financial risk management
The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid technological 
change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Signiﬁcant technological changes in 
the industry could affect operating results.
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities price risk, credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring ﬁnancial risk management to a sub-committee of 
the Board. The policies set by the directors are implemented by the Group’s ﬁnance and treasury departments. The Group has a treasury policy 
that sets out speciﬁc guidelines to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it 
would be appropriate to use ﬁnancial instruments to manage these.
Currency risk
The Group’s earnings and liquidity are affected by ﬂuctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of the US dollar , reﬂecting 
the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while a signiﬁcant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling. 
The Group seeks to use currency exchange contracts and currency options to manage the US dollar/sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring the 
timing and value of anticipated US dollar receipts (which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals and royalty receipts) in comparison 
with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars. The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure 
using currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate. Such contracts are entered into with the objective 
of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries. 
At present, the Group does not consider this to be a signiﬁcant risk since the Group does not intend to move assets between Group companies.  86 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1c Financial risk management continued
Currency risk continued
The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative foreign exchange instruments are 
recorded in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange movements on the accounts receivable, and cash and cash equivalents balances 
being hedged.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. The Group is also required 
to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in its French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not 
considered signiﬁcant, the Group does not take out forward-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies.
Interest rate risk
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash ﬂow interest rate risk. 
The proportion of funds held in ﬁxed rather than ﬂoating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under “Liquidity risk” 
below. Other ﬁnancial assets, such as AFS ﬁnancial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group had no derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage interest rate ﬂuctuations in place at the year-end since the level of ﬁnancing was 
not considered signiﬁcant, and as such no hedge accounting is applied. The Group’s cash ﬂow is carefully monitored on a daily basis. Excess cash, 
considering expected future cash ﬂows, is placed on either short- or long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon. Daily surpluses 
are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight.
Securities price risk
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on AFS ﬁnancial assets. As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for 
these securities (which are generally unlisted at the time of investment) or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each 
investment opportunity on its merits before committing the Group’s funds. The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular basis to 
determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group. Funds for such ventures are limited in order that the ﬁnancial effect 
of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the Group’s ﬁnancial results.
Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative ﬁnancial instruments and deposits with banks 
and ﬁnancial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group had no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. The amount of exposure to any individual 
counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence. The Group generally 
does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, well-established companies. The Group has not experienced 
any signiﬁcant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions. The Group performs credit checks 
on all customers (other than those paying in advance) in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due. 
As such, the balance of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of low risk of default due to the 
nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this low risk 
of default.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and the directors do not expect any signiﬁcant losses from non-performance by these 
counterparties, other than those already provided for .
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 87 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
1c Financial risk management continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash equivalents, and short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments, such that highly 
liquid resources exceed the Group’s projected cash outﬂows at all times. Surplus funds are placed on ﬁxed- or ﬂoating-rate deposits depending on 
the prevailing economic climate at the time (with reference to forward interest rates) and also on the required maturity of the deposit (as driven by 
the expected timing of the Group’s cash receipts and payments over the short- to medium-term).
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s short- and medium-term expected cash ﬂows. This is carried out at both a local and a 
Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and beneﬁts for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structure. The capital structure of the Group consists of 
cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits and capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as disclosed on the 
consolidated balance sheet.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
The Group’s strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-term proﬁtable growth, prevailing trading 
conditions and the desire to improve balance sheet efficiency over time. The Group introduced a dividend in 2004 which has grown each year 
since. Between 2005 and 2008, an ongoing share buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bought back at 
an average price of £1.22. In 2014, the interim dividend was increased by 20% and the directors are proposing a 25% increase in the ﬁnal dividend, 
reﬂecting the Board’s long-term conﬁdence in the business. As well as continuing to grow the dividend, the Board has undertaken a limited share 
buyback programme to maintain a ﬂat share-count over time. During 2014, 7.9 million shares were repurchased for £66.9 million. The capital 
structure is continually monitored by the Group.
Valuation hierarchy
The Group classiﬁes its ﬁnancial instruments as follows: level 1 instruments are those valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for 
identical instruments; level 2 instruments are those valued using techniques based signiﬁcantly on observable market data; and level 3 instruments 
are those valued using information other than observable market data. 
The Group has a team that performs the valuations of ﬁnancial assets required for ﬁnancial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values. 
This team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee.
The fair value of accounts and other receivables, other current ﬁnancial assets, cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits and similar 
instruments, and accounts and other payables approximate to their carrying amount.
2 Segmental reporting
The Group’s internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more 
accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio. As at 31 December 2014, the Group’s internal organisation and management 
structure reﬂect this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is provided with ﬁnancial 
information. The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based on consolidated results of operations. The directors believe that the 
CODM is the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee of the Group. At 30 June 2014, the changes had not been fully reﬂected in the 
Group’s internal reporting systems and therefore the interim results were issued under the previous structure. The reporting systems were fully 
updated for the re-organisation in the second half of 2014. As a result, the Group now has one reportable segment.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, no customer accounted for more than 10% of the Group’s total revenues (2013: one customer 
accounted for 12%). 88 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
2 Segmental reporting continued
Geographical information
The Group manages its business on a global basis. The operations are based in three main geographical areas. The UK is the home country of the 
parent Company. The main operations are in the following principal territories:
• Europe
• United States
• Asia Paciﬁc
Analysis of revenue by destination
*
:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
United States 321.8 280.3
T aiwan 133.7 99.4
PR China 114.5 90.0
South Korea 68.5 101.7
Japan 60.4 47.6
Singapore 18.5 24.6
Switzerland 17.9 24.8
Germany 12.3 13.4
Russia 11.3 0.5
Netherlands 8.1 8.5
Rest of Europe 21.9 19.2
Rest of Asia Paciﬁc 4.7 3.6
Rest of North America 1.6 1.0
795.2 714.6
* Destination is deﬁned as the location of the Group’s customers’ operations.
The Group’s revenue within the home country of the parent Company amounted to £7.8 million and £4.9 million for the years ended 
31 December 2014 and 2013 respectively. The Group’s exports from the UK were £778.9 million and £699.2 million for the years ended 
31 December 2014 and 2013 respectively.
Analysis of revenue by origin:
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Europe
*
 786.9 705.3
United States 8.3 9.3
795.2 714.6
* Includes the UK, which had total revenues of £786.7 million in 2014 (2013: £704.1 million).
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Royalties – Processors 326.0 317.5
Royalties – Physical IP 36.5 40.8
Licensing – Processors 309.1 244.4
Licensing – Physical IP 52.1 41.2
Software and tools 35.0 36.4
Services 36.5 34.3
795.2 714.6
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 89 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
2 Segmental reporting continued
Geographical information continued
Analysis of non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets):
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Europe
*
237.7 172.0
United States 23.4 7.2
Asia Paciﬁc 5.2 5.0
266.3 184.2
* Includes the UK, which had non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets) of £235.5 million in 2014 (2013: £171.0 million), of which long-term deposits accounted for £191.4 million 
(2013: £125.6 million).
3 Key management compensation and directors’ emoluments
Key management compensation
The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive directors of ARM Holdings plc 
together with the Executive Committee (comprising all directors of ARM Limited and certain senior management). These persons have authority 
and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly. At 31 December 2014, key management 
comprised 20 people (2013: 21).
The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Salaries and short-term employee beneﬁts 6.9 9.5
Share-based payments 7.9 6.1
Post-employment beneﬁts 0.4 0.2
15.2 15.8
Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 2.8 3.8
Aggregate payments for pension-related beneﬁts 0.2 0.2
Aggregate gains on exercise of share options 0.1 3.9
Aggregate amounts receivable in shares under the DAB Plan 2.5 12.9
Aggregate amounts receivable under the L TIP 2.5 17.2
8.1 38.0
Detailed disclosures of directors’ emoluments are shown on page 37. Details of directors’ interests in share options and awards are shown on 
pages 43 to 50, which form part of the ﬁnancial statements. 90 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
4  Employee information 
The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was:
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
By activity
Research and development 2,173 1,803
Sales and marketing 481 425
General and administrative 418 370
3,072 2,598
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Staff costs (for the above persons)
Wages and salaries 203.6 185.4
Medical care costs 6.1 5.5
Share-based payments (note 21) 68.5 59.2
Social security costs 29.1 35.1
Movement on provision for social security costs on share awards (2.4) (1.4)
Other pension costs 11.5 8.7
316.4 292.5
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 91 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
5 Proﬁt before tax: analysis of expenses by nature
The following items have been charged/(credited) to the income statement in arriving at proﬁt before tax:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Staff costs, including share-based payments (note 4) 316.4 292.5
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3.8 2.8
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment – owned assets (note 12) 14.1 11.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – under ﬁnance leases (note 12) 5.0 2.8
Amortisation of other intangible assets (note 14)
– Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3
– Research and development expenses 7.5 6.9
– Sales and marketing expenses 0.2 0.6
– General and administrative expenses 8.5 5.8
Government grants – research and development expenditure credit (8.8) (5.8)
Exceptional items (note 6)
– Impairment of current AFS ﬁnancial asset – 59.5
– IP indemnity and similar charges – 41.8
Impairment of non-current AFS ﬁnancial assets (note 11) 1.0 6.8
Proﬁt on disposal of AFS ﬁnancial assets (0.3) (3.3)
Other operating lease rentals payable
– Plant and machinery 26.0 26.2
– Property 11.3 8.7
Accounts receivables impairment (including movement in provision) (note 9) 0.3 4.0
Fair value movement on embedded derivatives (9.6) 4.5
Other foreign exchange losses/(gains) 6.8 (3.3)
Services provided by the Group’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor and its associates:
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Fees payable to the Group’ s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company 
and consolidated ﬁnancial statements 0.3 0.3
Fees payable to the Group’ s auditor and its associates for other services:
–  The audit of the Group’s subsidiaries 0.2 0.2
–  Audit-related assurance services (services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) 0.4 0.3
– Other assurance services – 0.1
Statutory audit, ﬁnancial reporting and other related services 0.9 0.9
–  T ax advisory services 0.1 0.1
–  All other non-audit services
*
0.1 0.1
1.1 1.1
* All other non-audit services includes the provision of advice relating to the Group’s procurement model in 2014 and fees for the performance of royalty audits in 2013. 92 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
6 Exceptional items
IP indemnity and similar charges
During 2013, the Group incurred indemniﬁcation costs amounting to $18.0 million. Further in relation to legal proceedings regarding the same 
patent portfolio, for a consideration of $45.4 million, the Group entered into a licence agreement with a third-party covering patents being asserted 
against ARM technology in litigation between the patentee and a number of licensees of ARM technology. The licence was entered into in full 
and ﬁnal settlement of any indemnity claims with respect to the asserted patents and will prevent any future assertion of the patents against ARM 
technology. T otal indemniﬁcation, settlement and licence costs of $63.4 million (£41.8 million) were expensed as an exceptional item in 2013, 
resulting in a tax deduction in current tax of £9.7 million.
Impairment of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (current)
During 2013, the Group participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights. These rights were not subject to actual or 
threatened legal proceedings. Of the Group’s total contribution to the consortium, $100.5 million was classiﬁed within current AFS ﬁnancial assets 
(£60.7 million after translation at 31 December 2013 exchange rates) and $67 million, the residual, was classiﬁed within other intangible assets 
(£37.4 million after amortisation to 31 December 2013). The AFS ﬁnancial asset represented ARM’s right to receive cash from the Group’s ﬁnancial 
interest in the consortium, as it was anticipated that a programme of licensing the patents to third-parties would be undertaken by the trust. 
The other intangible asset consists of IP rights that are being amortised over a period of eight-and-a-half years from March 2013, being the average 
remaining life of the underlying patent portfolio.
In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the portfolio was instead put up for sale by auction. 
The Group acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million (£2.4 million) which have been accounted for as an additional intangible asset. 
As there was no longer an expectation of any future cash ﬂows with respect to licensing of the patents by the trust, at 31 December 2013 the AFS 
ﬁnancial asset was impaired down to the value of the Group’s share of the auction proceeds, giving rise to a non-cash exceptional charge in 2013 
of $98.5 million (£59.5 million). As disclosed in note 7, a deferred tax asset was not recognised in relation to this exceptional item, increasing the 
current tax charge by £18.3 million in 2013.
There were no exceptional items in 2014.
7 Tax
Analysis of charge in the year:
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Current tax:
Current tax on proﬁts for the year 54.5 56.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.0) (0.2)
T otal current tax 53.5 56.3
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8.6 (4.1)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1.0) –
Impact of change in the UK statutory tax rate – 0.1
Impact of change due to the UK patent box regime – 5.5
T otal deferred tax 7.6 1.5
Income tax expense 61.1 57.8
Analysis of tax on items charged to equity:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Deferred tax charge on outstanding share options and awards 10.6 4.8
Current tax beneﬁt on share options and awards (10.9) (27.0)
Deferred tax charge on AFS ﬁnancial assets 1.1 –
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 93 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
7 Tax continued
The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below:
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Proﬁt before tax 316.5 162.6
Proﬁt before tax at the corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 68.1 37.8
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2.0) (0.2)
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 6.3 4.1
Research and development tax credits (3.7) (6.6)
Current impact of the UK patent box regime (15.9) (4.8)
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to reduction in UK statutory tax rate – 0.1
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to the UK patent box regime – 5.5
US deferred tax assets not recognised 
*
0.9 17.5
Foreign withholding tax 
**
(2.5) 3.0
Impact of share-based payments 5.2 (1.5)
Other 
***
4.7 2.9
T otal taxation 61.1 57.8
*  2014 amount includes California R&D tax credits not recognised as future California tax is not expected to absorb all of the tax beneﬁt. 
** Includes a repayment of Taiwanese withholding taxes.
*** Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes and potential additional tax payable on income.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below:
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
At 1 January 65.2 70.1
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking (0.4) (1.2)
Income statement charge (7.6) (1.5)
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments (10.6) (4.8)
Movement from current tax assets 9.3 3.0
Exchange differences 0.7 (0.4)
Revaluation of AFS ﬁnancial asset (1.1) –
At 31 December 55.5 65.2
Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets 
because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered. 
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2014 was £5.8 million (2013: £23.2 million). The unrecognised deferred tax 
assets relate to historic losses of acquired subsidiaries and California research and development tax credits. The losses may remain unutilised due to 
restrictions imposed by local tax legislation and availability of relevant future proﬁts.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further £43.1 million (2013: £33.2 million) of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries 
because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and either it is possible that such differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal. 94 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
7 Tax continued
During 2014, the UK Government announced that a new Patent Box regime based on the newly adopted modiﬁed nexus approach will be 
introduced for IP assets submitted after 30 June 2016. UK taxpayers that have already submitted assets under the current form of the Patent Box 
will be allowed to continue to claim beneﬁt through the current regime until 30 June 2021 for those assets. If these taxpayers also submit assets 
post 30 June 2016 then the beneﬁts relating to these assets will be claimed under the new regime. Such taxpayers will operate under both regimes 
until 30 June 2021 when all beneﬁts claimed through the Patent Box will be through the modiﬁed nexus approach. These changes have not been 
enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore are not taken into account in the measurement of deferred tax.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) during 
the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an 
intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax assets
Amounts  
relating to  
share-based  
payments 
£m
T emporary  
differences  
relating to  
ﬁxed assets  
£m
T ax losses  
and R&D tax  
credits carried  
forward 
£m
T emporary  
differences  
relating to  
liabilities 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7
Movement from current tax assets – – 9.3 –– 9.3
Income statement credit/(charge) 2.1 (2.2) (6.2) 0.1 (0.9) (7.1)
Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards (10.6) –––– (10.6)
Exchange differences – – 0.7 –– 0.7
At 31 December 2014 (prior to offsetting) 24.3 1.7 25.9 8.1 – 60.0
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities (4.1)
At 31 December 2014 (after offsetting) 55.9
At 1 January 2013 43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking – – 0.5 – – 0.5
Movement from current tax assets – – 3.0 – – 3.0
Income statement credit/(charge) 0.8 1.3 (2.8) (1.5) 0.3 (1.9)
Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards (4.8) –––– (4.8)
Unutilised current year share option deductions (6.7) – 6.7 – – –
Exchange differences – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
At 31 December 2013 (prior to offsetting) 32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities (2.4)
At 31 December 2013 (after offsetting) 65.3
The deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year is £32.0 million (2013: £35.2 million).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 95 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
7 Tax continued
Deferred tax liabilities
Amounts relating to  
intangible assets  
arising on acquisition 
£m
T emporary difference  
on AFS ﬁnancial assets 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 2.5 – – 2.5
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.4 –– 0.4
Income statement charge 0.2 – 0.3 0.5
Movement through reserves – 1.1 – 1.1
At 31 December 2014 (prior to offsetting) 3.1 1.1 0.3 4.5
Offsetting of deferred tax assets (4.1)
At 31 December 2014 (after offsetting) 0.4
At 1 January 2013 1.1 – 0.1 1.2
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 1.7 – – 1.7
Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets (0.2) – – (0.2)
Other short-term differences (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2)
At 31 December 2013 (prior to offsetting) 2.5 – – 2.5
Offsetting of deferred tax assets (2.4)
At 31 December 2013 (after offsetting) 0.1
The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is £1.0 million (2013: £1.2 million).
8 Dividends
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Final 2012 paid at 2.83 pence per share – 39.5
Interim 2013 paid at 2.10 pence per share – 29.4
Final 2013 paid at 3.60 pence per share 50.7 –
Interim 2014 paid at 2.52 pence per share 35.4 –
86.1 68.9
In addition, the directors are proposing a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2014 of 4.5 pence per share, which will 
absorb an estimated £64 million of shareholders’ funds. Subject to approval at the 2015 AGM, it will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders who 
are on the register of members on 24 April 2015. 96 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
9 Accounts receivable
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
T rade debtors (including receivables from related parties – see note 25) 138.5 140.3
Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors (9.0) (9.7)
T rade debtors, net 129.5 130.6
Amounts recoverable on contracts 9.1 5.6
Current accounts receivable 138.6 136.2
Movements in the Group’s provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows:
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
At 1 January (9.7) (2.4)
Charge to income statement (0.3) (4.0)
Utilised 2.5 –
Reclassiﬁcation from deferred income (1.4) (3.5)
Foreign exchange (0.1) 0.2
At 31 December (9.0) (9.7)
See also note 17 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Group’s gross trade debtors.
10 Prepaid expenses and other assets
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Other receivables 19.3 18.1
Prepayments 23.9 21.7
Current prepaid expenses and other assets 43.2 39.8
Plus: non-current prepayments 1.7 1.6
T otal prepaid expenses and other assets 44.9 41.4
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 97 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
11 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
Non-current available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Net book value
At 1 January 13.9 13.8
Additions 5.0 8.9
Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 5.4 –
Disposals – (1.7)
Foreign exchange translation 0.4 (0.3)
Impairment recognised through income statement (general and administrative expenses) (1.0) (6.8)
At 31 December 23.7 13.9
Current available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Net book value
At 1 January 1.2 –
Additions – 63.4
Disposals (1.2) –
Foreign exchange translation – (2.7)
Impairment recognised through income statement (as an exceptional item, see note 6) – (59.5)
At 31 December – 1.2
All investments noted above are considered to be level 3 ﬁnancial assets. See note 17.
Non-current investments
Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value for 
shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report proﬁts. The fair value of these investments is 
considered to approximate to cost or is determined using independent valuation information where available. 
A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested and does not have independent 
valuation information (e.g. through the occurrence of transactions in the relevant entity’s equity instruments) as at 31 December 2014 would have 
reduced the Group’s post-tax proﬁt by £1.5 million (2013: £1.1 million) and resulted in a £nil (2013: £nil) reduction in other components of equity.
The Group’s investments include the following companies:
• Amantys Limited
• Ambiq Micro Inc.
• Cambridge Innovation Capital plc
• Carbon Design Systems Inc.
• Cyclos Semiconductor Inc.
• Marmalade T echnologies Limited (formerly Ideaworks 3D Limited)
• Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise
• Thunder Software T echnology Co. Ltd
• Triad Semiconductor Inc.
At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group had no listed investments. 98 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
11 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets continued
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets include the following:
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Unlisted equity securities – UK 6.5 6.2
Unlisted equity securities – US 1.6 1.4
Unlisted equity securities – ROW 7.4 1.9
Convertible loan notes – UK 1.3 1.3
Convertible loan notes – US 6.9 3.1
T otal non-current available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 23.7 13.9
Non-current available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are held in the following currencies:
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Sterling 15.5 9.5
US dollars 8.2 4.4
T otal non-current available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 23.7 13.9
12 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold  
buildings 
£m
Leasehold  
improvements  
£m
Computer  
equipment 
£m
Fixtures, ﬁttings  
and motor  
vehicles 
£m
Assets in the  
course of  
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5
Additions – 3.0 21.8 1.6 1.9 28.3
Acquisitions –– 0.1 0.2 – 0.3
Transfers –– 1.0 – (1.0) –
Reclassiﬁcation
*
– ––– (0.3) (0.3)
Disposals – (7.8) (3.6) (0.6) – (12.0)
Exchange differences – 0.6 1.8 – (0.3) 2.1
At 31 December 2014 0.2 20.0 70.5 8.2 1.0 99.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 – 47.9
Charge for the year – 2.8 15.1 1.2 – 19.1
Acquisitions – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.2
Disposals – (7.7) (3.3) (0.6) – (11.6)
Exchange differences – 0.2 0.6 0.1 – 0.9
At 31 December 2014 0.1 9.8 41.4 5.2 – 56.5
Net book value  
At 31 December 2014 0.1 10.2 29.1 3.0 1.0 43.4
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 99 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
12 Property, plant and equipment continued
Freehold  
buildings 
£m
Leasehold  
improvements 
£m
Computer  
equipment 
£m
Fixtures, ﬁttings  
and motor  
vehicles 
£m
Assets in the  
course of  
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0
Additions –2.58.11.82.615.0
Acquisitions ––0.10.1–0.2
Transfers –0.92.3–(3.2)–
Reclassiﬁcation
*
– – (3.2) – (1.7) (4.9)
Disposals –(1.7)(5.7)(1.0)(0.4)(8.8)
Exchange differences – (0.6) (1.0) (0.3) (0.1) (2.0)
At 31 December 2013 0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 – 45.9
Charge for the year – 2.3 11.0 1.1 – 14.4
Acquisitions – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Reclassiﬁcation
*
– – (3.2) – – (3.2)
Disposals –(1.5)(5.7)(1.0)–(8.2)
Exchange differences – (0.2) (0.8) (0.1) – (1.1)
At 31 December 2013 0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 – 47.9
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 0.1 9.7 20.5 2.6 0.7 33.6
Included within computer equipment are assets with net book value of £9.5 million (2013: £6.6 million) held under ﬁnance leases.
* Reclassiﬁcation from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software).
13 Goodwill
£m
At 1 January 2013 519.4
Exchange differences (9.9)
Acquisition – Sensinode (note 20) 6.4
Acquisition – Geomerics (note 20) 10.0
At 31 December 2013 525.9
Exchange differences 30.1
Acquisition – Duolog (note 20) 10.7
Acquisition – Offspark (note 20) 0.3
At 31 December 2014 567.0 100 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
13 Goodwill continued
The Group’s internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more 
accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio. As a result, the Group has one reportable segment and now reviews the carrying 
value of its assets including goodwill at the operating segment level.
During the fourth quarter of 2014, the directors tested the Group’s balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of 
assets”. The recoverable amount has been measured based on a value-in-use calculation.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were:
Period of projected cash ﬂows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2024 of 3% per annum. 
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to 
assess the expected future cash ﬂows to be generated from the assets under review.
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on ﬁnancial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account 
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to rise steadily over the period of the calculation.
Discount rate Future cash ﬂows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
Conclusion The directors are conﬁdent that the amount of goodwill is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estimating its recoverable 
amount are appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably 
foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated recoverable amount 
exceeds the carrying value.
14 Other intangible assets
Computer  
software 
£m
Patents and  
licences  
£m
In-process  
research and  
development 
£m
Developed  
technology 
£m
Existing  
agreements  
and customer  
relationships 
£m
Core  
technology 
£m
T rademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 246.5
Additions 2.6 5.1 ––––– 7.7
Acquisitions – – – 2.7 ––– 2.7
Reclassiﬁcation* 0.3 –––––– 0.3
Disposals (1.7) (6.9) ––––– (8.6)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.4 0.9 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.1
At 31 December 2014 20.7 99.1 6.2 50.3 55.2 17.5 4.7 253.7
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 163.6
Charge for the year 3.0 11.0 – 1.9 0.2 0.4 – 16.5
Disposals (1.9) (6.9) ––––– (8.8)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.4 1.0 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.2
At 31 December 2014 15.5 35.5 6.2 41.9 55.2 17.5 4.7 176.5
Net book value  
At 31 December 2014 5.2 63.6 – 8.4 ––– 77.2
* Reclassiﬁcation from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 101 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
14 Other intangible assets continued
The net book value of patents and licences includes a patent licence agreement for interconnect technology used in SoCs, with a carrying value of 
£14.2 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: £16.0 million) and a remaining useful life of eight years, and IP rights acquired in the prior year (see note 
6) with a carrying value of £32.5 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: £37.4 million) and a remaining useful life of seven years.
Computer  
software 
£m
Patents and  
licences 
£m
In-process  
research and  
development 
£m
Developed  
technology 
£m
Existing  
agreements  
and customer  
relationships 
£m
Core  
technology 
£m
T rademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m
Order  
backlog  
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0
Additions 2.074.1–7.50.3–––83.9
Reclassiﬁcation* 4.9 ––––––– 4.9
Disposals and derecognitions (1.5) –––––– (2.0) (3.5)
Exchange differences (0.1) – (0.1) (0.4) (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) – (1.8)
At 31 December 2013 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 – 246.5
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2013 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8
Charge for the year 2.3 8.3 – 1.5 0.6 0.9 – – 13.6
Reclassiﬁcation* 3.2 ––––––– 3.2
Disposals and derecognitions (1.5) –––––– (2.0) (3.5)
Exchange differences – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) – (1.5)
At 31 December 2013 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 – 163.6
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 5.1 69.5 – 7.7 0.2 0.4 – – 82.9
* Reclassiﬁcation from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software).
15 Accrued and other liabilities
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Accruals:
 Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 12.8 15.1
 Employee bonus and sales commissions 19.3 26.5
 Other accruals (including £nil non-current (2013: £2.6 million)) 37.3 40.0
T otal accruals 69.4 81.6
Other taxation and social security 4.7 4.4
Other payables 6.5 4.7
T otal accrued and other liabilities 80.6 90.7 102 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
16 Finance lease liabilities
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Gross ﬁnance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments:
 Within one year 4.1 2.9
 In the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 2.6 1.5
 Less: future ﬁnance charges (0.2) (0.2)
Present value of lease obligations 6.5 4.2
Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 3.9 2.7
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 2.6 1.5
Present value of lease obligations 6.5 4.2
The Group has entered into three- and four-year ﬁnance lease arrangements in respect of certain IT equipment.
17 Financial instruments
(a) Financial instruments by category
The accounting policies for ﬁnancial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
Financial assets
Loans and  
receivables 
£m
Assets at fair  
value through  
the income  
statement 
£m
Available- 
for-sale 
£m
Total 
£m
At 31 December 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 54.1 –– 54.1
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 620.8 –– 620.8
Embedded derivatives – 2.6 – 2.6
Accounts receivable (gross of impairment provision) 147.6 –– 147.6
T otal current ﬁnancial assets 822.5 2.6 – 825.1
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 191.4 –– 191.4
Loans and receivables 3.0 –– 3.0
Available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets – unlisted – – 23.7 23.7
T otal non-current ﬁnancial assets 194.4 – 23.7 218.1
T otal ﬁnancial assets 1,016.9 2.6 23.7 1,043.2
At 31 December 2013
Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 – – 43.8
Short-term deposits 544.1 – – 544.1
Fair value of currency exchange contracts – 5.1 – 5.1
Accounts receivable (gross of impairment provision) 145.9 – – 145.9
Available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets – unlisted – – 1.2 1.2
T otal current ﬁnancial assets 733.8 5.1 1.2 740.1
Long-term deposits 125.6 – – 125.6
Loans and receivables 3.0 – – 3.0
Available-for -sale ﬁnancial assets – unlisted – – 13.9 13.9
T otal non-current ﬁnancial assets 128.6 – 13.9 142.5
T otal ﬁnancial assets 862.4 5.1 15.1 882.6
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 103 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
17 Financial instruments continued
(a) Financial instruments by category continued
Financial liabilities
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December:
Accounts payable 11.7 7.0
Accrued and other liabilities
*
46.8 56.3
Finance lease liabilities 6.5 4.2
65.0 67.5
Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December:
Embedded derivatives – 7.0
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 4.8 –
T otal ﬁnancial liabilities 69.8 74.5
* Non-ﬁnancial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for ﬁnancial instruments.
Valuation hierarchy
As at 31 December 2014, the Group’s ﬁnancial instrument assets consisted of embedded derivatives (level 2) of £2.6 million (2013: liability of 
£7.0 million) and AFS ﬁnancial assets (level 3) of £nil (current) (2013: £1.2 million current) and £23.7 million (non-current) (2013: £13.9 million 
non-current). 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group’s ﬁnancial instrument liabilities consisted of currency exchange contracts at fair value through the income 
statement (level 2) of £4.8 million (2013: asset of £5.1 million). The Group had no level 1 ﬁnancial instruments as at 31 December 2014 
(2013: £nil).
Level 2 currency exchange contracts comprise forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options. The fair value of the forward exchange 
contracts is determined using forward exchange rates as quoted in an active market. The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon 
valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments. 
Level 2 embedded derivatives are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
Level 3 AFS ﬁnancial assets consist of unlisted equity investments and other current investments. The estimated fair value of the unlisted 
equity investments approximates to cost less any permanent diminution in value (based on management’s estimate of forecast proﬁtability and 
achievement of set objectives by the relevant entity), except where independent valuation information is obtained, e.g. through the occurrence of 
funding or other transactions in the relevant entity’s equity instruments.
At 31 December 2013, the value of the current investment was based on the amount that was recoverable from an auction process which was 
held in January 2014.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the level 3 calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to 
key assumptions would result in a signiﬁcant change in fair value. 104 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
17 Financial instruments continued
(a) Financial instruments by category continued
Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities
The table below analyses the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to 
the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows. Balances due within 12 months equal 
their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not signiﬁcant.
Less than  
six months 
£m
Between  
six months and  
one year 
£m
Between  
one and  
two years 
£m
Over  
two years 
£m
At 31 December 2014:
Accounts payable 11.7 –––
Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 –––
Finance lease liabilities 2.3 1.6 2.1 0.5
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.2 1.2 0.4 –
At 31 December 2013:
Accounts payable 7.0–––
Accrued and other liabilities 52.8 0.9 2.6 –
Finance lease liabilities 1.0 1.7 1.2 0.3
Embedded derivatives 2.4 1.6 2.2 0.8
The Group had no borrowings during 2014 and 2013.
Loans and receivables
During 2010, the Group invested £2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business. This was recognised in loans and receivables 
at its initial fair value of £1.9 million, measured using the effective interest method, which resulted in a charge of £0.6 million being recognised 
as interest payable and similar charges during 2010. In addition, during 2013 the Group invested a further £0.7 million with Future Business. 
The carrying value of the total loans amounted to £3.0 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: £3.0 million), with less than £0.1 million being 
recognised as interest receivable during 2014 (2013: £0.1 million).
Short-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on short-term deposits and similar instruments outstanding at the year-end 
was 1.29% (2013: 1.85%) and these deposits have an average maturity of 205 days (2013: 178 days).
Long-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on long-term deposits and similar instruments outstanding at the year-end was 
1.61% (2013: 1.65%) and these deposits have an average maturity of 576 days (2013: 531 days).
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
This table analyses the Group’s derivative ﬁnancial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance 
sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows. Amounts due within 
12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not signiﬁcant.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 105 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
17 Financial instruments continued
(a) Financial instruments by category continued
Less than 
three  months 
m
Over three  
months but  
less than  
six months  
m
Between  
six months and  
one year 
m
Greater than  
one year 
m
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at 31 December 2014
Outﬂow $133.0 $28.0 $13.0 –
Inﬂow £83.6 £17.9 £8.4 –
Foreign exchange options – held-for-trading at 31 December 2014
Outﬂow (maximum) $59.1 $59.3 $88.5 $24.0
Inﬂow (maximum) £37.3 £37.4 £56.6 £16.0
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at 31 December 2013
Outﬂow $98.0 $13.0 $23.0 $9.0
Inﬂow £60.9 £8.0 £14.7 £6.0
Foreign exchange options – held-for-trading at 31 December 2013
Outﬂow (maximum) $41.0 $29.3 $26.2 –
Inﬂow (maximum) £26.8 £19.4 £17.6 –
Fair value of currency exchange contracts
The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the forward rates. The estimation of the fair value of the liability in respect of 
currency exchange contracts was £4.8 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: asset of £5.1 million). The resulting gains and losses on the movement 
of the fair value of currency exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, amounting to a 
loss of £9.4 million (2013: gain of £3.4 million). 
(b) Credit quality of ﬁnancial assets
T rade debtors
On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-by-line basis. Either a provision is 
made or the lack thereof is justiﬁed, with review by senior members of the Group’s ﬁnance team.
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
T rade debtors (gross of impairment provision):
Not yet due 86.5 76.1
Under 90 days overdue 31.0 41.2
Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 12.0 13.2
Fully provided for 9.0 9.8
T otal 138.5 140.3 106 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
17 Financial instruments continued
(b) Credit quality of ﬁnancial assets continued
As shown above, at 31 December 2014, trade debtors less than 90 days overdue (excluding those amounts that are not yet due) amounted to 
£31.0 million. Of those outstanding at 31 December 2014, £22.1 million had been collected by 16 February 2015 and £8.3 million was owed by 
large, established customers. Similarly, debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for amounted to £12.0 million of which £4.2 million 
had been collected by 16 February 2015 and £3.1 million was owed by large, established customers. For the remainder , discussions regarding 
repayment are ongoing and repayment schedules have been agreed with the customers concerned. These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in 
accordance with the control outlined above. No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a 
material threat to the Group’s future results.
As shown above, at 31 December 2014, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to £9.0 million (2013: £9.8 million). All of the trade debtors 
provided for at 31 December 2014 are over six months overdue (2013: £4.0 million were up to six months overdue and £5.8 million were over six 
months overdue).
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, no individual customer accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable.
Credit risk
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to ﬁnancial institutions with either a 
Moody’s rating of at least A2/P-1, a Fitch rating of at least A/F1, or UK building societies with over £2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions 
where the cash holding concerned is immaterial. At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the majority of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, short- 
and long-term deposits and similar instruments were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form 
of money market deposits and corporate bonds for varying periods of up to three years. At 31 December 2014, over 99% (2013: 98%) of the 
Group’s cash and cash equivalents, and short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments were deposited with major clearing banks and 
building societies fulﬁlling these criteria. 
Interest rate risk
At 31 December 2014, the Group had £873.1 million (2013: £713.7 million) of interest-bearing assets. At 31 December 2014, 93% (2013: 93%) of 
interest-bearing assets (comprising cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments, loans and receivables, and the 
Group’s convertible loan notes) are at ﬁxed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk. Had interest rates been 1% (100 basis 
points) lower throughout the year , interest receivable would have reduced by approximately £7.3 million (2013: £5.8 million) and proﬁt after tax by 
£5.8 million (2013: £4.6 million).
Currency risk
At 31 December 2014, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $174 million (2013: $143 million) for sterling. In addition, 
the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the 
counterparty the option to exercise. At 31 December 2014, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under 
certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $231 million (2013: $97 million) for sterling. A common scenario with options of this type is that the 
spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option. At 31 December 2014, the Group had  
$212 million (2013: $230 million) of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash and cash equivalents, and 
short-term deposits of $41 million (2013: $14 million). Thus, the Group’s US dollar assets were less than currency exchange contracts and currency 
options outstanding at the year-end. Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contracts taking into consideration both 
the current and expected future level of US dollar assets. Based on the predictable nature of the Group’s cash ﬂows, the Group typically has a 
greater value of currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar assets held. 
At 31 December 2014, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables held constant, post-tax proﬁt for the 
year would have been £4.0 million lower (2013: £9.5 million lower), mainly as a result of the mix of ﬁnancial instruments at respective year-ends. 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 107 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
18 Share capital
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Authorised
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2013: 2,200,000,000) 1.1 1.1
2014 2013
Number of 
shares  
m
Value  
£m
Number of 
shares  
m
Value  
£m
Issued and fully paid
At 1 January 1,400.3 0.7 1,380.8 0.7
Allotted under employee incentive schemes 11.9 – 19.5 –
At 31 December 1,412.2 0.7 1,400.3 0.7
During 2014, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee incentive schemes was £6.8 million 
(2013: £5.9 million).
19  Own shares held
T reasury stock 
£m
At 1 January 2014 –
Purchase of own shares 66.9
At 31 December 2014 66.9
During the year , £66.9 million (2013: £nil) of shares were repurchased, representing 7.9 million (2013: nil) shares. At 31 December 2014, 
all of these shares were held as treasury stock. Own shares held have a nominal value of 0.05 pence and in total represent 0.6% of called-up 
share capital.
20  Acquisitions
Two acquisitions were made in 2014: Duolog Holdings Limited, acquired on 27 May 2014 for €13.9 million (£11.4 million), and Offspark BV , 
acquired on 14 November 2014 for €1.5 million (£1.2 million). The Group acquired the entire share capital of both entities, which have been 
accounted for as acquisitions. 
Duolog, a company based in Ireland and Hungary, is a leader in design conﬁguration and integration technology for the semiconductor industry. 
The acquisition strengthens the Group’s IP conﬁguration and integration capability, helping ARM Partners design and deploy system IP and manage 
increasing SoC integration complexity.
Offspark BV , a company based in the Netherlands, is a company providing specialised services in the ﬁeld of digital security focusing on online 
security, secure hardware and software and (practical) cryptography.
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of the companies, including the founders and the management team, the 
Group paid a premium for both companies, giving rise to goodwill. All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess 
over net assets being recognised as goodwill. 108 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
20 Acquisitions continued
The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of 
each acquisition. 
Duolog 
27 May 2014
Offspark 
14 November 2014
£m €m £m €m
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property , plant and equipment 1.2 1.6 0.1 0.2
Intangible assets 1.7 2.0 1.0 1.2
Accrued and other liabilities (0.8) (1.0) – –
Loans payable (1.2) (1.5) – –
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (0.2) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3)
Net assets acquired 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.1
Goodwill 10.7 13.1 0.3 0.4
Consideration 11.413.91.21.5
The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash. All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to the income 
statement within general and administrative expenses.
From 27 May 2014 to 31 December 2014, the acquisition of Duolog contributed £1.3 million in revenue and incurred a loss of £0.7 million. 
If Duolog had been consolidated from 1 January 2014, the consolidated income statement would have included £3.1 million of revenue and 
£0.5 million of pre-tax loss. The trading results of Offspark would have had no signiﬁcant impact on the results of the Group.
There were two acquisitions made in 2013: Sensinode Oy, acquired on 19 July 2013 for $11.7 million (£7.7 million), and Geomerics Limited, 
acquired on 12 December 2013 for £12.3 million. The Group acquired the entire share capital of both entities, which have been accounted for 
as acquisitions. 
Sensinode, a company based in Oulu, Finland, is a provider of software technology for the Internet of Things (IoT). Sensinode is a pioneer in 
software for low-cost, low-power internet-connected devices and has been a key contributor to open standards for IoT . This acquisition enables 
Sensinode’s expertise and technology to be accessible to the ARM Partnership and through the ARM mbed project it will enable rapid deployment 
of new and innovative IoT applications.
Geomerics, a company based in Cambridge, UK, is a leader in lighting technology for the gaming and entertainment industries. The acquisition 
expands ARM’s position at the forefront of the visual computing and graphics industries. Additionally, the agreement enables Geomerics to build on 
their existing partnerships as well as accelerate their development in the mobile market.
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of both Sensinode and Geomerics, including the founders and the 
management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, giving rise to goodwill. All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, 
with the residual excess over net assets being recognised as goodwill.  
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 109 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
20 Acquisitions continued
The following table summarises the consideration and ﬁnal fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of each acquisition. 
Sensinode 
19 July 2013
Geomerics 
12 December 2013
 £m $m £m
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property , plant and equipment 0.3 0.5 0.2
Intangible assets 2.8 4.3 5.0
Accrued and other liabilities (0.5) (0.8) (1.9)
Loans payable (1.1) (1.6) –
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (0.2) (0.3) (1.0)
Net assets acquired 1.3 2.1 2.3
Goodwill 6.4 9.6 10.0
Consideration 7.7 11.7 12.3
The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash. All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to the income 
statement within general and administrative expenses.
Other
During 2014, the Group made a payment of £1.8 million (2013: £2.0 million) in respect of time-based and performance bonuses due as a result of 
the acquisition of Obsidian Software Inc in 2011. The Group also made payments of £1.4 million (2013: £0.6 million) in respect of time-based and 
performance bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Proliﬁc Inc in 2011 as well as payments of £0.3 million (2013: £nil) in respect of time-
based bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Sensinode in 2013.
21 Share-based payments
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a ﬁxed 
exercise price. 
The main RSU awards (to employees in all jurisdictions other than France) vest 25% on each anniversary over four years. RSU awards to our 
French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB Plan. Under the DAB Plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, 
participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis. These shares will be deferred for three 
years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time. This scheme 
was replaced after the February 2014 grant with a cash-only bonus. For details of the new scheme, see the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on page 40.
The Company also operates the L TIP , also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending 
on the Company’s TSR performance and EPS performance over the three-year performance period. Grants were made for the last time under 
this scheme in February 2013 and it was replaced by a new L TIP for 2014 grants onwards. For details of the new scheme, see the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 44. 11 0 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
21 Share-based payments continued
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group. The number of options granted is related to the 
value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is three or ﬁve years. The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share 
price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been 
completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European 
countries, namely the ESPP . The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six 
months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees 
and directors. Options are granted with a ﬁxed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant. 
These schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Unapproved Scheme (the 
“Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Share options 
in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward. Shares relating 
to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2013 or 2014. 
All shares issued under these schemes have either lapsed or been exercised as at 31 December 2014.
As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of £68.5 million (2013: £59.2 million) were charged 
to the income statement in the year . This is in line with the Group’s policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these 
remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1b.
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair 
value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest. The following assumptions for each option grant during 2014 and 2013 were as follows:
Grant date 23 Jun 2014 30 Apr 2014 31 Oct 2014 16 Feb 2013 23 Jun 2013 30 Apr 2013 31 Oct 2013 
Scheme SA YE ESPP ESPP ESPP SA YE ESPP ESPP
Share price at grant date £8.89 £9.095 £8.385 £9.25 £7.725 £9.96 £9.94
Exercise price £7.344 £7.73 £7.13 £4.964 £7.9616 £5.6525 £8.449
Number of employees 520 684 892 391 350 151 605
Shares under option 651,142 280,996 361,083 330,676 210,605 35,386 228,335
V esting period (years) 3-5 – – – 3-5––
Expected volatility 33%-35% – – – 37%-40% – –
Expected life (years) 3-5 – – – 3-5––
Risk-free rate 0.5% – – – 0.5% – –
Dividend yield 0.64% – – – 0.58% – –
Fair value per option £2.630-£3.180 £1.365 £1.258 £4.286 £1.828-£2.510 £4.3075 £1.491
The fair value of RSUs and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. As all are share 
awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exercise price of £0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model. The fair value of 
L TIP awards granted in 2013 and those granted in 2014 with non-market-based performance conditions (i.e. based on EPS performance) have also 
been estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 111 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
21 Share-based payments continued
For L TIP awards with market-based performance conditions issued in 2014 the fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the 
performance of the comparator companies in the FTSE 350 and the FTSE All World T echnology Index (AWTI). The Monte-Carlo simulation 
incorporates a range of other assumptions based on the TSR comparator companies; the assumptions given below relate to the Group.
The assumptions for each grant during 2014 and 2013 were as follows:
Black-Scholes model assumptions
Grant date 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 May 2014
Scheme DAB RSU French RSU L TIP (EPS) RSU
Share price at grant date 8.96 8.96 8.96 8.96 8.715
Number of employees 54 2,625 114 59 149
Shares awarded 509,078 4,455,185 165,927 745,615 391,556
V esting period (years) 3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4
Expected volatility 35% 31%-36% 31%-36% 35% 31%-36%
Expected life (years) 3 1-4 2-4 3-5 1-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.64% 0.64% 0.64% 0.64% 0.65%
Fair value per share £8.791 £8.735-£8.903 £8.735-£8.847 £8.791 £8.490-£8.658
Grant date 8 May 2014 13 Aug 2014 13 Aug 2014 12 Nov 2014 12 Nov 2014
Scheme French RSU RSU French RSU RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date 8.715 8.95 8.95 8.745 8.745
Number of employees 6 170 2 333 2
Shares awarded 7,089 380,617 6,882 755,115 2,092
V esting period (years) 2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility 31%-36% 29%-35% 30%-35% 29%-34% 30%-34%
Expected life (years) 2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.65% 0.68% 0.68% 0.70% 0.70%
Fair value per share £8.490-£8.602 £8.709-£8.889 £8.709-£8.828 £8.504-£8.684 £8.504-£8.623
Monte-Carlo model assumptions
Grant date 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014
Scheme L TIP (FTSE 350) L TIP (FTSE AWTI)
Share price at grant date  £8.96 £8.96
Number of employees 59 59
Shares awarded 372,793 372,793
V esting period (years) 33
Expected volatility 35% 35%
Expected life (years) 3-5 3-5
Risk-free rate 1.0% 1.0%
Dividend yield 0% 0%
Fair value per share £6.952 £7.560 11 2 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
21 Share-based payments continued
Black-Scholes model assumptions
Grant date 8 Feb 2013 8 Feb 2013 8 Feb 2013 8 Feb 2013 8 May 2013 8 May 2013 
Scheme DAB RSU French RSU L TIP RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date £9.245 £9.245 £9.245 £9.245 £10.46 £10.46
Number of employees 53 2,207 93 55 102 3
Shares awarded 466,174 7,686,539 286,900 742,469 258,224 6,645
V esting period (years) 3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility 37% 30%-37% 35%-37% 37% 30%-38% 34%-38%
Expected life (years) 3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.49% 0.49% 0.49% 0.49% 0.43% 0.43%
Fair value per share £9.111 £9.067-£9.200 £9.067-£9.155 £9.111 £10.282-£10.415 £10.282-£10.37
Grant date 13 Aug 2013 13 Aug 2013 13 Aug 2013 12 Nov 2013 12 Nov 2013
Scheme RSU French RSU L TIP RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date £8.89 £8.89 £8.89 £9.495 £9.495
Number of employees 134 4 1 252 9
Shares awarded 318,934 6,347 11,280 494,746 16,478
V esting period (years) 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility 31%-36% 32%-36% 36% 31%-36% 31%-36%
Expected life (years) 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.55% 0.55% 0.55% 0.52% 0.52%
Fair value per share £8.69-£8.836 £8.69-£8.787 £8.738 £9.30-£9.446 £9.30-£9.397
The expected volatility was primarily based upon historical volatility adjusted for past one-time events that are not expected to re-occur . 
The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2014 is shown below. Share awards do not have an exercise 
price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
2014 2013
Options
 Number
W eighted average 
exercise price
RSUs/L TIP/DAB 
Number
Options
 Number
W eighted average 
exercise price
RSUs/L TIP/DAB 
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 1,969,919 £3.385 20,227,656 3,738,922 £1.994 23,255,834
Granted 1,293,221 £7.368 9,666,289 805,002 £6.765 14,972,806
Forfeited (90,322) £5.197 (667,923) (57,969) £4.257 (974,255)
Lapsed (29,458) £0.725 – (47,313) £0.575 –
Exercised (1,568,291) £4.329 (10,328,742) (2,468,723) £2.414 (17,026,729)
Outstanding at 31 December 1,575,069 £5.661 18,897,280 1,969,919 £3.385 20,227,656
Exercisable at 31 December 4,283 £4.464 – 392,451 £0.723 –
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 11 3 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
21 Share-based payments continued
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was £8.94 (2013: £9.29). The following 
options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December:
2014
Exercise price (£)
Number  
outstanding
W eighted  
average  
exercise price  
£
W eighted  
average  
remaining life 
Expected  
Y ears
W eighted  
average  
remaining life 
Contractual  
Y ears
Outstanding options:
1.948 – 7.96 1,575,069 5.66 2.10 2.35
Total 1,575,0695.662.102.35
Outstanding RSU/L TIP/DAB awards:
0.00 (RSUs) 14,702,277 – 1.26 1.26
0.00 (L TIP) 2,800,003 – 1.36 1.36
0.00 (DAB) 1,395,000 – 1.06 1.06
Total 18,897,280 – 1.26 1.26
2013
Exercise price (£)
Number  
outstanding
W eighted  
average  
exercise price  
£
W eighted  
average  
remaining life 
Expected  
Y ears
W eighted  
average  
remaining life 
Contractual  
Y ears
Outstanding options:
0.7 – 0.854 571,846 0.76 0.49 0.78
1.01 – 1.055 19,166 1.04 0.52 1.05
1.25 1,360 1.25 0.04 0.08
1.948 – 7.96 1,377,547 4.51 2.00 2.25
T otal 1,969,919 3.38 1.55 1.81
Outstanding RSU/L TIP/DAB awards:
0.00 (RSUs) 16,792,567 – 1.20 1.20
0.00 (L TIP) 2,054,203 – 1.12 1.12
0.00 (DAB) 1,380,886 – 1.06 1.06
T otal 20,227,656 – 1.18 1.18 11 4 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
22 Capital and other ﬁnancial commitments
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the ﬁnancial statements 2.9 9.8
Other ﬁnancial commitments (expenditure on investments) 5.4 –
Included in the amount for 2013 is £9.1 million of equipment relating to the expansion of the US high-performance computing cluster .
23 Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
At 31 December 2014, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2014 2013 
Land and  
buildings  
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
Land and  
buildings  
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under  
non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Within one year 11.6 5.3 16.9 8.5 18.3 26.8
Later than one year and less than ﬁve years 31.7 – 31.7 23.1 5.3 28.4
After ﬁve years 9.3 – 9.3 9.0 – 9.0
At 31 December 52.6 5.3 57.9 40.6 23.6 64.2
The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The remaining lease terms are 
between one and nine years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
24 Financial contingencies
It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licensee in the event that the 
technology licensed is held to infringe the IP of a third-party. Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemniﬁcation to its licensees. 
The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upon a third-party bringing an action 
against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Group to the licensee infringes such third-party’s IP rights. The indemniﬁcation 
obligations typically survive any termination of the licence and will continue in perpetuity.
The Group does not provide for any such indemnities unless it has received notiﬁcation from the other party that they are likely to invoke the 
indemnity. A provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: (i) information available prior to the issuance of the ﬁnancial statements 
indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the ﬁnancial statements; and (ii) the amount of the liability can be 
reasonably estimated. Any such provision is based upon the directors’ estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim.
At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings 
will result in a material liability for the Group. Currently, there are legal proceedings against some of the Group’s licensees in which it is asserted 
that certain of the Group’s technology infringes third-party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group either presently has no obligation 
to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemniﬁcation have not been satisﬁed by such licensees, or to the extent that there is any present 
obligation to indemnify, the Group does not believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for 
the Group. If preconditions to indemniﬁcation are satisﬁed then an indemniﬁcation obligation may arise which could result in a material liability for 
the Group. 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 11 5 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
25 Related party transactions
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group incurred subscription costs of £nil from Linaro Limited (“Linaro”), an associated company 
of the Group, (2013: £7.0 million, representing ARM’s committed aggregate contributions to Linaro for a period of two years). In respect of the 
subscription fees, the Group was invoiced £4.0 million during the year to 31 December 2014 (2013: £4.3 million). As at 31 December 2014, 
£1.1 million (2013: £1.0 million) was owing to Linaro.
In addition, the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to £1.3 million (2013: £1.6 million). All fees have been charged 
in accordance with the terms of the agreement. As at 31 December 2014, £0.3 million (2013: £0.3 million) was owed to the Group.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 27.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3.
There were no other related party transactions during 2014 which require disclosure.
26 Post-balance sheet events
After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a ﬁnal dividend in respect of 2014 of 4.5 pence per share. Subject to shareholder approval, 
the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 24 April 2015. The ﬁnal dividend has not been recognised as a 
distribution during the year ended 31 December 2014.
27 Principal subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures
Subsidiaries
Details of principal subsidiary undertakings which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the ﬁgures shown in the Group’s accounts are 
shown below. Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be excessive in length. A full list is ﬁled in the Group’s Annual Return. All investments 
are indirectly held unless otherwise shown.
Name of undertaking Country of registration Principal activity
Proportion of total 
nominal value of issued 
shares held
ARM Limited England and Wales Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and graphics IP . 100*
ARM Inc. US Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP . 100
ARM France SAS France Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP . 100 
ARM Norway AS Norway Research and development of graphics IP . 100 
ARM Embedded T echnologies Pvt. Limited India Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP . 100 
ARM Electronic T echnology (Shanghai) Co. 
Limited
PR China Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and graphics IP . 100 
*  The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM Finance UK Limited and 
ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group. 11 6 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
27 Principal subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures continued
Associate
During 2010, the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-for-proﬁt engineering company created to foster innovation in the Linux 
community. Linaro (a company incorporated in the UK) is a company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders. The Group controls 
only 25% of the board and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary. The Group has not recognised any associate 
proﬁt or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-proﬁt. 
Joint venture
In 2012, the Group invested £7.5 million ($12.0 million) in a joint venture, Trustonic Limited (a company incorporated in the UK), representing a 
40% shareholding. With the establishment of industry standards and demand for security enhanced services the focus of Trustonic is to accelerate 
the wide deployment of secure, smart devices. During 2013, the Group invested a further £3.7 million (€4.4 million) into the joint venture, 
maintaining the 40% shareholding. 
Investment in joint venture
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
At 1 January 6.5 6.8
Investment – 3.7
Share of results for the period (3.5) (4.0)
At 31 December 3.0 6.5
The Group’s share of the results of the joint venture, and its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows:
T rustonic Limited
Current  
assets  
£m
Non-current  
assets  
£m
Current  
liabilities  
£m
Non-current
liabilities
£m
Currency 
translation
 £m
Income  
£m
Expenses  
£m
T ax  
£m
Loss for 
the year 
£m
At 31 December 2014 2.6 4.6 (4.2) (0.3) 0.3 3.2 (6.9) 0.2 (3.5)
At 31 December 2013 3.9 6.5 (3.9) – (0.1) 2.5 (6.7) 0.2 (4.0)
The Group’s share of joint venture capital commitments amount to £0.2 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: £0.1 million).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 11 7 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Company balance sheet/UK GAAP
At 31 December Note
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 697.1 653.3
Current assets
Debtors 5 0.5 1.5
Cash at bank and in hand 1.1 0.7
1.6 2.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (167.0) (46.0)
Net current liabilities (165.4) (43.8)
T otal assets less current liabilities 531.7 609.5
Net assets 531.7 609.5
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 7 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 8 24.9 18.1
Share option reserve 8 61.4 61.4
Proﬁt and loss account 8 444.7 529.3
T otal shareholders’ funds 9 531.7 609.5
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 117 to 124 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Simon Segars, Tim Score, 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 11 8 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
1 Principal accounting policies
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the UK. 
A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and reviewed by the Board of directors in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 18 “Accounting policies”, is set out below:
Basis of accounting The ﬁnancial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost. Where an acquisition satisﬁes the provisions of section 612 of the 
Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other consideration.
Cash ﬂow statement The Company has not presented a separate cash ﬂow statement. The cash ﬂows for the Company are included within the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance 
sheet date. Exchange differences have been included in operating proﬁt.
T axation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments The Company does not have any ﬁnancial instruments, other than intercompany creditors and debtors, and cash. Due to the 
short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the fair value of these items to equal the carrying value. Because the Company is 
included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the ARM Holdings plc Group which are publicly available, and the ﬁnancial disclosures required 
by FRS 29 are in note 17 of those ﬁnancial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these ﬁnancial statements.
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an L TIP , to certain employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is measured by use 
of the Black-Scholes pricing model or , where appropriate, a Monte-Carlo simulation. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-
settled share-based payments is expensed in the accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on 
the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Company operates SAYE schemes in the UK and an ESPP in the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries. Options under 
the SAYE scheme were at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme. The UK SAYE 
schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available, and has applied the provisions of FRS 20 only to those options granted after 
7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004. The Company does not have any employees and as such, in accordance 
with UITF 44, all share-based payments have been recorded as capital contributions to all subsidiaries. The Company recharges the relevant 
amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value of its investments.
Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Treasury shares The Company has a share buyback programme under which the Company is able to purchase its own shares and hold them as 
treasury shares. These shares will be used to satisfy employee share awards. In accordance with FRS 25, the Company recognises these shares at 
cost as a deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds.
Dividends A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised as a 
distribution when paid.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the timing difference is expected to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on an 
undiscounted basis.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements/UK GAAP 11 9 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
2 Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent Company’s proﬁt and loss account has not been included in these 
ﬁnancial statements. The parent Company’s loss after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was £0.1 million 
(2013: £1.5 million). The Company has no employees; all three executive directors (as at 31 December 2014) have contracts of service with ARM 
Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. The emoluments of two of these directors are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the directors is paid by 
ARM Inc, the details of which are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report within this Annual Report. Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to 
the consolidated ﬁnancial statements on page 91.
3 Dividends paid and proposed
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Final dividend paid of 3.60 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2013 (2013: 2.83 pence in respect of 2012) 50.7 39.5
Interim dividend paid of 2.52 pence (2013: 2.10 pence) per ordinary share 35.4 29.4
86.1 68.9
In addition, the directors are proposing a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2014 of 4.5 pence per share which will 
absorb an estimated £64 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 
24 April 2015, subject to approval by the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
4 Investments
The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was £697.1 million at 31 December 2014 and £653.3 million 
at 31 December 2013. The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of shares for the 
acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. (now ARM Inc.), and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company 
balance sheet at that time.
Investments in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 2014 653.3
Additions –
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 68.5
Recharge to subsidiary of share-based payments (24.7)
At 31 December 2014 697.1
Where options and awards over the Company’s shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee 
services performed (equal to the share-based payments) has been recorded as a capital contribution. The Company recharges the relevant amount 
of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value of its investments.
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 120 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
4 Investments continued
Interests in Group undertakings
Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Name of undertaking
Country  
of registration
Description  
of shares held
Proportion of  
nominal value  
of issued shares held
ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares less than 0.01%*
ARM IP Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100%
ARM T echnology Investments Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
*  The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM Finance UK Limited and 
ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP . The remaining 
shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK Limited (AFL) and ARM Finance UK Three Limited (AFL3) 
(with AFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL). The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate holding 
companies. The principal activity of ARM IP Limited is to act as a holding company for some of the Group’s patents. The principal activity of ARM 
T echnology Investments Limited is to act as a holding company for some of the Group’s investments.
5 Debtors
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 1.2
Deferred tax assets
*
0.4 0.3
0.5 1.5
* A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that proﬁts will be available in the future to offset these losses.
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 166.4 45.7
Accruals 0.6 0.3
167.0 46.0
7 Called-up share capital
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Authorised
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2013: 2,200,000,000) 1.1 1.1
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
1,412,160,836 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2013: 1,400,263,804) 0.7 0.7
11,897,032 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of £6.8 million (2013: 19,495,454 shares for cash 
consideration of £5.9 million) as a result of the exercise of share options at various times during the year .
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements/UK GAAP 
continued 121 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
7 Called-up share capital continued
Share options and awards
The Company had the following options and awards outstanding over ordinary shares of 0.05 pence at 31 December 2014:
Y ear of grant Number of options
Range of  
exercise prices  
£
W eighted average  
exercise price  
£
Latest date  
of exercise
SA YE 2010 116,896 1.948 1.948 31 January 2016
2011 37,863 4.464 4.464 31 January 2017
2012 598,547 3.9616 3.9616 31 January 2018
2013 184,824 7.96 7.96 31 January 2019
2014 636,939 7.344 7.344 31 January 2020
T otal options 1,575,069 1.948-7.96 5.661
Y ear of grant
Number  
of share awards Latest vest date
RSU 2011 1,269,797 12 November 2015
2012 1,455,245 12 November 2016
2013 5,742,475 12 November 2017
2014 5,609,411 12 November 2018
14,076,928
French RSU 2011 73,274 12 November 2015
2012 63,742 12 November 2016
2013 308,853 12 November 2017
2014 179,480 12 November 2018
625,349
L TIP 2012 741,921 8 February 2015
2013 623,796 13 February 2016
2014 1,434,286 8 February 2017
2,800,003
DAB 2012 556,553 8 February 2015
2013 348,211 8 February 2016
2014 490,236 8 February 2017
1,395,000
T otal awards 18,897,280
T otal options and awards 20,472,349 122 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
7 Share option and awards continued
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a 
ﬁxed exercise price. The main RSU awards (to employees in all jurisdictions other than France) vest 25% on each anniversary over four years. 
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB Plan. Under the DAB Plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, 
participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis. These shares will be deferred for three years, 
and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time. This scheme was replaced 
after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus. For details of the new scheme, see the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
page 40.
The Company also operates the L TIP , also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending 
on the Company’s TSR performance and EPS performance over the three-year performance period. Grants were made for the last time under 
this scheme in February 2013 and it has been replaced by a new L TIP for 2014 grants onwards. For details of the new scheme, see the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 44.
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group. The number of options granted is related to the 
value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is three or ﬁve years. The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share 
price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been 
completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European 
countries, namely the ESPP . The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six 
months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees 
and directors. Options are granted with a ﬁxed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant. 
These schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Unapproved Scheme (the 
“Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Share options 
in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward. Shares relating 
to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2013 or 2014. 
All shares issued under these schemes have either lapsed or been exercised as at 31 December 2014.
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances, and related items, 
please refer to note 21 in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
8 Reserves
Share premium  
account  
£m
Share option  
reserve  
£m
Proﬁt and loss 
 reserve  
£m
At 1 January 2014 18.1 61.4 529.3
Purchase of treasury shares – – (66.9)
Premium on issue of shares on exercise of share options 6.8 – –
Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments – – 68.5
Loss attributable to shareholders – – (0.1)
Equity dividends payable – – (86.1)
At 31 December 2014 24.9 61.4 444.7
The share option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004. 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements/ 
UK GAAP continued 123 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
8 Reserves continued
The Company considers the share option reserve and share premium account as non-distributable. Within the proﬁt and loss reserve are credits 
in respect of FRS 20 employee share-based payments in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded 
as a capital contribution. The Company also considers these credits as non-distributable. In addition, the historic treatment of certain conditional 
shares has been changed. As a result, £21 million of the opening proﬁt and loss reserve has been reclassiﬁed from distributable to non-distributable. 
At 31 December 2014, approximately £179 million of the proﬁt and loss reserve is deemed distributable (2013: £324 million).
During 2014, the Company re-commenced its share buy back programme to supplement the payment of dividends to shareholders, purchasing 
7.9 million shares at a cost of £66.9 million. At 31 December 2014, all of these shares were still held by the Company. Offset within the proﬁt 
and loss reserve, therefore, is an amount of £66.9 million (2013: £nil) representing the cost of own shares held. These shares are expected to be 
used for the beneﬁt of the Group’s employees and directors to satisfy share options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and conditional share awards in 
future periods.
The quantum and frequency of share repurchases is not predetermined and will take into account prevailing market conditions, the short- to 
medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of employee share-based remuneration going forward.
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Loss attributable to shareholders (0.1) (1.5)
Equity dividends payable (86.1) (68.9)
(86.2) (70.4)
New share capital issued 6.8 5.9
Purchase of treasury shares (66.9) –
Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 68.5 59.2
Net reduction to shareholders’ funds (77.8) (5.3)
Opening shareholders’ funds 609.5 614.8
Closing shareholders’ funds 531.7 609.5 124 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements/ 
UK GAAP continued
10 Capital commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2014 and 2013.
11 Financial commitments and contingencies
At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases and no contingencies.
12 Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8 “Related party disclosures”, 
where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
13 Post-balance sheet events
After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a ﬁnal dividend in respect of 2014 of 4.5 pence per share. Subject to shareholder approval, 
the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 24 April 2015. The ﬁnal dividend has not been recognised as a 
distribution during the year ended 31 December 2014. 125 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of ARM Holdings plc
Report on the Company ﬁnancial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, ARM Holdings plc’s Company ﬁnancial statements (the “ﬁnancial statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
ARM Holdings plc’s ﬁnancial statements comprise:
• the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014; 
• the notes to the ﬁnancial statements, which include a summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than in the notes to 
the ﬁnancial statements. These are cross-referenced from the ﬁnancial statements and are identiﬁed as audited.
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information 
in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited ﬁnancial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
•  is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
• the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 126 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law have 
not been made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the ﬁnancial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 33, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or 
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of ﬁnancial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
ﬁnancial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error . This includes an assessment of: 
•  whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
•  the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
•  the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination 
of both. 
In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of ARM Holdings plc continued 127 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Charles Bowman (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London 
17 February 2015 128 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
ARM7/9/11 ARM7 processor was one of ARM’s ﬁrst commercial products. ARM9 and ARM11 processors followed later .
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs.
big.LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip: one (big) that delivers high-performance when 
needed with the other (LITTLE) running most of the time, enabling long battery-life.
CAGR Compound annual growth rate.
Cortex ARM’s latest family of processors.
DTV Digital TV .
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs and 
software providers.
Fabless 
semiconductor company
A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips. These chips are typically manufactured by a foundry. 
For example MediaT ek, Marvell and Qualcomm.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor 
companies. For example TSMC and UMC.
Intellectual Property (IP) ARM designs technology for use in computer chips. The general term for the products that are designs only, 
or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property. 
Internet of Things (IoT) An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet either directly or indirectly via a 
smartphone. From pedometers to thermostats to streetlights. 
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners. They pay an upfront fee, which is 
reported as “licence revenue”.
LTE Long T erm Evolution (or 4G) is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones. It is optimised for data 
streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home. 
Mali ARM’s family of 3D graphics processors.
Microcontroller (MCU) A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has been or can be used in many applications. 
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM)
An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones. For example Apple, HTC and LG.
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARM’s processor technology.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
Processor Optimisation 
Pack (POP)
Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement a processor on a speciﬁc foundry’s 
manufacturing process.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology. The royalty is usually a percentage of the 
selling price of the chip and is reported as “royalty revenue”.
STB Set-top box.
System-on-Chip (SoC)
An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip. Most ARM 
processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
Glossary 129 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Group directory
ARM Holdings plc 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
T el: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410
ARM Limited 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8L T 
United Kingdom 
T el: +44 (0) 1628 427700 
Fax: +44 (0) 1628 427701
Rockingham Court 
152 Rockingham Street 
Sheffield S1 4EB 
United Kingdom 
T el: +44 (0) 114 282 8000 
Fax: +44 (0) 114 282 8001
Blackburn Design Centre 
Belthorn House 
Walker Road 
Blackburn BB1 2QE 
United Kingdom 
T el: +44 (0) 1254 893900 
Fax: +44 (0) 1254 893901
4th Floor 
Y ork House 
Manchester 
Cheshire M2 3BB 
T el: +44 (0) 161 234 9420
CPC1, Capital Park 
Cambridge Road 
Fulbourn 
Cambridgeshire CB21 5XE 
T el: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410
Building 100, Rustat House 
Clifton Road 
Cambridge CB1 7EG 
T el: +44 (0) 1223 400257 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410
Geomerics Limited 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
T el: +44 (0) 1223 400400
ARM France SAS 
12 Avenue des Prés 
BL 204 Montigny le 
Bretonneux 
78059 Saint Quentin en 
Yvelines, Cedex 
France 
T el: +33 1 39 30 47 89 
Fax: +33 1 39 30 47 88
25 Allée Pierre Ziller 
Le Paros 
BP 70124 
F-06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex 
France 
T el: +33 4 97 23 51 00 
Fax: +33 4 97 23 51 99
Miniparc Polytec 
60 Rue des Berges 
F-38000 Grenoble 
France 
T el: +33 4 56 38 47 00 
Fax: +33 4 56 38 47 01
ARM Germany GmbH 
Bretonischer Ring 16 
D-85630 Grasbrunn 
Germany 
T el: +49 89 456 040-0 
Fax: +49 89 456 040-19
Obrtna Cesta 18 
SL-8310 
Sentjernej 
Slovenia
ARM Israel 
3 Hagavish Street 
Kfar Saba 44424 
Israel 
T el: +972.9.7644888 
Fax: +972.9.7644884
ARM Norway AS 
Olav Tryggvassons gt. 39-41 
7011 Trondheim 
Norway 
T el: +47 7318 7500 
Fax: +47 7351 3181
ARM Sweden AB 
Emdalavägen 6 
SE-223 69 Lund 
Sweden 
T el: +46 46 31 31 00
ARM Finland Oy 
Konekuja 2 
Fl-90620 Oulu 
Finland 
T el: +358 10 387 8680
ARM Belgium Services BVBA 
Mechelsesteenweg 277 
1800 Vilvoorde 
Belgium 
T el: +32 2 3045598
ARM Hungary Kft 
Budapest 
Karolyi u. 9. 
1053 Hungary 
T el: +36 (1) 411 3100 
Fax: +36 (1) 411 3101
ARM Ireland Limited 
The Concourse Building, 5th ﬂoor 
Beacon Court, Sadyford 
Dublin, Ireland 
T el: +353 (1) 2178 400 
Fax: +353 (1) 2178 401
2nd Floor , Lyrr Building (phase 3) 
Mervue Industrial Estate 
Galway, Ireland 
T el: +353 (91) 337 917 130 ARM Holdings plc  Governance and Financial Report 2014
Group directory continued
ARM Inc. 
150 Rose Orchard Way 
San Jose, CA 95134-1358 
United States 
T el: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 408 576 1501
The Park on Barton Creek 
3711 S. Mopac Expressway 
Building 1, Suite 400 
Austin, TX 78746 
United States 
T el: +1 512 327 9249 
Fax: +1 512 314 1078
5 East Street 
Franklin, MA 02038 
United States 
T el: +1 508 520 1905 
Fax: +1 508 520 1907
2 Venture Suite 470 
Irvine, CA 92618 
United States 
T el: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 949 623 8305
4965 Preston Park Blvd 
Suite 650 
Plano, TX 75093 
United States 
T el: +1 972 312 1107 
Fax: +1 972 312 1159
2002 Caton Way SW 
Olympia, WA 98502 
United States 
T el: +1 408 576 1500
5375 Mira Sorrento Place 
Suite 540 
San Diego, CA 92121 
United States 
T el: +1 858 453 1900
2320 130th Avenue NE 
Suite 220 
Bellevue, WA 98005 
United States 
T el: +1 408 576 1500
ARM KK 
Shinyokohama Square Bldg. 17F 
2-3-12 Shin-Y okohama 
Kohoku-Ku, Y okohama-Shi 
Kanagawa 222-0033 
Japan 
T el: +81 45 477 5260 
Fax: +81 45 477 5261
ARM Korea Limited 
7th Floor Kyungdong Building 
4-4 Sunae-dong 
Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si 
Gyeonggi-do 463-020 
South Korea 
T el: +82 31 780 0200 
Fax: +82 31 780 0201
ARM Embedded  
T echnologies Pvt. Limited 
Bagmane World T echnology Center – SEZ 
Citrine Block, 5th and 6th Floor 
Marathahalli Outer Ring Road 
Mahadevapura 
Bangalore 560048 
T el: +91 80 4928 2000 
Fax: +91 80 4112 7403
Unit no: F2 (II), 2nd Floor 
S.B. T owers, Plot no: IA/I Sector 16A 
Film City, Noida – 201301 
Uttar Pradesh, India 
T el. +91 120 3870100 
Fax +91 120 3870299
ARM Electronic T echnology 
(Shanghai) Co. Ltd 
35F , Building B,  
New CHJ International Business Centre 
No. 391 Guiping Road 
Xuhui District 
Shanghai 200233 
PR China 
T el: +86 21 6154 9000 
Fax: +86 21 6154 9100
Room 602, Ideal Plaza 
58 West Road 
North 4th Ring Road 
Haidian District 
Beijing 100080 
PR China 
T el: +86 10 8217 2000 
Fax: +86 10 8217 2010
Room 3501, T ower 3, Kerry Plaza 
No.1-1, 4th Central Road 
Futian District 
Shenzhen 518006 
PR China 
T el: +86 755 3290 0600 
Fax: +86 755 3290 0610
ARM T aiwan Limited 
8F , No. 36, Ruihu Street 
Nei-Hu District 
T aipei City 
11494 
T aiwan (R.O.C) 
T el: +886 2 8752 1700 
Fax: +886 2 2627 1682
7F , No. 2, Li-Hsin 
6th Road Hsinchu Science Park 
Hsinchu City 
30078 
T aiwan (R.O.C.) 
T el: +886 3 565 7100 
Fax: +886 3 567 7128 131 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory
Key shareholder information
ARM Holdings plc is the  
parent Company of the Group 
Company Number: 2548782 
Incorporated in England & Wales 
Domiciled in the UK 
Public company limited by shares
Secretary and registered office 
Patricia Alsop 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom
Independent auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH 
United Kingdom
Stockbrokers 
UBS Limited 
2 Finsbury Avenue 
London EC2M 2PP 
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB 
United Kingdom
Registrars 
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom
Shareholder Helpline 
0871 384 2139
Depositary 
The Bank of New Y ork Mellon 
101 Barclays Street 
New Y ork 
New Y ork 10286 
United States 
Principal Legal advisers 
UK Law 
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London EC1Y 8YY 
United Kingdom
US Law 
Davis Polk & Wardwell 
99 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7NG 
United Kingdom
For more shareholder information 
please contact Ian Thornton at 
investor .relations@arm.com 
Our website contains information for 
shareholders, including regular strategic, 
business and ﬁnancial updates.
www.arm.com/ir 132 Equiniti Shareholder Services
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
BN99 6DA, UK 
Phone: 0871 384 2139 
www.equiniti.com
Ian Thornton
Head of Investor Relations 
ARM Holdings plc 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 400796 
Email: ian.thornton@arm.com
Phil Sparks
Investor Relations Manager 
ARM Holdings plc 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 405566 
Email: philip.sparks@arm.com
Laura Faid
Investor Relations Associate 
ARM Holdings plc 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead SL6 8L T 
Phone: +44 (0)1628 427800 
Email: laura.faid@arm.com
If want to inform us of a change of address 
or have lost your share certiﬁcate or have 
an enquiry about dividend payments 
please contact:
For all other enquires please contact one of  
ARM’s investor relations team:
Designed and produced by  
Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper 
which is certiﬁed by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and 
contains 100% recycled waste. The paper is Process Chlorine 
Free (PCF) made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental 
management system accreditation. 
This report was produced using the pureprint
®
 environmental 
print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, 
independently audited process that reduces the environmental 
impact of the printing process. Printed using vegetable oil 
based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certiﬁed to ISO 14001 
environmental management system and registered to EMAS 
the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered 
trademarks of ARM Limited. ARM7, ARM9, ARM1 1, POP and 
Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
Contact details
Auditors’ statement 
The auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial 
statements and the auditors’ statement 
under section 496 of the Companies 
Act on whether the information given in 
Strategic Report and Directors’ report 
(for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 
2014) is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial 
statements were both unqualiﬁed and can 
be found on page 62 of the Governance 
and Financial Report. ARM Holdings plc
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
T elephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMHoldings
pinterest: ARMLtd
facebook.com/ARMfans
youtube.com/armﬂix
