 Global
precision
Annual Report 2014 Our reputation is built on engineering 
excellence and a commitment to continual 
innovation. Wherever Keller operates and 
whatever the circumstances, we have the 
ability to gather together the right people, 
skills, processes, equipment and thinking  
to deliver any project brilliantly.
By precisely blending these elements at  
the right time, we achieve local results  
that set the global standard.  Cautionary statement 
This document contains certain ‘forward-looking statements’ with respect to Keller’s 
financial condition, results of operations and business and certain of Keller’s plans and 
objectives with respect to these items.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date 
in the future or such words as ‘anticipates’, ‘aims’, ‘due’, ‘will’, ‘could’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, 
‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘potential’, ‘reasonably possible’, ‘targets’, ‘goal’ or ‘estimates’.  
By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative 
and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances 
that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to  
differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in 
which the Group operates; changes in the regulatory and competition frameworks in  
which the Group operates; the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which  
affect the Group; and changes in interest and exchange rates.
All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this document or made 
subsequently, which are attributable to Keller or any other member of the Group or 
persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors 
referred to above. Keller does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be regarded as a profits forecast.
This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any securities of Keller Group plc 
or any of its subsidiaries and is not soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such 
securities in any jurisdiction. Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred in the United 
States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements  
of the US Securities Act.
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
diamond is inset 
0.92mm from right 
and bottom
table width = 57+15.8
mm
height = 5.5mm per row
2014
2013
1,599.7
1,438.2
1,317.5
1,154.3
1,068.9
Revenue from continuing operations (£m)
92.0
77.8
48.3
28.9
43.3
Operating prot (£m)
*
75.3
73.0
45.9
24.8
44.0
Earnings per share (pence)
*
Group revenue up  
year on year by
11 %
Group operating  
margin
*
 up to
5.8%
Earnings per share
*
  
increased to
75.3p 
per share
Operating profit
*
 up to 
£92.0m
Cash generated from  
operations up to
£165.4m
Total dividend  
increased to
25.2p 
per share
 
 
* Before exceptional items.
1
Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy Overview
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Contents Highlights
Overview
1 Highlights
2 About Keller
4 Chairman’s statement
Strategic report
Strategy
6 Chief Executive Officer’s review
8 Our markets
10 Our business model
12 Our strategy
14 Strategy in action
22 Principal risks and uncertainties
24 Resources and relationships
27 Technology and best practice
Performance
28 Executive Committee
30 Operational results
30  North America
31  EMEA
32  Asia
33  Australia
34 Financial review
Governance
36 Corporate governance statement
36  Chairman’s statement
38  Board of Directors
42    Health, Safety & Environment  
Committee report
44  Nomination Committee report
46  Audit Committee report
48 Directors’ Remuneration report
61 Directors’ report
63  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
64 Independent Auditor’s report
Financial statements
66  Consolidated income statement
66  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
67  Consolidated balance sheet
68  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
69  Consolidated cash flow statement
70  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
92  Company balance sheet
93  Notes to the Company financial 
statements
Other information
98 Financial record
99 Principal offices
100 Secretary and advisers 2
1
2
1
Revenue by country
pie = 31.575mm
2. Canada
1. US
2. Canada
1. US
14%
86%
4
1
2
3
Revenue by country
pie = 31.575mm
4. Other
3. India
2. Malaysia
1. Singapore
4. Other
3. India
2. Malaysia
1. Singapore
9%
15%
32%
44%
4
5
1
2
3
Revenue by country
pie = 31.575mm
5. KGE
4. Vibro-Pile
3. Waterway
2. Piling Contractors
1. Frankipile
5. KGE
4. Vibro-Pile
3. Waterway
2. Piling Contractors
1. Frankipile
16%
12%
18%
27%
27%
5
4
1
2
3
Revenue by country
pie = 31.575mm
5. Other
4. Middle East
3. Africa
2. Eastern Europe
1. Western Europe
5. Other
4. Middle East
3. Africa
2. Eastern Europe
1. Western Europe
8%
5%
16%
16%
55%
Revenue (£m)
£775.6m  +10.9%
Operating profit
*
 (£m)
£59.9m  +16.1%
*
 Before exceptional items.
Revenue (£m)
£ 111.3m  +15.7%
Operating profit
*
 (£m)
£8.3m  -7.8%
*
 Before exceptional items.
Revenue (£m)
£26 1.3m  +7.4%
Operating profit
*
 (£m)
£15.7m  +0.6%
*
 Before exceptional items.
Revenue (£m)
£45 1.5m  +13.1%
Operating profit
*
 (£m)
£ 1 2.9m  +89.7%
*
 Before exceptional items.
Overview
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2
About Keller
Global
We operate in over 40 countries: we are  
the clear market leader in North America, 
Australia and South Africa; we have prime 
positions in most established European 
markets; and we have a strong profile  
in many developing markets. 
North America
We are the market leader in North America, where we have had a 
market presence for over 30 years. Today, we operate from locations 
spanning the US and Canada. Hayward Baker offers extensive ground 
engineering solutions across North America. In the US, Case, McKinney 
and HJ are heavy foundation specialists and Suncoast provides post-
tension cable systems. In Canada, Geo-Foundations specialises in 
micro-piling, ground anchors, and specialty grouting services and  
Keller Canada offers a broad range of piling solutions.
Asia
In recent years we have built up our presence in Asia, where we  
started life as a ground improvement specialist, but now offer a wide 
range of foundation services. We are well established in Singapore,  
India and Malaysia, with developing businesses in other parts of the 
ASEAN Region. In Asia we generally operate as Keller, although the 
Resource Piling name has been retained alongside the Keller brand  
in Singapore.
Australia
Frankipile, Vibro-Pile and Piling Contractors offer a range of piling 
services. Keller Ground Engineering (‘KGE’) offers specialist ground 
improvement and geotechnical solutions. Waterway Constructions 
(‘Waterway’) specialises in foundations for, and the maintenance of, 
wharves, jetties and other marine structures. 
Although they specialise in different techniques, on very large or complex 
projects, the companies may join forces, under the Keller Australia brand.
EMEA
Our EMEA division has operations across Europe, the Middle East and 
Africa, together with a developing business in Latin America. We operate 
as Keller in most of these regions, other than Sub-Saharan Africa, where 
we operate under the Franki brand. 
Where we operate
From our centres of excellence in more than 40 countries  
around the world, we deliver exact combinations of industry-leading 
expertise to the most challenging projects and locations.
The Group has operations in over 40 countries, including:
Algeria
Angola
Australia
Austria
Bahrain
Brazil
Canada
Czech Republic
Egypt
Finland
France
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Italy
Malaysia
Mauritius
Morocco
Mozambique
Netherlands
Oman
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Slovakia
South Africa
Spain
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
UAE
Ukraine
United Kingdom
USA
Vietnam Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy Overview
3 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Precision
We are the world’s largest independent 
ground engineering specialist, renowned  
for providing technically advanced and  
cost-effective foundation solutions.
Our services are used across the 
construction sector in infrastructure, 
industrial, commercial residential  
and environmental projects. 
Ground improvement
Ground improvement techniques are used to prepare the ground for 
new construction projects and to reduce the risk of liquefaction in areas 
of seismic activity.
Keller was the first to develop methods and equipment for the successful 
deep compaction of soil in the 1930s and has continued to develop the 
equipment and widen its application. Common soil stabilisation techniques 
include a combination of vibro-compaction with stone, concrete or lime 
columns as well as soil mixing and injection systems. 
Anchors, nails and minipiles
Anchors, nails and minipiles can provide temporary or permanent 
solutions for a wide range of stability or support problems and are often 
used to underpin or stabilise buildings, slopes and embankments.
Piling and earth retention
Piling involves the installation of structural elements to transfer foundation 
loads through weak soils to stronger underlying ground. Keller offers a 
wide range of piling and earth retention systems including diaphragm walls 
and marine piles. Piles may be pre-formed and driven into the ground or 
cast in situ. 
Specialty grouting
Specialty grouting strengthens target areas in the ground and controls 
ground water flow through rocks and soils by reducing their permeability. 
It is applicable both to new construction projects and to repair and 
maintenance work. Other applications include excavation support, 
settlement control and geo-environmental services to protect adjacent 
ground from contamination.
Post-tension concrete
Post-tension cable systems are used to reinforce concrete foundations 
and structural spans, enhancing their load-bearing capacity by applying  
a compressive force to the concrete, once set. Suncoast’s post-tension 
systems are used in foundation slabs for single family homes and, in the 
commercial high-rise sector, in concrete structural spans and beams.
Instrumentation and monitoring
Keller specialises in providing instrumentation and monitoring solutions 
for a wide range of applications. We provide and install a wide range of 
instruments and then provide reliable and repeatable data presenting it  
to our clients in the most effective and user friendly way.
Approximate split of services
pie = 34.75mm
circle = 26.414mm
2
3
4
6. Instrumentation and monitoring
5. Post-tension concrete
4. Specialty grouting
3. Anchors, nails and minipiles
2. Ground improvement
1. Piling and earth retention
58%
1
5 6
6. Instrumentation and monitoring
5. Post-tension concrete
4. Specialty grouting
3. Anchors, nails and minipiles
2. Ground improvement
1. Piling and earth retention
5 6
50%
20%
10%
10%
9%
1%
Approximate split of services
pie = 34.75mm
circle = 26.414mm
2
2
3
3
4
4
6. Instrumentation and monitoring
5. Post-tension concrete
4. Specialty grouting
3. Anchors, nails and minipiles
2. Ground improvement
1. Piling and earth retention
58%
1
1
5 6
50%
20%
10%
10%
9%
1% Overview
Results
1
 
I am pleased to report a strong set of results for 
2014. Group revenue rose by 11% to £1,599.7m 
(2013: £1,438.2m). While this increase benefited 
from acquisitions made in the second half of 2013, 
this benefit was broadly offset by the adverse 
impact of the strengthening of sterling on the 
translation of the Group’s overseas revenues. 
Despite an adverse currency impact of £9.3m 
operating profit increased to £92.0m, was 18%  
up on the £77.8m in the previous year and profit 
before tax increased to £85.1m (2013: £74.1m). 
Earnings per share were 75.3p (2013: 73.0p).
We delivered another increase in the Group 
operating margin from 5.4% in 2013 to 5.8%, 
marking further progress in raising the margin 
towards our through-the-cycle target of 6.5%. 
The margin uplift reflects improving conditions  
in some of our markets, most notably the US, a 
continuing drive for improvements in all aspects 
of the business and a good performance on 
several major projects.
Cash generated from operations was £165.4m, 
representing 117% of EBITDA (2013: 106%). 2014 
was the third year in a row that cash generated 
from operations has exceeded EBITDA, reflecting 
the Group’s relentless focus on improving 
working capital ratios across the business and 
ensuring profits turn into cash. 
Year-end net debt was £102.2m (2013: £143.7m), 
representing 0.7x EBITDA. Net capital expenditure 
was £61.0m, up on last year’s £42.6m and amounting 
to 1.2x depreciation. This return to a more normal 
level of capital expenditure reflects higher 
revenues generally and the Group’s ongoing 
investment in higher growth markets.
During 2014, the Group refinanced its  
syndicated revolving credit facilities and raised  
new debt in the US private placement market.  
A £250m revolving credit facility expiring in 
September 2019 was agreed in July, replacing  
both the £170m facility expiring in April 2015  
and the US$150m facility expiring in July 2017.  
In the fourth quarter, the Group raised US$125m 
of new US private placement funds repayable  
in 2021 and 2024, US$70m of which was used  
to repay maturing borrowings.
The financial position of the Group remains  
very strong. There is comfortable headroom  
in the Group’s main financing facilities and we 
continue to operate well within all of our  
financial covenants.
Exceptional items
The 2014 result includes an exceptional charge 
relating to the settlement of a dispute on a 
completed contract of £54.0m and a number  
of much smaller non-trading exceptional items 
relating to acquisitions, which are required to  
be expensed under IFRS. 
The contract dispute relates to a project that the 
Group’s UK subsidiary, Keller Limited, completed 
in 2008. The dispute was subject to litigation 
proceedings involving a number of parties, but 
these were settled in February 2015. The final 
cost to Keller is subject to a number of remedial 
and other actions to be undertaken as part of the 
settlement agreement. The exceptional charge 
represents management’s best estimate of the 
net cost to Keller before taking account of future 
recoveries under applicable insurances, as these 
cannot be recognised under IFRS. 
After taking account of these exceptional items, 
the Group’s post-tax result for the year was a loss 
of £1.2m (2013: profit of £30.1m).
Roy A Franklin
Chairman
I am pleased to 
report a strong 
set of results  
for 2014.
Chairman’s statement 
4 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Dividends
As a result of these improved underlying results, 
the Board’s confidence in the business going 
forward and its commitment to a progressive 
dividend policy, the Board has decided to 
recommend a final dividend of 16.8p per share 
(2013: 16.0p per share), to be paid on 8 June 2015 
to shareholders on the register at 13 March 2015. 
Together with the interim dividend paid of 8.4p, 
this brings the total dividend per share for the 
year to 25.2p (2013: 24.0p), an increase of 5%. 
Dividend cover, before exceptional items, for  
the full year was 3.0x (2013: 3.0x). 
Strategy
The Group’s strategy remains to extend further 
our global leadership in specialist ground 
engineering through both organic growth and 
targeted acquisitions. We aim to deliver this 
through expanding in higher growth markets, 
developing and transferring technologies, offering 
design/build and alternative solutions and through 
a programme of business improvement initiatives.
Board 
In June 2014, we announced the appointment  
of Nancy Tuor Moore as an independent 
Non-executive Director to the Board and 
Chairman of our Health, Safety and Environment 
Committee. Nancy’s extensive international 
business experience, together with her proven 
record in winning and safely delivering both global 
and local contracts, will enable her to make a 
significant contribution to the Keller Board. 
In September 2014, Justin Atkinson announced  
his intention to retire as the Company’s CEO by 
the end of 2015 and we have commenced a search 
process to identify his successor. That search is in 
progress and we will notify shareholders as soon 
as we reach a conclusion. Meanwhile, Justin 
continues to deliver the Group’s strategy with  
the full support of the Board and his Executive 
management team.
Employees
Over 9,000 employees have contributed to the 
strong performance of the Group during 2014. 
On behalf of the Directors, I would like to thank 
them for their hard work and efforts. As a  
Board, we will continue to provide leadership  
and oversight in respect of the Keller culture, 
creating an environment in which our  
employees can thrive.
Outlook
After a relatively quiet period in the summer of 
2014, the Group’s contract awards have picked up 
in recent months. As a result, the order book at 
the end of January is 8% higher than at the same 
time last year. This increase is spread across all the 
Group’s divisions except Australia, where the 
Wheatstone contract, the largest in Keller’s 
history, is now largely complete.
The 2014 results demonstrate the continued 
strength of the Group’s business model. Our 
breadth of geographies and capabilities puts us in 
a good position to pursue future growth which, 
coupled with strong risk management and 
ongoing self-help measures, positions us well  
for the future.
Whilst conditions in our main markets remain 
mixed, the gradual upturn in the US, our largest 
market, continuing improvements in our 
operating performance and our strong order 
book mean that the Group is set for another  
year of good progress in 2015.
1
 Results stated before exceptional items of 
£56.9m (2013: £22.1m) before tax. These 
relate to a provision for the settlement of a 
contract dispute and non-trading costs 
relating to acquisitions.
£1,599.7 m
Revenue from continuing  
operations
To find out more please  
visit our website: www.keller.co.uk
5
Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy Overview
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Operating review
In 2014, the management team delivered strongly 
against the Group’s strategy. A combination of 
improving conditions in the US, our business 
improvement initiatives and our risk management 
programme delivered further growth in revenue 
and operating profit. Revenue of £1.6bn was an 
all-time high for the Group and we increased the 
operating margin to 5.8%, marking good progress 
towards achieving our through-the-cycle target  
of 6.5%. 
Update on business improvement 
initiatives
Safety
Safety remains paramount in our business and  
the Group’s ‘Think Safe’ programme continues to 
drive improvements and raise awareness. Whilst 
we are pleased to report that the Group’s AFR 
reduced from 0.61 to 0.39 during 2014, one of 
our employees died in a work-related accident 
whilst on a jobsite in Ghana in mid-June. Such  
a tragic event reminds us of why we must be 
relentless in our efforts to eliminate work-related 
accidents and increases our resolve to redouble 
our efforts on all aspects of the Group’s safety 
programme. To that end, the Group’s ‘Think Safe’ 
programme is being updated and relaunched  
later in 2015.
Large contracts
The more ambitious development projects and 
infrastructure plans that have started to appear 
on the world markets in the past few years are  
an indication of the impact of population growth 
and related urbanisation. Recognising this market 
trend, for the last three years we have been 
targeting larger contracts, which in our specialist 
market start at just £5m, to supplement the small 
to medium sized contracts which we perform  
as a matter of routine. In 2014, we significantly 
increased the number of orders of larger 
contracts and during the year 25% of revenue 
was from such contracts. We expect to make 
further progress in this area.
Risk management
Three years ago we increased our focus on risk 
management including the creation of the post of 
Group Technology & Best Practice Director. Since 
that time local risk systems and procedures have 
been refreshed, a Risk Management Framework 
has been introduced, our Bid Appraisal System 
has been updated and KPIs for poorly performing 
contracts have been introduced. As a result of 
these actions, the trend in improved contract 
performance has continued. Although the 
exceptional contract dispute in the UK predated 
this recent period, lessons have been learned 
from this project and have been disseminated 
throughout the Group.
Equipment
We have been working hard over recent years  
to improve the utilisation of our equipment by 
transferring equipment to where it is most 
needed, scrapping our older or obsolete 
machinery and by investing in newer equipment. 
This has meant that capital expenditure has 
increased in 2014 to be above depreciation, a 
level we expect to continue for the foreseeable 
future throughout business cycles. We have a 
small plant facility in Southern Germany where 
we manufacture a limited amount of proprietary 
equipment which cannot be bought on the open 
market and which we believe gives us a significant 
competitive advantage. We have committed to 
further investment in this facility in 2015.
Technology
Keller is the global leader in many technologies 
and has the broadest range of products in the 
industry. Much of the Group’s growth over the 
years has come from transferring technologies 
from one geography to another. Developing and 
transferring technologies therefore continues to 
be a major focus for us and is important for 
securing future growth. 
We identify opportunities for technology transfer, 
promote centres of excellence, organise training 
and workshops in new technologies and then 
facilitate and co-ordinate research and 
development. Examples of successful technology 
transfers in the year include introducing 
geotechnical products to our relatively new 
business in Africa and introducing driven piling 
into our Asian businesses. 
Conditions in our major markets
In the US, expenditure in private non-residential 
construction increased significantly for the second 
year, with good growth in most segments. In the 
residential market, housing starts were up 9% 
year-on-year although this was primarily driven  
by multi-family homes as growth in single family 
starts paused in the second half of the year. 
Perhaps most encouragingly, 2014 saw a return  
to growth in public expenditure on construction, 
with year on year spend up 2% after four years  
of decline.
In Canada, construction activity in the Western 
Canadian resources markets remains subdued but 
demand in the commercial and infrastructure 
segments is holding up well.
Conditions in most of our European markets 
remain challenging, particularly in Southern 
Europe. Looking at Keller’s most important 
markets, there are some reasonable prospects  
in both Poland and Austria, despite the overall 
markets being relatively quiet; demand for our 
services in Germany remains flat; and the UK is 
the one market which has returned to steady, 
albeit slow, growth.
There are good opportunities in the Middle East 
but the market remains very competitive. Since 
we acquired Franki Africa in November 2013, the 
construction market in South Africa has picked 
up. Whilst there are some exciting opportunities 
elsewhere in the continent, a number of them are 
in the oil and gas arena and their timing is 
therefore uncertain.
 
Construction expenditure in the Group’s Asian 
markets remains generally robust. There are a 
number of significant infrastructure projects in 
Singapore and the Malaysian construction market 
is buoyant. In India, we are continuing to see signs 
of increasing confidence after a couple of 
relatively slow years. 
In Australia, construction expenditure across 
virtually all segments, including the resources 
sector, has been subdued for some time and 
there are no significant signs of this changing in 
the short term. The exception has been in LNG, 
where Keller has won and performed successfully 
a number of large projects, including the 
Wheatstone project, although the foundation 
works for the LNG plants under construction in 
Australia are now effectively complete. Whilst 
there are some significant infrastructure projects 
on the horizon, these are unlikely to come to 
fruition in 2015.
Justin Atkinson
Chief Executive Officer
The management 
team delivered 
strongly against 
our strategy.
6
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s review Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc snapshot
Our vision
What we want to be
To be the best at being global and the best at being local.
Our mission
What we set out to achieve
To provide technically advanced and cost-effective foundation solutions in order to deliver long term value to 
our shareholders.
Our services
What we do
P.2–3
Piling and  
earth retention
Ground 
improvement
Anchors, nails  
and minipiles
Specialty  
grouting
Post-tension 
concrete
Instrumentation 
and monitoring
Our markets
Where we operate
P.8–9
Business model
How the business delivers 
value
P.10–11
Our strategy
How we will achieve our 
mission
P.12–13
Our strategy is to extend our global leadership in 
specialist ground engineering through both organic 
growth, particularly in developing markets, and 
targeted acquisitions.
There are five main elements to our strategy:
Expansion  
– into new, higher growth regions
New technologies and methods 
– developed or acquired 
Transfer of technologies  
– and methods within our current regions
Design and build  
– capability and offering alternative solutions
Continuous improvement  
– to maintain our competitive edge
KPIs
How we monitor our success
P.23
We measure our strategy against a focused set of five 
key performance indicators:
A
 Revenue growth compared with market growth
B
 Operating margins 
C
 Return on net operating assets
D
 Accident Frequency Rate
E
 Staff turnover rate
Risks
How we manage our markets  
and operating environment
P.22–23
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the  
Group business model, strategy and resources.  
We have five key risks across our business:
Market cycles
Tendering and management of contracts
Expansion
Safety
People
Resources and 
relationships
What we need to achieve  
our mission
P.24–25
There are four main areas where our business impacts 
on society and where we have responsibilities which 
extend beyond our financial performance:
Safety 
Environment 
Workplace and People 
Communities
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7
North America 
We are the market leader in North America where  
we have had a market presence for over 30 years.
EMEA 
Our EMEA division has operations across Europe,  
the Middle East and Africa, and a developing business 
in Latin America.
Asia 
In recent years we have built up our presence in Asia.
Australia 
We operate under five business units throughout 
Australia. Although they specialise in different 
techniques, on very large or complex projects, they 
may join forces, under the Keller Australia brand.
Our business model is founded on a number of key 
pillars and is the key enabler of our strategy: 
Expertise
Safety
Technology
People Local
Competition
Local competition is highly fragmented 
comprising many small businesses, often 
family-owned, with limited equipment capacity 
and few (or single) product lines.
Types of project
Standard foundations for small to medium 
structures, where ground conditions are 
relatively straightforward.
Keller’s advantage in this segment
Our structure enables us to compete with 
local players for small-to-medium-sized 
contracts.
National
Competition
In Europe, competition is often owned by general 
contractors. In the US and Australia, these 
services are usually outsourced. Independent 
national competitors tend to be privately owned.
Types of project
As local markets, together with foundations for 
larger structures and more complex solutions for 
challenging ground conditions.
Keller’s advantage in this segment
We have a wide network of subsidiary companies 
and branch offices employing local people with 
knowledge of:
 – national building codes
 – local language and business culture
 – local ground conditions
50%
     the growth of our US business over three years 
in comparison to 24% US market growth
1
1
 Market growth for the total US construction market, 
from data published by the US Census Bureau of the 
Department of Commerce on 2 February 2015.
For more information 
www.keller.co.uk/aboutkeller/businesses.aspx
The best of being local
 – our wide network of regional offices allows 
Keller to be responsive and competitive in  
local markets
 – this, in turn, means that our revenue is spread 
over some 7,000 contracts with an average value 
of around £250,000
 – market decisions are made ‘close to the ground’ 
by highly experienced managers with real 
accountability
 – we can respond to the changing dynamics of our 
business in a timely and informed way
 – an entrepreneurial culture allows us to compete 
in an industry dominated by entrepreneurs
The best of being global
 – we can join forces across company and  
country borders to tackle big opportunities  
and challenging jobs
 – we share technologies and equipment
 – we exchange best practice and information 
across the Group
 – we have common operating rules, including our 
safety programme and Code of Conduct, which 
means that customers see a consistent Keller 
approach, wherever in the world we operate
 – our brand recognition is unrivalled by local/
regional players
 – our financial strength is unrivalled by most 
competitors
For a precise understanding of how we  
see the markets in which we operate:  
www.keller.co.uk
8
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Our markets
Trends, insights and opportunities 39 %
     the growth of our Australian business over 
three years in comparison to 2% Australian 
market growth
1
1
 Market growth for the total Australian construction 
market, from data published by the Australian Bureau 
of Statistics in September 2014.
For more information: 
www.keller.co.uk/aboutkeller/businesses.aspx
International
Competition
Only very few competitors can claim to  
have a truly global capability, strong financial 
credentials and the ability to offer a full 
product range.
Types of project
Large-scale projects, requiring capacity  
or expertise which may not be available 
in-country. Often direct foreign investment, 
where funders or clients prefer to contract 
with international partners.
Keller’s advantage in this segment
As the largest independent operator with  
a global presence, we can:
 – follow known customers into new  
geographic markets
 – pool our global resources and expertise
 – meet the stringent quality, safety and ethical 
standards of our blue-chip customers
Market insights
The unique nature of Keller’s business  
and global operations means that there  
are few, if any, directly comparable companies, 
particularly given the current macro-economic 
and stock market conditions. The most 
relevant comparable companies for Keller 
can be analysed in three distinct groups:  
the foundation companies, building and 
construction companies, and construction/
services businesses.
For more information: 
www.keller.co.uk/investor/shareinfo/
shareprice.aspx
Market drivers 
Throughout the world, we expect the growth  
in specialist ground engineering to exceed the 
growth in general construction, driven over the 
medium-to-long term by such trends as shown  
in the graphic to the right. 
 
In our developing markets, additional drivers,  
such as population growth, urbanisation, rapid 
industrialisation and increased overseas trade,  
are expected to sustain high levels of investment 
across the whole construction sector over the 
medium-to-long term and we continue to 
strengthen our position in these regions.
3
The prevalence of very large-scale development projects.
2
Climate change, triggering more river and dam flood protection projects.
4
The need for investment in energy capacity.
5
The renewal of outdated road and rail infrastructure.
1
Increasing land shortage, driving a need to use more brownfield and marginal land.
9
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 We are the world’s largest independent ground 
engineering specialist, providing technically 
advanced and cost-effective foundation solutions. 
Our services are used across the construction 
sector in infrastructure, industrial, commercial, 
residential and environmental projects. They 
include piling and earth retention: specialty 
grouting; anchors, nails and minipiles; ground 
improvement; post-tension concrete; and 
instrumentation and monitoring.
We are part of a supply chain that begins with the 
materials with which we work on-site to deliver 
tailored solutions for our numerous clients. 
We have unrivalled coverage in North America, 
Europe, Australia, and South Africa and a growing 
presence in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America.
We have direct control over the development  
of our own technology and the human and 
intellectual property to make it operable. Our 
business model is underpinned by robust bidding 
processes, tight cost control, strong corporate 
governance and meticulous risk management.
We are at our best when:
 – a trusted brand is important – permitting us  
to provide a premium service at a fair price 
 – our superior capabilities give us a  
competitive edge 
 – time-critical delivery of quality is key 
 – complex projects require precise sequences  
of skills to be delivered 
 – the environment provides particular or  
new challenges.
With an annual turnover of £1.6bn, we have 
around 9,000 staff world-wide with offices in 
more than 40 countries.
Expertise
We offer solutions that are both tailored and 
value-engineered. Our strong engineering 
capability enables us to offer the most cost-effective, 
complete packaged solutions which are tailored 
to meet the specific needs of our customers, 
helping them to keep down their costs.
Although we have many repeat customers, 
we have a diverse customer base and we  
are totally independent of all general  
contractor organisations.
Customer partnership is a key element in Keller’s 
value creation. We are focused on achieving 
technical and financial project optimisation by 
working closely with architects, engineers, 
construction managers and contractors from 
project inception to conclusion.
We offer the full range of ground engineering 
products and technologies under one brand 
allowing us to introduce new technologies to  
new markets where we see an opportunity.
Safety
The Group’s standards on Safety are embraced 
within the ‘Think Safe’ framework. The 
framework sets out minimum requirements for:
 – leadership
 – having an effective HSE management system  
in place
 – developing and implementing annual HSE 
improvement plans
 – ensuring all staff are competent through  
effective training and recruitment
 – providing the channels through which staff  
and sub-contractors can communicate any  
HSE concerns
 – monitoring how the HSE systems are  
effectively mitigating the identified risks; and
 – putting in place an annual audit and review 
programme to check those systems are being 
complied with and that they remain valid.
Each business unit also has qualified and 
competent support resources in place to provide 
guidance on compliance with and implementation 
of the Group standards. 
The Board has established a HSE Committee  
that provides independent review and direction 
on performance where necessary to the Board. 
Operational delivery is managed through an 
Executive Committee which reports directly  
to the Chief Executive and, through him, to  
the Board.
Technology
Centres of excellence provide support for  
the continuous development of methods and 
equipment and the transfer of technology 
between Keller companies worldwide.
We have capabilities which give us a clear 
competitive advantage: 
 – bigger and more sophisticated foundation 
systems, often requiring specialist equipment; 
 – foundations for safety- and quality-critical 
environments; and
 – bespoke solutions with a high design content.
KGS is our specialist facility in Germany providing 
the following services for the Group:
 – equipment rental and utilisation
 – manufacturing, repair, service and maintenance
 – R&D
 – improvement of existing machinery.
The Director of Technology and Best Practice has 
established a steering group to identify specific 
technology requirements/skill sets required in the 
Group and workshops are held during the year 
that bring together the best of our technical 
experts to work on these and produce best 
practice for the rest of the Group.
Keller has the 
broadest range  
of products in the 
industry.
10
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Our business model People
We are a decentralised organisation with  
a devolved management structure, which 
enables the Group to be managed in an 
effective way. Within a clear control 
framework, local managers have autonomy  
in running their businesses, whilst working 
together to share best practice and expertise 
around the Group, seek synergies and cost 
savings, improve performance and achieve 
economies of scale wherever possible.  
There are many regular forums for working 
together across the Group, from the  
high-level Executive, Technical and  
Equipment Committees to various  
functional working groups.
We believe that this structure allows us to 
combine the ‘best of being global’ with the 
‘best of being local’, striking the optimal  
balance between encouraging local initiative 
and entrepreneurial spirit and working 
together, where to do so benefits the  
Group as a whole. 
Our culture helps us to attract and retain  
the best people, allowing us to accumulate  
a wealth of knowledge and experience. 
Clients 
Clients can be global – whereby we can bring 
together resource and technology from our 
four divisions to bid for and carry out contracts 
under the Keller brand. 
Clients can be localised – whereby we can use 
one of our local brands and people who they 
trust, as well as Keller technology, to bid and 
carry out contracts.
Very often we will joint venture with a main 
contractor on a bid – having local brands 
enables us to joint venture with more than  
one bidding contractor for the same contract 
where we can offer different products and 
solutions but whichever brand wins the  
work we will draw on Keller resource and 
technology to ensure the work is carried  
out in the most effective way.
We value highly the customers in our 
day-to-day business and we constantly strive  
to meet their needs through the consistent 
execution of many small-to-medium-sized 
contracts. One or more of our businesses  
can provide our customers with world-class 
solutions, individually or combined, locally  
or nationally.
Our large network of regional offices and our 
strong local relationships ensure that we can 
understand our clients and respond to their 
needs. And the combined strength and 
capabilities of our Group allow us to  
respond rapidly when needs change. 
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
11 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Our strategy 
Our strategy is to extend our global leadership  
in specialist ground engineering through both 
organic growth, particularly in developing 
markets, and targeted acquisitions. 
In 2014, we continued to make progress in 
delivering against our strategy. There are five 
elements to our strategy: 
Our long term growth track record is  
built on a combination of organic growth  
and acquisitions.
We continued to fund research into future 
technologies, including:
 – selection of best drilling methods and tools; 
 – new materials for use in geotechnical  
solutions; and 
 – electronic data acquisition and workflow 
control.
Our equipment facility, which designs and 
manufactures our specialist plant, continued  
its programme of enabling new, more  
efficient methods through the adaptation  
and optimisation of our plant.
Through acquisition we create new routes  
to market for the Group’s geotechnical 
solutions. We also continue our programme  
of Group-wide engineering seminars to share 
knowledge within Keller of some of our  
newer or less widely used technologies.
For piling solutions, which account for  
around 50% of Keller’s revenue, Keller often 
has only limited design input, being required  
to install piles to the customer’s or engineer’s 
specifications. Of Keller’s ground improvement 
and grouting solutions, a sizeable proportion  
is ‘design and construct’.
Risk management including:
 – participation in large and complex projects
 – equipment management
 – safety management.
Continuous improvement
– to maintain our competitive edge
Design and build
– capability and offering  
alternative solutions
Transfer of technologies
– and methods within our  
current regions
New technologies and methods
– developed or acquired
Expansion
– into new, higher-growth regions
12
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Description Successful integration of Franki Africa.
Sales offices established in Rio de Janeiro, São 
Paulo, Santiago de Chile, Lima, Panama and 
Mexico City.
Ansah joined the Keller Asia Division broadening 
its product offerings (Driven Piling).
Whilst the US dominates near term investor 
thinking and we can see further growth in that 
region, longer term focus will shift to higher 
growth emerging markets:
 – Asia
 – Africa
 – Middle East
 – Latin America
C Return on net operating assets
Cyntech Anchors, part of Keller Canada, had a 
very successful year aided by sales in the US.
Internal design and manufacturing of a telescopic 
bottom feed tube for vibro stone columns in air 
height restriction areas.
Internal design and manufacturing of an 
extendable vibrator tube for works in air  
height restrictive areas.
Our range of technologies and products coupled 
with the ability to bring them together in one 
project, makes us unique in our markets.
C Return on net operating assets
D Accident Frequency Rate
E Staff turnover rate
In EMEA improved software for specific 
geotechnical design launched in all business units. 
We have started the transfer of our technologies 
to Franki Africa.
Our global clients have an expectation that we 
can provide the best technology, regardless of 
geography.
We expect that an increasing market acceptance 
of new techniques over time will offer significant 
long-term organic growth potential.
C Return on net operating assets
E Staff turnover rate
We continue to offer an extended product range 
leading to further design and build opportunities.
Around 50% of our 2014 revenue was from 
design and build work, bringing together key 
technologies and Keller companies to execute  
our strategy.
Examples are:
 – Boufarik Power Plant, Algeria
 – Berlin State Opera House, Germany (page 16).
Construction markets globally remain challenging.
By differentiating our offer both globally and 
locally we can remain competitive.
A  Revenue growth compared  
with market growth
A further improvement in our operating margin.
Another record year in the number of large and 
complex projects won:
 – Elliott Bay Seawall, Seattle
 – Caspian region
 – Changi Airport, Singapore and;
 – Koralm railway line in Austria.
Keller’s high standards of quality (compliance 
policy, health and safety) helped positioning as  
a partner of key customers.
In EMEA our self help initiatives have 
demonstrably improved margins and profitability 
absent of an upturn in the wider economy.
Larger contracts – limit competition, give greater 
pricing power and improve visibility.
B Operating margins
D Accident Frequency Rate
E Staff turnover rate
13
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Progress Market KPIs (definitions can be found on page 23) Services used
Specialty grouting
The 100 year old seawall, built on top of wood 
piling, was built to provide level access to 
Seattle’s piers and supports the Alaskan Way 
Viaduct and Alaskan Way itself. 
Keller Company
Hayward Baker Seattle
www.hayward-baker.com 
Technologies used
Jet grouting
Size of contract
$41m (£25m)
Customer
City of Seattle
Number of people on site
80
Background
Hayward Baker is currently performing jet 
grouting to depths of up to 85 feet to provide 
seismic stability and foundation support for the 
repair and replacement of a 3,681 foot (0.7-mile) 
section of the 100-year-old Elliott Bay Seawall. 
Many of the existing timber piles supporting the 
existing seawall and adjacent roadway did not 
sufficiently penetrate underlying liquefiable soils 
and have significantly deteriorated over time, 
making the structure increasingly susceptible to 
storm, tidal, and earthquake damage. Jet 
grouting is a construction method that is 
minimally disruptive to the critical, below 
ground utility infrastructure within an urban 
setting. Jet grouting does not require the 
removal of the existing timber piles, further 
reducing disruption of the infrastructure and 
surrounding downtown environment. 
Relocation of resources
The team comprised of Hayward Baker and  
field staff from the Seattle, Santa Paula, and 
Baltimore offices, providing the company’s jet 
grouting experts and a wide array of resources.
HSE good practice 
Two of Hayward Baker’s employees, both 
operating engineers, have been selected by  
their peers to serve as non-management 
representatives on the job-site HSE Committee. 
They vigorously participate and contribute useful 
and thoughtful observations and suggestions. 
They are also keen on following up on the 
feedback on behalf of their peers to verify that 
each suggestion receives timely attention. This is 
truly valued by the long time superintendent, 
whose leadership style empowers his 
subordinates and fosters the safety culture we 
highly value. The team trust him and are unafraid  
to ask questions and make suggestions knowing 
that he has everyone’s best interests at heart.
In addition, one of Hayward Baker’s long standing 
drillers ensures that the drill helpers (labourers) 
are always safe and well situated when he is on 
the drill controls. He plans his work in such a way 
as to put their safety and well-being first. This 
includes keeping housekeeping first and foremost 
in his thoughts. He communicates his intentions 
very clearly to all those around him at all times. 
He is also very eager to participate in safety 
discussions and is not afraid to speak up as and 
when needed. As an experienced driller, with 
many inexperienced hands around him, he sets 
an excellent example for others to follow, and 
acts as a leader as far as safety is concerned.
Another colleague at Hayward Baker manages 
the spoils operations coordinating large 
numbers of spoils trucks/trailers. In the 
congested site, this is a critical task. She has 
taken ownership of her work area and the safety 
of all concerned. She not only recognises 
potential hazards (and reports them) but also 
works diligently to correct them immediately. 
She does not hesitate to discuss these issues 
with her managers should she not be able to 
address the concerns with her own resources 
immediately. Most importantly, once a safety 
correction has been made, she ensures that  
it is upheld and maintained.
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14
Strategy in action  USA 14/07/2014, 11:24 
Elliott Bay Seawall,  
Seattle, Washington
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 Berlin State  
Opera House
Germany 07/04/2014, 16:14
Strategy
16 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategy in action  
continued Berlin State  
Opera House
Germany 07/04/2014, 16:14
Services used
Piling and  
earth retention
Anchors, nails  
and minipiles
Specialty 
grouting
Post-tension 
concrete
Instrumentation  
and monitoring
Founded in 1743, the original building was 
commissioned by King Frederick II of Prussia 
shortly after his accession to the throne. It was 
the first free-standing opera house in Germany.
Size of contract 
€17m (£13.7m)
(joint venture with Bauer Spezialtiefbau GmbH)
Location
Deutsche Staatsoper Berlin
Hinter der Katholischen Kirche 2 
10117 Berlin, Germany
Customer
Senatsverwaltung für Stadtentwicklung Berlin
Number of technologies in use
 – 1,400m² diaphragm walls 
 – 5,500 metres bored piling (D 880/1,200) 
 – 400m² Berlin type pit lining 
 – 3,300m² jet grouting slabs (medium-rise level)
 – 5,700 metres anchors 
 – 10,000 metres pin piles 
 – 35m³ injection (acryl) 
 – steel bracing 
 – dewatering 
 – 40,000m³ excavation works 
 – measurement technique 
 – 3,300m² subbase.
Short description of background  
and work
The Berlin State Opera is housed in a building 
originally constructed as the Royal Opera in 
1743, the first free-standing opera house in 
Germany. It is now undergoing renovation  
work at a cost of around €300m.
In 2011, Keller Grundbau extended its product 
range to include complete excavation pits and 
the successful completion of this contract, being 
undertaken in joint venture, will provide an 
excellent reference for similar future projects. 
The excavation is to a depth of 12 to 14 metres.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
17 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Singapore 19/1 1/2014, 10:36
Sengkang General
Hospital
18
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategy in action  
continued Services used
Piling and  
earth retention
Slated for completion in 2018, this future 
1,400-bed integrated hospital development  
will deliver all major healthcare disciplines  
to five million people.
Size of contract 
Approximately SGD 56m (£28m)
Location
Sengkang, Singapore
Customer
Ministry of Health, Government of Singapore
Scope of work
 – 1,034 foundation bored piles: diameter  
0.8 to 2.2 metres.  
Deepest piles were 81 metres.
 – 1,437 secant bored piles: 
18 to 34 metres depth
 – Diaphragm wall (subcontracted to  
Bachy Soletanche)
 – Civil works
 – Capping beams
 – Hospital mock-up building
Short description of background  
and work
Contract is the largest single contract executed 
by Resource Piling, and one of the largest in  
Keller Asia. 
Project characterised by large number of  
rigs mobilised to site, with piling works finishing 
comfortably ahead of contract schedule  
(four months). 
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 Services used
Piling and  
earth retention
At midday the temperature reaches 46ºC, 
baking the ground to the hardness of granite.
Keller Australia in association with its piling 
member companies has overcome key 
challenges and is largely complete under its 
contract with Bechtel on the Chevron-operated 
Wheatstone Project, located at Ashburton 
North, 12 kilometres west of Onslow in 
Western Australia.
Keller Australia’s contract to procure, install  
and test around 20,000 piles is valued at over 
AUD $200m (£105m) and the scope presented  
a range of complex challenges such as logistics 
with Ashburton North located around 
1,400 kilometres north of Perth on the  
Pilbara coast.
Overcoming the logistics challenges were a focus 
for the Keller tender team and as early as 2010, 
while the Wheatstone Project was in FEED 
(Front End Engineering and Design), the Keller 
team was working through a myriad of challenges 
that included meeting complex construction 
methodologies, innovative safety solutions,  
and quality and environmental requirements  
to secure a turnkey package.
Keller Australia’s piling mobilisation began in  
May 2013 with the main piling works 
commencing in June.
On the Wheatstone Project Keller Australia  
is also conducting certification and maintenance 
of piling platforms, storage, transport and 
distribution of piles, pile set out, pre-drilling, pile 
dynamic and static tests, trimming and splicing  
of piles, and removal and disposal of soil heave. 
Driven piles are typically 18.0 metres in length 
and are split into three types, namely 355.6mm, 
457.0mm and 610.0mm diameter.
The piles are received on-site where Keller’s 
team of around 85 personnel work a 4 weeks  
on and 1 week off roster. The team includes 23 
site project staff in roles such as Project and 
Construction Management, Environmental 
Safety and Health, Site Supervision, Engineering, 
Planning, QA and Technical, Testing, Survey, 
Procurement, Logistics, Financial and 
Administration.
The site team also has three dedicated Health, 
Safety and Environment employees who work 
tirelessly to maintain the Keller team’s focus on 
safety and the environment. To date the Keller 
team has achieved in excess of a quarter of a 
million project hours without lost time injury 
while undertaking over 1,000 Pre-Start 
Meetings, writing over 450 Job Hazard Analysis 
work sheets, compiling in excess of 40 Safe 
Work Method Statements and undertaking 430 
Site ES&H Audits and Inspections. To date the 
Keller site team have been awarded ‘Safety 
Subcontractor of the Year 2013’, the ‘Chevron 
Project Director’s Award’ and the ‘Bechtel 
Model Safety and Behavior Award’ as well as 
receiving the ‘Subcontractor of the Month 
Award’ on numerous occasions.
The project’s People-Based Safety (PBS) 
Observational and Feedback Process has 
ensured that the project team remains focused 
and is underpinned with the Keller Think Safe, 
Work Safe, Home Safe mantra.
Another priority is innovation. One of the key 
innovations is a paperless system to digitally 
record the progress of the works. The pile 
installation crews on site use an electronic tablet 
to scan pile bar codes and record pile installation 
information such as pile type, position, 
verticality, driven length and final set. Data is 
then automatically matched with the information 
provided by the rig iPiler system and any PDA or 
static test results, pile pre-drilling and/or welding 
data. Finally this data is automatically uploaded 
into our Project Cloud where it is checked and 
approved in real time by Chevron’s engineering, 
procurement, construction and commissioning 
contractor, Bechtel.
Keller Australia is focused on risk reduction and 
the project team developed a comprehensive risk 
management plan with project execution risks 
identified and where possible controls implemented 
to mitigate or eliminate exposure. Specifically, 
prior to mobilisation Keller Australia identified 
logistical challenges involved in maintaining 
distribution of over 100 piles to the rigs each and 
every day. The effective management of both the 
off-site and on-site storage yards and subsequent 
success of the sideloaders mitigated this risk.
20 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategy
Strategy in action  
continued Australia 25/07/2014, 13:07
Wheatstone, 
Western Australia
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
21 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties
Whilst our business will always be subject to 
economic cycles, market risk is reduced by the 
diversity of our markets, both in terms of 
geography and market segment. 
It is also partially offset by opportunities for 
consolidation in our highly fragmented 
markets. 
Typically, even where we are the clear leader, 
we still have a relatively small share of the 
market. Our ability to exploit these 
opportunities through bolt-on acquisitions is 
reflected in our track record of growing sales, 
and doing so profitably, across market cycles.
It is in the nature of our business that we 
continually assess and manage technical, and 
other operational, risks. 
We recognise the risks associated with 
acquisitions and expanding into new regions 
and aim to manage these to acceptable levels.
These include various country risks, including 
the challenges of operating within different 
business and safety cultures.
When considering an acquisition, we try to get 
to know a target company, often working in 
joint venture, to understand the operational 
and cultural differences and potential synergies.
Keller is made up of businesses of varying sizes 
operating around the world, often in 
challenging environments.
It is essential that, as we continue to grow and 
move into new regions, we can be sure that 
our approach to safety is equally rigorous, no 
matter whereabouts in the world, or on which 
projects, we are working.
The risk of losing, or not being able to attract, 
good people is key. 
We pride ourselves in having some of the best 
professional and skilled people in the industry, 
who are motivated by our culture and the 
opportunities for career growth.
Our risks
Risks can materialise and impact on both  
the achievement of business strategy and the 
successful running of our business. A key element 
in achieving our strategy and maintaining services 
to customers is the management of these risks. 
Our risk management strategy is therefore to 
support the successful running of the business by 
identifying and managing risks to an acceptable 
level and delivering assurances on this.
How we identify risk
Our risk identification processes seek to  
identify risks from both a top down strategic 
perspective and a bottom up local operating 
company perspective.
The Board
The Board has overall responsibility for risk 
management, the setting of risk appetite and the 
implementation of the risk management policy. 
The Board reviews and challenges the Group  
Risk Report. 
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee ensures adequate  
assurance is obtained over the risks that  
are identified in the Group Risk Report.  
The Audit Committee is also responsible for  
the independent review and challenge of  
the adequacy and effectiveness of the  
risk management approach.
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is responsible for the 
identification, reporting and ongoing management 
of risks and for the stewardship of the risk 
Risk Description
Market cycles
The Group’s broad base helps  
to mitigate against the risk of 
downturn in our markets
Tendering and  
management  
of contracts
Project risk is managed 
throughout the life of a 
project from the tendering 
stage to completion
Expansion
Our long-term growth  
track record is built on a 
combination of organic growth 
and acquisitions
Safety
The construction industry  
poses significant safety challenges, 
but we do  
not view injuries as  
being inevitable
People
The accumulation of  
knowledge and experience  
is essential to helping  
our customers to find  
the best solutions
22
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategy of geographic diversification:
 – operations in over 40 countries
 – broad customer base
 – services used across all industry segments: 
infrastructure, industrial, commercial, residential  
and environmental.
A  Revenue growth compared with  
market growth
Definition and method of calculation 
Year-on-year sales growth (including 
acquisitions) in local currency compared  
with growth in the total regional  
construction market. 
B  Operating margin
Definition and method of calculation
Operating profit before exceptional items 
expressed as a percentage of revenue.
C  Return on net operating assets
Definition and method of calculation
Operating profit before exceptional items 
expressed as a percentage of average net 
operating assets (including goodwill acquired 
through acquisitions).
‘Net operating assets’ excludes net debt, tax 
balances, deferred consideration and net 
defined benefit pension liabilities.
D  Accident Frequency Rate
Definition and method of calculation
Accident frequency per 100,000 hours.
Lost time injuries are calculated as any incident 
over one day.
E  Staff turnover rate
Definition and method of calculation
Managerial, professional and technical staff 
leaving in the period, other than through 
redundancy or normal retirement, expressed 
as a percentage of employees in this category.
 – Risk Management Framework defines  
Minimum Standards
 – risk-based tender approval process, with  
clear delegations of authority
 – independent review of tenders
 – training for staff in the typical risk issues  
they may face when tendering for jobs, 
negotiating contracts and executing work
 – legal review of unusual or onerous  
contract terms.
 – project staff selected on the basis of their skills 
and experience
 – establishment of ‘centres of excellence’
 – periodic reviews of poorly performing contracts 
to establish lessons learned with the results 
communicated to all relevant staff.
 – moving into new geographic markets often 
involves following customers with whom we 
have previously worked
 – we deploy trusted and experienced personnel to 
establish and grow our business in new regions
 – robust operating rules, including our Think Safe 
framework and Code of Conduct, apply 
wherever in the world we are working.
 – cross-border support and sharing of expertise 
support the transfer of technologies
 – acquisition targets are usually well known  
to Keller
 – we have thorough due diligence processes, 
mostly undertaken by our own management
 – individual integration plans reflect the unique 
character of each acquisition.
 – Think Safe initiative rolled out across Group in 
2010 – a refresh of policies and guidance due to 
take place in 2015 
 – Group HSE Committee monitors safety 
programmes, sets targets for improvements  
and ensures lessons learned across the Group 
where appropriate.
 – Group HSE Director continues to drive 
improvement in safety standards and attitudes 
supported by regional HSE representatives in 
the divisions 
 – all divisions complete thorough self assessments 
annually of their safety performance and culture, 
which are used as a basis for developing safety 
improvement plans.
We aim to be a responsible employer for whom 
our employees are proud to work.
We provide excellent training and development 
opportunities; experience on challenging and 
high-profile projects; opportunities for 
international career growth; and good 
engagement and two-way communications.
We aim to treat our employees with fairness, 
dignity and respect.
management approach. The Executive  
Committee identifies and assesses the key 
strategic risks to the Group on an annual basis. 
The outputs of the assessment are sent to the 
divisional MDs for inclusion in their local risk 
assessment exercises. In addition, the Group Risk 
Report is reviewed and agreed by the Executive 
Committee prior to submission to the Board.
Divisional MDs
Divisional MDs are responsible for the 
identification, reporting and ongoing  
management of risks in their respective  
countries. They facilitate local risk assessment 
exercises to review the key strategic risks and to 
identify top local risks within their country. The 
outputs of these assessment exercises are sent to 
regional management and the Finance Director 
and Company Secretary for review and challenge.
Regional management
Regional management are responsible for the 
reporting, challenge and ongoing management  
of risks in their respective regions. Regional 
management, with support from their divisional 
MD, review and challenge the risk information 
from the countries and agree the regional 
response to the key strategic risks and the  
top regional risks.
How we manage risk
Our risk management process has been built to 
identify, evaluate, analyse and mitigate significant 
risks to the achievement of our strategy. 
Our risk appetite
We use risk appetite to ensure the appropriate 
focus is placed on the correct risks.
Controls and mitigation KPIs
23
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Asia               EMEA               North America               Australia               Group
12 month rolling Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) per 100,000 hours worked
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
Australia
North America
EMEA
Asia
Group
Dec
2014
Nov
2014
Oct
2014
Sep
2014
Aug
2014
Jul
2014
Jun
2014
May
2014
Apr
2014
Mar
2014
Feb
2014
Jan
2014
Dec
2013
Resources and relationships
There are four main areas where our  
business impacts on society and where we  
have responsibilities which extend beyond  
our financial performance. 
Safety
We want every person who works for us, or  
with us, to go home safely at the end of each day.
Environment
We want to reduce the impact of our operations 
on the environment and help to meet our 
customers’ environmental needs.
Workplace and people
We want to be known as a responsible  
employer which people are proud to join.
Communities
We want to continue to take a leadership role 
within our industry and to value, and be valued 
by, the communities in which we work.
The Board’s role is to provide effective leadership, 
establish overall policy for the Group and monitor 
the performance of the operating companies in 
relation to: health and safety; the environment; 
responsible employment; business ethics; and our 
interfaces with our communities. The Chief 
Executive is ultimately accountable for the Group 
operating in a way that is socially responsible. 
Our line managers are charged with: delivering 
performance safely and with integrity; supporting 
Group policy; and providing leadership within 
their companies. All employees are responsible 
for following Group policy with the support, 
direction and commitment of line management.
Our Code of Business Conduct, introduced in 
2012, sets out the Group’s policies and practices 
relating to: 
 – safety
 – environment
 – competition
 – price-sensitive information
 – equal opportunities
 – harassment
 – bribery, corruption and fraud
 – gifts and hospitality
 – whistle-blowing.
Our performance
Safety
While the Board and senior management remain 
focused on achieving our goal of zero injuries 
through continuous improvement in our health 
and safety performance, we deeply regret that  
an employee lost his life at work on a jobsite in 
Ghana in June 2014. This was the Group’s first 
fatality since 2011. Following the incident, the 
Group Chief Executive and the Group’s Health 
and Safety Director visited the site to ensure 
appropriate measures were implemented to 
prevent a recurrence and lessons learned  
across the Group.
With the support of our employees around the 
Group, we have worked hard to create a safe 
working environment across all of our businesses 
and we enter 2015 determined to achieve our 
goal of zero injuries.
In last year’s report, we undertook to report  
back on progress against our 2014 Group-wide 
objectives. These covered a number of high-risk 
areas within the business, and each had a 
completion date up to and including 2018.
Reduction in incidents associated with heavy 
plant and equipment: we focused on the 
prevention of large equipment overturning,  
using the outcome of a review to develop better 
guidance on prevention. This was carried out by 
the HSE safety team, together with our technical 
engineers. They looked at working platforms, 
operator competency and common 
circumstances where failures could occur.
2014: 8 recorded incidents (2013: 16)
Reduction in injuries to hands and feet: we 
introduced a ‘Carry Glove’ policy across the 
Group, supported with an awareness campaign 
that included local road shows and events. In a 
small number of instances, modifications were 
made to existing equipment to prevent  
access to moving parts. 
2014: 112 recorded incidents (2013: 158)
Occupational health and wellbeing: we reviewed 
the divisional offerings and adopted a Group 
policy setting minimum standards.
Implementation of OHSAS 18001 or an 
equivalent standard: each division has put  
in place a strategy and time frame to gain 
certification by 2018. The Group’s Head Office 
retained the certification it first gained in 2013.
Reduction of our Accident Frequency Rate 
(AFR): we achieved a reduction in our AFR.
2014: 0.39 (2013: 0.61)
6
Recorded incidents  
associated with heavy plant  
and equipment in 2014
(2013: 12 incidents)
24
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Environment 
Greenhouse gas reporting
Here we report the quantity of greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions for the year ended 
31 December 2014. We have adopted the 
International Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.  
In doing so, we have fulfilled our requirements 
under the UK’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013.
Reporting boundaries
To the best of our knowledge, we have included 
all material emission sources which fall within the 
boundaries of our consolidated accounts.
All direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) 
emissions are reported in absolute tonnes 
equivalent CO
2
. GHG included are carbon dioxide, 
methane and nitrous oxide emissions from the 
combustion of fuels mentioned below, and carbon 
dioxide emissions from the consumption of 
purchased electricity:
 – Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions: combustion  
of diesel, petrol, gas, oil and LPG.
 – Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions: purchased 
electricity consumed.
Data gaps and exclusions
Since adopting the International Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard in 2013, we have worked on improving 
the coverage and accuracy of the reporting. This 
is an ongoing exercise and this year the number  
of data gaps has significantly reduced.
Last year we first reported our GHG for the 56 
reporting units that made up the Group at that 
time, about 93% of which were able to provide 
some data on their primary emission sources. This 
year the Group has expanded to 63 reporting 
units with 98% now reporting some data, an 
improvement on the prior year. We have 
accounted for these new units in our calculation 
of the 2014 footprint, including the acquisitions  
at the end of 2013 and during 2014. Units also 
report more complete data sets than last year 
(more fuels reported, better coverage of the 
whole year).
Results
Summary Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for the 
Keller Group are shown below for 2013 and 2014.
Global GHG emissions data in tonnes of CO
2
e
Emissions from: 2014 2013
Scope 1 – Combustion of  
fuel & operation of facilities 170,031 135,179
Scope 2 – Electricity, heat, 
steam and cooling purchased  
for own use 9,531 6,225
Total 179,562 141,404
Intensity measurement: 
Absolute tonnes equivalent 
CO
2
e per £m of revenue
*
112 98
*
  These intensity measurement figures include the turnover 
of entities that do not report any consumption data. When 
excluding these entities from the total turnover, the figures 
are 103tCO
2
e/£m in 2013 and 1 12tCO
2
e/£m in 2014. It is  
not possible to quantify the difference made by the more 
accurate and complete reporting in 2014, but this would  
also serve to narrow the gap between the 2013 and 2014 
carbon intensity.
The increase is due to a number of factors 
including more complete reporting and the  
new units included in the total for 2014. Entities 
acquired at the end of 2013 and in 2014 account 
for 6% of the 2014 footprint. 
Third-party assurance statement
Keller Group plc appointed Anthesis Consulting 
Group to provide independent assurance on  
the 2014 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG accounts 
presented above. Their summary opinion  
is provided below (full opinion and 
recommendations are available on request):
Anthesis Consulting Group, February 2015
Sustainability
In 2014, we adopted a Group Sustainability Policy. 
It is our aim to become a leader in sustainability 
within our sector by 2020 and we have identified 
six priorities that we will take forward as a 
business to achieve this:
 – promote sustainable business growth
 – keep our people healthy and safe
 – support the low carbon economy
 – limit our environmental impact
 – be a responsible and inclusive employer
 – engage positively with communities.
HSE Committee
In June 2014, we reported the appointment  
of Nancy Tuor Moore to the Board as an 
independent Non-executive Director and as 
Chairman of the HSE Committee. Nancy has 
served on the board of directors of CH2M  
Hill, Inc., a global leader in consulting design, 
design-build and project management, latterly  
as Group President and Corporate Sponsor for 
Sustainability. Prior to that, she held a number  
of senior executive roles within CH2M Hill,  
both in the US and internationally, most notably 
leading the Rocky Flats Closure Project in  
Golden, Colorado, the world’s largest nuclear 
environmental clean-up programme, and 
delivering the Masdar City Project development, 
the desert community that aims to be carbon 
neutral and zero waste, in Abu Dhabi. As part of 
her induction, Nancy has been working with our 
Group HSE Director and his team to understand 
more fully the HSE culture within the Group and 
we look forward to reporting to you next year  
on areas in which we have been able to make 
further progress with her input.
“ Based on our review, we are not aware of any 
material modifications that should be made to 
Keller Group plc’s assertion that their Scope 1 
and 2 group inventory is in conformance with the 
requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013, following 
the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.”
Our Code of Business Conduct can be 
found on our website:  
www.keller.co.uk/how-we-do-it/code-of-business-
conduct
50%
Reduction in injuries  
to hands and feet
0.39
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
(2013: 0.61)
(per 100,000 hours worked)
25
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Resources and relationships  
continued
Workplace and people
Keller employs around 9,000 people worldwide, 
most of whom are working in front-line roles 
meeting with, and delivering for, our customers. 
We are only as good as our employees, which is 
why we want to be known as a responsible 
employer which people are proud to join. 
As a Group, we believe in treating all employees 
with dignity and respect and do not tolerate any 
form of harassment, discrimination or bullying. 
We are committed to creating a working 
environment in which every employee is 
employed and promoted solely on the basis of his 
or her merit and personal contribution. We aim 
to provide fair employment opportunity to all 
whilst not offending, or being insensitive to, the 
traditions and cultures of countries in which we 
operate. This is not only about ‘being fair’, it also 
makes sound business sense. 
We are committed to providing training and 
development opportunities which enable 
employees to perform at their best and increase 
their contribution to the Group. 
In addition to safety, technical and competency-
based training, management training programmes 
operate at a Group and at a divisional level. 
One of the ways in which we measure how well 
we are doing as an employer is to measure our 
staff turnover, and this key performance indicator 
for each division is shown in the Operating 
review.
Diversity
We believe that equal opportunity means hiring 
and retaining the best people, developing all 
employees to their potential and using their 
talents and resources to the full. Diversity of 
people, skills and abilities is a strength which will 
help us to achieve our best. 
At the end of the financial year, the breakdown  
of male/female employees was as follows:  
Male Female
Main Board directors  
(inc. Non-executive Directors) 6 2
Directors/senior managers 153 12
Managers 1,091 94
All employees 7,884 795
Communities
Geotechnical community
Our companies take a leadership role within their 
industry by providing employees, customers, 
suppliers and potential employees with technical 
papers, seminars, field trips and site visits. Staff 
from companies throughout the Group maintain 
close contact with partner universities in order to 
share best practice and provide examples of their 
leading-edge engineering. 
Many of our senior managers play key roles in the 
geotechnical construction industry’s professional 
associations and activities around the world, 
getting involved in writing building codes, 
specifications, guidelines, and industry-wide  
safety initiatives.
Wider community
In terms of engagement with the wider 
community in which we work, we are generally 
working for a main contractor, who is the party 
responsible for consulting with any community 
affected by the project. Our work comes at the 
outset of a project and we are typically on and  
off the project very quickly; and our job sites are 
often in remote locations, where we have no 
interface with members of the public. There are 
occasions when we are working in built-up areas 
or in proximity to the public, such as the London 
Crossrail and Victoria Station Upgrade projects, 
and on any such projects in particular we strive to 
reduce our noise and dust levels and to conduct 
our work in a considerate manner.
Typically, where we have some community 
engagement, it is by supporting our employees 
when they get involved with community groups 
and local charities. 
Ultimately, we want to be a sustainable business 
which earns the respect of all of our stakeholders 
by taking seriously our wider responsibilities. 
Looking ahead, we aim to bring greater definition 
to our sustainability agenda, as we continue to 
invest in our people, technology, systems and 
processes to enhance both our business 
performance and our reputation as a good 
corporate citizen.
9 ,000
Keller employees worldwide
26
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 T echnology and best practice
£15m
In 2014, Keller invested  
£15m in research, technology  
and equipment through KGS
Research
Keller in Australia is working in partnership  
with Monash University to develop geothermic 
piles incorporating heat exchangers for the 
intermittent storage of energy in soils for heating 
and cooling of buildings. This technology will 
minimise the carbon footprint of built structures, 
while also providing substantial long-term  
cost savings.
Hayward Baker (USA) is partnering with three 
US universities to design methods for using 
ground improvement in liquefaction remediation. 
Keller in the United Kingdom is working in 
partnership with Novacem on a carbon negative 
cement solution for the ground engineering 
industry. This Green solution can see energy savings 
of between 60-80% over traditional methods.
Case study: UXO detection
Occasionally, where required by a customer, 
Keller may be responsible for surveying the site 
for unexploded ordnance (‘UXO’) or unexploded 
bombs, before executing its own work. 
To limit the risk of explosive ordnance, Keller in 
Germany has developed an information leaflet 
together with the Construction Industry 
Association and other experts. 
For the first time this leaflet (edition of 9,000) 
contains a summary of all applicable norms and 
regulations and make them manageable for all 
users. The associated internet platform has 
already been visited 32,000 times 
(www.kampfmittelportal.de). 
Existing technologies
Keller has technologies which reduce the use of 
concrete without compromising on the strength 
and capability of the solution. These include hollow 
centred piles and the patented Gem-Tech process. 
Gem-Tech produces a lightweight, air-entrained 
material using a variety of additives as a catalyst. 
Costs savings of around 20% are achieved using  
this sustainable material.
Keller has experience in preparing control 
documents to protect the health and safety of site 
personnel and ensure quality assurance during 
construction. Keller’s approach to sustainability can 
reduce the overall environmental impact of projects 
by establishing and operating on-site laboratories 
to test material quality, slurry density, viscosity & 
filtration, and backfill properties as part of the 
quality assurance program.
Keller can provide clients with calculations of the 
embodied carbon associated with our solutions. This 
calculation accounts for carbon emissions associated 
with materials, material delivery, personnel transport, 
equipment transport, product manufacture, waste 
and spoil and associated haulage.
 
Case study: Vibro Stone Columns  
with Concrete plug
Project Name: Spice Ball Leisure Centre
Region: United Kingdom
Project Description: The Spice Ball Leisure  
Centre was built near the Cherwell River in a 
1 in 100 year flood area. The focus was to raise  
the ground floors above predicted flood levels. 
The site was underlain by unknown landfill and 
on-site groundwater testing showed contamination. 
The Environment Agency required a solution 
which would prevent groundwater run-off from 
contaminating the underlying alluvium during 
construction of the Centre.
Solution applied: Keller used a re-enforced soil 
wall in combination with vibro ground treatment. 
Environmental Stone Columns were inserted with 
a lean mix concrete plug in the soft wet clay at the 
base of the columns. The vibrator remained in the 
ground during the procedure and columns were 
completed using a conventional bottom-feed 
approach. The Environment Agency was satisfied 
that this approach prevented the risk of 
contamination of alluvium from any flash storm 
run-off during construction.
The R&D function of KGS undertook  
a number of reviews and issued best 
practice during 2014.
The reviews were around operational issues 
raised by the businesses and our HSE function.
Issue
Overturning equipment
Review
 – monitoring of working platforms surcharging 
to understand load transfer issues using steel 
rebar as reinforcement
 – research on rig pressure on working 
platforms in different working conditions  
and position
Result
Detailed guidance and standards issued to 
Group, reduction in number of rigs overturning 
in 2014
Issue
Increasing number of clients’ sites are in built  
up areas or locations with low overheads  
e.g. airports making the use of drill rigs difficult
Review 
 – review of drill rigs and safety features
Result 
Design and manufacture of low head room 
drills including remote control compliant with 
latest safety standards
27
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
www.kampfmitt elport al.de
KAMPFMITTELFREI 
BAUEN
BAuuNterNeHmeN PlANer / 
Steuerer
BAuHerr / 
AuftrAGGeBer
VORSICHT 
KAMPFMITTEL
merKBlAtt 
kamPfmitteLfrei Bauen 2
3
4
5
6
1
1 Justin Atkinson
Chief Executive. Age 54
Justin became CEO of Keller in 2004 after joining 
the Group in 1990. A Chartered Accountant by 
training, he has held the roles of Group Finance 
Director (1999–2003) and Chief Operating 
Officer (2004). In September of 2014, Justin 
announced his intention to retire from Keller  
by the end of 2015, when he will be 55.
2 James Hind
Finance Director. Age 50
James was appointed Finance Director in 2003 
after joining the Group from D S Smith plc, 
where he was Group Financial Controller. James 
spent two years in the New York office of 
Coopers & Lybrand advising on mergers and 
acquisitions further to qualifying as an accountant. 
3 Wolfgang Sondermann
Director, Global Technology & Best Practice. 
Age 64
A geotechnical engineer by training, Wolfgang 
joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the 
Board in 2003. He was appointed Director, Global 
Technology & Best Practice in January 2012.
In 2014, Wolfgang was appointed as Chairman  
of the Board of the German Geotechnical Society 
(DGGT), a technical and scientific society dedicated 
to the science and application of soil and rock as  
a foundation and construction material.
4 Eduard Falk
Managing Director, EMEA. Age 54
Eduard is a Geotechnical Engineer by training  
and joined the Group in 1987. He has held various 
senior management roles and was appointed 
Managing Director, Europe, Middle East and 
Africa (EMEA) and to the Group Executive 
Committee in 2012. 
5 Venu Raju
Managing Director, Keller Asia. Age 53
A Geotechnical Engineer by training, Venu joined 
the Group in 1994. Following appointments as 
Managing Director, Keller Singapore & Malaysia  
in 1999 and as Business Unit Manager, Keller Far 
East in 2009, he was appointed as Managing 
Director, Asia and to the Group Executive 
Committee in 2012. 
6 Mark Kliner
Chief Executive, Keller Australia. Age 51
Mark joined the Group in 2006 and was 
appointed as Managing Director of Piling 
Contractors in 2007 and as CEO of Keller 
Australia in 2010. Mark was appointed to the 
Group Executive Committee in 2012 and is a  
Civil and Structural Engineer by qualification. 
28 
Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Executive Committee 
Another year of progress across our divisions 7 
8
9
10
7 John Rubright,
Managing Director, Keller North America. 
Age 51
John joined the Group in 1986. He was appointed 
as Senior Vice-President, Southern Region, of 
Hayward Baker in 2005, President of Hayward 
Baker in 2011 and as Managing Director, Keller 
North America in 2013. John was appointed to 
the Group Executive Committee in 2012. He is  
a Civil Engineer by qualification. 
8 Jim De Waele
Business Unit Manager, Europe. Age 47
A Civil Engineer by qualification, Jim joined the 
Group in 2008 as Managing Director, Keller UK 
from Stent Foundations, where he had been 
Managing Director. He was appointed to the 
Group Executive Committee in 2012 and as 
Business Unit Manager, Europe in 2013. 
9 Michael Sinclair-Williams
Group HSE Director. Age 53
Michael holds a PhD in Risk/Quality Management 
and has a varied background in senior safety and 
operational roles. He joined Keller in 2012 as 
Group Health, Safety & Environment Director 
and was appointed to the Group Executive 
Committee in 2013. 
10 Kerry Porritt
Group Company Secretary. Age 44
Kerry was appointed Group Company Secretary 
in 2013. She is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and 
has over 20 years’ experience of complex and 
global FTSE100 companies. 
29 
Overview Governance Financial statements Strategy Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 diamond is inset 
0.68mm from right 
and bottom
table width = 40.5
height = 11mm
2013
2014 775.6
699.4
Revenue (£m)
£775.6m
Results summary and KPIs
Operating prot (£m
*
)
£59.9m
Foundation contracting businesses
Operating margin (%
*
)
7.7%
Over 1 year
2013
2014 59.9
51.6
2013
2014 7.7
7.4
Market growth
1
Our growth 17
6
*
 Before exceptional items
1
 Market growth for the total US construction market, 
from data published by the US Census Bureau of the 
Department of Commerce on 2 February 2015.
Our US growth compared with the 
growth of our US markets
1
 (%)
2014 
2013
2014 17
19
Return on net operating assets (%)
2013
2014 0.20
0.27
Accident Frequency Rate (%)
2013
2014 13
12
Sta turnover
Suncoast
2013
2014 15
14
Over 3 years
Market growth
1
Our growth 50
24
In North America our total revenue increased by 
11% as market conditions continued to improve in 
our largest market. Adjusting for acquisitions and 
translation differences, like-for-like revenue was 
up 11%. The full year operating profit of £59.9m 
(2013: £51.6m) reflects further improved 
profitability in our US foundation contracting 
businesses and a solid contribution from our 
Canadian businesses.
US
Our US business had a strong second half, building 
on the good progress made in the first half as 
construction activity continues to gradually 
improve across the country.
Our largest North American business, Hayward 
Baker, finished the year strongly. Its business 
model of performing a wide range of small to 
medium sized contracts across a broad range of 
products and geographies benefited from better 
conditions across the market. In addition to this 
base business workload, there has been an 
increasing number of larger contracts performed 
in recent years, in line with the Group’s strategy. 
The largest contract undertaken in the year, 
where scope changes have taken the total value 
to US$56m (£36m), was the I-635 highway 
expansion project in Dallas where Hayward 
Baker is installing earth retention systems for  
new high-occupancy managed lanes.
Good progress has been made on the Elliott  
Bay Seawall project in Seattle, a project valued at 
US$41m (£25m), where the business is performing 
jet grouting to depths of 85 feet to provide 
seismic stability and foundation support for the 
repair and maintenance of a 0.7 mile section of 
the 100 year old seawall. Hayward Baker also 
worked successfully with HJ, our piling business 
based in Miami, to deliver projects at Oceana  
Bal Harbour and One Ocean with augercast,  
wet soil mixing, sheet piling and tie back anchor 
technology. This is an excellent example of 
combining the local presence of one company 
with the products and solutions of another to  
give a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Our other piling companies, Case and McKinney, 
performed well in the year. McKinney had a  
good broad-based result across the southern  
and eastern states and Case, which undertakes 
larger contracts, worked on projects such as the 
foundations for a mixed use high rise building on 
the Chicago River and the installation of catenary 
poles on an AMTRAK high speed rail line in the 
north-east.
Suncoast continued to experience improving 
profitability despite the slight softening of  
the single family home market in the summer. 
Suncoast’s high-rise business performed 
particularly well on the back of more commercial 
developments and a significant increase in 
multi-family home starts, as an increasing number 
of people choose to live in such accommodation.
Canada
In order to consolidate operations and speed  
up the transfer of technology into the Canadian 
marketplace, in the second half of the year  
we successfully merged our Toronto-based 
geotechnical business, Geo-Foundations, into  
the larger Keller Canada. This move, which led  
to some cost savings in the Toronto area, has 
resulted in a more focussed business in eastern 
Canada. After a disappointing first half, the 
Canadian results improved in the second half  
with full year revenue of approximately C$190m 
and an operating margin of around 5%.
30 
Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Operational results
North America diamond is inset 
0.68mm from right 
and bottom
table width = 40.5
height = 11mm
2013
2014 451.5
399.2
Revenue (£m)
£451.5m
Results summary and KPIs
Operating prot (£m
*
)
£12.9m
Operating margin (%
*
)
2.9%
Over 1 year
2013
2014 12.9
6.8
2013
2014 2.9
1.7
Market growth
1
Our growth 5
3
*
 Before exceptional items
1
 Market growth in the construction markets in Austria, 
France, Germany, Poland, Spain and the UK, (which 
together account for around 60% of revenue from EMEA) 
from estimates of real annual growth plus estimated 
change in construction prices published by Euroconstruct 
in November 2014.
Our growth compared with the 
growth of our markets
1
 (%)
2014 
2013
2014 8
5
Return on net operating assets (%)
2013
2014 0.42
0.88
Accident Frequency Rate (%)
2013
2014 14
11
Sta turnover (%)
Over 3 years
Market growth
1
Our growth -4
-2
Revenue in EMEA as a whole increased by 13%  
in 2014, largely due to the acquisition of Franki 
Africa in November 2013. Like-for-like revenue 
was 5% up on 2013. Operating profit nearly 
doubled and the margin increased by 1.2% to 
2.9%, reflecting the benefit of management 
self-help measures.
Europe
Despite the continued challenging markets  
in Europe, our businesses improved their 
performance through a focus on cost control,  
risk management and careful contract selection.
Our Polish business had a particularly good year, 
much improved on the prior period as the 
infrastructure market offered some good 
opportunities despite a competitive backdrop. 
Germany also reported an excellent result as it 
continues to adapt to the difficult climate in which 
it operates.
The UK successfully completed its large projects 
at Crossrail and Victoria Station.
After a very difficult winter-affected first half,  
the Austrian business picked up in the second  
half and finished the year ahead of 2013. Work 
performed during the year included a technically 
complex project at the Semmering railway tunnel 
in the south of the country. On 23 February 2015, 
Keller Austria announced another large 
infrastructure rail contract, a major €31.2m 
(£23.1m) project on the Koralm railway line 
between Graz and Klagenfurt. 
The results were not as good in Southern  
Europe with the French market weak and 
business remaining very challenging on the  
Iberian Peninsula. Our Iberian business  
returned a small loss on revenues 20%  
lower than the previous year.
The European business has continued to move 
people and equipment around the region to those 
areas where there is more work and to support 
our major projects initiative. A good example of 
this was in reallocating resources from Eastern 
Europe to the Caspian region following the award 
of the major project in that area last December. 
Middle East and Africa
Competition in the Middle East remains tough but 
the Group increased both its revenue and profit 
from the region. This performance was aided by a 
good result in Saudi Arabia and a number of 
contract wins in Qatar where, from a standing 
start, we are building a reputation for reliability 
and quality.
Franki Africa performed in line with expectations 
in its first year as a Keller subsidiary. The 
integration has been successfully completed and a 
number of technology workshops have been held 
to introduce Keller’s grouting and ground 
improvement technologies into the region. We 
have already successfully performed some jet 
grouting jobs in South Africa. Elsewhere, the 
Group has undertaken significant contracts in a 
number of other African countries, most notably 
Ghana and Algeria.
Latin America
We have carefully expanded our sales network  
to cover the key markets in Latin America: Rio de 
Janeiro and São Paulo in Brazil, Chile, Peru, 
Panama and Mexico. Our business in Brazil is now 
well established and, elsewhere, we have carried 
out a number of small projects involving small 
diameter techniques, piling and ground 
improvement works. 
31 
Overview Governance Financial statements Strategy Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA) diamond is inset 
0.68mm from right 
and bottom
table width = 40.5
height = 11mm
2013
2014 111.3
96.2
Revenue (£m)
£111.3m
Results summary and KPIs
Operating prot (£m
*
)
£8.3m
Operating margin (%
*
)
7.5%
2013
2014 8.3
9.0
2013
2014 7.5
9.4
There is insucient reliable published data on the growth in 
our principal markets in Asia to enable us to report this KPI 
for our Asian division.
Our growth compared with the 
growth of our markets (%) 
2013
2014 15
17
Return on net operating assets (%)
2013
2014 0.64
0.78
Accident Frequency Rate (%)
2013
2014 11
14
Sta turnover (%)
*
 Before exceptional items.
Revenue grew by 16% in Asia and by more  
than 20% on a constant currency basis, helped  
by investment in people and equipment and  
the transfer of technologies. The reduction in  
the operating margin in 2014 reflects the  
impact of one major project that was bid  
and successfully delivered in the year at a  
lower than average margin.
ASEAN region
Keller’s Malaysian business had another excellent 
year operating in a strong construction market. 
During the year, we further expanded our piling 
business in Malaysia and established a presence  
in Johor, a province just over the border from 
Singapore which is currently benefiting from 
substantial industrial and commercial investment. 
As previously announced, in August we acquired  
a small Malaysian driven piling business, Ansah, 
broadening our product offering in the region. 
Keller Malaysia now offers a full range of 
foundation services and civil works. 
In Singapore, Resource Piling completed the 
major Sengkang hospital project ahead of 
schedule, on budget and safely. The project 
included a number of different technologies  
such as piling, diaphragm wall construction  
and micro-tunnelling. In January 2015, we were 
awarded a major contract at Changhi Airport 
comprising vibrocompaction of the ground as 
part of the land preparation works for a major 
expansion of the airport. The contract is for  
a total amount of S$56m (£28m). 
India
Keller India had a much improved performance  
in 2014 and prospects for 2015 look encouraging. 
We completed a number of large design and build 
LNG-related projects to schedule and safely 
during the year using both bored piling and 
ground improvement technologies.
32 
Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Operational results
continued
Asia diamond is inset 
0.68mm from right 
and bottom
table width = 40.5
height = 11mm
2013
2014 261.3
243.4
Revenue (£m)
£261.3m
Results summary and KPIs
Operating prot (£m
*
)
£15.7m
Operating margin (%
*
)
6.0%
Over 1 year
2013
2014 15.7
15.6
2013
2014 6.0
6.4
Market growth
1
Our growth 21
-4
1
 Market growth for the total Australian construction 
market, from data published by the Australian Bureau 
of Statistics in September 2014.
Our growth compared with the 
growth of our markets
1
 (%)
2014 
2013
2014 30
23
Return on net operating assets (%)
2013
2014 0.35
0.87
Accident Frequency Rate (%)
2013
2014 19
9
Sta turnover (%)
Over 3 years
Market growth
1
Our growth 39
2
*
 Before exceptional items.
Australian dollar revenue increased by 21%  
and operating profit by 14%. However, when 
translated into sterling at the relevant exchange 
rates revenue was up only 7% and operating 
profit was flat. The operating margin declined 
somewhat as the 2013 result benefited from  
an excellent result on the conclusion of a  
major project.
Waterway Construction had a successful 2014 
working on contracts such as the Brisbane City 
Council wharf upgrade programme and the 
Overseas Passenger Terminal in Sydney Harbour. 
The other Australian businesses, however, found 
the year more challenging, mainly due to the 
subdued state of the market.
The piling for the onshore LNG processing  
plant at Wheatstone, the Group’s largest-ever 
project, is almost complete with 24,000 piles 
safely delivered and for which we have received 
the Chevron Project Director’s Award for 
outstanding performance and the Bechtel  
Model Safety and Behaviour Award. With the 
challenging market conditions and the completion 
of Wheatstone representing the last of the 
foundations work on LNG projects under 
construction in Australia, the year ahead for 
Keller Australia will be difficult. Management  
has already begun to implement a number of 
self-help initiatives to streamline the business  
and to obtain cost savings and efficiencies in  
their management of equipment.
Frankipile received an award for Sustainable 
Achievement and Leadership from Exxon Mobil 
in relation to their work on a major LNG project 
in Papua New Guinea.
33 
Overview Governance Financial statements Strategy Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Australia £92.0m
Operating profit
1
James Hind
Finance Director
Results
Trading results
1
Group revenue for the year was up 11%  
on 2013. Stripping out the adverse effects of  
foreign exchange movements and adjusting  
for acquisitions, 2014 revenue was 12% up  
on 2013, with increases in all divisions. 
EBITDA was £141.9m, compared to £124.2m 
in 2013, and operating profit was £92.0m, an 
increase of 18% on the £77.8m in 2013. The 
Group operating margin increased from 5.4%  
to 5.8%. This is due to a combination of the 
continuing benefits of our business improvement 
initiatives and improving market conditions in 
some countries, most notably the US from  
where Keller derives over 40% of its revenue.
In North America as a whole, which represented 
49% of Group revenue, operating profit increased 
from £51.6m in 2013 to £59.9m in 2014. This was 
largely attributable to the further improved 
profitability of the Group’s US foundation 
contracting businesses, which are benefitting  
from the gradual improvement in the US private 
non-residential construction sector. There was also 
a solid contribution from our Canadian businesses, 
despite more challenging market conditions.
In EMEA, conditions in our key markets remain 
mixed and in those regions where there have 
been signs of improvement, recovery continues 
to be somewhat fragile. Despite this, both 
revenue and operating profit for EMEA were 
higher than in 2013, helped by the November 
2013 acquisition of Franki Africa. The operating 
margin has also benefitted from our ongoing 
business improvement initiatives.
Revenue increased in Asia by 16%, with the 
operating margin decreasing from 9.4% in 2013  
to 7.5%. In constant currency terms, however,  
the Asian operating profit was unchanged year on 
year. The reduction in margin was mainly due to 
one large contract which was bid and successfully 
delivered at a lower than average margin.
In Australia, the sterling-denominated results have 
been affected by the further weakening of the 
Australian dollar. Australian dollar revenue and 
operating profit increased by 21% and 14% 
respectively, compared to 7% and 1% when 
translated into sterling at the average exchange 
rate. This underlying improvement is mainly due 
to a strong performance on the Wheatstone 
contract, the largest project the Group has  
ever performed.
The Group’s trading results are discussed more 
fully in the Chairman’s statement on page 4 and 
the CEO’s strategic review on page 6.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs before exceptional items 
increased from £3.7m in 2013 to £6.9m in 2014. 
This increase is mainly due to higher average net 
debt in 2014 as a result of investing nearly £200m 
in acquisitions in the second half of 2013.
Tax
The Group’s effective tax rate before exceptional 
items was 35%, up from 32% in 2013. The 
increase mainly reflects the different geographic 
mix of profits, with a higher proportion of the 
Group’s 2014 profit before tax being earned in 
the US, a country with a high corporate tax rate. 
The increase in the effective tax rate is also due 
to the impact of some prior year items.
Earnings and dividends
Earnings per share (EPS) before exceptional  
items increased to 75.3p (2013: 73.0p), an  
increase of 3%. 
This is significantly below the 15% increase  
in the Group’s profit before tax because of a 
combination of the higher effective tax rate in 
2014, a £1.0m increase to £1.8m in the profit 
attributable to minorities and a 5% increase  
in the average number of shares in issue. 
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 
16.8p per share, which brings the total dividend to 
be paid out of 2014 profits to 25.2p, a 5% increase 
on 2013. The 2014 dividend is covered 3.0 times 
by earnings before exceptional items.
Exceptional items
The 2014 result includes an exceptional charge 
relating to the settlement of a dispute on a 
completed contract of £54.0m and a number  
of much smaller non-trading exceptional items 
relating to acquisitions, which are required to  
be expensed under IFRS. 
The contract dispute relates to a project that the 
Group’s UK subsidiary, Keller Limited, completed 
in 2008. The dispute was subject to litigation 
proceedings involving a number of parties, but 
these were settled in February 2015. The final 
cost to Keller is subject to a number of remedial 
and other actions to be undertaken as part of the 
settlement agreement. The exceptional charge 
represents management’s best estimate of the 
net cost to Keller before taking account of future 
recoveries under applicable insurances, as these 
cannot be recognised under IFRS. 
The non-trading exceptional items relating to 
acquisitions totalled £2.9m before tax, mainly 
comprising £6.6m of amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets and £0.5m of costs relating to 
acquisitions, partly offset by a £4.7m credit in 
respect of previously provided contingent 
consideration which the Group no longer  
expects to pay, mainly relating to the  
acquisition of Keller Canada.
1
 Results stated before exceptional items comprising  
a contract dispute provision and non-trading costs  
relating to acquisitions.
34 
Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial review Operating margin from continuing 
operations (%
*
)
*
 Before exceptional items.
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014 5.8
5.4
7.4
3.7
10.0
8.1
2.5
11.2
4.1
10.4
Dividend per share pence 
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014 25.2
24.0
21.75
22.8
20.7
12.0
22.8
18.0
22.8
15.6
Cash ow history
*
 – prots = cash 
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
EBITDA           Group operating cash ow
141.9
124.2
113.2
91.9
144.3
65.0
71.4
125.8
85.0
104.9
Investment (£m) Total
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014 68.6
245.2
51.6
33.7
37.9
Capital expenditure        Acquisitions
Test
Covenant 
limit
Current 
position
*
Net debt: EBITDA < 3x 1.0x
EBITDA interest cover > 4x 20.1x
Net worth > 200m £342.7m
*
  Calculated in accordance with the covenant, with certain 
adjustments to net debt and net interest and EBITDA 
annualised for acquisitions.
Cash flow and financing
The Group has always placed a high priority on 
cash generation and the active management of 
working capital. We are therefore pleased to 
report that in 2014 cash generated from 
operations was £165.4m, representing 117% 
(2013: 106%) of EBITDA before exceptional 
items. This continues the Group’s excellent 
record of converting profits into cash. Year-end 
working capital was £104.1m, which is well below 
the level at the end of 2013. Capital expenditure 
totalled £61.0m, up on last year’s £42.6m.
At 31 December 2014, net debt amounted to 
£102.2m (2013: £143.7m). Based on net assets of 
£346.3m, year-end gearing was 30%, compared 
to 39% at the beginning of the year.
The Group refinanced most of its debt and financing 
facilities during 2014, extending maturities, further 
diversifying the sources of finance and improving a 
number of key terms. A new five year £250m 
revolving credit facility was agreed in July, replacing a 
£170m facility expiring in April 2015 and a US$150m 
facility expiring in July 2017. Later in the year, the 
Group raised US$125m through a private placement 
with US institutions, the proceeds of which were 
used in part to repay US$70m of private placement 
borrowings which matured in October 2014. The 
Group’s term debt and committed facilities now 
mainly comprise US$165m of US private placements 
maturing between 2018 and 2024 and the £250m 
multi-currency syndicated revolving credit facility 
expiring in September 2019.
At the year end, the Group had undrawn 
committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities 
totalling £197.4m.
The most significant covenants in respect of our 
main borrowing facilities relate to the ratio of net 
debt to EBITDA, EBITDA interest cover and the 
Group’s net worth. The Group is operating well 
within its covenant limits.
Capital structure
The Group’s capital structure is kept under 
constant review, taking account of the need for and 
availability and cost of various sources of finance.
Pensions
The Group has defined benefit pension 
arrangements in the UK, Germany and Austria.  
The Group closed its UK defined benefit scheme 
for future benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 
2006 and existing active members transferred to  
a new defined contribution arrangement. 
The last actuarial valuation of the UK scheme was as at 
5 April 2014, when the market value of the scheme’s 
assets was £35.8m and the scheme was 77% funded 
on an ongoing basis. Following the valuation, the level  
of contributions increased marginally to £1.6m a year,  
a level which will be reviewed following the next 
triennial actuarial valuation.
The 2014 year-end IAS 19 valuation of the UK 
scheme showed assets of £38.2m, liabilities of 
£49.8m and a pre-tax deficit of £11.6m.
In Germany and Austria, the defined benefit 
arrangements only apply to certain employees 
who joined the Group prior to 1991. The IAS19 
valuation of the defined benefit obligation totalled 
£13.8m at 31 December 2014. There are no 
segregated funds to cover these defined benefit 
obligations and the respective liabilities are 
included on the Group balance sheet. 
All other pension arrangements in the Group  
are of a defined contribution nature.
Management of financial risks
Currency risk
The Group faces currency risk principally on its  
net assets, most of which are in currencies other 
than sterling. The Group aims to reduce the impact 
that retranslation of these assets might have on  
the balance sheet by matching the currency of its 
borrowings, where possible, with the currency of 
its other net assets. The majority of the Group’s 
borrowings are held in US dollars, Canadian 
dollars, Euros and South African rand, in order to 
provide a hedge against these currency net assets.
The Group manages its currency flows to minimise 
currency transaction exchange risk. Forward 
contracts and other derivative financial instruments 
are used to hedge significant individual transactions. 
The majority of such currency flows within the 
Group relate to repatriation of profits, intra-Group 
loan repayments and any foreign currency cash flows 
associated with acquisitions. The Group’s foreign 
exchange cover is executed primarily in the UK.
The Group does not trade in financial 
instruments, nor does it engage in speculative 
derivative transactions.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is managed by mixing fixed and 
floating rate borrowings depending upon the purpose 
and term of the financing. As at 31 December 2014, 
85% of the Group’s third-party borrowings bore 
interest at floating rates.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are trade 
and other receivables, bank and cash balances and 
a limited number of investments and derivatives 
held to hedge certain of the Group’s liabilities. 
These represent the Group’s maximum exposure 
to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Group has stringent procedures to manage 
counterparty risk and the assessment of customer 
credit risk is embedded in the contract tendering 
processes. Customer credit risk is mitigated by the 
Group’s relatively small average contract size, its 
diversity, both geographically and in terms of end 
markets, and by taking out credit insurance in many 
of the countries in which the Group operates.  
No individual customer represented more than  
5% of revenue in 2014.
The counterparty risk on bank and cash balances 
is managed by limiting the aggregate amount  
of exposure to any one institution by reference  
to their credit rating and by regular reviews  
of these ratings.
Our strategic report, from page 6 to 27, has  
been reviewed and approved by the Board  
of Directors on 2 March 2015.
By order of the Board
Kerry Porritt
Company Secretary
2 March 2015
35 
Overview Governance Financial statements Strategy Performance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate governance statement
Chairman’s introduction
Roy A Franklin
Chairman
Dear shareholder
In this part of the Annual Report, we set out the measures that we have 
taken to ensure that the Group continues to apply high standards of 
corporate governance.
At Keller, the Board of Directors is accountable for ensuring that the highest 
standards of governance facilitate the success of the Company and sustain 
this over time.
The Board believes that Keller’s effectiveness should be supported by a 
strong governance framework. The Group takes pride in its good reputation 
globally and our Business Conduct Programme continues to promote 
honesty, fairness and integrity in relations between employees and their 
work colleagues, customers, suppliers, competitors and the communities  
in which they work. 
In June of 2014 we welcomed Nancy Tuor Moore to the Board and as 
Chairman of the HSE Committee. Nancy has been spending time in the 
business and with our HSE leadership team to gain an understanding of the 
Keller culture and to help shape the direction of our efforts in this area in 
the future. Her report on HSE is set out on page 42.
In September 2014, Justin announced his intention to retire as CEO of Keller 
by 31 December 2015. Justin has been with the business for 25 years, leading 
the business for 11 years. The timing of his departure allows us time to find 
and appoint his successor with a smooth transition. Further information on 
how we are approaching the search for his successor can be found in the 
Nominations Committee report. 
Following the 2013 external Board evaluation and in line with corporate 
governance best practice, during the year an internal Board evaluation was 
undertaken. The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that the Board 
and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively and that each 
Director continues to make an effective contribution and retains a strong 
commitment to their role. The resulting development themes that arose 
from the evaluation are discussed on page 43. I have also set out how we 
have progressed against the areas we identified for improvement as part  
of the 2013 review. 
The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the 
information in the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable. 
Further detail of these arrangements can be found on page 46. As a result 
of this, the Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders. We maintain a corporate 
website, containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, 
including presentations to institutional investors and analysts. It was recently 
refreshed and relaunched, assisting our audiences with a simpler, cleaner 
format and a mobile responsive capability. The website is updated with all 
formal communications to the investment community immediately following 
their release through a regulatory news service, in compliance with Keller’s 
obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private 
and institutional shareholders and welcomes their participation. 
Throughout the year, the Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly 
meet with, and make presentations to, institutional investors in the UK, 
Continental Europe and the US. These include meetings following the 
announcement of the annual and interim results with the Company’s largest 
institutional shareholders on an individual basis. The Finance Director and 
Financial Controller customarily meet with our debt investors throughout 
the year and during 2014, held a series of additional meetings with our debt 
investors as part of the re-financing exercise described in more detail on 
page 35. All major shareholders have the opportunity on request to meet 
the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or, on appointment, any 
new Non-executive Directors. On a regular basis, the Board is apprised of 
the views of the investment community through the circulation of brokers’ 
research notes and feedback from analysts and investors, supplemented by 
occasional investor perception surveys.
The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting variously 
required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules. I hope that you find this an informative and helpful discussion of an 
important topic.
Yours faithfully
Roy A Franklin
Chairman
2 March 2015
36
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 B.6 Evaluation
During 2014, the Company Secretary assisted the Chairman in a review  
of the performance of the Board, its Committees and Directors. 
B.7 Re-election
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election at the 
2014 AGM, as will be the case at the AGM in May 2015.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and Business Reporting
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 35 provides information about the 
performance of the Group, the business model, strategy, principal risks  
and uncertainties relating to the Group’s future prospects.
C.2 Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group. Principal risks, 
including controls and mitigating actions are set out on pages 22 and 23  
of the Strategic Report.
C.3 Audit Committee and Auditors
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit 
Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial 
reporting processes, internal audit and work undertaken by the external 
auditors. The chairman of the Audit Committee provides regular updates  
to the Board.
D. Remuneration
D.1 The Level and Components of Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration appropriately so 
as to attract, retain and motivate the Board, but also structures remuneration 
so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, thereby 
aligning management’s interest with those of shareholders.
D.2 Procedure
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 60.
E. Relations with shareholders
E.1 Dialogue with Shareholders
The Board is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and  
has an established cycle of communication based on the Group’s financial 
reporting calendar. This includes preliminary results in March, publication  
of the Annual Report in March, half year results in August and Interim 
Management Statements in May and November. The Board is keen to 
understand the views of shareholders and ensures open dialogue 
throughout the year.
E.2 Constructive Use of the AGM
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional 
shareholders and welcomes their participation. The Notice of the AGM, 
detailing all proposed resolutions, is sent to shareholders at least 20  
working days before the meeting.
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2014, we have complied 
with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 
(the ‘Code’). The Code is publicly available at the website of the Financial 
Reporting Council (www.frc.org.uk). This Corporate Governance section of 
the Annual Report and Accounts describes how we have applied the main 
principles of the Code.
A. Leadership
A.1 The role of the Board
The Board met formally eight times during the year. The Group is controlled 
through its Board of Directors. The Board has formally adopted a schedule 
of matters reserved to it for decision.
A.2 Division of Responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are defined and there is a 
clear division of responsibilities. Roy Franklin, the Chairman, is responsible 
for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board. Justin Atkinson, the Chief 
Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running of the 
Group’s business.
A.3 The Chairman
The Chairman sets the Board’s agenda, ensures that adequate time is given 
for discussion of all agenda items, facilitates effective Board processes, and 
ensures that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and 
constructive part in the Board and Board Committee discussion. Also,  
the Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders.
A.4 Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop 
proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge 
and experience to the Board’s deliberations. Periodically, the Chairman 
meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors 
present. Apart from the formal Board meetings, there is regular informal 
contact between the Directors. 
B. Effectiveness
B.1 The composition of the Board
The Nomination Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the 
Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of 
the Directors.
B.2 Appointments to the Board
The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination 
Committee. Further details of the activities of the Nomination Committee 
can be found on page 44.
B.3 Commitment
On appointment, Directors are notified of the time commitment expected 
from them. External directorships, which may impact existing time 
commitments, must be agreed with the Chairman.
B.4 Development
On appointment, the Directors are provided with induction training and 
information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters 
reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of Board 
Committees and the latest financial information. This is supplemented by 
meetings with the Company’s legal and other professional advisers, where 
appropriate, visits to key locations and meetings with certain senior 
executives to develop the Directors’ understanding of the business. Also, 
the Directors are continually apprised of best practice, regulatory and 
legislative developments.
B.5 Information and Support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all 
Board members receive timely and accurate information. The Company 
Secretary ensures that there are effective information flows to the Board 
and its Committees and between senior management and Non-executive 
Directors. 
37
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 1 Justin Atkinson
Chief Executive. Age 54
Justin became CEO of Keller in 2004 after joining the Group in 1990. A 
Chartered Accountant by training, he has held the roles of Group Finance 
Director (1999–2003) and Chief Operating Officer (2004). In September  
of 2014, Justin announced his intention to retire from Keller by the end of 
2015, when he will be 55.
2 James Hind
Finance Director. Age 50
James was appointed Finance Director in 2003 after joining the Group from 
D S Smith plc, where he was Group Financial Controller. James spent two 
years in the New York office of Coopers & Lybrand advising on mergers  
and acquisitions further to qualifying as an accountant. 
3 Wolfgang Sondermann
Director, Global Technology & Best Practice. Age 64
A geotechnical engineer by training, Wolfgang joined the Group in 1986  
and was appointed to the Board in 2003. He was appointed Director, Global 
Technology & Best Practice in January 2012.
In 2014, Wolfgang was appointed as Chairman of the Board of the  
German Geotechnical Society (DGGT), a technical and scientific society 
dedicated to the science and application of soil and rock as a foundation  
and construction material. 
4 Roy Franklin
Non-executive Chairman. Age 61
Roy was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became Chairman of the 
Board and the Nomination Committee in 2009. He was formerly Chief 
Executive of Paladin Resources plc and Group Managing Director of Clyde 
Petroleum plc, following various senior management posts at BP. Roy’s 
background in the international oil and gas sector brings with it an 
understanding of what it takes to operate within challenging markets.
Roy is a Non-executive Director of the Australian-listed company  
Santos Ltd. He is also an Advisory Board Member of Kerogen Capital, a 
Non-executive Director of privately held Cuadrilla Resources Holdings 
Limited and is a member of the Supervisory Board of OMV AG.
5 Ruth Cairnie
Independent Non-executive Director. Age 61
Appointed to the Board in 2010, Ruth is a member of the Nomination  
and Health, Safety & Environment Committees and is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. A physicist by background, Ruth’s strategic and 
commercial experience were gained within Shell, where she held a number 
of senior international roles, most recently as Executive Vice President 
Strategy and Planning, before her retirement in 2014.
Ruth is a Non-executive Director of Associated British Foods plc and 
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
1 3 5 7 
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 38
Corporate governance statement 
continued
Board of Directors 6 Chris Girling
Independent Non-executive Director. Age 61
Chris was appointed to the Board and the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees in 2011 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
A chartered accountant by training, Chris was formerly Group Finance 
Director of Carillion plc and he brings to Keller his background in a range  
of sectors, as well as recent and relevant financial experience.
He is a Non-executive Director of Workspace Group PLC and South East 
Water Limited and the independent Chairman Trustee for Slaughter and 
May’s pension fund. 
7 Nancy Tuor Moore
Independent Non-executive Director. Age 66
Nancy was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit, 
Nomination and Health, Safety & Environment Committees on 26 June 2014 
and is Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee. Nancy’s 
extensive international business experience, together with a proven record 
in winning and safely delivering both global and local contracts, was gained at 
CH2M Hill, Inc., where she held the Board position of Group President and 
Corporate Sponsor for Sustainability before retiring in 2013.
Nancy is a Non-executive Director on the Board of Global Food Exchange 
and a member of the Board of Governors for Colorado State University. 
8 Paul Withers
Senior Independent Director. Age 58
Appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit, Nomination, 
Remuneration and Health, Safety & Environment Committees on 
17 December 2012, Paul is also the Senior Independent Director. He 
qualified as a chartered mechanical engineer and was Group Managing 
Director at BPB plc, the international building materials business, where  
he spent his executive career.
He is a Non-executive Director of Devro plc and Premier Farnell plc.
9 Kerry Porritt
Group Company Secretary. Age 44
Kerry was appointed Group Company Secretary in 2013. She is a Fellow  
of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and has over 
20 years’ experience of complex and global FTSE100 companies.
4 2 8 6 9 
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 The role of the Board and its Committees
Executive  
Committee 
Assists the CEO to 
develop and implement 
strategy, operational 
plans, budgets, policies 
and procedures, monitor 
operating and financial 
performance, assess and 
control risks, prioritise 
and allocate resource, 
monitor competitive 
forces in each area  
of operation.
Remuneration 
Committee
Determine the 
framework, policy  
and levels of 
remuneration and  
make recommendations 
to the Board on the 
remuneration of the 
CEO, executive directors 
and senior executives 
(page 48)
Nomination  
Committee
Review the composition 
of the Board and plan for 
its progressive  
refreshing with regard  
to balance and structure 
as well as succession 
planning (page 44)
Board
Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and corporate governance
 – provide entrepreneurial 
leadership of the Group 
driving it forward for the 
benefit, and having regard 
to, the views of its 
shareholders and other 
stakeholders 
 – govern the Group within a 
framework of prudent 
and effective controls 
which enable risk to be 
assessed and managed to 
an appropriate level
 – approve the Group’s 
strategic objectives
 – ensure that sufficient 
resources are available to 
enable it to meet those 
objectives
 – it delegates authority  
to manage the business  
to the Chief Executive 
Officer and also delegates 
other matters to  
Board committees  
and management  
as appropriate.
The Board has formally 
adopted a schedule of 
matters reserved to it  
for its decision.
HSE Committee
Oversee the Board’s 
responsibilities in relation 
to health, safety and 
environmental matters, 
arising out of the 
activities of the Company 
and its subsidiaries  
(page 42)
Audit Committee
Oversee the Group’s 
financial reporting, risk 
management and internal 
control procedures and 
the work of its internal 
and external auditors  
(page 46)
The terms of reference for each of the Board’s key committees, which are reviewed on an annual basis, can be found on our website.
Key roles Responsibilities
Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining to the leadership of the Board: 
 – ensuring appropriate Board composition;
 – ensuring effective Board processes;
 – setting the Board’s agenda;
 – ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee discussions;
 – ensuring effective communication with shareholders; and
 – ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the formulation of strategy and the business of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters:
 – formulating strategy proposals for the Board;
 – formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this strategy will be delivered;
 – apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the Group and its performance, including any significantly 
underperforming business activities; and
 – leadership of executive management to enable the Group’s businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: ensuring 
adequate, well-motivated and incentivised management resources; ensuring succession planning; and ensuring appropriate 
business processes.
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are quite distinct from each other and are clearly defined in written terms of reference for 
each role. 
Senior Independent 
Director
Discusses any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication.
The role of Senior Independent Director provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the 
Board, other than through the Chairman. The Board has agreed that the Senior Independent Director will act as Chairman of the 
Board in the event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
Company Secretary Ensures good information flows to the Board and its committees and between senior management and Non-executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is responsible for 
ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has adopted and that there are effective 
information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
40
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate governance statement 
continued
Leadership Board and Committee meetings and attendance
Director
Board
Audit 
Committee
HSE  
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Justin Atkinson
1
8/8 – – 3/3 –
Ruth Cairnie 7/8 – 3/4 3/4 3/3
Roy Franklin 8/8 – – 4/4 –
Chris Girling
2
7/8 4/4 1/1 3/4 3/3
James Hind 8/8 – – – –
Wolfgang  
Sondermann 7/8 – – – –
Nancy Tuor  
Moore
3
5/5 2/2 2/2 2/2 –
Paul Withers 8/8 4/4 4/4 4/4 3/3
Board diversity
Keller continues to be supportive of the need for diversity on its Board  
to provide the necessary range of background, experience, values and 
perspectives to optimise the decision-making process. Gender is seen  
as one important aspect of diversity to which the Chairman and the 
Nomination Committee must pay due regard when deciding upon  
the most appropriate composition of the Board. 
The Board has established a range of backgrounds, capabilities and 
experiences that are critical for the overall Board composition and this 
forms the key objective and basis for the search and assessment of 
candidates for future positions. Within this context, in the ongoing process 
of refreshing the Board, the Company continues to encourage and welcome 
interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Board’s 
diversity. Against this overriding objective, the Company does not currently 
propose to set targets for the percentage of women or other aspects of 
diversity on its Board in future years.
The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, comprises 25% 
women – two women: six men (14% at 4 March 2013 – one woman: six men).
Within the Keller Group, our overall senior management population 
comprises 7% women and women employees account for 9% of the 
organisation as a whole. 
Professional development
On appointment, Directors are provided with induction training and 
information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters 
reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the 
Board Committees and the latest financial information about the Group. 
This is supplemented by meetings with the Company’s legal and other 
professional advisers, and, where appropriate, visits to key locations and 
meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Directors’ 
understanding of the business. 
Nancy Tuor Moore was appointed to the Board and as Chairman of the 
HSE Committee in June 2014. Nancy’s induction programme has included 
specific training on the regulatory and governance requirements of a UK 
PLC, site visits to a number of contracts in the UK and USA, and attendance 
at the HSE Safety Conference in the USA. 
1
 Justin Atkinson did not attend a Nomination Committee meeting relating  
to CEO succession.
2
 Chris Girling attended as an alternate member of the HSE Committee in  
Ruth Cairnie’s absence.
3
 Nancy Tuor Moore was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014.
Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors are continually 
updated on the Group’s business, its markets, social responsibility matters 
and other changes affecting the Group and the industry in which it operates, 
including changes to the legal and governance environment and the 
obligations on themselves as Directors. 
In April 2014, the Directors spent two days in Calgary meeting the  
senior management team of Keller Canada during which time they  
received updates on the business and its local markets from the team  
and from local industry experts. In December 2014, the Company Secretary  
facilitated a boardroom discussion on forthcoming regulatory and legislative 
developments between the Board and its corporate lawyers, DLA Piper  
UK LLP. 
Directors’ conflicts of interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation where 
they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or 
possibly may conflict, with Keller’s interests. The Act allows Directors  
of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where 
appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this 
effect. The Articles of Association give the Directors authority to approve 
such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest 
to be dealt with. To address this issue, at the commencement of each  
Board meeting, the Board considers its register of interests and gives,  
when appropriate, any necessary approvals. 
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether  
to authorise a conflict or potential conflict. First, only Directors who have  
no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant 
decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a  
way that they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote Keller’s 
success. The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving 
authorisation if they think this is appropriate. These procedures on conflict 
have been followed throughout the year and the Board considers the 
approach to operate effectively. 
41
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Dear shareholder
It is my pleasure to present the HSE Committee Report for the year  
ended 31 December 2014. 
Key objective
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities  
in relation to health, safety and environmental matters arising out of  
the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Committee is 
responsible for monitoring and reviewing the Group’s Health and Safety 
Framework and Environmental Policy in line with applicable laws and 
regulations. It also evaluates and oversees the quality and integrity of the 
Company’s reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, safety 
and environmental matters.
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the 
year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
Committee meetings
The Chief Executive and the Group Health, Safety & Environment 
Director attend all meetings of the Committee. Members of the 
Executive Committee have an open invitation to attend meetings  
where they are encouraged to contribute and present. 
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.  
During this financial year the Committee met four times. 
Activities of the Committee
The main activities of the Committee since the last report were  
as follows:
 – reviewing the Group’s safety performance in 2014 against its plan
 – approving the Group’s 2015 health, safety and environment plan
 – receiving safety performance reports and updates on progress  
against the 2014 health, safety and environment plan
 – recommending to the Board new policies on Sustainability and 
Occupational Health; and
 – receiving updates on regulatory and legal developments.
It was particularly hard to receive the news of an employee fatality in  
Ghana in June 2014 and underpinned the importance of encouraging  
and supporting the Think Safe framework in all of our operations  
across the world.
I have focused my time at Keller to date on meeting the global HSE  
safety team, to understand their priorities and the safety culture  
within the Company. Next year, I shall report on our progress.
Further detail on the Company’s HSE performance in 2014 can  
be found in our Strategic Report on page 24.
Nancy Tuor Moore
Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee
2 March 2015
HSE Committee Membership:
 – Nancy Tuor Moore (Chairman from 26 June 2014)
 – Ruth Cairnie
 – Paul Withers (Interim Chairman until 26 June 2014)
Nancy Tuor Moore
Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee
42
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate governance statement 
continued
Health, Safety & Environment Committee report Directors and Directors’ independence
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four other Non-executive 
Directors and three Executive Directors. The names of the Directors at  
the date of this report, together with their biographical details, are set out 
on page 38. All of these Directors served throughout the year with the 
exception of Nancy Tuor Moore who was appointed on 26 June 2014. 
The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop 
proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgment, knowledge 
and experience to the Board’s deliberations. Periodically, the Chairman 
meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors 
present. Apart from formal contact at Board meetings, there is regular 
informal contact between the Directors.
Ruth Cairnie, Chris Girling, Nancy Tuor Moore and Paul Withers are all 
considered to be independent Non-executive Directors. Roy Franklin was 
independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2009. 
His other professional commitments are as detailed on page 38.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) following their appointment and to annual 
re-election thereafter, in accordance with the Code.
Board evaluation 
The Board has continued to make good progress in relation to the findings 
of its external evaluation, concluded in 2013, particularly with regard to the 
areas of health and safety, where Nancy Tuor Moore now chairs the HSE 
Committee, and executive succession planning, for which there is now a 
Group development programme in operation.
In 2014, we undertook an internally facilitated review of the performance  
of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors. This process was 
managed by the Company Secretary, under the Chairman’s direction. The 
Senior Independent Director directed a review of the Chairman, in parallel. 
The review covered: the Board dynamics and the quality of Board discussion; 
the organisation and working of the Board Committees; the composition  
of the Board, including the skill sets of Directors, their knowledge of the 
business and the balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors; 
and the Board’s interaction and relationship with the Executive Committee.
The evaluation was conducted by way of an online questionnaire, with 
content developed by the Company Secretary, and the Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director followed up with each respondent individually. The 
results of the review were discussed at the Board’s meeting in December 
2014 and a number of areas identified for further action, including Chairman 
and Non-executive Director succession planning and increased interaction 
between the Board and Executive Committee.
Following this process, the Chairman has confirmed that the Directors 
standing for election at this year’s AGM continue to perform effectively  
and to demonstrate commitment to their roles. 
Information and support
The Board and each Committee are satisfied that they receive sufficient, 
reliable and timely information in advance of meetings and are provided  
with all necessary resources and expertise to enable them to fulfil their 
responsibilities and undertake their duties in an effective manner.
For each Board and Committee meeting, Directors are provided with a 
tailored Board pack at least one week prior to the meeting. To improve  
the delivery and security of Board papers, the Company continues to  
use an electronic system allowing the Board to easily access information, 
irrespective of geographic location. Directors regularly receive additional 
information from the Company between Board meetings, including a 
monthly Group performance update. Where a Director was unable to 
attend a meeting, they were provided with all the papers and information 
relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly  
with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Board focus areas in 2014
Strategy
 – reviewed and approved the Group’s strategic plans and annual budget
 – evaluated and approved:
 – a contract bid and award in the Caspian region
 – the acquisition of Ansah, a piling business in Malaysia
 – considered and evaluated further adjacencies to the Group structure.
Risk
 – considered the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact  
the Group
 – reviewed the risk management framework with particular regard to 
contract and tendering risk.
Finance
 – considered and approved the refinancing of the Group’s syndicated  
credit facilities and US private placements
 – considered and agreed the 2014 interim and final dividends.
Operational performance
 – received and considered operational performance presentations  
from the MDs of the US, Asia and EMEA regions.
HSE
 – considered health and safety performance throughout the Group
 – appointed a new Chairman to the Health, Safety and Environment 
Committee.
2014 Board meetings – 
time spent
pie = 34.75mm
circle = 26.414mm
2
3
5. HSE
4. Operational performance
3. Finance
2. Risk
1. Strategy
58%
1
4
5
43
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Effectiveness Dear shareholder
This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee  
and the work it carried out during 2014.
Key objective
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board 
and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of  
the Directors. 
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the 
year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
Committee meetings
No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be  
present at its meetings. Justin Atkinson did not attend a meeting of  
the Committee where CEO succession was discussed. 
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.  
During this financial year the Committee met four times. 
Activities of the Committee
The main activities of the Committee since the last report were  
as follows:
 – the appointment of Nancy Tuor Moore as a new Non-executive 
Director in June 2014
 – CEO succession planning, including the creation of a role profile and the 
appointment of Egon Zehnder as external search consultants to assist 
with the search in September 2014
 – oversight of the development and implementation of an executive 
development programme for the Group.
The search for a new CEO is progressing positively and we will report  
on the outcome in due course. 
Keller and the Committee continue to encourage and welcome interest 
from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Board’s 
diversity. The Board’s overriding objective is to continue to provide 
effective leadership and, therefore, the Committee continues to 
recommend for appointment only the most appropriate candidates  
to the Board in line with the criteria set out on page 41. There are, 
therefore, no formal targets set for female representation at Board level. 
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, all members of the Board will seek re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2014, with the exception of Nancy Tuor Moore 
who will seek her first election. 
In December 2014, the Committee formally reviewed the performance, 
contribution and commitment of each of the Directors retiring at this 
year’s Annual General Meeting and seeking reappointment, and 
supported and recommended their reappointment to the Board. The 
Committee has confirmed that each Director continues to perform well 
both on an individual and collective basis, making a valuable contribution 
to the Board’s deliberations and demonstrating commitment to Keller’s 
long-term interests.
Roy A Franklin
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
2 March 2015
Nomination Committee Membership:
 – Roy Franklin (Chairman)
 – Justin Atkinson
 – Ruth Cairnie
 – Chris Girling
 – Nancy Tuor Moore
 – Paul Withers
Roy A Franklin
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
44
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate governance statement 
continued
Nomination Committee report Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such a system is 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has 
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report and Accounts. This process is regularly reviewed by  
the Board and accords with the guidance. 
The principal elements of the internal control framework are as follows:
(a) Risk identification and evaluation
Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant 
risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and 
operation of suitable internal controls. These risks may be associated with a 
variety of internal or external sources including market cycles, acquisitions, 
people, technical risks such as engineering and project tendering and 
management, health and safety risks, control breakdowns, disruptions in 
information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.  
The identified risks, and the controls in place to manage them, are subject  
to continual reassessment. 
On an annual basis, the significant risks across all principal business units and 
divisions are collated and discussed in detail with each management team. 
The outcome of these discussions is collated in the Group risk report, which 
summarises and prioritises the significant risks facing the Group. These risks 
are discussed, challenged and reviewed by the Board each year.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes in the 
business and the external environment that affect significant risks. The 
Finance Director provides the Board with monthly financial information 
which includes key performance and risk indicators. More information on 
our principal risks can be found on pages 22 and 23. Keller’s KPIs are set  
out on page 23.
(b) Authorisation procedures
Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable trail of 
accountability. These procedures are relevant across Group operations and 
provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of 
management and, finally, to the Board.
(c) Management of project risk
Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding 
stage to completion.
Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are 
performed as part of the bidding process. Authority limits applicable to the 
approval of bids relate both to the specific risks associated with the contract 
and to the total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which Keller 
is a party. Any bids involving an unusually high degree of technical or 
commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory 
where we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level 
within the operating company. 
On average, our contracts have a duration of around six weeks but larger 
contracts may extend over several months. The performance of contracts  
is monitored and reported by most business units on a weekly basis. In 
addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any 
poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete assessments are routinely 
carried out on extended duration contracts. 
Further detail on the management of project risk is provided in the section 
headed ‘Principal risks and KPIs’ on pages 22 and 23. 
(d) Health and safety
Regular reporting, monitoring and reviews of health and safety matters  
are made to the HSE Committee and the Board.
(e) Budgeting and forecasting
There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved 
by the Board. This budget includes monthly profit and loss accounts, balance 
sheets and cash flows. In addition, forecasts are prepared for the two 
subsequent years. Forecasts for the full year are regularly updated during 
the year.
(f) Financial reporting
Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which compare profit 
and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows and other information with 
budget and prior year, and significant variances are investigated.
(g) Cash control
Each business reports its cash position weekly. Regular cash forecasts are 
prepared to monitor the Group’s short- and medium-term cash positions 
and to control immediate borrowing requirements.
(h) Investments and capital expenditure
All significant investment decisions, including capital expenditure, are 
referred to the appropriate divisional or Group authority level.
(i) Internal audit
The Group has a structured programme of independent, outsourced audit 
reviews, covering tendering, operational processes and internal financial 
controls. The intention is to conduct an internal audit of all material business 
units at least once every four years. This programme has been carried out 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers since 2010. The programme is approved and 
monitored by the Audit Committee, which reviews the findings of each  
such exercise.
(j) Electronic Internal Control Questionnaire (‘EICQ’)
Each year, every principal business unit is required to complete an electronic 
questionnaire responding to whether key internal financial and non-financial 
controls are in place. The results of these questionnaires are summarised in 
a ‘heat map’, which is presented to and discussed by the Audit Committee. 
The responses to the questionnaires are also reviewed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers during each internal audit.
(k) Annual compliance statement
Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of 
internal controls for which they are responsible; and their compliance with 
Group policies, local laws and regulations; and to report any significant 
control weaknesses or ‘breakdowns’ identified in the past year.
(l) Business conduct
The Group’s business conduct handbook sets out the Group’s policies  
and processes with regards to conducting business in all business units 
worldwide. All business units are required to self-certify that they are 
compliant with the Group’s business conduct handbook and compliance  
with the handbook is considered as part of the independent reviews.
(m) Whistle-blowing procedures
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice  
at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistle-blowing hotline and 
e-mail address is available. Any issues raised are thoroughly investigated  
and reported back to the Audit Committee.
The management of financial risks is described in the Financial review and 
the management of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group  
is described in the Operating review.
45
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Accountability Dear shareholder
This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the 
work it carried out during the year. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and the Company’s external auditors (the ‘Auditors’)  
normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, in their role as internal auditors, attend  
at least two meetings of the Committee each year. 
Key objective
To assist the Board in discharging its responsibility for ensuring that the 
Group’s financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date information on 
its financial position and that the Group’s published financial statements 
represent a true and fair reflection of this position. It also reviews 
annually the Group’s systems of internal control and the processes  
for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the 
year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
Committee meetings
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year. During this 
financial year the Committee met four times, all with the Company’s 
Auditors in attendance, and on two of these occasions, the Committee 
met privately with the Auditors without management being present. 
Activities of the Committee
During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
 – reviewing an annual report on the Group’s system of internal control  
and its effectiveness and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of 
financial control
 – reviewing and approving the Auditors’ engagement letter and audit fee
 – reviewing the Auditors’ reports and the Group’s draft financial 
statements and recommending them for approval to the Board
 – reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost-effectiveness and  
the independence and objectivity of the Auditors
 – undertaking an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit 
process
 – approving a rolling four-year programme of internal audit reviews of 
aspects of the Group’s operations and financial controls and receiving 
reports on all reviews carried out during the year
 – receiving briefings on various technical issues, such as accounting 
standards and their practical consequences for Keller
 – reviewing the Group’s whistle-blowing policy and monitoring the 
procedures in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible 
impropriety
 – reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness and its terms of reference
 – reviewing the Group’s policy on employment of the Auditors for 
non-audit services
 – reviewing the need for an internal audit function
 – reviewing the Group’s policy on the employment of former employees 
of the Auditors.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the Company’s processes to ensure 
that it was able to offer advice to the Board over whether the 2014 
Annual Report and Accounts can be considered fair, balanced and 
understandable. The following processes were established in 2013 and 
were used again in 2014 to provide assurance: the co-ordination and 
review of the Annual Report and Accounts was performed within an 
exacting time-frame which ran alongside the formal audit process 
undertaken by the Auditors; guidance was issued to contributors at an 
operational level; an internal verification process dealing with the factual 
content of the reports took place; and a comprehensive review was 
undertaken by the senior management team and external advisers  
that aimed to ensure consistency and overall balance.
Audit Committee Membership:
 – Chris Girling (Chairman)
 – Nancy Tuor Moore (appointed 26 June 2014)
 – Paul Withers 
Chris Girling
Chairman of the Audit Committee
46
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate governance statement 
continued
Audit Committee report Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial 
statements focused on the Group’s approach to key estimates and 
judgments in connection with:
 – accounting for construction contracts. The main factors considered 
when making those estimates and judgments include the percentage of 
work completed at the balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, the 
costs of the work required to complete the contract and the outcome 
of claims and variations raised against customers and claims raised against 
the Group by customers or third parties. The Committee has reviewed 
a report prepared by management on the key estimates and judgments 
relating to construction contracts having a material impact on the Group’s 
result for the year, including the estimates and judgments relating to the 
significant contract dispute presented within exceptional items
 – the carrying value of goodwill. The Group tests annually whether 
goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting 
policy set out in Note 2 to the financial statements. The Group 
estimates the recoverable amount based on value in use calculations. 
These calculations require the use of assumptions, the most important 
being the forecast revenues, operating margins and the discount rate 
applied. The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are 
set out in Note 13 to the financial statements. The Committee has 
reviewed the key assumptions used for all impairment tests of material 
goodwill balances. In particular, this review has focused on Keller Limited 
in the UK and Keller Canada where there is the most uncertainty 
surrounding the projections used in the value in use calculation.
The Committee also examined the disclosure of items which are 
described as exceptional in the consolidated income statement  
and discussed the appropriateness of such disclosure with the  
Company’s Auditors.
These matters and any audit differences are considered in the 
Committee meetings that review the full-year and interim results.  
At these meetings, the Committee discusses with the Auditors whether 
they consider management’s assumptions behind these estimates  
and judgments to be conservative or aggressive. In addition, during  
such meetings, the Committee meets with the Auditors without 
management being present.
External audit
The Committee places great importance on ensuring there are high 
standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process. 
KPMG were re-appointed as the Company’s Auditor in 2014, further  
to a retendering of the external audit process.
The Committee has undertaken an assessment of the effectiveness  
of the external audit process of the 2013 financial statements. This 
assessment focused on: the calibre of the audit firm (including reputation, 
presence in the industry, size, resources and geographic spread); its 
quality control processes; the quality of the team assigned to the audit; 
the audit scope, fee and audit communications; and the governance  
and independence of the audit firm. This process was supported by  
the completion of a questionnaire by each material Keller business  
and the divisional finance teams following the conclusion of the audit.  
The questionnaire covered areas such as the quality of audit team, their 
understanding of the business, and the management of and approach  
to the audit. Where appropriate, actions were agreed against the  
points raised and will be monitored for progress.
There are a number of checks and controls in place for safeguarding the 
objectivity and independence of the Auditors. There are open lines of 
communication and reporting between the Auditors and the Committee 
and when presenting their ‘independence letter’ KPMG discuss with the 
Committee their internal process for ensuring independence.
A detailed assessment of the amounts and relationship of audit and 
non-audit fees and services is carried out each year and the Audit 
Committee has developed and implemented a policy regulating the 
placing of non-audit services to the Auditors, which should prevent any 
impairment of independence. Any work awarded to the Auditors, other 
than audit or tax compliance, with a value in excess of £100,000 requires 
the specific approval of the Committee. 
Over the last five years, the ratio of non-audit related fees paid to the 
Auditor averaged 49% of the total audit fee. The ratio of non-audit 
related fees paid to the Auditor in 2014 is 41% of the total audit fee.
Also, as part of its annual review of Auditors’ independence, the 
Committee reviews the level and nature of entertainment between  
the Auditors and management.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at  
the Annual General Meeting to be held in May 2015.
Internal audit
PricewaterhouseCoopers continues to provide a structured programme 
of independent, outsourced reviews of all material business units at  
least once every four years. During 2014, the Audit Committee received 
and considered reports from PricewaterhouseCoopers which detailed 
the progress against the agreed work programme for 2014. This 
programme covered reviews of business units in six countries, which 
together represented approximately 13% of the Group’s turnover  
for the year. In September, the Committee formally reviewed the 
effectiveness of these arrangements, concluding that the internal  
audit arrangements were appropriate and effective. 
Chris Girling
Chairman of the Audit Committee
2 March 2015
47
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Ruth Cairnie
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
48
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report 
Annual statement
Dear shareholder,
It is my pleasure to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for  
the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Remuneration overview
In 2014, the Remuneration Committee’s membership, remit and role  
were unchanged compared to 2013 and we continued to apply our 
remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders at the Annual  
General Meeting in May 2014. 
Remuneration policy
We operate a remuneration structure comprising base salary and benefits,  
a bonus plan and a long-term incentive plan, which provides a clear link 
between pay and strategic priorities. We believe that the policy as a whole  
is well aligned to the current business strategy and the outcomes reflect 
business performance.
Activities of the Committee
The Committee’s main regular activities during 2014 were as follows:
 – we reviewed the performance of the Group for the year, and  
the performance of the Executive Directors to determine bonus  
outcomes for 2014
 – we approved share awards for 2014
 – we set base salaries and established the Executive Directors’  
bonus arrangements for 2015
 – we reviewed the Directors’ remuneration report
 – we considered remuneration market trends and corporate  
governance developments.
In addition, during the year the Committee: 
 – took advice on and agreed the remuneration arrangements for Justin 
Atkinson, who will retire as CEO no later than 31 December 2015
 – reviewed the remuneration principles applicable to an incoming CEO
 – considered the revised UK Corporate Governance Code; the Committee 
concluded that the clawback arrangements currently applicable to the 
Company’s bonus plan and long-term incentive plan, which include both 
clawback and malus, are appropriate and meet  
with the requirements.
Remuneration for 2014
The Group’s results for 2014 demonstrated continued good progress  
in delivery of the strategy with profit before tax
*
 increasing by 15%  
and earnings per share
*
 by 3%. 
Performance Share Awards granted in 2012 are measured using EPS and 
TSR targets: with EPS determined before exceptional items according to  
the scheme rules. These targets were met in full and 100% of the Awards 
vested in March 2015.
A strong performance by the Group for the year would have resulted in 
bonuses ranging from 78% to 82% for the Executive Directors under the 
Company’s annual bonus plan. 
However, the PBT and EPS elements of the financial targets in the annual 
bonus plan are set after exceptional items and performance was thus 
impacted by the exceptional charge detailed in Note 7 to the accounts. This 
led to the payment potential of the EPS and PBT elements being reduced to 
zero and, under the rules of the plan, to restrict the payment potential 
against personal strategic objectives to 15% for Justin Atkinson, James Hind 
and Wolfgang Sondermann. The adverse impact on bonuses has also been 
cascaded down to the Executive Committee. 
Details of the remuneration decisions for 2014 are set out in the Directors’ 
annual remuneration report on pages 54 to 60.
Remuneration Committee Membership:
 – Ruth Cairnie (Chairman)
 – Chris Girling
 – Paul Withers
Key objective
To determine the framework, broad policy and levels of remuneration 
for the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Group’s Finance 
Director and Technology and Best Practice Director and other 
executives as deemed appropriate. The framework includes, but is  
not limited to, establishing stretching performance-related elements  
of reward and is intended to promote the long-term success of  
the Company.
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the 
year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
Committee meetings
Committee meetings are attended by the members. In addition, the 
Chairman and the CEO may attend meetings as required. The CEO is 
not present when his own performance or remuneration is discussed, 
and no Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration. 
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.  
During this financial year the Committee met three times. 
Key responsibilities
 – making recommendations to the Board, within the agreed terms  
of reference, on Keller’s framework of executive remuneration.
 – determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits  
for each of the Executive Directors, including performance share 
awards, performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and 
compensation payments.
 – monitoring remuneration for senior executives below Board level.
 – approval of share awards. 
Remuneration overview
 – our remuneration policy supports the following principles:
 – to provide a clear link between performance and reward and ensure 
that the Executive Directors’ interests are closely aligned with those  
of our shareholders. 
 – to help us to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre executives to 
manage the business and deliver against our strategy, ensuring the 
long-term success of the company  49
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Remuneration for 2015
The base salaries of James Hind and Wolfgang Sondermann were 
increased by 3%, to £340,337 and £355,402 respectively, with effect  
from 1 January 2015, in line with general pay increases of 3% awarded 
across the Group.
As reported by the Chairman in his Corporate Governance report,  
an external search is underway for a successor to the CEO at Keller.  
Justin Atkinson will continue to be employed by the Company until 
31 December 2015.
Justin will continue to receive his normal base salary and benefits during 
his employment but his bonus for 2015 will be pro-rated to the date he 
steps down as CEO and he will not be eligible for a share award in 2015. 
The financial arrangements relating to Justin’s retirement will be 
consistent with the remuneration policy and will be disclosed once  
his employment ceases. 
The Committee has set Justin’s base salary at £477,400 with effect  
from 1 January 2015, an increase of 2% reflecting general inflation.
During 2015, Wolfgang Sondermann will reach retirement age and he  
will, therefore, not receive a share award. The Committee considered 
the impact of the 2015 retirements of Justin and Wolfgang and, given  
the exceptional circumstances, decided it was appropriate to use its 
discretion under the remuneration policy to award James Hind shares  
in the amount of 200% of salary.
Remuneration disclosure
This report complies with the requirements of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended in 
2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and  
the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules. 
The report is in two sections:
 – a summary of the Directors’ remuneration policy report (pages  
50 to 53). This section contains details of the remuneration policy 
approved at the 2014 AGM and is for information only; and
 – the Directors’ annual remuneration report. This section sets out the 
details of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 and how we intend for it to apply for the  
year ending 31 December 2015 and it is the subject of an advisory 
shareholder vote at the AGM in May 2015. 
I will be available at the AGM to answer your questions. 
Ruth Cairnie
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2015
*
 Before exceptional items 50
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report 
continued
Remuneration policy report
Summary of Directors’ remuneration policy report
The remuneration policy was approved at the AGM in May 2014. Provided for information only are the details of the policy that were referenced in 
Committee activities over the past reporting year which includes the Remuneration policy table, the recruitment remuneration arrangements, Executive 
Director service contracts and terms and conditions for Non-executive Directors. The full policy report, as approved by shareholders, can be found in last 
year’s remuneration report, a copy of which can be found at www.keller.co.uk/who-we-are/corporate-governance/remuneration-report.
Remuneration policy table 
Element
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
Fixed cash compensation, dependent 
upon experience and responsibilities.
Sufficiently competitive to 
ensure adequate retention.
Sufficient for incentives to 
be fully variable.
Reviewed annually,  
effective 1 January.
Periodically benchmarked.
Pay and conditions 
throughout the Group 
taken into account when 
determining any increase.
No maximum, but 
positioned broadly  
at the median.
Increases are not expected 
to exceed average 
increases for the wider 
workforce, unless a change 
in scope or complexity of 
role applies.
None
Annual bonus
Short-term cash incentive up to  
100% of salary based on achievement  
of annual financial and personal  
strategic objectives.
Medium-term incentive: any bonus  
in excess of 100% of salary (up to a 
maximum of 150% of salary) is deferred 
for three years and payout linked to 
ongoing share price performance.
Drives and rewards  
annual performance.
Part deferral, together  
with link to share price  
(see Operation column) 
focuses participants on 
medium-term performance 
and supports alignment  
with shareholders.
The mix of financial  
and personal strategic 
objectives, together with 
Group performance, 
ensures an appropriate 
broad focus on different 
elements of Company 
performance.
Performance measures  
and weightings are set at  
the start of the year to 
reflect business priorities.
Targets are reviewed 
annually and relate to 
financial and non-financial 
targets in line with the 
business plan.
At the end of the year, the 
Remuneration Committee 
determines the extent to 
which targets have been 
achieved.
Any bonus above 100% of 
salary is deferred (satisfied 
in cash, adjusted in line with 
share price movements and 
dividends paid over the 
three-year deferral period, 
commencing on the last 
day of the year to which 
the bonus relates).
Bonuses are subject to 
clawback in situations of 
material misstatement, 
error or gross misconduct.
For maximum 
performance
 – 150% of salary
For threshold performance
 – 0% of salary
Bonus up to 100% of  
salary for very strong 
performance.
Payouts between 0%  
and 100% of salary are 
determined broadly on  
a straight-line basis such 
that the payout for 
performance in line with 
budget (‘target’) is likely  
to be in the range of 
35%-55% of maximum.
Any bonus in excess of  
100% of salary only payable 
for genuinely exceptional 
performance.
At least 70% based on 
financial performance.
Measures may include  
(but are not limited to): 
 – Profit before tax (‘PBT’)
 – Earnings per share (‘EPS’)
 – Average net debt target
 – Personal strategic 
objectives.
Targets will be adjusted  
to take account of major 
acquisitions.
Payment potential for 
personal strategic 
objectives is capped at  
50% of the potential payout 
if PBT or EPS targets are 
not triggered.
Bonuses may be reduced 
by up to 10% if pre-defined 
‘lead’ safety targets are  
not delivered. 
In addition, the Committee 
has discretion to reduce 
bonuses (down to zero, if 
appropriate) in exceptional 
circumstances to take into 
account factors adversely 
affecting the Company’s 
reputation. 51
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Element
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
Variable long-term remuneration  
paid in shares.
Focuses on long-term financial 
performance as well as stock market 
out-performance, through targets based 
on EPS growth and relative total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’).
Retention through delivery 
of potentially significant 
deferred remuneration.
A considerable part of 
potential remuneration  
is linked to long-term 
Group performance.
Retention of vested shares 
(linked to shareholding 
guidelines) enables 
meaningful shareholdings to 
be built up, aligning interests 
of senior managers and 
shareholders.
Award released after  
three years.
Performance measured  
over three financial years.
Any dividends paid may 
accrue over the vesting 
period and would be  
paid only on those  
shares that vest.
Awards are subject to 
clawback in situations of 
material misstatement,  
error or gross misconduct.
Normal award of 100%  
of base annual salary  
each year.
Up to 200% of salary  
where the Committee 
determines that 
exceptional circumstances 
exist (e.g. on recruitment).
25% of an award vests  
for threshold performance, 
rising on a straight-line  
basis to full vesting.
Vesting of PSP awards  
is subject to continued 
employment and 
performance against two 
equally-weighted measures, 
which are currently as 
follows:
–  EPS growth measured  
on a point to point basis 
over the three-year 
performance period;
–  TSR relative to a  
relevant peer group  
over the three-year 
performance period.
The Committee will review 
the targets prior to each 
grant to ensure that they 
continue to be well aligned 
with the delivery of 
Company strategy.
Pension
Salary supplement, defined benefit  
plan and defined contribution plan.
Provides for employee 
welfare and retirement 
needs.
Defined benefit (‘DB’) plan 
in the UK closed to future 
benefit accrual in 2006.
Replaced with lower-risk 
defined contribution  
(‘DC’) plans.
Executives can elect  
to receive either a DC 
contribution or a salary 
supplement of equivalent 
cost to the Company.
No formal maximum, but  
no plans to exceed current 
percentages of basic salary.
None
Other benefits
Company car or car allowance;  
private health care; life assurance;  
and long-term disability insurance.
Access to company car to 
facilitate effective travel.
Insurance benefits to 
support the individual and 
their family to minimise 
disruption to day-to-day 
business e.g. from illness.
Benefits currently include, 
but are not limited to  
a car and payment of its 
operating expenses, or  
car allowance; private 
health care; life assurance; 
and long-term disability 
insurance.
Benefits provided through 
third-party providers.
It is not anticipated that the 
cost of benefits provided  
will materially exceed the 
level in recent years. 
The Committee retains  
the discretion to approve  
a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. 
relocation).
None
Notes to the policy table
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting
The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Group’s plans for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial 
priorities. Performance targets are set annually to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic environment 
in a given year.
The Committee believes that EPS and TSR continue to be appropriate measures of long-term performance for Keller. EPS provides a link to long-term 
financial performance and is highly visible internally, while TSR provides strong alignment with shareholder interests. EPS targets will be reviewed and 
confirmed prior to each grant, taking account of analyst estimates, historical performance and EPS performance ranges used at other FTSE250 companies. 
The TSR target for full vesting has been determined on the basis of an historical analysis of the median to upper quartile spread and is in line with typical 
market practice for a company of Keller’s size. The Committee retains discretion to adjust this target for future awards should circumstances change. 
If an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an outstanding PSP Award or bonus would not achieve its original purpose without 
alteration, the Committee has discretion to amend the targets, provided the new conditions are materially no less challenging than when originally imposed. 
Such discretion could be used to adjust appropriately for the impact of material acquisitions or disposals, or for exceptional and unforeseen events outside 
the control of the management team. The application of any such discretion would have regard to the Committee’s practice of ensuring the stability of 
measures and targets throughout the business cycle.
Shareholding guidelines
To reflect the importance the Committee places on aligning their interests with shareholders, Executive Directors are required to hold shares with a value 
equivalent to 100% of salary. Executive Directors are required to retain 50% net of tax of shares acquired on vesting of share Awards until the required 
holding is attained.
Awards under previous remuneration policies
Any awards or remuneration-related commitments made to Directors under previous remuneration policies will continue to be honoured. 52
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report 
continued
Details of the policy on fees paid to Non-executive Directors are set out in the table below:
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Chairman and Non-executive 
Director fees.
To attract and retain NEDs of  
the highest calibre with broad 
commercial and other experience 
relevant to the Company.
Non-executive Directors  
do not participate in any  
incentive scheme.
Fee levels are reviewed annually, 
with any adjustments effective  
1 January.
The determination of fees,  
including that of the Chairman,  
has been delegated by the Board  
to the Executive Directors, who 
are guided by independent  
surveys of fees paid to NEDS  
of similar companies.
The Chairman is paid a single, 
consolidated fee.
The Non-executive Directors are 
paid a basic fee, plus additional  
fees for the chairing of a Board 
Committee and to the Senior 
Independent Director, which 
reflects the time commitment  
and responsibilities of their roles.
No maximum, but positioned 
broadly at median.
It is not expected that increases  
will exceed those for the wider 
workforce or market NED fee 
inflation rates. However, in the 
event that there is a material 
change in the complexity, 
responsibility or time commitment 
required to fulfil a non-executive 
role, the Board has overall 
discretion to make an appropriate 
adjustment to fee levels.
Aggregate fees are subject to  
the limit in the Company’s articles 
of £500,000.
Fees for the year commencing 
1 January 2015 are set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
None
Recruitment remuneration arrangements
In the case of appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package 
with our remuneration policy, which may include elements outlined in the policy table above.
In determining appropriate remuneration, the Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in 
the best interests of both Keller and its shareholders and will seek not to pay more than is necessary for this purpose. The Committee may make an award 
in respect of a new appointment to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer on a like-for-like basis, which may be awarded 
in addition to the remuneration structure outlined in the table above. In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance 
conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met. The Committee may also rely on exemption 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules 
to facilitate such a buy out if required. 
Internal promotions to the Board
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Remuneration Committee will apply the policy consistently as for 
external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the 
Company will continue to honour these arrangements. Incentive opportunities for below Board level employees are typically no higher than Executive 
Directors, but measures may vary.
Non-executive Director recruitment
In recruiting a new Non-executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will utilise the policy as set out in the table above.
All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement, the dates of which are set out below.
Unexpired term of contract table
Director Date of engagement letter Unexpired term (months as at 2 March 2015)
L R Cairnie 8 April 2010 (renewed on 30 May 2013) 15 months
R A Franklin 17 July 2007 (and 28 July 2009 as Chairman, renewed on 19 June 2012) 4 months
C F Girling 1 1 February 201 1 (renewed on 14 January 2014) 24 months
N Tuor Moore 26 June 2014 27 months
P N Withers 17 December 2012 10 months
The Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive plans or pension arrangements.  53
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Service contracts and exit payment policy
In accordance with general market practice, it is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a 
maximum of one year’s notice. 
Service contracts between the Company (or other companies in the Group
*
) and individuals who served as Executive Directors at any time during the year 
are summarised below. All are rolling contracts. Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Company’s registered office.
Director Date of service contract Notice period Termination payment
J R Atkinson 6 March 2003 12 months Maximum of basic annual salary  
plus the fair value of benefits for  
the unexpired portion of the  
notice period, subject to mitigation
J W G Hind 16 May 2003
W Sondermann
*
12 February 1998 (modified  
by memoranda of employment  
dated 5 March 2004 and  
20 December 201 1)
See below for treatment of  
incentives on termination in  
varying circumstances
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.  
The table below summarises how the Awards under the annual bonus and PSP arrangements are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final 
treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion:
Event Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting / payment
Annual bonus
Resignation Awards lapse Not applicable
‘Good leaver’
1
, Death,  
Change of Control
On termination A pro-rata bonus may become payable for the period up to the termination date.  
Performance targets will continue to apply
Performance Share Plan
Resignation Awards lapse Not applicable
Death As soon as practicable The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards vest based  
on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved at the relevant date
‘Good leaver’
1
Normal vesting date The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards vest based  
on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved over the full performance 
period, and the proportion of the performance period worked
Change of control Within one month of the 
relevant event
The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards vest based  
on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved at the relevant date,  
and the proportion of the performance period worked
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement (under statute or otherwise) to additional 
amounts, which would need to be met. In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, 
for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to 
enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including (but not limited to) 
settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and/or consultancy arrangements. These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee 
believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so. 
Terms and conditions for Non-executive Directors
The appointment of Non-executive Directors is for a fixed term of three years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by either party on 
three months’ notice. There are no provisions on payment for early termination in letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors and service contracts of executives are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
during normal hours and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
*
 Wolfgang Sondermann’s service contract is with Keller Holding GmbH.
1
 ‘Good leaver’ is defined as a participant ceasing to be employed by the Group by reason of injury or disability, ill health, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the employer, or any 
other reason that the Committee determines in its absolute discretion. 54
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report 
continued
Annual remuneration report
The following section provides details of how Keller’s remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2014. 
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors (audited information)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014:
J R Atkinson J W G Hind W Sondermann
5
2014 
£ 
2013
£ 
2014 
£ 
2013
£ 
2014 
£ 
2013
£ 
Salary 468 446 330 321 345 353
Taxable benefits
1
16 16 13 13 13 13
Pension benefit
2
140 134 60 58 57 59
Single-year variable
3
156 564 109 417 102 397
Multiple-year variable
4
850 710 612 511 688 576
Total 1,630 1,870 1,124 1,320 1,205 1,398
Total pension entitlements (audited information)
The changes during the year in the accrued pension entitlements of Justin Atkinson under the Keller Group Pension Scheme and of Wolfgang Sondermann 
under the defined benefit (DB) pension arrangements operated by Keller Grundbau GmbH are shown in the table below. The amount shown as accrued 
pension at the end of the year is that which would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the year.
Executive Director
Accrued  
pension 
31 December 
2014 
£000
Accrued  
pension 
31 December 
2013 
£000
Increase in 
accrued benefit 
(net of inflation 
and Directors’ 
contributions) 
£000
Value of DB 
scheme 
benefits 
£000
Pension 
allowance/DC 
contribution 
£000
Total pension 
included in 
single figure 
table 
£000
J R Atkinson
1
109 106 – – 140 140
J W G Hind n/a – – – 60 60
W Sondermann
2
5 5 – 2 57 57
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-executive Directors (audited information)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the 
prior year:
Total fees
2014
£
2013
£
L R Cairnie 52,300 51,000
R A Franklin 159,700 155,000
C F Girling 52,300 51,000
N Tuor Moore
1
26,753 –
P N Withers 52,300 51,000
1
 Taxable benefits consist primarily of a car and payment of its operating expenses or car allowance (£15,000, £12,000 and £6,109 for Justin Atkinson, James Hind and Wolfgang Sondermann 
respectively), private health care; life assurance; and long-term disability insurance. 
2
 See table below for a breakdown of pension benefits.
3
 See Annual Bonus in respect of 2014 performance on page 55 for further details.
4
 PSP Awards reflect those vesting based on performance to 31 December 2014. The market price on the date of vesting is currently unknown; the value is estimated using the average market 
value over the last quarter of 2014 of 830p. See 2012 PSP vesting on page 56 for further details.
5
 Wolfgang Sondermann’s salary is paid locally in euro. The 2013 and 2014 totals are calculated in GBP using the average currency conversion rate applicable to those years.
1
 The normal retirement age for Justin Atkinson is 60.
2
 The normal retirement age for Wolfgang Sondermann is 65.
1
 Nancy Tuor Moore was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014. 55
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2014 
Annual bonus in respect of 2014 performance
Under the 2014 annual bonus plan, the Executive Directors delivered strongly on both financial targets and their own personal targets, of which Justin 
Atkinson had six and James Hind and Wolfgang Sondermann each had five. Notably, on the personal objectives, Justin put in place an executive development 
programme for the Group, to support talent development and succession planning; James reviewed and refinanced the Group’s main debt facilities, at 
improved rates; and Wolfgang continued to lead improvements in the Group’s bid appraisal process, to reduce the risk from underperforming contracts.
However, PBT and EPS elements of the financial targets in the annual bonus plan are set after exceptional items and performance was thus impacted by the 
exceptional charge detailed in Note 7 of the Annual Accounts. This led to the payment potential of the PBT and EPS elements being reduced to zero and, 
under the rules of the plan, reduced the payment potential against personal strategic objectives from 30% to 15% for Justin, James and Wolfgang. Leading 
safety targets were met by each of the Executive Directors; however, the Committee exercised its discretion to reduce the pay-outs under that target in 
recognition of a fatality in the business during the year. The overall outcome is an annual bonus pay-out for Executive Directors of between 30 and 33% for 
2014. Without the exceptional charge, annual bonus pay-outs would have been in the range of 78 and 82%.
The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the financial performance targets. The financial targets, together with the actual performance 
achieved against each target, are set out in the table below.
Director
2014 performance targets and outcomes
Group EPS Group PBT
Group average 
net debt
Personal 
strategic 
objectives Total
J R Atkinson
Weighting (% salary) 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
Threshold 80p £85m £185m
Target 90p £95m £170m
Maximum 100p £105m £155m
Actual
1
80.3p £90.6m £154.7m
Awarded
2
0% 0% 20% 13.4% 33.4%
J W G Hind
Weighting (% salary) 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
Threshold 80p £85m £185m
Target 90p £95m £170m
Maximum 100p £105m £155m
Actual
1
80.3p £90.6m £154.7m
Awarded
2
0% 0% 20% 13.0% 33.0%
W Sondermann
Weighting (% salary) 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
Threshold 80p £85m £185m
Target 90p £95m £170m
Maximum 100p £105m £155m
Actual
1
80.3p £90.6m £154.7m
Awarded
2
0% 0% 20% 9.6% 29.6%
1
 At 2014 budget exchange rate before exceptional items.
2
 EPS and PBT impacted by the exceptional charge detailed in Note 7. 56
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report 
continued
2012 PSP vesting
Based on EPS and TSR performance over the three years ended 31 December 2014, the Performance Share Plan Awards made in 2012 will vest in full in 
March 2015, once again demonstrating strong progress in the delivery of the Group’s strategy. Further details, including vesting schedules and performance 
against each of the metrics, are provided in the table below:
Measure Weighting Targets Outcome Vest %
Earnings per share (EPS) 50% 0% vesting below RPI+4% p.a.
30% vesting for RPI+4% p.a.
100% vesting for RPI+9% p.a. or more;
Straight-line vesting between these points
RPI+194.9% p.a. 100%
TSR relative to the constituents of the  
FTSE All-Share Index
50% 0% vesting below median
30% vesting for median  
(50
th
 centile) performance 
100% vesting for upper quintile  
(80
th
 centile) performance;
Straight-line vesting between these points
95.7th centile 100%
Total PSP vesting 100%
The value of these Awards to the individual Executive Directors, as shown in the single figure of total remuneration, is therefore as follows:
Executive Director
Interests held Vesting %
Interests 
vesting Date vested Market price Value (£000)
J R Atkinson 102,340 100% 102,340 March 2015 830p £850 
J W G Hind 73,641 73,641 £612
W Sondermann 82,907 82,907 £688 
The market price on the date of vesting is currently unknown; the value is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2014. 
Scheme interests awarded in 2014 (audited information)
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
The three-year performance period over which performance will be measured began on 1 January 2014 and will end on 31 December 2016. Awards will 
vest on 7 March 2017, subject to meeting performance conditions. 
Executive Director
Date of grant
Shares over 
which awards 
granted
Market price at 
date of award
Face 
value
J R Atkinson 7 March 2014 39,977 1171p £468,131
J W G Hind 28,232 £330,597
W Sondermann 30,453 £356,605
Vesting of the PSP Awards is dependent on the development of EPS and TSR relative to the FTSE250 Index (excluding investment trusts) with equal waiting 
over a three-year performance period. There is no retest provision. Details of the vesting schedules are provided below: 
0%
25%
100%
15% 5%
Keller three-year EPS CAGR (p.a.)
EPS vesting schedule (50% of award)
% award vesting
0%
25%
100%
10% 0%
Keller three-year TSR % outperformance vs. FTSE250xIT (p.a.)
Relative TSR vesting schedule (50% of award)
% award vesting 57
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Payments to past Directors
No payments were made to past Directors during the year. 
Exit payments made in the year
The Company paid no exit payments during the year.
Directors’ interests (audited information)
A table setting out the beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2014 is set out below.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any other Group company. Since 31 December 2014, there have been no changes in the 
Directors’ interests in shares.
Executive Director
Ordinary 
Shares at
31 December 
2014
Ordinary  
Shares at
31 December 
2013
J R Atkinson 238,586 202,693
J W G Hind 93,258 67,434
W Sondermann 130,000 90,000
L R Cairnie 6,000 6,000
R A Franklin 6,000 6,000
C F Girling 3,000 3,000
P N Withers 20,000 10,000
N T Moore – –
Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements (audited information)
The table below shows the shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2014:
Shares held Options held
Owned 
outright or 
vested
Vested but  
subject to  
holding period
Unvested and 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Vested but not 
exercised
Shareholding 
requirement % 
salary/fee
*
Current 
shareholding % 
salary/fee
Requirement  
met?
J R Atkinson 238,586 0 197,118 0 100% 450% yes
J W G Hind 93,258 0 141,299 0 100% 248% yes
W Sondermann 130,000 0 152,631 0 100% 332% yes
Directors’ interests in options under long-term incentives (audited information)
Details of Directors’ PSP Awards are set out in the table below. 
Awards
held at
1 January
2014
Awards
granted
during
the year
Awards
exercised
during
the year
Awards
lapsed
during
the year
Awards
held at
31 December
2014
Exercise
price
(per exercise)
Date from
which
exercisable Expiry date
J R Atkinson 
3 March 201 1 67,936 – 67,936 – – 100.0p 03/03/14 02/09/14
1 March 2012 102,340 – – – 102,340 100.0p 01/03/15 31/08/15
20 June 2013 54,801 – – – 54,801 100.0p 20/06/16 19/12/16
7 March 2014 – 39,977 – – 39,977 100.0p 07/03/17 06/09/17
J W G Hind 
3 March 201 1 48,879 – 48,879 – – 100.0p 03/03/14 02/09/14
1 March 2012 73,641 – – – 73,641 100.0p 01/03/15 31/08/15
20 June 2013 39,426 – – – 39,426 100.0p 20/06/16 19/12/16
7 March 2014 – 28,232 – – 28,232 100.0p 07/03/17 06/09/17
W Sondermann 
3 March 201 1 55,041 – 55,041 – – 100.0p 03/03/14 02/09/14
1 March 2012 82,907 – – – 82,907 100.0p 01/03/15 31/08/15
20 June 2013 39,271 – – – 39,271 100.0p 20/06/16 19/12/16
7 March 2014 – 30,453 – – 30,453 100.0p 07/03/17 06/09/17
The performance conditions for Awards made in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are detailed on page 51. The performance conditions for the 2014 Award are detailed 
on page 56.
* 
Reflects closing price on 31 December 2014 of 880p. 58
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report 
continued
Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the Company’s performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE250 Index (excluding investment 
trusts) and the FTSE All-Share Index. These indices have been selected for consistency with the comparator groups used to measure TSR performance  
for outstanding as well as 2015 PSP awards. 
The graph looks at the value, by the end of 2014, of £100 invested in Keller on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in each index. 
The table below details the Chief Executive’s ‘single figure’ remuneration over the same period.
Historical TSR performance
Growth in the value of hypothetical £100 holding over the six years to 31 December 2014 is set out below against the FTSE All-Share Index and the 
FTSE250 Index.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Dec-14 Dec-13 Dec-12 Dec-11 Dec-10 Dec-09 Dec-08
Keller
FTSE250 (excluding investment trusts)
FTSE All Share
Historical TSR performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over the six years to 31 December 2014 (£)
2009 2010
1
2011
1
2012 2013 2014
Chief Executive single figure of remuneration (£000) £891 £550 £562 £951 £1,870 £1,630
Annual bonus as a % of maximum opportunity 42% 0% 0% 57% 84% 22%
PSP vesting as a % of maximum opportunity 31% 0% 0% 0% 100% 100%
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration
The table following shows the percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in 
remuneration for our UK senior management population, who have been selected for this comparison due to the UK employment location and the 
structure of total remuneration – most of our management team are able to earn an annual bonus as well as receiving a base salary.
The Chief Executive’s remuneration includes base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus. The pay for all other employees is calculated using the increase 
in the earnings of full-time employees. The analysis excludes part-time employees and is based on a consistent set of employees, i.e. the same individuals 
appear in the 2013 and 2014 populations. 
Chief Executive
% change 
2013-14
All other 
employees
% change 
2013-14
Base salary 5 3
Taxable benefits 0 0
Annual bonus (72) (60)
Total (38) (19)
1
 The CEO waived any entitlement to a bonus in 2010 and 201 1. 59
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends) and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 
31 December 2014, along with the percentage changes.
2014
£m
2013
£m
%
change
Distribution to shareholders 18.0 15.4 5
Employee remuneration 404.5
*
363.4 11.3
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of 16.8p per ordinary share. Employee remuneration 
excludes social security costs.
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2015
Base salaries in 2015
In line with the remuneration policy, the Committee reviewed pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group. The salaries of James Hind and  
Wolfgang Sondermann were increased by 3% commensurate with general pay increases of 3% across the Group. The Committee considered the  
Chief Executive’s pending retirement balanced with his commitment to continue to lead the Company until a successor is appointed and,  
accordingly, increased Justin Atkinson’s base salary by 2%, reflecting general inflation. 
Executive Director
Salary 
for 2015
Salary 
for 2014
Increase 
from 2014
J R Atkinson £477,400 £468,000 2%
J W G Hind £340,337 £330,500 3%
W Sondermann
*
£355,402 £345,120 3%
Pension
Justin is a member of the Keller Group Pension Scheme (the ‘Scheme’). The Scheme provides a pension based upon a percentage of final salary and pensions 
for dependents on death in service or following retirement. The table on page 54 shows Justin’s accrued Scheme benefits. The Scheme closed to future 
benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2006, since when he has received a salary supplement in lieu of a Company contribution to an alternative pension 
arrangement equivalent to 30% of salary. 
The salary supplement is not taken into account in determining bonuses or any other form of remuneration. 
Wolfgang is a member of the DB pension arrangements established by Keller Grundbau GmbH. His accrued benefits under these arrangements are 
included in the table on page 54.
Wolfgang is also a member of a DC scheme, as is James. For 2015, they will continue to receive contributions and/or a salary supplement totalling 17% and 
18% of salary respectively. 
Annual bonus for 2015
The financial targets for the 2015 annual bonus are based on the same performance metrics as in 2014. The actual targets for 2015 are considered to be 
commercially sensitive and accordingly they are not disclosed in this report, but will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2015 remuneration report.
2015 annual bonus weightings (% of salary)
Director
Group EPS Group PBT
Group average  
net debt
Personal 
strategic 
objectives Total
J R Atkinson
*
50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
J W G Hind 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
W Sondermann 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
For bonuses paid in respect of 2015, the Committee continues to have discretion to reduce bonuses in exceptional circumstances (down to zero, if 
appropriate) to take into account factors adversely impacting the Company’s reputation. This discretion is in addition to the safety underpin whereby 
bonuses may be reduced by up to 10% if pre-defined ‘lead’ safety targets are not delivered.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) for 2015
The performance conditions for PSP Awards made in 2015 will be unchanged compared to the 2014 Awards; the vesting schedules are as shown in the 
charts on page 56.
Justin Atkinson will not receive a PSP award for 2015.
During 2015, Wolfgang Sondermann will reach retirement age and he will, therefore, not receive a share award. The Committee considered the impact  
of the 2015 retirements of Justin and Wolfgang and, given the exceptional circumstances, decided it was appropriate to use its discretion under the 
remuneration policy to award James Hind shares in the amount of 200% of salary.
*
 Reflects a full year of the three acquisitions made in 2013.
*
 Wolfgang Sondermann’s salary is paid locally in euro. The 2013 and 2014 totals are calculated in GBP using the average currency conversion rate applicable to those years.
*
 2015 annual bonus will be pro-rated to the date that Justin steps down as CEO. 60
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report 
continued
Chairman and Non-executive Director fees
With effect from 1 January 2015, fees payable to the Chairman of the Board and the basic fee payable to each Non-executive Director were increased by 
2%. The Chairman’s fee is £162,900 per annum and the basic fee payable to each Non-executive Director is £45,700 per annum. An additional payment of 
£7,500 is made to those Non-executive Directors who additionally act as Chairman of a Committee and the Senior Independent Director. The additional 
fee remains unchanged from 2014.
Retirement of the CEO
Justin will be paid his base salary and contractual benefits until his termination date of 31 December 2015. He will be eligible to receive a bonus for the 
period he remains as CEO, up to the earlier of the date he stands down as CEO on appointment of a successor or 31 December 2015. As already set out, 
he will not receive a PSP Award for 2015. In addition, Justin’s 2013 and 2014 Awards will vest based on the extent to which performance conditions have 
been achieved over the full performance period, and the proportion of the performance period worked.
In line with the remuneration policy, the Committee retains discretion to settle any amounts reasonably due to Justin where the Committee believes that  
it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
The financial arrangements relating to Justin’s retirement, which will adhere to the rules of all relevant incentive schemes and be within the Remuneration 
Policy, will be reported when Justin steps down.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the Directors’ remuneration for the year were  
being considered:
 – L R Cairnie
 – C F Girling
 – P N Withers
During the year, the Committee received assistance from Jackie Holman (Group HR Director) and Kerry Porritt (Group Company Secretary) on  
salary increases and bonus awards, and policy and governance matters respectively. In determining the Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2014,  
the Committee has consulted Roy Franklin, the Chairman, and Justin Atkinson, the Chief Executive, about its proposals, except (in the case of Justin)  
in relation to his own remuneration. No Director is involved in determining their own remuneration.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest (other than as a shareholder), conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or 
day-to-day involvement in running the business. Given their diverse backgrounds, the Board believes that the members of the Committee are able to offer 
an informed and balanced view on executive remuneration issues. 
External Advisers
During the year, the Committee continued to receive advice from Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’), an independent firm of remuneration consultants appointed 
by the Committee after consultation with the Board. In 2014, Kepler provided independent advice on remuneration policy and the external remuneration 
environment; benchmarking data; and provided remuneration advice in the context of CEO succession planning. 
Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and does not advise the Company on any other issues. Kepler’s total fees for the 
provision of remuneration services in 2014 were £48,562 on the basis of time spent. Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for 
Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
The Company’s corporate lawyers, DLA Piper LLP, are providing legal advice on CEO succession matters. Fees in 2014 relating to this matter amounted  
to £33,000. 
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and independent.
Statement of shareholder voting
The following table sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration report and the Remuneration policy respectively at the 2014 AGM:
Votes for Votes against
Number % Number % Votes cast Votes withheld
Remuneration report 49,135,596 99.52% 236,887 0.48% 49,372,483 64,513
Remuneration policy 47,818,830 97.87% 1,042,595 2.13% 48,861,425 575,571
Ruth Cairnie
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2015 61
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ report
The Directors present their report together with the audited  
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This report is required to be produced by law. The Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules and Listing Rules also require us to make certain 
disclosures.
The Corporate Governance statement, including the Audit Committee 
report, form part of this Directors’ report and is incorporated by  
reference. Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts are 
cross-referenced where appropriate. Taken together, the Strategic Report 
on pages 6 to 35 and this Directors’ Report fulfil the requirement of 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.5R to provide a Management Report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation
*
 of £85.1m  
(2013: £74.1m), are set out on pages 66 to 97. The Directors recommend a 
final dividend of 16.8p per share to be paid on 8 June 2015, to members on 
the register at the close of business on 13 March 2015. An interim dividend 
of 8.4p per share was paid on 5 September 2014. The total dividend for the 
year of 25.2p (2013: 24.0p) will amount to £18.0m (2013: £15.4m). 
Going concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources  
to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the  
financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound 
financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and 
can reasonably expect sufficient facilities to be available to meet the Group’s 
foreseeable cash requirements. Further information is provided in Note 24 
to the accounts and the Financial review.
Financial instruments
Full details can be found in Note 24 to the financial statements and in the 
Financial review.
Post balance sheet events
The 2014 result includes an exceptional charge relating to the settlement of 
a dispute on a completed contract of £54.0m and a number of much smaller 
non-trading exceptional items relating to acquisitions, which are required to 
be expensed under IFRS.
The contract dispute relates to a project that the Group’s UK subsidiary, 
Keller Limited, completed in 2008. The dispute was subject to litigation 
proceedings involving a number of parties, but these were settled in 
February 2015. The final cost to Keller is subject to a number of remedial 
and other actions to be undertaken as part of the settlement agreement. 
The exceptional charge represents management’s best estimate of the net 
cost to Keller before taking account of future recoveries under applicable 
insurances, as these cannot be recognised under IFRS.
Change of control
The Group’s main banking facilities contain provisions that, upon 15 days’ 
notice being given to the Group, lenders may exercise their discretion to 
require immediate repayment of the loans on a change of control and  
cancel all commitments under the agreement.
Certain other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal course  
of business, include change of control provisions. There are no agreements 
providing for compensation for the Directors or employees on a change  
of control.
Transactions with related parties
Apart from transactions between the Company, its subsidiaries and joint 
operations, which are related parties, there have been no related party 
transactions during the year.
Directors and their interests
The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Directors 
of the Company can be found on page 38. The interests of the Directors 
holding office at the end of the year in the issued ordinary share capital of 
the Company and any interests in its performance share plan are given in 
the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 48 and 60.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a 
service contract or a contract for services, with the Company or any of its 
operating companies during the year.
The Company’s Articles of Association indemnify the Directors out of the 
assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in  
the execution of their duties as Directors, subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006. The Company maintains insurance for Directors  
and Officers in respect of liabilities which could arise on the discharge of 
their duties.
Powers of the Directors
The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise  
all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of the Company’s 
articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution 
of the Company. Specific treatment of directors’ powers regarding allotment 
and repurchase of shares is provided under separate headings below.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association may be made  
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way  
of special resolution.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 12 in number. Subject 
to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution  
of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or  
a member (or members) entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following 
retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a 
general meeting. In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a 
vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at 
the next Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). A Director may be removed by 
the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set 
out in the Company’s articles of association (for example bankruptcy, or 
resignation), or by a special resolution of the Company. All Directors stand 
for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of  
the Code.
Employees
The Group employed approximately 9,000 people at the end of the year. 
Employment Policy
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment 
made by disabled persons, having regard for their respective aptitudes and 
abilities. The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment 
of those who become disabled during their employment and the provision 
of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate.
Information on the Group’s approach to employee involvement, equal 
opportunities and health, safety and the environment can be found in  
the Resources and relationships report on pages 24 to 26. 
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year. Keller has an established 
policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or 
candidate in any part of the world.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information relating to the greenhouse gas emissions of the Company  
is set out on page 25 and is incorporated by reference into this report.
Research and development
The Group continues to have in-house design, development and 
manufacturing facilities, where staff work closely with site engineers to 
develop new and more effective methods of solving problems of ground 
conditions and behaviour. Most of the specialised ground improvement 
equipment used in the business is designed and built in-house and, where 
applicable, the development costs are included in the cost of the equipment. 
Further information on our latest activities can be found on page 27 of the 
Strategic Report.
*
 Before exceptional items 62
Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ report 
continued
Share capital
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements in the 
Company’s issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 25: Share 
capital and reserves. The Company has one class of ordinary shares which is 
listed on the London Stock Exchange (‘Ordinary Shares’). Ordinary Shares 
carry no right to a fixed income; and each Ordinary Share carries  
the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding, nor on the 
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Articles of Association 
and the prevailing law. The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights and  
the transfer of securities. No person has any special rights of control over 
the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 29: Share-based 
payments. Shares held by the Keller Group plc Employee Benefit Trust  
are not voted.
Repurchase of shares
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM (22 May 
2014) to buy back up to 7,309,974 Ordinary Shares. The authority remains 
outstanding until the conclusion of the 2015 AGM or 22 August 2015, 
whichever is the earlier. The minimum price which must be paid for each 
Ordinary Share is its nominal value and the maximum price is the higher  
of an amount equal to not more than 5% above the average of the middle 
market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before  
the purchase is made and an amount equal to the higher of the price of  
the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest current 
independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where  
the purchase is carried out.
The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use,  
this authority.
Allotment of shares and pre-emption disapplication
Shareholder authority was also given at the last AGM for the Directors  
to allot new shares up to a nominal amount of £2,364,573, equivalent to 
approximately one-third of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding 
treasury shares) as at 3 March 2014 and to disapply pre-emption rights up  
to an aggregate nominal amount of £354,686, representing approximately 
5% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 3 March 2014. 
The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use,  
these authorities.
Substantial shareholdings
At 2 March 2015, the Company had been notified in accordance with 
chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority of the following voting rights of shareholders in the Company:
Ordinary Shares
Number of 
Company’s 
total
Percentage 
of the
voting 
rights
Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 7,026,927 9.91%
Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited 6,568,407 9.22%
Old Mutual Plc 4,242,670 5.96%
Baillie Gifford & Co 3,251,556 4.56%
Schroders plc 3,148,747 4.90%
Norges Bank 2,973,272 4.17%
Royal London Asset Management Limited 2,147,626 3.01%
Auditors
The Board has decided that KPMG LLP will be proposed as the Group’s 
auditors for the year ending 31 December 2015 and a resolution to appoint 
KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The 2015 AGM of the Company will take place at the offices of Investec,  
2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP at 11.00am on Thursday,  
14 May 2015. The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the  
meeting is set out in the Notice of AGM.
Disclaimer
The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide information 
to the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors and employees, agents or advisers do not 
accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document 
is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or 
liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking 
statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve 
uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and 
developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-
looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date 
of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts and the Company 
undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. 
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a  
profit forecast.
Information included in the Directors’ Report
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate 
Governance Statement can be found in the Directors’ Report in the sections 
headed ‘Substantial shareholdings’, ‘Repurchase of shares’, ‘Amendment of 
the Company’s articles of association’, ‘Appointment and replacement of 
Directors’ and ‘Powers of the Directors’ and is incorporated into this 
corporate governance section by reference. 
Other information
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report confirm that, in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware; and each Director 
has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to 
make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information.
In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report consider the Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Kerry Porritt
Company Secretary
2 March 2015
Registered Office:
Capital House
25 Chapel Street
London NW1 5DH
Registered in England No. 2442580 63
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
(EU) and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 – make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 – for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU;
 – for the Company financial statements, state whether the applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements; 
and 
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it  
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue  
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, Directors’ Remuneration 
report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law 
and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation as a whole; and
 – the Directors’ report, including content contained by reference, includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
The Board confirms that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of 
the Company. 
Signed on behalf of the Board
Justin Atkinson 
Chief Executive
James Hind 
Finance Director
2 March 2015 64 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Governance
Independent Auditor’s report 
To the Members of Keller Group plc only 
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Keller Group plc for the  
year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and related 
notes. In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the 
Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union; 
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and 
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks  
of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were  
as follows:
Accounting for construction contracts
Refer to page 46 (Audit Committee Report), page 73 (accounting policy) 
and pages 77 and 83 (financial statement disclosures).
 – The risk: Revenue on construction contracts is recognised in proportion  
to the stage of completion of the contract. The stage of completion is 
calculated by comparing the costs incurred up to the balance sheet date 
with the total forecast costs at completion of the contract. Contract 
accounting is considered to be an ongoing significant audit risk to the Group 
as it requires a high degree of estimation and judgement of matters such as: 
the percentage of work completed at the balance sheet date on longer term 
contracts; the costs of the work required to complete the contract; and the 
outcome of claims and variations raised against customers and claims raised 
against the Group by customers or third parties, including one significant 
historic claim that was settled post year end and is disclosed as an 
exceptional item in the accounts. Error in any of these judgements could 
result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss recognised to 
date and therefore also in the current period.
 – Our response: Our audit procedures included testing controls over 
contract related expenditure and assessing a selection of contracts with the 
greatest impact on the Group’s financial results, including those considered 
to be high risk due to such factors as known issues on the contract or the 
nature of work being undertaken. For a selection of contracts in progress at 
the balance sheet date, we challenged the Group’s assumptions on costs to 
complete the contract through agreeing cost estimates to sub-contracts and 
assessing the Group’s historical experience of costs on similar contracts. For 
contracts completed by the year end, we confirmed subsequent settlement 
of revenue recognised. In respect of claims and variations raised against 
customers and those claims raised against the Group by customers or third 
parties, on a selection of contracts we: challenged the progress on the claims 
with the Group and corroborated explanations provided; considered prior 
experience on settlement of claims and variations; inspected correspondence 
with the counterparty and with the Group’s legal advisers or insurers, to 
identify the extent of written agreement of settlement; and confirmed 
recoveries to after year-end settlement where applicable. In respect of  
the significant historic claim that was settled post year end we have: held 
discussions with the Group’s directors and challenged their judgements  
on the expected settlement costs, corroborating to the settlement 
agreement or other appropriate evidence, inspected correspondence  
with the Group’s advisers; and considered the adequacy of disclosure  
of the matter, including of the related uncertainties.
Goodwill 
Refer to page 46 (Audit Committee Report), page 73 (accounting policy) 
and pages 80 to 81 (financial statements disclosures).
 – The risk: There is a risk of impairment of the Group’s significant goodwill 
balances due to prolonged downturn or structural change in the relevant 
construction market. In particular there is increased risk on the balance  
of £12.1m related to Keller Limited in the UK where large infrastructure 
projects have come to an end, and there is less certainty as to the source  
of future revenue and profit, and on the £64.9m relating to Keller Canada 
where the oil sands business is currently experiencing a downturn in 
investment. The Group estimates recoverable amount based on value in  
use which includes significant estimation and judgement in the selection  
of key inputs, specifically revenue, margin and discount rates. 
 – Our response: Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the 
Group’s impairment assessment for each significant goodwill balance at year 
end, including in particular Keller Limited in the UK and Keller Canada. For 
the key inputs referred to above we critically assessed the reasonableness  
of the Group’s assumptions by reference to past performance, external data 
and forecasts for economic factors, and current order book. Our valuation 
specialists assisted in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies 
underlying the discount rates adopted by the Group. We considered the 
sensitivity of key inputs to reasonably possible changes in assumptions. We 
also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the sensitivity of the 
outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions 
reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill. 
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of  
our audit
The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at £3.9m 
determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, 
normalized to exclude this year’s exceptional items as disclosed on the face of 
the income statement. Materiality represents 4.6% of Group profit before 
tax and exceptional items as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding £0.2m, in addition to other identified misstatements 
that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component 
auditors at the key reporting components, including North America, EMEA, 
Asia and Australia. The components within the scope of our work 
accounted for the following percentages of the Group’s results: 
 – Group revenue – 90%
 – Group profit and loss – 94%
 – Group profit and loss before exceptional items and taxation – 93%
 – Group total assets – 84%
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant 
areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the 
information to be reported back. The Group audit team approved the 
component materialities, which ranged from £0.2m to £3.25m, having 
regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the 
components. Aside from the audit of the parent company that was 
performed by the Group audit team, the work on all of the components 
was performed by the component auditors, and none by the Group  
audit team. 65
Overview Financial statements Strategy Performance Governance
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The Group audit team visited the four divisional component locations  
in North America, EMEA, Asia and Australia. Telephone conference 
meetings were also held with these component auditors and one country 
component, the United Kingdom. At these visits and meetings, the findings 
reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any 
further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by  
the component auditor. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion: 
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
 – the information given in the Strategic report and Directors’ report for the 
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements. 
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which  
we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based  
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other 
information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with 
either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement 
of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 – we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we 
acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that they consider 
that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy; or
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Report dealing with the Audit 
Committee on pages 46 and 47 does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in  
our opinion:
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company,  
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or 
 – the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
 – certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 – the Directors’ statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going concern; 
and
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 63 relating 
to the company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set  
out on page 63, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair  
view. A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the 
Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject 
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work 
we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
William Meredith (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London, E14 5GL
2 March 2015 Note
2014 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m
2014 
Exceptional 
items 
(Note 7) 
£m
2014
£m
2013 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m
2013 
Exceptional 
items 
(Note 7) 
£m
2013
£m
Revenue 3 1,599.7 – 1,599.7 1,438.2 – 1,438.2
Operating costs 5 (1,507.7) (56.7) (1,564.4) (1,360.4) (21.7) (1,382.1)
Operating profit 3 92.0 (56.7) 35.3 77.8 (21.7) 56.1
Finance income 8 1.5 – 1.5 3.1 – 3.1
Finance costs 9 (8.4) (0.2) (8.6) (6.8) (0.4) (7.2)
Profit before taxation 85.1 (56.9) 28.2 74.1 (22.1) 52.0
Taxation 10 (29.7) 0.3 (29.4) (23.8) 1.9 (21.9)
Profit/(loss) for the period 55.4 (56.6) (1.2) 50.3 (20.2) 30.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 53.6 (56.6) (3.0) 49.5 (20.2) 29.3
Non-controlling interests 1.8 – 1.8 0.8 – 0.8
55.4 (56.6) (1.2) 50.3 (20.2) 30.1
Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic 12 75.3p (4.2)p 73.0p 43.2p
Diluted 12 74.2p (4.2)p 71.9p 42.6p
Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
(Loss)/profit for the period (1.2) 30.1
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (3.8) (23.9)
Net investment hedge gains/(losses) 24 2.0 (3.0)
Cash flow hedge (losses)/gains taken to equity 24 (6.1) 1.8
Cash flow hedge transfers to income statement 24 6.1 (1.8)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 30 (4.1) (5.7)
Tax on remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 10 0.2 1.1
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (5.7) (31.5)
Total comprehensive income for the period (6.9) (1.4)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (8.6) (1.9)
Non-controlling interests 1.7 0.5
(6.9) (1.4)
66 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 183.5 187.9
Property, plant and equipment 14 295.6 281.9
Deferred tax assets 10 10.0 7.9
Other assets 15 19.9 14.9
509.0 492.6
Current assets
Inventories 17 48.6 62.0
Trade and other receivables 18 408.7 414.5
Current tax assets 4.0 5.4
Cash and cash equivalents 20 85.6 53.3
546.9 535.2
Total assets 3 1,055.9 1,027.8
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 24 (2.7) (48.7)
Current tax liabilities (13.9) (8.8)
Trade and other payables 21 (353.2) (352.4)
Provisions 22 (50.0) (11.3)
(419.8) (421.2)
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 24 (185.1) (148.3)
Retirement benefit liabilities 30 (25.4) (23.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (19.7) (21.9)
Provisions 22 (23.3) (4.8)
Other liabilities 23 (36.3) (35.9)
(289.8) (234.0)
Total liabilities 3 (709.6) (655.2)
Net assets 3 346.3 372.6
Equity
Share capital 25 7.3 7.3
Share premium account 38.1 38.1
Capital redemption reserve 25 7.6 7.6
Translation reserve 8.3 10.0
Other reserve 25 56.9 56.9
Retained earnings 224.5 247.9
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 342.7 367.8
Non-controlling interests 3.6 4.8
Total equity 346.3 372.6
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 March 2015. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Justin Atkinson 
Chief Executive
James Hind 
Finance Director
67 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2014 Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m 
Translation
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve 
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Attributable
to equity
holders of
the parent
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 6.6 38.1 7.6 36.6 – – 236.7 325.6 10.1 335.7
Profit for the period – – – – – – 29.3 29.3 0.8 30.1
Other comprehensive income
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – – (23.6) – – – (23.6) (0.3) (23.9)
Net investment hedge losses – – – (3.0) – – – (3.0) – (3.0)
Cash flow hedge gains taken to equity – – – – – 1.8 – 1.8 – 1.8
Cash flow hedge transfers to  
income statement – – – – – (1.8) – (1.8) – (1.8)
Remeasurements of defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – – (5.7) (5.7) – (5.7)
Tax on remeasurements of defined  
benefit pension schemes – – – – – – 1.1 1.1 – 1.1
Other comprehensive income 
for the period, net of tax – – – (26.6) – – (4.6) (31.2) (0.3) (31.5)
Total comprehensive income 
for the period – – – (26.6) – – 24.7 (1.9) 0.5 (1.4)
Dividends – – – – – – (15.4) (15.4) (0.2) (15.6)
Share-based payments – – – – – – 1.9 1.9 – 1.9
Share capital issued 0.7 – – – 56.9 – – 57.6 – 57.6
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – – – – – – (5.6) (5.6)
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 7.3 38.1 7.6 10.0 56.9 – 247.9 367.8 4.8 372.6
(Loss)/profit for the period – – – – – – (3.0) (3.0) 1.8 (1.2)
Other comprehensive income
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – – (3.7) – – – (3.7) (0.1) (3.8)
Net investment hedge gains – – – 2.0 – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Cash flow hedge losses taken to equity – – – – – (6.1) – (6.1) – (6.1)
Cash flow hedge transfers to  
income statement – – – – – 6.1 – 6.1 – 6.1
Remeasurements of defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – – (4.1) (4.1) – (4.1)
Tax on remeasurements of defined  
benefit pension schemes – – – – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Other comprehensive income 
for the period, net of tax – – – (1.7) – – (3.9) (5.6) (0.1) (5.7)
Total comprehensive income 
for the period – – – (1.7) – – (6.9) (8.6) 1.7 (6.9)
Dividends – – – – – – (17.4) (17.4) (0.6) (18.0)
Share-based payments – – – – – – 1.9 1.9 – 1.9
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – – – – (1.0) (1.0) (2.3) (3.3)
At 31 December 2014 7.3 38.1 7.6 8.3 56.9 – 224.5 342.7 3.6 346.3
68 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit before exceptional items 92.0 77.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 48.0 45.0
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.9 1.4
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.3) (0.3)
Other non-cash movements 8.9 7.1
Foreign exchange losses 0.1 –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 150.6 131.0
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 13.9 (22.5)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 11.2 (37.4)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (0.1) 65.5
Change in provisions, retirement benefit and other non-current liabilities (10.2) (4.6)
Cash generated from operations 165.4 132.0
Interest paid (10.1) (5.4)
Income tax paid (28.4) (21.5)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 126.9 105.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.5 0.4
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3.5 3.6
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (5.0) (200.4)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (63.6) (44.8)
Acquisition of intangible assets (0.9) (1.4)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (65.5) (242.6)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital – 57.6
New borrowings 95.3 118.5
Repayment of borrowings (103.6) (24.2)
Payment of finance lease liabilities (1.2) (0.7)
Dividends paid (18.0) (15.6)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (27.5) 135.6
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 33.9 (1.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 50.7 54.8
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 1.0 (2.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 20 85.6 50.7
69 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014 1 General information
Keller Group plc (‘the parent’ or ‘the Company’) is a company incorporated 
in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements are presented 
in pounds sterling (rounded to the nearest hundred thousand), the 
functional currency of the parent. Foreign operations are included in 
accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
2 Principal accounting policies
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by 
the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS), as adopted by the EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on  
pages 92 to 97.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except 
that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value. The 
carrying value of hedged items are re-measured to fair value in respect of 
the hedged risk. Except as noted below, these accounting policies have been 
applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial 
statements and have been applied consistently by subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern  
basis as set out in the Directors’ report on page 61.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
There is no significant financial impact on the Group financial statements  
of the following new standards, amendments and interpretations that are  
in issue and mandatory for the financial year ending 31 December 2014:
 – IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’
 – IFRS 1 1, ‘Joint arrangements’
 – IFRS 12, ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’
 – Amendments to IAS 27, ‘Separate financial statements’
 – Amendments to IAS 28, ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’
 – Amendments to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’
 – Amendments to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’
 – Amendments to IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’.
There are no standards, amendments or interpretations that are in issue  
but not yet effective that are expected to have a significant impact on the 
Group financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements consolidate the accounts of the  
parent and its subsidiary undertakings (collectively ‘the Group’) made up to 
31 December each year. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. 
Control exists when the Company has power over an entity, exposure to 
variable returns from its involvement with an entity and the ability to use its 
power over the entity to affect its returns. Where subsidiary undertakings 
were acquired or sold during the year, the accounts include the results for 
the part of the year for which they were subsidiary undertakings using the 
acquisition method of accounting. Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised 
income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Joint operations
From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with other 
parties. These fall under the category of joint operations as defined by  
IFRS 11. In accordance with IFRS 11, the Group accounts for its own share  
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses measured according to the  
terms of the agreements covering the joint operations.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of work done on construction contracts 
performed during the year on behalf of customers or the value of goods  
or services delivered to customers. In accordance with IAS 11, contract 
revenue and expenses are recognised in proportion to the stage of 
completion of the contract as soon as the outcome of a construction 
contract can be estimated reliably.
The fair value of work done is calculated using the expected final contract 
value, based on contracted values adjusted for the impact of any known 
variations, and the stage of completion, calculated as costs to date as a 
proportion of total expected contract costs.
In the nature of the Group’s business, the results for the year include 
adjustments to the outcome of construction contracts, including joint 
operations, completed in prior years arising from claims from customers  
or third parties and claims on customers or third parties for variations to  
the original contract.
Provision against claims from customers or third parties is made in the  
year in which the Group becomes aware that a claim may arise. Income  
from claims on customers or third parties is not recognised until the 
outcome can be reliably measured and it is probable that the Group  
will receive the economic benefits.
Where it is probable that a loss will arise on a contract, full provision for  
this loss is made when the Group becomes aware that a loss may arise.
Revenue in respect of goods and services is recognised as the goods and 
services are delivered.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.  
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are capitalised 
in the balance sheet at the lower of fair value or present value of minimum 
lease payments and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policy. The capital element of the leasing commitment is included as 
obligations under finance leases. The rentals payable are apportioned 
between interest, which is charged to the income statement, and capital, 
which reduces the outstanding obligation.
Amounts payable under operating leases are charged to contract work in 
progress or operating costs on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
Balance sheet items in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at 
closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Income statements and 
cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at 
average rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets and 
income statements at closing and average rates of exchange respectively are 
dealt with in other comprehensive income, along with changes in fair values 
of associated net investment hedges. All other exchange differences are 
charged to the income statement. 
70 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Principal accounting policies continued
The exchange rates used in respect of principal currencies are:
2014 2013
US dollar: average for period 1.65 1.56
US dollar: period end 1.55 1.65
Canadian dollar: average for period 1.82 1.61
Canadian dollar: period end 1.81 1.76
Euro: average for period 1.24 1.18
Euro: period end 1.28 1.20
Singapore dollar: average for period 2.09 1.96
Singapore dollar: period end 2.05 2.09
Australian dollar: average for period 1.83 1.62
Australian dollar: period end 1.90 1.86
Interest income and expense
All interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement  
in the period in which it is incurred using the effective interest method.
Employee benefit costs
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension arrangements, 
and also makes payments into defined contribution schemes for employees.
The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of  
the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, calculated using  
the projected unit credit method, less the fair value of the schemes’ assets. 
As allowed by IAS 19, the Group recognises the current service cost and 
interest on scheme net liabilities in the income statement, and 
remeasurements of defined benefit plans in other comprehensive  
income in full in the period in which they occur.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are accounted for on an  
accruals basis.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the 
deferred tax charge.
Provision is made for current tax on taxable profits for the year. Taxable 
profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable 
or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax 
bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. 
Full provision is made for deferred tax on temporary differences in line  
with IAS 12, ‘Income Taxes’. Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is 
considered likely that they will be utilised against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in  
the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax  
is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to 
items charged or credited directly to equity or to other comprehensive 
income, in which case the related deferred tax is also dealt with in equity  
or in other comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual 
value of property, plant and equipment by reference to their estimated 
useful lives using the straight-line method. 
The rates of depreciation used are:
Buildings 2%
Long-life plant and equipment 8%
Short-life plant and equipment 12%
Motor vehicles 25%
Computers 33%
The cost of leased properties is depreciated by equal instalments over the 
period of the lease or 50 years, whichever is the shorter.
Business combinations
The Group accounts for business combinations in accordance with  
IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations (2008)’ using the acquisition method as  
at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred  
to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, costs related to the acquisition 
are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes to the fair value 
being recognised in profit or loss, unless the change was as a result of new 
information about facts or circumstances existing at the acquisition date 
being obtained during the measurement period, in which case the change is 
recognised in the balance sheet as an adjustment to goodwill. For acquisitions 
before 1 January 2010, transaction costs were capitalised as part of the cost 
of the acquisition. Any contingent consideration payable was recognised at 
fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes to the fair value 
being recognised in the balance sheet as an adjustment to goodwill.
71 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2 Principal accounting policies continued
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the difference between the 
fair value of the purchase consideration and the fair value of the identifiable 
net assets of the subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition, is 
capitalised as an intangible asset.
The fair value of identifiable net assets in excess of the fair value of purchase 
consideration is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment 
annually and whenever there is an indication that the goodwill may be 
impaired in accordance with IAS 36, with any impairment losses being 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill arising prior  
to 1 January 1998 was taken directly to equity in the year in which it  
arose. Such goodwill has not been reinstated on the balance sheet. 
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include purchased licences,  
software, patents, customer contracts, non-compete undertakings, 
customer relationships, trademarks and trade names. Intangible assets  
are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their  
useful economic lives from the date that they are available for use and  
are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Useful economic lives do not exceed seven years.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are accounted for 
initially at fair value.
Impairment of assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have 
suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss, if any.
Capital work in progress
Capital work in progress represents expenditure on property, plant and 
equipment in the course of construction. Transfers are made to other 
property, plant and equipment categories when the assets are available  
for use.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable 
value with due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving items. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s  
balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with  
IAS 39 and recognised initially at fair value.
The Group uses currency and interest rate swaps to manage financial risk. 
Interest charges and financial liabilities are stated after taking account of 
these swaps.
The Group uses these swaps and other hedges to mitigate exposures to 
both foreign currency and interest rates. 
Hedges are accounted for as follows:
Cash flow hedges: The effective part of any gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 
recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods  
during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The carrying value of the hedged item 
is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being 
hedged and any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. 
Net investment hedges: The effective portion of the change in fair value  
of the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the translation reserve. 
Any ineffectiveness is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest, are initially recognised at  
fair value and are carried at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing, are initially recognised at fair value 
and are carried at amortised cost.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable issue costs. 
Subject to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and where it is 
probable that an outflow will be required to settle the obligation.
Financial guarantees
Where Group companies enter into financial guarantee contracts to 
guarantee the indebtedness or obligations of other companies within the 
Group, these are considered to be insurance arrangements, and accounted 
for as such. In this respect, the guarantee contract is treated as a contingent 
liability until such time as it becomes probable that the guarantor will be 
required to make a payment under the guarantee.
72 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued
Share-based payment
Charges for employee services received in exchange for share-based 
payment have been made in accordance with IFRS 2.
Options granted under the Group’s employee share schemes are equity 
settled. The fair value of such options has been calculated using a stochastic 
model, based upon publicly available market data, and is charged to the 
income statement over the performance period with a corresponding 
increase in equity.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of  
the number of options that are expected to vest based on the service and 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to 
original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity. 
Segmental reporting
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal 
reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources to the segments and 
to assess their performance. The Group determines the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker to be the Board of Directors.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business 
activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including 
revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 
other components. Segmental results are presented as operating profit 
before exceptional items. Segment assets are defined as property, plant and 
equipment, intangible assets, inventories and trade and other receivables. 
Segment liabilities are defined as trade and other payables, retirement 
benefit liabilities, provisions and other liabilities. The accounting policies of 
the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies.
Dividends
Interim dividends are recorded in the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements when paid. Final dividends are recorded in the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements in the period in which they receive 
shareholder approval.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where 
it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial 
performance of the Group. They are items which are exceptional by their 
size or are non-trading in nature, including those relating to acquisitions.
Accounting estimates and judgments
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with 
IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which 
form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and 
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. 
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the 
estimate is revised if the revision affects only that and prior periods, or in the 
period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current 
and future periods.
The key estimates and judgments in drawing up the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements are in connection with accounting for construction 
contracts and the carrying value of goodwill.
Construction contracts: The Group’s approach to key estimates and 
judgments relating to construction contracts is set out in the revenue 
recognition policy above. The main factors considered when making those 
estimates and judgments include the percentage of work completed at the 
balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, the costs of the work required 
to complete the contract and the outcome of claims and variations raised 
against customers and claims raised against the Group by customers or  
third parties.
Carrying value of goodwill: The Group tests annually whether goodwill  
has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out 
above. The Group estimates the recoverable amount based on value in use 
calculations. These calculations require the use of assumptions, the most 
important being the forecast revenues, operating margins and the discount  
rates applied. 
73 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3 Segmental analysis
The Group is managed as four geographical divisions and has only one major product or service: specialist ground engineering services. This is reflected in 
the Group’s management structure and in the segment information reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker. 
2014
Revenue
£m
2014 
Operating
profit
£m
2013
Revenue
£m
2013 
Operating
profit
£m
North America 775.6 59.9 699.4 51.6
EMEA
1
451.5 12.9 399.2 6.8
Asia 111.3 8.3 96.2 9.0
Australia 261.3 15.7 243.4 15.6
1,599.7 96.8 1,438.2 83.0
Central items and eliminations – (4.8) – (5.2)
Before exceptional items 1,599.7 92.0 1,438.2 77.8
Exceptional items (Note 7) – (56.7) – (21.7)
1,599.7 35.3 1,438.2 56.1
2014
Segment
assets
£m
2014
Segment
liabilities
£m
2014
Capital
employed
£m
2014
Capital
additions
£m
2014
Depreciation
and
amortisation
£m
2014
Tangible and
intangible
assets
£m
North America 499.4 (159.9) 339.5 23.3 17.2 251.6
EMEA
1
283.3 (215.2) 68.1 23.1 18.9 127.4
Asia 84.7 (29.4) 55.3 10.8 5.5 47.4
Australia 85.1 (44.2) 40.9 7.3 8.2 52.6
952.5 (448.7) 503.8 64.5 49.8 479.0
Central items and eliminations
2
103.4 (260.9) (157.5) – 0.1 0.1
1,055.9 (709.6) 346.3 64.5 49.9 479.1
2013
Segment
assets
£m
2013
Segment
liabilities
£m
2013
Capital
employed
£m
2013
Capital
additions
£m
2013
Depreciation
and
amortisation
£m
2013
Tangible and
intangible
assets
£m
North America 487.0 (155.4) 331.6 19.9 15.5 245.5
EMEA
1
278.6 (141.6) 137.0 12.5 16.9 131.1
Asia 76.7 (25.0) 51.7 4.2 4.8 36.7
Australia 116.5 (63.5) 53.0 9.6 9.0 56.3
958.8 (385.5) 573.3 46.2 46.2 469.6
Central items and eliminations
2
69.0 (269.7) (200.7) – 0.2 0.2
1,027.8 (655.2) 372.6 46.2 46.4 469.8
Revenue and non-current non-financial assets are analysed by country below:
Revenue
Non-current  
non-financial assets
3
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
United States 666.5 604.0 155.9 137.6
Australia 261.3 243.4 52.6 56.3
Canada 108.2 94.9 122.2 122.0
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 67.5 70.1 19.2 20.4
Other 496.2 425.8 145.0 148.4
1,599.7 1,438.2 494.9 484.7
1
 Europe, Middle East and Africa.
2
 Central items include net debt and tax balances.
3
 Non-current non-financial assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and other non-current non-financial assets.
74 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 4 Acquisitions
2014 acquisitions
On 14 August 2014, the Group acquired the trade and selected assets of Ansah Sdn Bhd, a business based in Kuantan, Malaysia, for an initial cash 
consideration of £3.5m (RM19.0m). £1.4m (RM7.6m) of the purchase price relates to property, plant and equipment, with the remaining purchase price 
allocated to goodwill. Contingent consideration of up to £1.5m (RM8.0m) is payable based on total earnings before interest and tax in the three-year  
period following acquisition. The full amount of contingent consideration is currently provided for.
On 15 May 2014, the Group acquired the remaining 45% minority shareholding of Keller Engenharia Geotecnica Ltda in Brazil for a cash consideration of 
£2.8m (R$10.7m) at a premium of £1.0m (R$4.1m) to net book value, which has been taken directly to reserves.
2013 acquisitions
Keller Canada Franki Africa Geo-Foundations Total
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 31.5 31.5 2.2 3.2 5.4 – 0.4 0.4 2.2 35.1 37.3
Property, plant  
and equipment 32.9 1.3 34.2 19.0 – 19.0 1.9 1.3 3.2 53.8 2.6 56.4
Cash and cash equivalents – – – 4.2 – 4.2 0.2 – 0.2 4.4 – 4.4
Receivables 19.7 (0.4) 19.3 14.3 – 14.3 4.0 – 4.0 38.0 (0.4) 37.6
Other assets 9.6 – 9.6 4.6 – 4.6 0.4 – 0.4 14.6 – 14.6
Loans and borrowings (3.8) – (3.8) (2.4) – (2.4) (0.5) – (0.5) (6.7) – (6.7)
Deferred tax – (2.0) (2.0) (0.7) (0.8) (1.5) (0.4) (0.4) (0.8) (1.1) (3.2) (4.3)
Other liabilities (4.2) – (4.2) (13.0) (0.9) (13.9) (0.9) – (0.9) (18.1) (0.9) (19.0)
54.2 30.4 84.6 28.2 1.5 29.7 4.7 1.3 6.0 87.1 33.2 120.3
Goodwill 74.8 2.9 – 77.7
Total consideration 159.4 32.6 6.0 198.0
Satisfied by
Initial cash consideration 151.2 31.8 6.0 189.0
Contingent consideration 8.2 0.8 – 9.0
159.4 32.6 6.0 198.0
On 1 January 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Geo-Foundations Contractors, Inc. (‘Geo-Foundations’), a business based in Toronto, 
Canada. The fair value of the intangible assets acquired represents the fair value of customer contracts at the date of acquisition. A further amount of up  
to £4.4m (C$8m) is payable based on total earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation in the five-year period following acquisition. As the 
payment is contingent on continued employment of the vendors until the entitlement date, this arrangement is treated as remuneration for post-acquisition 
services and amounts expected to be paid are accrued over the five-year period.
On 12 July 2013, the Group acquired selected assets and businesses that comprised the piling division of North American Energy Partners, Inc. (collectively 
‘Keller Canada’), a business based in Edmonton, Canada. The fair value of the intangible assets acquired represents the fair value of customer relationships, 
customer contracts at the date of acquisition, patents and trade names. Goodwill arising on acquisition is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of the 
assembled workforce, the expectation of future contracts and customer relationships and the opportunity to expand the use of more advanced Group 
technologies into a growth market. Contingent consideration of up to £51.1m (C$92.5m) is payable based on total earnings before interest, tax,  
depreciation and amortisation in the three-year period following acquisition.
On 21 November 2013, the Group acquired selected assets and businesses that comprised the geotechnical division of Esorfranki Limited (collectively 
‘Franki Africa’), a business based in Johannesburg, South Africa. The fair value of the intangible assets acquired represents the fair value of customer 
contracts at the date of acquisition and trade names. Goodwill arising on acquisition is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of the assembled 
workforce, operating synergies that arise from the Group’s strengthened market position and the opportunity for the Group to accelerate its expansion  
in Africa using an established business. Contingent consideration of up to £8.3m (R150m) is payable based on total earnings before interest, tax,  
depreciation and amortisation in the three-year period following acquisition.
On 3 April 2013, the Group acquired the remaining 49% minority shareholding of Keller-Terra S.L. in Spain for a cash consideration of £5.6m (€6.7m),  
which was equal to the net book value of the assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. 
75 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5 Operating costs
Note
2014
 £m 
2013
 £m 
Raw materials and consumables 481.5 420.8
Staff costs 6 404.5 363.4
Other operating charges 511.4 480.2
Amortisation of intangibles 1.9 1.4
Operating lease and short-term rental expense:
 Land and buildings 9.5 7.3
 Plant, machinery and vehicles 50.9 42.3
Depreciation:
 Owned property, plant and equipment 47.6 44.8
 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 0.4 0.2
Operating costs before exceptional items 1,507.7 1,360.4
Exceptional items (Note 7) 56.7 21.7
1,564.4 1,382.1
Other operating charges include:
Redundancy and other reorganisation costs 4.4 2.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s Annual Accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:
 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.0 1.2
 Tax compliance services 0.2 0.4
 Tax advisory services 0.2 –
 Other assurance services 0.1 0.7
6 Employees
The aggregate staff costs of the Group were:
2014
£m 
2013
£m 
Wages and salaries 350.4 318.3
Social security costs 41.9 34.4
Other pension costs 10.3 8.8
Share-based payments 1.9 1.9
404.5 363.4
These costs include Directors’ remuneration. Directors’ remuneration comprised:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.0 3.4
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.9 1.0
3.0 4.5
The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by the Group during the year was:
2014
Number
2013
Number
North America 3,316 3,410
EMEA 3,900 2,664
Asia 1,233 838
Australia 674 930
9,123 7,842
76 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 7 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items which are exceptional by their size or are non-trading in nature, including those relating to acquisitions. Exceptional items 
comprise the following:
2014
£m 
2013
£m 
Contract dispute 54.0 –
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6.6 6.7
Acquisition costs 0.5 5.9
Contingent consideration and payments (4.7) 6.0
Goodwill impairments – 3.1
Other 0.3 –
Exceptional items in operating costs 56.7 21.7
Exceptional finance costs 0.2 0.4
56.9 22.1
The contract dispute relates to a project that the Group’s UK subsidiary, Keller Limited, completed in 2008. The dispute was subject to litigation  
proceedings involving a number of parties, but these were settled in February 2015. The final cost to Keller is subject to a number of remedial and other 
actions to be undertaken as part of the settlement agreement and the value of the property following these remedial actions. The exceptional charge 
represents management’s best estimate of the net cost to Keller before taking account of future recoveries under applicable insurances, as these cannot  
be recognised under IFRS. The majority of these costs expect to be incurred within the next two years.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition costs relate to the acquisitions set out in Note 4.
The contingent consideration and payments credit in 2014 mainly relates to the release of previously provided contingent consideration for the acquisition  
of Keller Canada which the Group no longer expects to pay. In the prior year, the contingent consideration and payments charge primarily related to  
£4.8m (A$7.8m) of previously unprovided contingent consideration paid in respect of the acquisition of Waterway Constructions Group Pty Ltd due  
to its better than expected performance in the period since acquisition.
Goodwill impairments in 2013 mainly relate to Keller Specialni Zakladani, spol. s.r.o. (Czech Republic).
Exceptional finance costs relate to the unwind of the discounted contingent consideration to present value for the acquisitions set out in Note 4.
8 Finance income
2014
£m 
2013
£m 
Bank and other interest receivable 0.6 0.6
Other finance income 0.9 2.5
1.5 3.1
9 Finance costs
2014
£m 
2013
£m 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 3.7 2.5
Interest payable on other loans 1.9 2.2
Interest payable on finance leases 0.4 0.1
Net pension interest cost 0.7 0.7
Other finance costs 1.7 1.3
Finance costs before exceptional items 8.4 6.8
Exceptional finance costs (Note 7) 0.2 0.4
8.6 7.2
77 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 10 Taxation
2014
£m 
2013
£m 
Current tax expense
Current year 35.1 21.9
Prior years (0.8) (1.1)
Total current tax 34.3 20.8
Deferred tax expense
Current year (6.5) 1.0
Prior years 1.6 0.1
Total deferred tax (4.9) 1.1
29.4 21.9
UK corporation tax is calculated at 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the 
rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
The effective tax rate can be reconciled to the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% as follows:
2014
%
2013 
%
UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 21.5 23.3
Tax charged overseas at rates other than 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 11.0 7.8
Tax losses 1.0 1.3
Non-deductible expenses 0.5 1.1
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of previous periods 0.9 (1.4)
Effective tax rate before exceptional items 34.9 32.1
Impact of exceptional items (Note 7) 69.4 10.0
Effective tax rate 104.3 42.1
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods:
Unused
tax 
losses
£m
Accelerated
capital 
allowances
£m
Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
Other
employee
related
liabilities
£m
Bad
debts
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 (4.8) 31.3 (1.7) (9.6) (3.5) (2.5) 9.2
Charge/(credit) to the income statement 0.9 0.1 0.2 (1.2) 0.4 0.7 1.1
Credit to other comprehensive income – – (1.1) – – – (1.1)
Acquired with subsidiaries – 0.4 – – 0.1 3.8 4.3
Exchange differences (0.2) (1.3) 0.3 0.8 0.1 0.8 0.5
Reclassification – 1.2 (0.3) (0.3) (1.7) 1.1 –
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 (4.1) 31.7 (2.6) (10.3) (4.6) 3.9 14.0
(Credit)/charge to the income statement (3.2) 1.1 (0.4) 0.6 (2.1) (0.9) (4.9)
Credit to other comprehensive income – – (0.2) – – – (0.2)
Exchange differences 0.1 0.9 0.1 (0.5) (0.2) 0.4 0.8
At 31 December 2014 (7.2) 33.7 (3.1) (10.2) (6.9) 3.4 9.7
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Deferred tax liabilities 19.7 21.9
Deferred tax assets (10.0) (7.9)
9.7 14.0
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of £25.2m (2013: £24.6m) available for offset against future profits, on which no deferred tax 
asset has been recognised. Of these losses, £19.4m (2013: £19.4m) may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date the aggregate of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which no 
deferred tax liability has been recognised is £71.6m (2013: £51.5m). The unprovided deferred tax liability in respect of these timing differences is £3.2m 
(2013: £1.6m).
78 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 11 Dividends payable to equity holders of the parent
Ordinary dividends on equity shares:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 16.0p (2012: 15.2p) per share 11.4 9.8
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 8.4p (2013: 8.0p) per share 6.0 5.6
17.4 15.4
The Board has recommended a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £12.0m, representing 16.8p (2013: 16.0p) per share. The proposed 
dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 14 May 2015 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
12 Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share are calculated as follows:
2014
Basic
before
exceptional
items
£m
2014
Diluted 
before
exceptional
items
£m
2014
Basic
£m
2014
Diluted
£m
2013
Basic
before
exceptional
items
£m
2013
Diluted
before
exceptional
items
£m
2013
Basic
£m
2013
Diluted
£m
Earnings/(loss) (after tax and non-controlling 
interests), being net profits/(losses) attributable  
to equity holders of the parent 53.6 53.6 (3.0) (3.0) 49.5 49.5 29.3 29.3
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Weighted average of ordinary shares in issue  
during the year 71.2 71.2 71.2 71.2 67.8 67.8 67.8 67.8
Add: weighted average of shares under option  
during the year – 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.1 – 1.1
Adjusted weighted average of ordinary shares  
in issue 71.2 72.2 71.2 72.2 67.8 68.9 67.8 68.9
2014
Pence
2014
Pence
2014
Pence
2014
Pence
2013
Pence
2013
Pence
2013
Pence
2013
Pence
Earnings/(loss) per share 75.3 74.2 (4.2) (4.2) 73.0 71.9 43.2 42.6
79 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Other intangible assets
Total
£m
Arising on  
acquisition 
£m
Other
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 114.2 – 16.0 130.2
Additions 77.4 37.3 1.4 116.1
Exchange differences (11.3) (3.6) (0.8) (15.7)
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 180.3 33.7 16.6 230.6
Additions 3.2 – 0.9 4.1
Exchange differences 0.9 (1.0) 0.2 0.1
At 31 December 2014 184.4 32.7 17.7 234.8
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 21.0 – 12.0 33.0
Impairment charge for the year 3.1 – – 3.1
Amortisation charge for the year – 6.7 1.4 8.1
Exchange differences (0.3) (0.5) (0.7) (1.5)
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 23.8 6.2 12.7 42.7
Amortisation charge for the year – 6.6 1.9 8.5
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.2) 0.2 0.1
At 31 December 2014 23.9 12.6 14.8 51.3
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 160.5 20.1 2.9 183.5
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 156.5 27.5 3.9 187.9
At 1 January 2013 93.2 – 4.0 97.2
Goodwill impairments in 2013 mainly relate to Keller Specialni Zakladani, spol. s.r.o. (Czech Republic).
Other intangible assets arising on acquisition represent customer relationships, customer contracts at the date of acquisition, patents and trade names.
In 2014, for impairment testing purposes goodwill has been allocated to 16 separate cash-generating units (‘CGUs’). Of these, the carrying amount of 
goodwill allocated to four individual CGUs (Keller Canada, Suncoast, HJ Foundations and Keller Limited) is significant in comparison to the total carrying 
amount of goodwill and comprises 76% of the total. The carrying amounts allocated to three further CGUs, taken together, comprise a further 15% of  
the total. The relevant CGUs and the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to each are as set out below, together with the pre-tax discount rate  
and medium-term growth rate used in their value in use calculations:
Cash-generating unit Geographical segment
2014
Carrying 
value
£m
2014
Pre-tax
discount rate
%
2014
Forecast
growth rate
%
2013
Carrying 
value
£m
2013
Pre-tax
discount rate
%
2013
Forecast
growth rate
%
Keller Canada North America 64.9 11.3 2.0 66.8 11.5 2.0
Suncoast North America 27.7 13.4 3.0 26.1 13.0 3.0
HJ Foundations North America 17.9 16.0 3.0 16.8 16.9 3.0
Keller Limited EMEA 12.1 12.4 2.0 12.1 13.0 2.0
Hayward Baker North America 9.0 16.7 3.0 8.4 16.3 3.0
Resource Piling Asia 7.9 11.9 2.0 7.7 11.8 2.0
Waterway Australia 7.4 15.7 1.0 7.5 16.2 1.0
Other Various 13.6 11.1
160.5 156.5
The recoverable amount of the goodwill allocated to each CGU has been determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculations all use cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a five-year period.
The Group’s businesses operate in cyclical markets, some of which are expected to continue to face uncertain conditions over the next couple of years.  
The most important factors in the value in use calculations, however, are the forecast revenues and operating margins during the forecast period and  
the discount rates applied to future cash flows. The key assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are therefore the revenue and operating margins 
assumed throughout the forecast period. The discount rates used in the value in use calculations are based on the weighted average cost of capital of 
companies comparable to the relevant CGUs, adjusted as necessary to reflect the risk associated with the asset being tested.
Management considers all the forecast revenues, margins and profits to be reasonably achievable given recent performance and the historic trading results 
of the relevant CGUs. Cash flows beyond 2019 have been extrapolated using a steady growth rate of between 1% and 3% (shown in the table above),  
which does not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the markets in which the relevant CGUs operate.
80 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 13 Intangible assets continued
Management believes that, with the exception of Keller Limited (UK) and Keller Canada (Canada), any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on 
which the recoverable amounts of the CGUs identified above are based would not cause any of their carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Keller Limited (UK)
Although revenues are forecast to reduce in 2015 as two significant contracts were substantially completed during 2014, the assumptions underlying the 
forecasts in subsequent years are for a gradual recovery to more normal, mid-cycle, market conditions by 2019. Clearly, in the event that this assumption 
proves over optimistic and the UK construction market experiences a prolonged depression, such that demand for our products is materially below 
long-term historic levels, this would adversely impact the forecast cash flows and may lead to an impairment of goodwill. Based on the value in use 
calculation, the recoverable amount of Keller Limited exceeds the carrying amount by £11.5m. In order for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying 
amount, forecast revenue growth in each year, at the assumed operating margins, would have to decrease by 6.3%, which would result in a negative 2.6% 
compound annual growth rate over the period from 2015 to 2019. Alternatively, assumed operating margins in each year would have to decrease by 1.5%.
Keller Canada (Canada)
The 2014 results of Keller Canada are below those expected at the time of acquisition, primarily due to worsening market conditions. The assumptions 
underlying the forecasts in subsequent years are for a recovery in the Canadian market in the medium term. Clearly, in the event that this assumption proves 
over optimistic and the Canadian market experiences a prolonged depression such that demand for our products is materially below long-term historic 
levels, this would adversely impact the forecast cash flows and may lead to an impairment of goodwill. Based on the value in use calculation, the recoverable 
amount of Keller Canada exceeds the carrying amount by C$71.2m (£39.3m). In order for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount, forecast 
revenue growth in each year, at the assumed operating margins, would have to decrease by 5.1%, which would result in a 3.2% compound annual growth 
rate over the period from 2015 to 2019. Alternatively, assumed operating margins in each year would have to decrease by 2.5%.
14 Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant, machinery
and vehicles
£m
Capital work
in progress
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 39.6 491.3 0.3 531.2
Additions 3.2 41.6 – 44.8
Disposals (1.1) (10.0) – (11.1)
Acquired with subsidiaries 1.2 53.6 – 54.8
Exchange differences (0.5) (27.9) – (28.4)
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 42.4 548.6 0.3 591.3
Additions 2.9 59.2 1.5 63.6
Disposals – (11.8) – (11.8)
Acquired with subsidiaries – 1.4 – 1.4
Reclassification 2.0 (2.0) – –
Exchange differences (0.7) 0.5 – (0.2)
At 31 December 2014 46.6 595.9 1.8 644.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 8.7 274.0 – 282.7
Charge for the year 0.9 44.1 – 45.0
Disposals (0.1) (7.7) – (7.8)
Exchange differences – (10.5) – (10.5)
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 9.5 299.9 – 309.4
Charge for the year 1.7 46.3 – 48.0
Disposals – (8.6) – (8.6)
Exchange differences (0.1) – – (0.1)
At 31 December 2014 11.1 337.6 – 348.7
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 35.5 258.3 1.8 295.6
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 32.9 248.7 0.3 281.9
At 1 January 2013 30.9 217.3 0.3 248.5
The net book value of plant, machinery and vehicles includes £3.9m (2013: £5.2m) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The Group had contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of £0.9m (2013: £3.1m) at the balance sheet date.  
These amounts were not included in the balance sheet at the year end.
81 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 Other non-current assets
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 3.5 –
Other assets 16.4 14.9
19.9 14.9
16 Investments
The Company’s principal operating subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation
Keller Limited UK Keller Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland
Hayward Baker Inc USA Keller Engenharia Geotécnica Ltda Brazil
Case Foundation Company USA Keller Ground Engineering India Private Ltd India
McKinney Drilling Company LLC USA Keller (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Malaysia
Suncoast Post-Tension Ltd USA Keller Foundations (South East Asia) Pte Ltd Singapore
HJ Foundation Company USA Resource Piling Pte Ltd Singapore
Keller Foundations Ltd Canada Keller Turki Company Ltd Saudi Arabia
Cyntech Construction Ltd Canada Franki Geotechnical (Pty) Ltd South Africa
Geo-Foundations Contractors, Inc. Canada Frankipile Australia Pty Ltd Australia
Keller Grundbau GmbH Germany Vibro-Pile (Aust.) Pty Ltd Australia
Keller Fondations Spéciales SAS France Piling Contractors Pty Ltd Australia
Keller Grundbau Ges.mbH Austria Waterway Constructions Group Pty Ltd Australia
Keller Cimentaciones S.L.U. (previously Keller-Terra S.L.) Spain Keller Ground Engineering Pty Ltd Australia
Each of the above subsidiary undertakings is directly or indirectly wholly owned by the Company apart from Keller Turki Company Ltd, which is 65%  
owned by Keller Grundbau GmbH. Keller Limited is held directly by the Company. All other shareholdings are held by intermediate subsidiary undertakings. 
All companies are engaged in the principal activities of the Group, as defined in the Directors’ report.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s410 of the Companies Act 2006 to disclose a list comprising solely the principal operating 
subsidiaries. A full list of subsidiaries is sent to Companies House with each annual return.
17 Inventories
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Raw materials and consumables 33.8 45.7
Work in progress 0.5 2.1
Finished goods 14.3 14.2
48.6 62.0
18 Trade and other receivables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Trade receivables 319.8 336.9
Construction work in progress 59.6 56.6
Other receivables 19.3 11.2
Prepayments 10.0 8.4
Fair value of derivative financial instruments – 1.4
408.7 414.5
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for doubtful debts. 
The movement in the provision for bad and doubtful debt is as follows:
2014
£m
2013 
£m
At 1 January 29.0 32.8
Acquired with subsidiaries – 0.8
Used during the period (2.1) (4.0)
Additional provisions 12.3 13.3
Unused amounts reversed (3.1) (13.5)
Exchange differences 0.4 (0.4)
At 31 December 36.5 29.0
82 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 18 Trade and other receivables continued
The ageing of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired was as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Overdue by less than 30 days 61.5 65.9
Overdue by between 31 and 90 days 34.4 36.5
Overdue by more than 90 days 24.3 25.9
120.2 128.3
19 Construction contracts
Construction contracts in progress at balance sheet date:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses) to date 887.5 637.0
Retentions withheld by customers 28.0 23.9
Advances received 4.9 1.9
Construction contract revenue recognised in the year in accordance with IAS 11 totalled £1,433.2m (2013: £1,319.3m). 
20 Cash and cash equivalents
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Bank balances 79.7 50.5
Short-term deposits 5.9 2.8
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 85.6 53.3
Bank overdrafts – (2.6)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 85.6 50.7
21 Trade and other payables
2014
£m
2013 
£m
Trade payables 171.4 169.5
Other taxes and social security payable 8.8 7.6
Other payables 142.0 139.7
Accruals 30.8 33.6
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.2 2.0
353.2 352.4
Other payables includes contract accruals and advance billings.
22 Provisions
Employee
provisions
£m
Restructuring
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
 £m 
Total
 £m
At 1 January 2014 10.3 1.1 4.7 16.1
Charge for the year 4.7 1.0 59.1 64.8
Used during the period (3.9) (0.2) (4.1) (8.2)
Unused amounts reversed (0.1) – – (0.1)
Exchange differences 0.6 (0.1) 0.2 0.7
At 31 December 2014 11.6 1.8 59.9 73.3
To be settled within one year 6.4 1.7 41.9 50.0
To be settled after one year 5.2 0.1 18.0 23.3
At 31 December 2014 11.6 1.8 59.9 73.3
Employee provisions comprise obligations to employees other than retirement benefit obligations. Other provisions are in respect of legal and other 
disputes in various Group companies, including the provision for the contract dispute outlined in Note 7. The majority of provisions are expected to be 
utilised within one year.
23 Other non-current liabilities
2014
£m
2013 
£m
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 19.4 14.9
Other liabilities 16.9 21.0
36.3 35.9
Other liabilities include contingent consideration of £2.8m (2013: £8.5m).
83 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 24 Financial instruments
Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arise in the normal 
course of the Group’s business. Derivative financial instruments are used  
to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments nor does it engage  
in speculative derivative transactions.
Currency risk
The Group faces currency risk principally on its net assets, most of which 
are in currencies other than sterling. The Group aims to reduce the impact 
that retranslation of these net assets might have on the consolidated balance 
sheet, by matching the currency of its borrowings, where possible, with the 
currency of its assets. The majority of the Group’s borrowings are held in 
US dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros and South African rand, in order to 
provide a hedge against these currency net assets.
The Group manages its currency flows to minimise currency transaction 
exchange risk. Forward contracts and other derivative financial instruments 
are used to hedge significant individual transactions. The majority of such 
currency flows within the Group relate to repatriation of profits, intra-
Group loan repayments and any foreign currency cash flows associated  
with acquisitions. The Group’s foreign exchange cover is executed  
primarily in the UK. 
At 31 December 2014, the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts 
outstanding was £0.2m (2013: £nil).
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is managed by mixing fixed and floating rate borrowings 
depending upon the purpose and term of the financing. 
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are trade and other receivables, bank 
and cash balances and a limited number of investments and derivatives held 
to hedge certain of the Group’s liabilities. These represent the Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. 
The Group has stringent procedures to manage counterparty risk and the 
assessment of customer credit risk is embedded in the contract tendering 
processes. Customer credit risk is mitigated by the Group’s relatively small 
average contract size, its diversity, both geographically and in terms of end 
markets, and by taking out credit insurance in many of the countries in which  
the Group operates. No individual customer represented more than 5%  
of revenue in 2014. The counterparty risk on bank and cash balances is managed 
by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one institution by reference 
to their credit rating and by regular review of these ratings. The ageing of trade 
receivables that were past due but not impaired is shown in Note 18.
Liquidity risk and capital management
The Group’s capital structure is kept under constant review, taking account  
of the need for, availability and cost of various sources of finance. The capital 
structure of the Group consists of net debt, as shown on page 85, and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent as shown in the consolidated balance 
sheet. The Group maintains a balance between certainty of funding and a 
flexible, cost effective financing structure with all main borrowings being from 
committed facilities. The Group’s policy continues to be to ensure that its capital 
structure is appropriate to support this balance and the Group’s operations.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the 
amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue 
new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group’s debt and committed 
facilities mainly comprise a US$40m private placement repayable in 2018, a 
US$50m private placement repayable in 2021, a US$75m private placement 
repayable in 2024 and a £250m syndicated revolving credit facility expiring in 
2019. These facilities are subject to certain covenants linked to the Group’s 
financing structure, specifically regarding the ratios of debt and interest to 
profit. The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the period.
At the year end, the Group also had other committed and uncommitted 
borrowing facilities totalling £40.7m (2013: £68.5m) to support local requirements.
Private placements
In August 2012, US$40m was raised through a private placement with US 
institutions. The proceeds of the issue of US$40m 5.0% notes due 2018 were 
used to repay existing debt. In October and December 2014, a further US$50m 
and US$75m respectively were raised through a private placement with US 
institutions. The proceeds of the issue of US$50m 3.81% Series A notes due 2021 
and US$75m 4.17% Series B notes due 2024 were used to refinance the 2004 
US$70m 5.48% private placement notes which matured in October 2014 and 
other existing debt.
The US private placement loans are accounted for on an amortised cost basis, 
adjusted for the impact of hedge accounting (as described below), and retranslated 
at the spot exchange rate at each period end. The carrying value of the private 
placement liabilities at 31 December 2014 was £108.8m (2013: £68.5m).
Hedging
The 2004 US$70m fixed rate private placement liabilities were swapped 
into floating rates, US$45m by means of US dollar interest rate swaps and 
US$25m through a dollar euro cross-currency and interest rate swap 
(together, ‘the 2004 swaps’). The 2004 swaps matured at the same time  
as the private placement liability in October 2014 and therefore the fair 
value of the 2004 swaps at 31 December 2014 was £nil (2013: a net asset  
of £0.3m).
In June 2006, US$185m of floating rate intra-Group debt was swapped  
into sterling floating rates by means of dollar sterling cross-currency interest 
rate swaps (‘the 2006 swaps’). The 2006 swaps have the same maturity as 
the intra-Group debt and have been designated as cash flow hedges of the 
Company’s exposure to the variability of cash flows on the intra-Group  
debt resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates. 
The fair value of the 2006 swaps at 31 December 2014 represented a 
liability of £18.5m (2013: £11.3m) included in other non-current liabilities. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the 2006 swaps, a loss  
of £7.2m (2013: £2.1m gain), has been taken to the hedging reserve and fully 
recycled through the income statement during the year.
The 2012 US$40m fixed rate private placement liabilities were swapped  
into sterling by means of dollar sterling cross-currency fixed interest rate 
swaps. Also, on the same date, £25.5m of sterling was swapped into euros 
by means of sterling euro cross-currency fixed interest rate swaps. These 
interest rate swaps (‘the 2012 swaps’) have the same maturity as the private 
placement liability. The dollar sterling swaps have been designated as cash 
flow hedges of the Company’s exposure to the variability of cash flows on 
the private placement resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates and 
the sterling euro swaps have been designated as net investment hedges of 
the Group’s euro-denominated net assets.
The fair value of the 2012 swaps at 31 December 2014 represented an  
asset of £0.5m (2013: £nil) included in other non-current assets and a liability 
of £0.9m (2013: £3.6m) included in other non-current liabilities. The effective 
portion of the changes in the fair value of the dollar sterling swaps, a gain of 
£1.1m (2013: £0.3m loss), has been taken to the hedging reserve and fully 
recycled through the income statement during the year. The effective 
portion of the changes in the fair value of the sterling euro swaps, a gain of 
£2.0m (2013: £1.6m loss), has been taken to the translation reserve through 
other comprehensive income along with the foreign exchange gains and 
losses arising on retranslation of the euro-denominated assets they hedge. 
The 2014 US$50m and US$75m fixed rate private placement liabilities  
were swapped into floating rate by means of US dollar interest rate swaps 
(‘the 2014 swaps’). The 2014 swaps have the same maturity as the private 
placement liabilities and have been designated as fair value hedges of the 
Group’s exposure to changes in the fair value of the US private placement 
loans and related interest cash flows due to changes in US dollar  
interest rates.
The fair value of the 2014 swaps at 31 December 2014 represented an  
asset of £3.0m which is included in other non-current assets. The effective 
portion of the changes in the fair value of the 2014 swaps, a gain of £3.0m, 
has been taken to the income statement along with equal and opposite 
movement in fair value of the corresponding hedged items.
All hedges are tested for effectiveness every six months using the cumulative 
dollar offset method. All hedging relationships remained effective during the 
year. The ineffective portion of the movement in the fair value of the 
hedging instruments was £nil (2013: £nil).
84 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 24 Financial instruments continued
Effective interest rates and maturity analysis
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance 
sheet date and the periods in which they mature.
2014
Effective
interest rate
%
2014
Due within
1–2 years
£m
2014
Due within
2–5 years
£m
2014
Due after 
more than
5 years
£m
2014
Total 
non-current 
£m
2014
Due within
1 year
£m
2014
Total
£m
Bank loans
*
1.8 (0.5) (72.2) (1.0) (73.7) (1.2) (74.9)
Other loans
*
2.6 – (25.8) (83.0) (108.8) – (108.8)
Obligations under finance leases
*
7.3 (1.9) (0.7) – (2.6) (1.5) (4.1)
Total loans and borrowings (2.4) (98.7) (84.0) (185.1) (2.7) (187.8)
Bank balances
*
1.6 – – – – 79.7 79.7
Short-term deposits
*
2.8 – – – – 5.9 5.9
Net debt (2.4) (98.7) (84.0) (185.1) 82.9 (102.2)
Derivative financial instruments (18.6) (0.4) 3.1 (15.9) (0.2) (16.1)
2013
Effective
interest rate
%
2013
Due within
1–2 years
£m
2013
Due within
2–5 years
£m
2013
Due after 
more than
5 years
£m
2013
Total 
non-current 
£m
2013
Due within
1 year
£m
2013
Total
£m
Bank overdrafts 2.0 – – – – (2.6) (2.6)
Bank loans
*
2.9 (37.0) (82.8) (0.5) (120.3) (0.2) (120.5)
Other loans
*
2.9 – (24.2) – (24.2) (44.3) (68.5)
Obligations under finance leases
*
7.5 (0.8) (1.5) (1.5) (3.8) (1.6) (5.4)
Total loans and borrowings (37.8) (108.5) (2.0) (148.3) (48.7) (197.0)
Bank balances 1.6 – – – – 50.5 50.5
Short-term deposits
*
3.7 – – – – 2.8 2.8
Net debt (37.8) (108.5) (2.0) (148.3) 4.6 (143.7)
Derivative financial instruments – (14.9) – (14.9) (0.6) (15.5)
Loans and borrowings consist of the following: 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
US$75m private placement (due December 2024) 50.3 –
US$50m private placement (due October 2021) 32.7 –
£250m syndicated revolving credit facility (expiring September 2019) 71.9 –
US$70m private placement (repaid October 2014) – 44.3
US$40m private placement (due August 2018) 25.8 24.2
£170m syndicated revolving credit facility (expired July 2014) – 36.4
US$150m syndicated revolving credit facility (amended and restated July 2014) – 82.4
Bank overdrafts – 2.6
Obligations under finance leases 4.1 5.4
Other loans and borrowings 3.0 1.7
Total loans and borrowings 187.8 197.0
During 2014, the US$150m facility was amended and restated to become the £250m facility. 
In addition, there were non-interest-bearing financial liabilities comprising trade and other payables of £322.2m (2013: £316.8m) which were payable within one 
year. Contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions taking place on or after 1 January 2010 which were payable between two and five years is £2.8m (2013: £8.5m).
The Group had unutilised committed banking facilities of £173.1m at 31 December 2014 (2013: £122.6m). This mainly comprised the unutilised portion  
of the Group’s £250m facility which expires on 4 September 2019. In addition, the Group had unutilised uncommitted borrowing facilities totalling £24.3m 
at 31 December 2014 (2013: £42.7m). All of these borrowing facilities are unsecured. Future obligations under finance leases totalled £4.6m (2013: £6.0m), 
including interest of £0.5m (2013: £0.6m).
Fair values
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying values. The following summarises the major 
methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments:
Derivatives
The fair value of interest rate and cross-currency swaps is calculated based on expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted using market 
rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. In 2014 and in 2013, the valuation methods of all of the Group’s derivative financial instruments carried at fair value 
are categorised as Level 2. Level 2 is defined as inputs, other than quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
*
 These include assets/liabilities bearing interest at a fixed rate.
85 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 24 Financial instruments continued
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted using market rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Contingent consideration
Fair value is calculated based on the amounts expected to be paid, determined by reference to forecasts of future performance of the acquired businesses 
discounted using market rates prevailing at the balance sheet date and the probability of contingent events and targets being achieved.
In 2014 and in 2013, the valuation methods of all of the Group’s contingent consideration carried at fair value are categorised as Level 3. Level 3 inputs are 
unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Group’s contingent consideration are forecast revenue growth rates  
(2014: 1%–10%), forecast EBITDA margins (2014: 9%–14%) and pre-tax discount rates (2014: 17%–22%). 
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening to closing balances for Level 3 fair values:
Contingent
consideration
£m
At 1 January 2014 8.5
Provision released (Note 7) (7.5)
Additional amounts provided 0.9
Assumed within business combinations (Note 4) 0.9
Unwind of contingent consideration (Note 7) 0.2
Exchange differences
1
(0.2)
At 31 December 2014 2.8
The fair value measurement of the contingent consideration could be affected if the forecast revenue growth rates or forecast EBITDA margins  
are different to those stated above. A higher forecast revenue growth rate or higher EBITDA margin may increase the value of the contingent  
consideration payable.
Trade and other payables and receivables and construction work in progress
For payables and receivables with a remaining life of one year or less, the carrying amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. All other payables and 
receivables are discounted using market rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate and currency profile 
The profile of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities after taking account of swaps was as follows:
2014
Sterling
2014
USD
2014
Euro
2014
CAD
2014
Other
1
2014
Total
Weighted average fixed debt interest rate – – 4.4% – 8.4% n/a
Weighted average fixed debt period (years) – – 3.8 – 1.8 n/a
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
Fixed rate financial liabilities – – (27.6) – (0.5) (28.1)
Floating rate financial liabilities – (83.0) (19.3) (40.9) (16.5) (159.7)
Financial assets 1.4 15.3 17.2 2.5 49.2 85.6
Net debt 1.4 (67.7) (29.7) (38.4) 32.2 (102.2)
2013
Sterling
2013
USD
2013
Euro
2013
CAD
2013
Other
1
2013
Total
Weighted average fixed debt interest rate – – 5.0% 6.9% – n/a
Weighted average fixed debt period (years) – – 4.6 2.4 – n/a
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
Fixed rate financial liabilities – – (25.4) (2.9) – (28.3)
Floating rate financial liabilities (2.6) (31.2) (21.2) (98.3) (15.4) (168.7)
Financial assets 1.0 5.6 9.0 2.6 35.1 53.3
Net debt (1.6) (25.6) (37.6) (98.6) 19.7 (143.7)
1
 Included in other comprehensive income.
1
  Included within other floating rate financial liabilities are AUD revolver loans of £nil (2013: £3.6m), ZAR revolver loans of £13.3m (2013: £9.3m) and SGD revolver loans of £2.0m (2013: £nil). 
Included within other financial assets are AUD cash balances of £12.0m (2013: £9.5m), ZAR cash balances of £2.8m (2013: £6.6m) and SGD cash balances of £2.8m (2013: £6.2m).
86 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 24 Financial instruments continued 
Sensitivity analysis
At 31 December 2014, it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit before taxation  
by approximately £0.8m (2013: £1.2m). The impact of interest rate swaps has been included in this calculation.
It is estimated that a general increase of ten percentage points in the value of sterling against other principal foreign currencies would have decreased the 
Group’s profit before taxation and exceptional items by approximately £8.2m for the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £7.1m). This sensitivity relates  
to the impact of retranslation of foreign earnings only. The impact on the Group’s earnings of currency transaction exchange risk is not significant.
25 Share capital and reserves
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Equity share capital:
73,099,735 ordinary shares of 10p each (2013: 73,099,735) 7.3 7.3
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carries no rights to fixed income. There are no restrictions on the transfer of these shares. 
On 14 June 2013, the Group issued 6,600,000 new ordinary shares of 10p each for a total non-cash consideration (shares in a company which received the 
placing proceeds) of £57.6m net of £1.2m of issue costs. Merger relief has been applied under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, with the premium on 
the shares issued allocated initially to a merger reserve and then to an other reserve on redemption of the shares in the company that received the placing 
proceeds.
The capital redemption reserve is a non-distributable reserve created when the Company’s shares were redeemed or purchased other than from the 
proceeds of a fresh issue of shares.
The total number of shares held in Treasury was 1.8m (2013: 2.2m). 
26 Related party transactions
Transactions between the parent, its subsidiaries and joint operations, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation. 
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel and related parties of the Group, is set out in Note 6.
27 Commitments
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred was £0.9m (2013: £3.1m) and relates to property, plant and 
equipment purchases.
(b) Operating lease commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Group’s total commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:
2014
Land and 
buildings
£m
2014
Plant,
machinery
and vehicles
£m
2014
Total
£m
2013
Land and 
buildings
£m
2013
Plant,
machinery
and vehicles
£m
2013
Total
£m
Payable within one year 10.0 6.3 16.3 8.8 6.6 15.4
Payable between one and five years inclusive 18.4 5.1 23.5 17.6 5.8 23.4
Payable in over five years 10.6 – 10.6 5.0 – 5.0
39.0 11.4 50.4 31.4 12.4 43.8
28 Contingent liabilities
Claims against the Group arise in the normal course of trading. Some of these claims involve or may involve litigation and, in a few instances, the total 
amounts claimed against the Group may be significant in relation to the size of the related contract. However, the amounts agreed, if any, are generally less 
than the total amount claimed, in many cases significantly so, and are normally covered by the Group’s insurance arrangements. The Directors’ best 
estimate, based on their knowledge as at the date of these accounts, of the likely amounts payable by the Group on account of such claims has been accrued 
in these accounts.
The Group has entered into bonds in the normal course of business relating to contract tenders, advance payments, contract performance, the release of 
retentions and the Group’s insurance arrangements.
The Company and certain of its subsidiary undertakings have entered into a number of guarantees in the ordinary course of business, the effects of which 
are to guarantee or cross-guarantee certain bank borrowings and other liabilities of other Group companies.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had standby letters of credit outstanding totalling £13.0m (2013: £17.5m).
87 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 28 Contingent liabilities continued
The following subsidiaries have taken the exemption from having their financial statements audited on the basis that Keller Group plc has provided a guarantee 
of these subsidiaries’ liabilities in respect of their financial year ended 31 December 2014 under sections 479A to 479C of the Companies Act 2006:
Company Registered number
Keller Holdings Limited 02499601
Keller Resources Limited 04592974
Keller Finance Australia Limited 06768174
Keller Finance Limited 02922459
Keller Financing 04592933
29 Share-based payments
The Group has two share option plans, the 2001 Plans and the Performance Share Plan.
Details of the terms and conditions of the Performance Share Plan are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 48 to 60.
Under the 2001 Plans, the option price is the average of the share price for the three days preceding the date of grant. Under the Performance Share Plan, 
all awards have an exercise price of £1 per exercise. Options outstanding are as follows:
2001 Plans
Options
2001 Plans
Weighted
average
exercise
price
Performance
Share Plan
Options
Outstanding at 1 January 2013 6,000 251.0p 1,234,087
Granted during 2013 – – 306,182
Lapsed during 2013 (6,000) 251.0p (355,185)
Outstanding at 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 – – 1,185,084
Granted during 2014 – – 206,069
Lapsed during 2014 – – (54,307)
Exercised during 2014 – – (340,105)
Outstanding at 31 December 2014 – – 996,741
Exercisable at 1 January 2013 6,000 251.0p 3,750
Exercisable at 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 – – 3,750
Exercisable at 31 December 2014 – – –
Exercises occurred throughout the year. The average share price during the year was 964.3p.
Under IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for share options granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.  
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured based on a stochastic model. The contractual life of the option is used as an input into 
this model, with expectations of early exercise being incorporated into the model.
The inputs into the stochastic model are as follows:
2014 2013
Weighted average share price 1,171.0p 944.0p
Weighted average exercise price 0.0p 0.0p
Expected volatility 37.0% 39.0%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 0.95% 0.62%
Expected dividend yield 2.20% 2.40%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years, adjusted for any expected 
changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The Group recognised total expenses (included in operating costs) of £1.9m (2013: £1.9m) related to equity-settled, share-based payment transactions.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 734.3p (2013: 795.4p).
88 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 30 Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group operates pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
In the UK, the Group operates the Keller Group Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’), a defined benefit scheme, which has been closed to new members  
since 1999 and was closed to all future benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2006. Under the Scheme, employees are normally entitled to retirement 
benefits on attainment of a retirement age of 65. The Scheme is subject to UK pensions legislation which, inter alia, provides for the regulation of work-based 
pension schemes by the Pensions Regulator. The Trustees are aware of and adhere to the Codes of Practice issued by the Pensions Regulator. The Scheme 
Trustees currently comprise one member-nominated Trustee and one employer-nominated Trustee. The employer-nominated Trustee is also the Chair of the 
Trustees. The Scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, interest rate risk and market (investment) risk, which are managed through 
the investment strategy to acceptable levels. The Scheme can invest in a wide range of asset classes including equities, bonds, cash, property, alternatives 
(including private equity, commodities, hedge funds, infrastructure, currency, high yield debt and derivatives) and annuity policies. Any investment in 
derivative instruments is only made to contribute to a reduction in the overall level of risk in the portfolio or for the purposes of efficient portfolio 
management. With effect from the most recent actuarial valuation date (5 April 2014), the Group has agreed to pay annual contributions of £1.6m.
The Group has two UK defined contribution retirement benefit schemes. There were no contributions outstanding in respect of these schemes at  
31 December 2014 (2013: £nil). The total UK defined contribution pension charge for the year was £1.2m (2013: £1.0m).
The Group also has defined benefit retirement obligations in Germany and Austria. Under these schemes, employees are entitled to retirement benefits  
on attainment of a retirement age of 65, provided they have 15 years of employment with the Group. The amount of benefit payable depends on the  
grade of employee and the number of years of service, up to a maximum of 40 years. Benefits under these schemes only apply to employees who joined 
the Group prior to 1991. These defined benefit retirement obligations are funded on the Group’s balance sheet and obligations are met as and when 
required by the Group. 
The Group operates a defined contribution scheme for employees in North America, where the Group is required to match employee contributions up  
to a certain level in accordance with the scheme rules. The total North America pension charge for the year was £3.0m (2013: £2.5m).
In Australia, there is a defined contribution scheme where the Group is required to ensure that a prescribed level of superannuation support of an 
employee’s notional base earnings is made. This prescribed level of support is currently 9.5% (2013: 9.25%). The total Australian pension charge for the  
year was £3.9m (2013: £4.1m).
Details of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are as follows:
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2013
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2013
£m
Present value of the scheme liabilities (49.8) (44.7) (13.8) (13.4)
Present value of assets 38.2 35.0 – –
Deficit in the scheme (11.6) (9.7) (13.8) (13.4)
The value of the scheme liabilities has been determined by the actuary using the following assumptions:
31 December
2014
%
31 December
2013
%
31 December
2014
%
31 December
2013
%
Discount rate 3.6 4.5 1.9 2.7
Interest on assets 3.6 4.5 n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.3 3.5 2.0 2.0
Rate of increase in pensions in deferment 2.1 2.7 2.0 2.0
Rate of inflation 3.1 3.5 2.0 2.0
The mortality rate assumptions are based on published statistics. The average remaining life expectancy, in years, of a pensioner retiring at the age of 65 at 
the balance sheet date is:
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2014
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2013
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2014
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2013
Male currently aged 65 21.6 21.7 18.9 18.8
Female currently aged 65 23.5 23.9 22.9 22.8
89 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 30 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
The assets of the schemes were as follows:
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Value as at
31 December
2014
£m
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Value as at
31 December
2013
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Value as at
31 December
2014
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Value as at
31 December
2013
£m
Equities 23.0 22.8 n/a n/a
Gilts 7.6 6.0 n/a n/a
Bonds 7.6 6.2 n/a n/a
38.2 35.0 n/a n/a
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2013
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2013
£m
Changes in scheme liabilities
Opening balance (44.7) (41.1) (13.4) (11.5)
Current service cost (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (0.2)
Interest cost (2.0) (1.8) (0.3) (0.4)
Benefits paid 1.5 1.8 0.7 0.6
Exchange differences – – 0.8 (0.3)
Experience loss on defined benefit obligation (0.5) – (0.1) –
Changes to demographic assumptions (0.1) – – –
Changes to financial assumptions (3.8) (3.5) (1.2) (1.6)
Closing balance (49.8) (44.7) (13.8) (13.4)
Changes in scheme assets
Opening balance 35.0 34.4 – –
Interest on assets 1.6 1.5 – –
Employer contributions 1.5 1.5 – –
Benefits paid (1.5) (1.8) – –
Return on plan assets less interest 1.6 (0.6) – –
Closing balance 38.2 35.0 – –
Actual return on scheme assets 3.2 0.9 – –
Statement of comprehensive income (SOCI)
Return on plan assets less interest 1.6 (0.6) – –
Experience loss on defined benefit obligation (0.5) – (0.1) –
Changes to demographic assumptions (0.1) – – –
Changes to financial assumptions (3.8) (3.5) (1.2) (1.6)
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (2.8) (4.1) (1.3) (1.6)
Cumulative remeasurements of defined benefit plans (20.2) (17.4) (5.5) (4.2)
Expense recognised in the income statement 
Current service cost 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2
Operating costs 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2
Net pension interest cost 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.6
Movements in the balance sheet liability
Net liability at start of year 9.7 6.7 13.4 11.5
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.6
Employer contributions (1.5) (1.5) – –
Benefits paid – – (0.7) (0.6)
Exchange differences – – (0.8) 0.3
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 2.8 4.1 1.3 1.6
Net liability at end of year 11.6 9.7 13.8 13.4
90 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 30 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
A reduction in the discount rate of 0.1% would increase the deficit in the schemes by £1.0m (2013: £0.9m), whilst a reduction in the inflation assumption  
of 0.1% would decrease the deficit by £0.6m (2013: £0.8m).
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is approximately 17 years for the UK scheme and 12 years for the German and  
Austrian schemes.
The history of experience adjustments on scheme assets and liabilities for all the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (63.6) (58.1) (52.6) (49.9) (50.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 38.2 35.0 34.4 32.2 30.6
Deficit in the schemes (25.4) (23.1) (18.2) (17.7) (20.1)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (5.7) (5.1) (3.5) 1.0 (2.6)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 1.6 (0.6) 0.7 0.1 1.3
91 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 4 – 0.1
Tangible fixed assets 5 0.1 0.1
Investments 6 94.1 127.8
94.2 128.0
Current assets
Debtors
*
7 452.6 347.7
Cash and bank balances 2.2 –
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (4.8) (53.7)
Provisions 9 (20.0) –
Net current assets
*
430.0 294.0
Total assets less current liabilities 524.2 422.0
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 (186.2) (85.1)
Net assets excluding pension liabilities 338.0 336.9
Pension liabilities 16 (1.8) (1.6)
Net assets 336.2 335.3
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 11 7.3 7.3
Share premium account 13 38.1 38.1
Capital redemption reserve 13 7.6 7.6
Other reserve 13 56.9 56.9
Profit and loss account 13 226.3 225.4
Shareholders’ funds 12 336.2 335.3
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 March 2015. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
J R Atkinson 
Chief Executive
J W G Hind 
Finance Director
*
 Debtors and net current assets include debtors recoverable after more than one year of £451.0m (2013: £307.1m).
92 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014 1 Significant accounting policies
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical  
cost convention in accordance with applicable accounting standards  
of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Company has taken the exemption granted under SI 2008/489 not  
to disclose non-audit fees paid to its auditors.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently.
The principal accounting policies adopted under UK GAAP are the same  
as the Group’s accounting policies under International Financial Reporting 
Standards, except for those listed below:
Basis of accounting
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted  
by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Pension liabilities
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme, and also makes 
payments into defined contribution schemes for employees.
The liability in respect of the defined benefit scheme is the present value  
of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, calculated using 
the projected unit credit method, less the fair value of the scheme’s assets.
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 17 recognising the 
current service cost and interest on scheme liabilities in the profit and  
loss account, and actuarial gains and losses in reserves.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are accounted for on an  
accruals basis.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, 
provisions for impairment.
Deferred taxation
Except where otherwise required by FRS 19, full provision without 
discounting is made for all timing differences which have arisen but not 
reversed at the balance sheet date.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets principally consist of leasehold improvements  
which are depreciated over the term of the lease.
Accounting developments
FRS 100, 101 and 102 were recently issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council. FRS 101 (‘IFRS with reduced disclosures’) outlines the reduced 
disclosure framework available for use by qualifying entities choosing to 
report under IFRS. The Company will apply FRS 101 (‘IFRS with reduced 
disclosures’) for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
2 Employees
The Company has no employees other than the Directors. Directors’ 
remuneration and details of their share-based payments are disclosed  
in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Dividends paid
Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares are disclosed in Note 11 to  
the consolidated financial statements.
93 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company financial statements 4 Intangible assets
Development
costs
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2014 0.3 0.3
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 0.2 0.2
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2014 0.3 0.3
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2014 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2014 – –
5 Tangible fixed assets
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.4 0.4
At 31 December 2014 0.4 0.4
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 0.3 0.3
Charge for the year – –
At 31 December 2014 0.3 0.3
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2014 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2014 0.1 0.1
6 Investments
Shares at cost less amounts provided for
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
At 1 January 127.8 127.3
Additions – 1.2
Disposals (0.2) –
Amounts provided during the year (33.5) (0.7)
At 31 December 94.1 127.8
The amounts provided during the current year largely relate to the Group’s UK subsidiary, Keller Limited, following the contract dispute on a project 
completed in 2008. Further details are set out in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s principal investments are disclosed in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
7 Debtors
 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 448.6 345.9
Other debtors 4.0 1.8
452.6 347.7
Included in the above are amounts falling due after more than one year in respect of:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 447.5 307.1
Other debtors 3.5 –
451.0 307.1
94 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company financial statements 
continued 8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2014
£m
2013
£m
Bank overdraft – 0.5
Other loans – 44.3
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 0.2 1.2
Other creditors 3.7 6.7
Accruals 0.9 1.0
4.8 53.7
9 Provisions
Other 
provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 – –
Charge for the year 20.0 20.0
At 31 December 2014 20.0 20.0
Other provisions relate to the Company’s commitments under the settlement of a contract dispute on a project completed in 2008 and are expected to be 
utilised within one year. Further details are set out in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
10 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2014
£m
2013
£m
Bank loans 31.3 20.5
Other loans 107.6 24.2
Other creditors 21.9 14.9
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 25.4 25.5
186.2 85.1
Bank and other loans are repayable as follows:
Between two and five years 55.9 44.7
After five years 83.0 –
138.9 44.7
The Company had unutilised committed banking facilities of £163.4m at 31 December 2014 (2013: £113.4m). This comprised the unutilised portion of the 
Company’s £250m revolving credit facility which expires in September 2019.
11 Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are given in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
12 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2014
£m
2013
£m
Profit for the financial year 16.8 21.9
Net actuarial losses (0.4) (0.6)
Dividends (17.4) (15.4)
Issue of new shares – 57.6
Share-based payments 1.9 1.9
Net movements in shareholders’ funds 0.9 65.4
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January 335.3 269.9
Shareholders’ funds at 31 December 336.2 335.3
95 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 Reserves
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve 
£m
Profit and
loss
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 38.1 7.6 56.9 225.4 328.0
Profit for the financial year – – – 16.8 16.8
Net actuarial losses – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Dividends – – – (17.4) (17.4)
Issue of new shares – – – – –
Share-based payments – – – 1.9 1.9
At 31 December 2014 38.1 7.6 56.9 226.3 328.9
Details of the other reserve are included in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Of the profit and loss account reserve, an amount of £100.8m attributable to profits arising on an intra-Group reorganisation is not distributable.
14 Share-based payments
Details of the Company’s share option plans are given in Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
15 Contingent liabilities
The Company and certain of its subsidiary undertakings have entered into a number of guarantees in the ordinary course of business, the effects of which 
are to guarantee or cross-guarantee certain bank borrowings and other liabilities of other Group companies. At 31 December 2014, the Company’s liability 
in respect of the guarantees against bank borrowings amounted to £50.5m (2013: £108.4m). Standby letters of credit outstanding totalled £13.0m (2013: 
£17.5m). No amounts were paid or liabilities incurred relating to these guarantees during 2014 (2013: £nil).
In addition, as set out in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has provided a guarantee of certain subsidiaries’ liabilities to take 
the exemption from having their financial statements audited under sections 479A to 479C of the Companies Act 2006.
16 Pension liabilities
In the UK, the Company participates in the Keller Group Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme, details of which are given in Note 30 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The Company’s share of the present value of the assets of the scheme at the date of the last actuarial valuation  
on 5 April 2014 was £5.6m and the actuarial valuation showed a funding level of 77%. 
Details of the actuarial methods and assumptions, as well as steps taken to address the deficit in the scheme, are given in Note 30 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
There were no contributions outstanding in respect of the defined contribution schemes at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil).
Details of the Company’s share of the Keller Group Pension Scheme are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Present value of the scheme liabilities (7.8) (7.3)
Present value of assets 6.0 5.7
Deficit in the scheme (1.8) (1.6)
The assets of the scheme were as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Equities 3.6 3.7
Gilts 1.2 1.0
Bonds 1.2 1.0
6.0 5.7
96 
Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company financial statements 
continued 16 Pension liabilities continued
2014
£m
2013
£m
Changes in scheme liabilities
Opening balance (7.3) (7.1)
Interest cost (0.3) (0.3)
Benefits paid 0.2 0.3
Actuarial losses (0.4) (0.2)
Closing balance (7.8) (7.3)
Changes in scheme assets
Opening balance 5.7 5.9
Expected return on scheme assets 0.3 0.3
Employer contributions 0.2 0.2
Benefits paid (0.2) (0.3)
Actuarial losses – (0.4)
Closing balance 6.0 5.7
Actual return on scheme assets 0.3 (0.1)
Statement of total recognised gains and losses (STRGL)
Actuarial losses from assets – (0.4)
Actuarial losses from liabilities (0.4) (0.2)
Net actuarial losses (0.4) (0.6)
Cumulative actuarial losses (2.6) (2.2)
Expense recognised in the profit and loss account
Interest cost 0.3 0.3
Expected return on scheme assets (0.3) (0.3)
Expense recognised in the profit and loss account – –
Movements in the balance sheet liability
Net liability at start of year 1.6 1.2
Employer contributions (0.2) (0.2)
Actuarial losses recognised in STRGL 0.4 0.6
Net liability at end of year 1.8 1.6
The expected return on the average value of the assets over the year was calculated using the long-term average rate of return expected over the 
remaining term of the scheme’s liabilities. The contributions expected to be paid during 2014 are £0.2m.
The history of experience adjustments on scheme assets and liabilities is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (7.8) (7.3) (7.1) (6.6) (6.1)
Fair value of scheme assets 6.0 5.7 5.9 5.6 4.9
Deficit in the scheme (1.8) (1.6) (1.2) (1.0) (1.2)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (0.4) (0.2) (0.5) (0.4) (0.2)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets – (0.4) 0.1 0.4 0.2
97 
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2005
£m
2006
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Consolidated income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 685.2 857.7 955.1 1,196.6 1,037.9 1,068.9 1,154.3 1,317.5 1,438.2 1,599.7
EBITDA
1
65.0 104.9 125.8 144.3 113.2 85.0 71.4 91.9 124.2 141.9
Operating profit
1
55.3 89.3 107.4 119.4 77.3 43.3 28.9 48.3 77.8 92.0
Net finance costs
1
(4.6) (5.6) (4.2) (6.2) (2.6) (3.7) (7.0) (4.8) (3.7) (6.9)
Profit before taxation
1
50.7 83.7 103.2 113.2 74.7 39.6 21.9 43.5 74.1 85.1
Taxation
1
(20.4) (30.7) (35.9) (35.9) (22.6) (11.0) (5.5) (13.5) (23.8) (29.7)
Profit for the period before exceptional items 30.3 53.0 67.3 77.3 52.1 28.6 16.4 30.0 50.3 55.4
Exceptional items
2
– 3.8 – – – (17.1) – – (20.2) (56.6)
Profit/(loss) for the period 30.3 56.8 67.3 77.3 52.1 11.5 16.4 30.0 30.1 (1.2)
Consolidated balance sheet
Working capital 46.5 54.8 55.7 92.2 85.0 106.7 119.8 97.6 124.1 104.1
Property, plant and equipment 90.4 114.6 155.8 254.7 264.4 275.0 266.1 248.5 281.9 295.6
Intangible and other non-current assets 55.7 66.3 94.5 124.3 131.8 122.9 116.4 112.1 202.8 203.4
Net debt (40.9) (38.6) (54.5) (84.6) (78.8) (94.0) (102.5) (51.2) (143.7) (102.2)
Other net assets/liabilities (34.5) (38.0) (40.0) (84.0) (79.1) (79.8) (73.0) (71.3) (92.5) (154.6)
Net assets 117.2 159.1 211.5 302.6 323.3 330.8 326.8 335.7 372.6 346.3
Key performance indicators
Basic earnings per share from continuing  
operations (pence)
1
43.8 79.0 97.6 111.1 78.8 44.0 24.8 45.9 73.0 75.3
Dividend per share (pence) 12.0 15.6 18.0 20.7 21.8 22.8 22.8 22.8 24.0 25.2
Operating margin
1
8.1% 10.4% 11.2% 10.0% 7.4% 4.1% 2.5% 3.7% 5.4% 5.8%
Return on net operating assets
1,3
42% 58% 56% 43% 24% 12% 7% 12% 16% 17%
Net debt: EBITDA
1
0.6x 0.4x 0.4x 0.6x 0.7x 1.1x 1.4x 0.6x 1.2x 0.7x
1
 Before exceptional items.
2
  Exceptional items consist of a contract dispute provision, non-recurring tax credits, goodwill impairment charges and other non-trading items relating to acquisitions which are required to be 
expensed under IFRS.
3
 Calculated as operating profit expressed as a percentage of average working capital and property, plant and equipment.
98 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Other information
Financial record North America
Case Foundation Company
1325 West Lake Street
Roselle
Illinois 60172
Telephone +1 630 529 2911
www.casefoundation.com
Geo-Foundations Contractors Inc
302 Main Street North
Acton
Ontario
Canada
L7J 1W9
Telephone +1 888 846 7858
www.geo-foundations.com 
Hayward Baker Inc
7550 Teague Road
Suite 300
Hanover
Maryland 21076
Telephone +1 410 551 8200
www.haywardbaker.com
HJ Foundation Inc
8275 NW 80th Street
Miami
Florida 33166
Telephone +1 305 592 8181
www.hjfoundation.com
Keller Canada
Zone 3, Acheson Industrial Area
2-53016 – HWY.60
Acheson
Alberta
T7X 5A7
Telephone +1 780 960 6700
www.kellercanada.com 
McKinney Drilling Company
7550 Teague Road
Suite 300
Hanover
Maryland 21076
Telephone +1 410 874 1235
www.mckinneydrilling.com
Suncoast Post-Tension Ltd
509 N. Sam Houston Parkway East
Suite 400
Houston
Texas 77060
Telephone +1 281 668 1840
www.suncoast-pt.com
South America
Keller Engenharia Geotécnica Ltda
Rua Victor Civitá
66 – Ed. 04. Salas 225–227
Rio Office Park – Barra da Tijuca
Cep:22775-044 Rio de Janeiro – RJ – Brasil
Telephone +55 21 3535 9911
www.kellerbrasil.com.br
Europe
Keller Cimentaciones S.L.U.
c/Miguel Yuste, No. 45 bis
28037 Madrid
Spain
Telephone +34 91 423 7561
www.keller-cimentaciones.com
Keller Fondations Spéciales
2 rue Denis Papin
CS 69224 Duttlenheim
67129 Molsheim Cedex
France
Telephone +33 3 88599200
www.keller-france.com
Keller Grundbau GmbH
Kaiserleistrasse 8
63067 Offenbach
Germany
Telephone +49 69 80510
www.kellergrundbau.de
Keller Grundbau Ges.mbH
Mariahilfer Strasse 127a
1150 Wien
Austria
Telephone +43 1 8923526
www.kellergrundbau.at
Keller Limited
Oxford Road
Ryton-on-Dunsmore
Coventry CV8 3EG
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 2 476 511 266
www.keller-uk.com
Keller Polska Sp. z o.o.
ul. Poznánska 172
05-850
Ozarów Mazowiecki
Warsaw
Poland
Telephone +48 22 733 8270
www.keller.com.pl
Middle East
Keller Grundbau GmbH
UAE Region
Office No. 408
Al Mansour Building
Damascus Street, Al Qusais
Dubai
UAE
Telephone +971 4 2575 188
www.kellergrundbau.ae
Keller Turki Co. Ltd
P.O. Box 718
Dammam 31421
Saudi Arabia
Telephone +966 3833 3997
www.kellergrundbau.ae
Africa
Franki Geotechnical (Pty) Ltd
674 Main Pretoria Road 
Wynberg
Sandton 
South Africa 2090
Telephone: +27 11 531 2700
www.franki.co.za 
Asia
Keller Foundations (SE Asia) Pte Ltd
18 Boon Lay Way
#04–104 Tradehub 21
Singapore 609966
Telephone +65 6316 8500
www.kellerasia.com
Keller Ground Engineering India Pvt. Ltd.
7th Floor, Eastern Wing
Centennial Square 6A
Dr. Ambedkar Road
Kodambakkam
Chennai-600024
India
Tel. +91 44 2480 7500
www.kellerindia.com
Keller (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
B5-10 Block B, Plaza Dwitasik
Bandar Sri Permaisuri
56000 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Telephone +603 9173 3198
www.kellerasia.com
Resource Piling Pte Ltd
1 Upper Aljunied Link
#07-06 Block A
Joo Seng Warehouse
Singapore 367901
Telephone +65 6382 3400
www.resource-piling.com.sg
Australia
Frankipile Australia Pty Ltd
Level 1
4 Burbank Place
Baulkham Hills
New South Wales 2153
Telephone +61 2 8866 1100
www.franki.com.au
Keller Ground Engineering 
Pty Ltd
Level 1
4 Burbank Place
Baulkham Hills
New South Wales 2153
Telephone +61 2 8866 1155
www.kellerge.com.au
Piling Contractors Pty Ltd
5 Jacque Court
Lawnton
Queensland 4501
Telephone +61 7 3285 5900
www.pilingcontractors.com.au
Vibro-Pile (Aust.) Pty Ltd
Building 4, Level 2
540 Springvale Road
Glen Waverley
Victoria 3150
Telephone +61 3 9590 2600
www.vibropile.com.au
Waterway Constructions Pty Ltd
Level 1, 104 Victoria Road
Rozelle
New South Wales 2039
Telephone +61 2 9555 2211
www.waterway.com.au
99 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Principal offices
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Company secretary
K A A Porritt FCIS
Registered office
Capital House
25 Chapel Street
London NW1 5DH
Registered number 
2442580
Joint brokers
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Auditors
KPMG LLP
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Principal bankers
Lloyds Bank plc
25 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7HN
Legal advisers
DLA Piper UK LLP
3 Noble Street
London EC2V 7EE
Financial public relations advisers
Finsbury
Tenter House
45 Moorfields
London EC2 9AE
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
100 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Other information
Secretary and advisers Designed and produced by Gather
www.gather.london
The paper used in this Report is derived  
from sustainable sources keller.co.uk
Keller Group plc
Capital House
25 Chapel Street
London 
NW1 5DH
+44 (0)20 7616 7575
info@keller.co.uk
