 Outperforming 
our markets
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Revenue £m Return on capital  
employed* %
*  Based on adjusted operating profit.
H&S accidents with  
over seven days of lost  
time per 1,000 employees
Adjusted operating profit 
£m
£m
organic 
growth %
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
4 678.3
4 689.4
5 661.7
9 650.0
9 589.7
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
44.4
44.3
39.4
41.1
42.1
About Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc
Outperforming our markets 
Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc is a multi‑national industrial engineering group that has its 
headquarters in Cheltenham, England. The Group comprises two world‑ leading engineering 
businesses: Spirax Sarco for steam specialties and Watson‑Marlow for niche peristaltic 
pumps and associated fluid path technologies. We apply our unique industry expertise to 
our products to create bespoke engineering solutions for our customers around the world.
From the food and beverage industries to water treatment plants, we help our customers 
to implement environmentally friendly solutions for energy and water savings, process 
efficiency, product quality and improvements in plant health, safety and regulatory 
compliance. 
We have a long history of delivering shareholder value and growth that outperforms 
our markets.
• Organic sales 
KPI
 increased  
by over 4%
†
• Adjusted operating profit ahead in 
all segments at constant currency
• Operating margin up 50 bps, 
despite stiff currency headwind 
• Strong result in Watson‑Marlow
• £91 million return of capital, 
120.0p per share special dividend
KPI KPI
KPI KPI
£m margin %
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
22.5 153.0
22.0 151.6
20.6 136.2
20.6 134.0
20.2 119.1
2014
2013
2012
2011
4.4
5.4
5.5
6.0
Throughout this report, we use a symbol 
KPI
 to indicate which measures are main Group KPIs.
 Our Group KPIs can be found in detail on pages 26–27
2014 key figures
†
  Organic measures are at constant currency and exclude 
acquisitions Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 01
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Contents
About Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc ifc
Chairman’s statement 02
How and where we operate 04
Our market segments  06
Our divisional structure and performance  
at a glance 08
Our products and markets 10
Outperforming our markets 12
Our business model  16
Our strategy 18
Our strategy in action 20
Key performance indicators  26
Risks and risk management  28
Group Chief Executive’s report 30
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 32
Asia Pacific  34
Americas 36
Watson-Marlow 38
Financial review  40
Sustainability report  46
Our governance 56
Chairman’s introduction 58
Board of Directors  60
Corporate governance report  62
Audit Committee  66
Nomination Committee  70
Risk Management Committee  72
Remuneration Committee  75
Annual report on remuneration 2014 78
Remuneration policy report 2014  90
Regulatory disclosures  98
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  102
Independent auditor’s report 104
Statement of financial position  108
Consolidated income statement  109
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 110
Consolidated statements of changes  
in equity 110
Statements of changes in equity  112
Cash flow statements  113
Notes to the accounts  114
Financial summary 2005–2014 152
Our global operations  154
Officers and advisers  156
3
Financial 
statements 
Pages 103 to 151
4
Corporate 
information 
Pages 152 to 156
1
Strategic report 
Inside front cover  
to page 55
2
Governance 
Pages 56 to 102
Online Annual Report and Accounts
Our 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 
is available within the Investor Relations 
section of the Group’s website: 
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com 
The online Annual Report and Accounts 
is fully searchable and downloadable. Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 02
Chairman's statement
“ I am pleased to report further progress  
in 2014 in what remained a challenging 
economic environment and against 
considerable currency headwinds.”
Bill Whiteley 
Chairman
Key points in this section:
• Sales increased by 5% at constant 
currency to £678.3 million
• Unfavourable currency movements 
reduced sales on translation by 
6.4%
• Operating profit increased by 
12% at constant currency to 
£153.0 million
• Operating profit margin rose to a 
record 22.5% 
• Increase in the total ordinary 
dividend of 9% to 64.5p per share 
and a special dividend of 120.0p 
per share
an increase in pre‑ tax profit at constant 
exchange rates of 12% to £151. 1 million; a 
small advance on the prior year reported 
pre‑ tax profit. Adjusted earnings per share 
rose by 1% to 140.4p (2013: 138.8p) and by 
13% at constant currency.
We have today announced that the Group 
has established a wholly‑ owned company 
in India and that we expect to start direct 
sales in mid‑ 2015. We have also sold the 
Group’s 49.3% interest in Spirax Marshall 
Private Limited in India to our local partners, 
with both parties now free to trade under 
their own respective names, inside and 
outside India.
Cash and dividends
Cash inflow was again strong with good 
cash conversion and we finished the year 
with net cash of £52 million.
The interim dividend, which was paid in 
November 2014, was raised by 8% to 19.5p 
per share (2013: 18.0p per share). The Board 
is recommending an increase in the final 
dividend to 45.0p per share (2013: 41.0p) 
payable on 29th May 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 1st May 2015. The total 
ordinary dividend for the year is therefore 
64.5p per share, an increase of 9% over the 
59.0p per share for the prior year.
Following a review of the Company’s capital 
requirements and recognising the Group’s 
significant cash generation capability, the 
Board is also recommending a return of 
capital to shareholders of £91 million by 
way of a special dividend of 120p per share 
in respect of 2014 (2013: nil). The dividend 
will be payable on 15th July 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at 12th June 
2015. This return represents approximately 
4% of the market capitalisation of the 
Company and the Board is recommending 
that this is combined with an appropriate 
share consolidation to maintain, as far as 
possible, the comparability of the share price 
before and after the special dividend.
A full review of our financial performance 
commences on page 30.
Employees
On behalf of the Board, I thank all our 
employees around the world for their 
dedication, hard work and individual 
contributions to these good results. 
Our people are our most valuable asset  
and it is through the application and skills 
of our employees, in our 70 operating 
units, that we achieve success for all key 
stakeholders in our business and the 
communities in which we work.
Governance and Board 
changes
In May 2014, the Board was pleased to 
announce the appointment of Jamie Pike as 
an independent Non‑ Executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director, bringing his 
broad industrial and international business 
experience to the Board. Jamie replaced 
Gareth Bullock who stepped down at the 
AGM in May 2014, having completed the 
nine‑ year maximum tenure for assured 
independence. The Board would like to 
thank Gareth for his significant contribution 
and thoughtful counsel over many 
years. In consequence of Mr Bullock 
stepping down, Dr Krishnamurthy 
Rajagopal took over as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Board continues to support the 
on‑ going improvements in corporate 
governance and reporting, and was pleased 
that the Group’s 2013 Annual Report was 
recognised in the top ten for “Excellence in 
Reporting in the FTSE 250” at the Building 
Public Trust Awards. The Board is ultimately 
responsible for ensuring a successful and 
sustainable business, and operates to 
the highest level of ethical and corporate 
governance standards and best practices 
to achieve this. The work of the Board 
and its Committees is clearly set out in the 
Performance
Sales increased by 5% at constant 
currency to £678.3 million, including a 
small contribution of nearly 1% from the 
acquisition of BioPure in January 2014. 
Unfavourable currency movements reduced 
sales on translation by 6.4% leaving reported 
sales down 2% compared with sales of 
£689.4 million in 2013. We achieved good 
organic sales growth in Watson‑ Marlow and 
in the Americas, with modest growth in Asia 
Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA).
Operating profit increased by 12% at 
constant currency to £153.0 million, with 
a strong improvement in Watson‑ Marlow, 
good gains in the Americas and a further 
advance in EMEA and in Asia Pacific. 
At reported exchange rates, operating profit 
was ahead 1%, having been impacted by 
a negative currency impact of £15 million. 
The operating profit margin rose to a record 
22.5% from 22.0%, despite the stiff currency 
headwind. Net finance costs increased 
and the contribution from our Associate 
company in India was 32% lower, giving  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
We confirm that to the best 
of our knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of 
the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole.
• The Annual Report and Accounts 
and Financial Statements for 2014, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable, and provide 
the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group's 
performance, business model 
and strategy.
• The Strategic report was approved  
by the Board on 4th March 2015.
Signed by:
Bill Whiteley
Chairman
on behalf of the Board of Directors 
4th March 2015 
Annual Report (commencing on page 56), 
and follows a comprehensive explanation 
of our business model, the six elements of 
our business strategy, risk management 
and key performance indicators, and the 
linkage between these and with Executive 
Director remuneration.
Prospects
Our Spirax Sarco steam specialties 
and Watson‑ Marlow niche pumps and 
associated fluid technology businesses 
serve numerous different applications 
across a wide and diverse range of 
industries on a direct sales basis utilising 
the knowledge and experience of our 1,300 
sales and service engineers. This direct 
sales approach, with an increasing sector 
focus, delivers genuine value to customers 
in the form of energy savings and emission 
reductions, water savings, productivity 
gains, quality improvements and solutions to 
difficult pumping and fluid control problems. 
Steam is used as the heat source in many 
industrial processes and a high proportion 
of sales come from customers’ operating 
and maintenance spending. Our markets 
therefore reflect general economic 
conditions and in particular the rates of 
growth in industrial production. All these 
factors, together with the implementation of 
our growth strategy to pursue a relentless 
focus on customer service, market 
development, product development and 
excellence in manufacturing, mean that we 
are able to outperform our market growth, 
whilst retaining considerable resilience.
Overall, market conditions in 2014 were 
lacklustre, with industrial production growth 
slowing through the second half of the year 
in both developed and developing markets. 
We achieved good trading results in part due 
to a strong performance in Watson‑ Marlow, 
favourable mix and tight overhead controls. 
Our assumption is that, overall, the world 
economy will be no better in the current year 
than that seen in 2014. If recent exchange 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
140.4
138.8
122.2
†
121.0
†
103.2
†
Earnings per share* p
*  Based on adjusted operating profit.
†
  2012 restated for IAS 19(R), earlier years adjusted  
on an estimated basis.
KPI
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
64.5 120.0
59.0
100.0 53.0
49.0
25.0 43.0
Dividend per share p
Special dividend
TSR performance growth 
£400
£350
£300
£250
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
£200
£150
£100
Dec
2008
Dec
2009
Dec
2010
Dec
2011
Dec
2012
Dec
2013
Dec
2014
 Spirax Sarco
 FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services
Source: Datastream
Unless otherwise stated, all references are to adjusted profit,  
which excludes certain non‑ operational items as set out in  
note 2 on page 120.
rates prevail for the full year, there would still 
be a small translation headwind to sales of 
2% in 2015, as the impact of the weaker 
euro outweighs the benefits of the stronger 
dollar and related currencies. We are 
increasing investment and adding resources 
to develop the business as we execute 
our growth strategy, and focus on our 
priorities for generating our own growth and 
outperforming our markets. These factors, 
together with our fundamental strengths, 
give the Board confidence that we will 
achieve further progress in 2015.
Bill Whiteley
Chairman
4th March 2015 Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 04
How and where we operate
We operate in a diverse portfolio of industrial sectors with revenue streams 
balanced across all key global economies.
How we are organised
We comprise two businesses: Spirax Sarco for steam specialties 
and Watson‑Marlow for niche peristaltic pumps and associated fluid 
path technologies.
Our operational scale
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
678.3
689.4
661.7
650.0
589.7
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
153.0
151.6
136.2
134.0
119.1
Revenue £m
KPI KPI
Adjusted operating profit 
£m
Revenue £m Revenue £m Adjusted operating 
profit* £m
*  Before corporate expenses
Adjusted operating 
profit* £m
*  Before corporate expenses
80%
£540.1m £138.2m
20%
73%
£120.3m £43.5m
27%
 Read more on pages 30–45
Group revenue by key 
segment %
35% 
26% 
19% 
20% 
 Read more on pages 08–09 and 30–45
   Steam specialties 
EMEA
   Steam specialties 
Asia Pacific
   Steam specialties 
Americas
  Watson‑Marlow
Fluid Technology Group Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Map key
     Spirax Sarco operating units
     Spirax Sarco direct sales 
presence
      Watson‑Marlow operating units
      Watson‑Marlow direct sales 
presence
Our diversified presence and portfolio
70 operating units* in 41 countries
Direct sales presence in 55 countries and on six continents
†
*  Operating companies, branches and associates. 
†
  Global operations at time of publication, March 2015. (Operating units established in Egypt and Peru after 31st December 2014.)
4,750+ 
employees
3,500+ 
product lines
100,000+  
customers
Our core products and services
Key facts
Steam products Engineering consultancy Pumps and fluid path 
technology Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 06
Our market segments
Our diverse range of customers, end markets and industrial applications 
help to insulate the Group from seasonal and cyclical demand.
Serving recession-resistant 
industries
Significant maintenance  
and operations revenue
We have an excellent balance between  
higher‑growth end markets and those that are  
more “defensive” and resilient.
T o maintain operational efficiency, production output 
and product quality, regular maintenance and 
operations spending is required by our customers.
> 50%
*
of Group revenue is derived from defensive, recession‑resistant end 
markets, including: foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals, healthcare, 
water treatment and power generation.
* Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
> 85%
*
 
of Group revenue is derived from our customers’ annual 
maintenance and operational budgets, ensuring the resiliency 
of our business in times of difficult economic conditions.
Revenue by key industry sector* %
 Foods
 Beverages
 OEM machinery
 Pharmaceuticals
 Refining and petrochemical
 HVAC
 Healthcare
 Chemicals
 Water treatment
 Precious metal processing
 Pulp and paper
 Power generation
 Other
£678.3m
Total revenue by sector Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
We work with manufacturers 
to optimise the performance of 
a diverse range of equipment, 
including mixers, reactors, 
paper and packaging 
machines, dryers, sterilisers 
and clinical diagnostic 
equipment.
OEM machinery
Steam is widely used in the 
production of packaged foods 
for blanching, cooking, baking, 
packaging and sterilising.
Foods
Steam is essential for brewing 
and distilling processes. 
It is used to protect product 
quality and flavour, and ensure 
compliance with industry 
standards.
Beverages
Clean steam reduces the 
risk of product and process 
contamination, and our 
peristaltic pumps enable precise 
flow control and fluid isolation in 
the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmaceuticals
Our products are used 
to provide space heating, 
humidification and hot water 
to create comfortable working 
conditions for employees and 
visitors in public and private 
buildings.
HVAC
Our products have a wide range 
of applications in hospitals and 
clinics for space heating, hot 
water production, humidification 
and sterilisation.
Healthcare
Our steam system products 
and services enable optimum 
performance in steam and 
condensate systems, and 
reduce energy use during 
refining and petrochemical 
production.
Refining and 
petrochemical
Steam is widely used as an 
energy source in chemical 
production and product 
processing.
Chemicals
Peristaltic pumps reduce 
water, energy and chemical 
use and increase reliability and 
productivity while moving and 
processing highly abrasive ores 
and slurries.
Precious metal 
processing
Peristaltic pumps are used 
to accurately dose chemicals 
during water treatment 
processes and efficiently transfer 
viscous and abrasive slurries.
Water treatment
Superheated steam is an 
ideal fluid to transfer chemical 
energy in fuel into electrical 
energy through steam turbines. 
Steam is also used to distribute 
and re‑use waste heat formed 
during the power generation 
process.
Power generation
Our products facilitate the 
accurate control of critical 
processes, such as washing, 
bleaching, dyeing, drying and 
finishing, in the manufacture 
of paper and a wide range of 
domestic and industrial tissues.
Pulp and paper Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 08
Our divisional structure and performance at a glance
Our focus on key economic areas allows us to understand and respond 
rapidly to market and customer demands.
Our Spirax Sarco steam specialties 
business is the global leader in 
the supply of engineered solutions 
for the design, maintenance and 
provision of efficient industrial and 
commercial steam systems.
The Spirax Sarco offering is very 
wide, from single products through 
to complete turnkey bespoke 
packages that can include 
design, fabrication, installation, 
commissioning and maintenance. 
Our products and services help our 
customers to improve operational 
efficiency, maintain product quality, 
reduce energy and water use, and 
comply with health, safety and 
environmental legislation.
For more information visit: 
www.spiraxsarco.com
Watson‑Marlow Fluid Technology 
Group specialises in the design and 
manufacture of world‑ leading niche 
peristaltic pumps and associated fluid 
path technologies.
Our pumps are ideally suited for a 
wide variety of applications from 
biopharmaceutical processes that 
demand sterility and precision to 
highly corrosive slurries typically 
seen in precious metal processing. 
The Watson‑Marlow Group comprises 
seven established brands, each with 
its own area of expertise, but together 
offering our customers an unrivalled 
breadth of pumping solutions. 
For more information visit:  
www.watson‑marlow.com
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
Americas
Asia Pacific
Watson-Marlow
Revenue
£236.2m
Change
Constant  
currency
‑ 3% +2%
Operating 
profit
£45.9m
Change
Constant  
currency
‑ 5% +4%
Operating 
margin
19.4%
Change
Constant  
currency
‑ 30 bps +30 bps
Revenue
£177.7m
Change
Constant  
currency
‑ 3% +2%
Operating 
profit
£46.4m
Change
Constant  
currency
‑ 3% +4%
Operating 
margin
26.1%
Change
Constant  
currency
‑20 bps +50 bps
Revenue
£126.2m
Change
Constant  
currency
‑ 4% +8%
Operating 
profit
£28.0m
Change
Constant  
currency
+7% +31%
Operating 
margin
22.2%
Change
Constant  
currency
+ 240 bps +400 bps
Revenue
£138.2m
Change
Constant  
currency
+6% +13%
Operating 
profit
£43.5m
Change
Constant  
currency
+10% +20%
Operating 
margin
31.5%
Change
Constant  
currency
+1 20 bps +190 bps
Fluid Technology Group Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
No. of operating  
units* at year end
24 operating units
New operating company established in the Netherlands during 2014
Direct sales presence at 
year end
29 countries
Key industries Foods; OEM machinery; Pharmaceuticals; Healthcare
Performance summary Organic sales grew by 2%, despite challenging market conditions. Currency 
movements were unfavourable reducing sales on translation by 5%, with reported 
sales 3% down. Operating profit increased by 4% at constant currency, reflecting 
the sales increase, continued price management actions, favourable mix and 
control of costs. We made good progress in our larger more developed markets 
in Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK, growing overall sales and profit by more than 
the segment average.
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
Americas
Asia Pacific
Watson-Marlow
 Read more on pages 32–33
 Read more on pages 34–35
 Read more on pages 36–37
 Read more on pages 38–39
35%
£236.2m
Revenue
26%
£177.7m
Revenue
19%
£126.2m
Revenue
20%
£138.2m
Revenue
No. of operating  
units* at year end
12 operating units
Direct sales presence at 
year end
15 countries
Key industries HVAC; Foods; Beverages; Refining and petrochemical
Performance summary Organic sales increased by 2% but at reported exchange rates sales reduced 
by 3% due to unfavourable currency movements. Economic conditions in the 
region have been mixed, with continued expansion in some smaller markets such 
as Indonesia and Malaysia but with overall industrial production growth slowing 
sharply in the second half year. In China, sales were flat and profit slightly lower at 
constant currency but sales increased and profits were well ahead in Korea.
No. of operating  
units* at year end
6 operating companies
Direct sales presence at 
year end
11 countries
Key industries Foods; Refining and petrochemical; HVAC; Pharmaceuticals
Performance summary Organic sales increased by 8% at constant currency, with sales ahead in North 
America and a good advance in Latin America. All currencies were weaker against 
sterling and reported sales show a 4% decline. Market conditions were positive in 
North America but very different in South America with overall negative industrial 
production. Operating profit increased by 31% at constant currency, an increase of 
7% at reported exchange rates, and the profit margin improved to 22.2%.
No. of operating  
units* at year end
26 operating units
BioPure Technology Ltd acquired during 2014
Direct sales presence at 
year end
25 countries
Key industries Pharmaceuticals; Foods; Water treatment; OEM machinery
Performance summary Sales increased by nearly 13% at constant currency, including a contribution of 
4% from the acquisition of BioPure, and were 6% ahead at reported exchange 
rates. Operating profit increased by 20% at constant currency and 10% at 
reported exchange rates, reflecting higher sales, a good first‑ time contribution 
from BioPure and unusually favourable product mix. Operating margin improved 
to a very strong 31.5%.
* Operating companies, branches and associates. Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10
Our products and markets
Through focusing on our strategy we are gaining share in a market 
that continues to grow. 
Growing in a growing market
We currently estimate the total size of our addressable market to be £5.0 billion. Our addressable market 
continues to expand as a result of both internal and external growth drivers. External drivers, such as 
population growth and national economic development, contribute to general long‑term market growth 
while internal drivers, such as new product development and acquisitions, allow us to extend the size of 
our addressable market.  
Understanding our marketplace
Our global addressable market comprises four key areas and we provide products and services in each.
25%
Condensate 
management
15%
Niche pumps
36%
Energy
management
24%
Controls
Total market size
 £5.0bn
*
Condensate 
management
Our typical products:
• Steam traps
• Condensate return pumps
• Isolation valves
Our market share: 
25%
*
Market size: 
£1.2 billion
Controls
Our typical products:
• Automatic control valves
• Pressure regulators
• Temperature controls
Market size: 
£1.2 billion
Our market share: 
11%
*
* Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
Energy  
management
Our typical products:
• Metering products
• Boiler house products
• Heat transfer packages
• Energy services
Our market share: 
5%
*
Market size: 
£1.8 billion
Niche pumps
and associated equipment
Our typical products:
• Positive displacement pumps
• Tubing
• Filling machines
Our market share: 
18%
*
Market size: 
£0.8 billion Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
External growth drivers
 P o p u lat i o n g ro w t h
increased consumption and demand in all our major industry sectors
Ageing population
increased demand for healthcare and pharmaceutical products
Increase in global energy consumption
 increased investment in the oil and petrochemical industry and demand for energy 
management solutions
Economic development in emerging markets
new markets and increased consumption
  National and international climate change mitigation strategies 
requirement for companies to manage energy more efficiently, increasing demand 
for energy management products and services
Industrial production
as steam is so widely used across industry, our markets reflect changes in 
industrial production but our sales have consistently outperformed our markets 
as we have expanded our addressable market, extended our geographical 
penetration and grown our market share.
How we are increasing our market share 
Increasing our market share is an essential element of our growth strategy. We gain 
market share through our ability to solve problems for our customers, which other 
suppliers cannot, and by winning new installations that then become the base 
for future revenue. As we focus on our new strategy for growth, we will further 
enhance our competitive edge and continue to take market share.
 Steam specialties market
 Spirax Sarco market share
 Niche pumps market
 Watson‑Marlow market share
18%
Market size
£0.8bn
13%
Market size
£4.2bn
£5.0bn
Estimated size of our total 
addressable market
14%
Our estimated global share of 
our total addressable market
Outperforming  
our markets
Our sales grew by 5% 
at constant currency  
during 2014 versus a global 
Industrial Production growth 
rate of 2.8%*
Fluid Technology Group
*Source: CHR economics (latest estimate). Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12
Outperforming our markets
Our new Spirax Sarco Middle Eastern 
company helps Saudi Arabian hospital 
achieve internationally recognised 
clean steam standards.
During 2014, Spirax Sarco was asked by 
a contractor to complete an audit and 
validation of the steam system of a Saudi 
Arabian hospital, with particular focus 
on the quality of the steam generated for 
sterilisation purposes within the hospital.
The thorough best practice survey 
identified several issues that had the 
potential to affect steam quality at the 
hospital, including poor quality boiler feed 
water, traditional steam boilers and carbon 
steel piping. 
Following the survey, Spirax Sarco 
recommended the installation of a 
new clean steam system, designed to 
ensure maximum energy efficiency and 
compliance with international clean 
steam sterilisation standards HTM 2031 
and EN 285. The hospital recognised the 
advantages of the proposed steam system 
and commissioned the manufacture and 
installation of a complete turnkey clean 
steam solution.
The new steam system includes a reverse 
osmosis water treatment system to ensure 
high quality boiler feed water; packaged 
water pre-heating and degassing units 
for optimum energy efficiency; packaged 
clean steam generators; high grade 
stainless steel piping; separators and 
air vents to optimise steam dryness and 
remove non-condensable gases; and all 
other associated steam and condensate 
equipment. The total value of the order to 
Spirax Sarco Middle East was £700,000.
Once designed, the packaged 
solution was built at our Spirax Sarco 
manufacturing facility in Milan, Italy and 
the steam system installation commenced 
during autumn 2014. Once the installation 
is complete, the hospital will produce clean 
steam of the highest quality.
Through broadening our global presence 
and expanding our direct sales presence in 
the Middle East via a new sales company, 
we have been able to win new customers 
and increase revenue, helping us achieve 
growth that outperforms our markets.
Clean steam  
sterilisation standards
HTM 2031 
EN 285
Outperforming 
our markets 
by broadening 
our global 
presence and 
winning new 
customers Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Spirax Sarco Korea helps a customer 
to recover heat from hydrocarbon resin 
manufacturing process, reducing their 
annual energy bill by £760,000 per year.
The Yeosu plant of Kolon Industries Inc., 
in South Korea, specialises in the 
manufacture of hydrocarbon resins, which 
are used in a wide variety of applications 
including adhesive tape, printer ink, 
hygiene products and road markers. 
During a site survey, Spirax Sarco 
identified an opportunity for the customer 
to make significant energy savings by 
recovering latent heat from waste gases 
and using this to generate steam. 
At the end of the hydrocarbon resin 
manufacturing process, high temperature 
solvent (270°c) is returned to a solvent/
resin separating drum. Spirax Sarco 
recommended the installation of a 
gas to hot water plate heat exchanger 
after the separating drum to recover 
waste heat from any non-condensable 
gases that remain after the solvent 
separation process.
Hot water is now fed into the plate heat 
exchanger and is raised above boiling 
temperature. The hot water is then used to 
generate 3.5 bar(g) steam at 148°C.
Through installing our packaged solution 
to recover latent heat from the waste 
gases, the customer has been able to 
generate 1.75 tonnes of steam per hour. 
The steam is then used on a separate 
process line, reducing the need for primary 
steam generation, giving an estimated cost 
saving of £760,000 per year. The project, 
which cost approximately £345,000, had 
a payback period for the customer of less 
than six months.
In addition to significant cost savings, the 
customer is projected to reduce energy 
consumption by 10,500MWh per year, with 
CO
2 savings of 1,340 tonnes per annum.
Through expanding our offering to include 
thermal energy management, we are 
increasingly able to offer our customers 
a more extensive range of solutions to 
reduce energy consumption and increase 
process efficiency. In doing so, we capture 
a greater proportion of the customer’s 
capex spend and increase our installed 
product base, helping us achieve growth 
that outperforms our markets.
Energy bill reduction  
£ per year
£760,000
CO
2
 savings 
tonnes per annum
1,340
Outperforming 
our markets 
by expanding 
our offering Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14
Outperforming our markets continued
Spirax Sarco Argentina helps a 
biodiesel manufacturer to increase 
steam system efficiency and improve 
product quality. 
Viluco S.A., part of Grupo Lucci, has a 
soya crushing and biodiesel production 
plant in the northwest region of Argentina. 
Finding it difficult to maintain an optimum 
temperature throughout the production 
process, leading to product damage 
and wastage, Viluco asked Spirax Sarco 
to conduct a steam system audit to 
identify the cause of the problem and to 
recommend a solution to improve steam 
system efficiency, reliability and safety. 
The audit identified several problems, 
notably: the 17 bar(g) boiler was working 
at just 11 bar(g); numerous pieces of 
equipment were operating above the 
steam pressure parameters recommended 
by manufacturers; condensate removal 
was poor; and heat recovery systems were 
being bypassed. 
Applying their expertise to an 
understanding of plant processes, our 
engineers designed a solution to upgrade 
the customer’s steam system. The solution 
began with the recommendation to 
increase the boiler’s operation to 17 bar(g), 
for optimum steam generation capacity, 
and the replacement of the plant’s 
ineffective pressure reducing station by 
a three-stage pressure reducing system, 
ensuring that installed equipment could 
operate within the parameters specified 
by the manufacturer. To optimise water 
and energy efficiency through better 
management of condensate, the solution 
included the installation of two Spirax 
Sarco Pivotrol
®
 pumping packages; 
a separate condensate return line for 
each part of the plant; the fitting of six 
new steam trapping stations; and the 
installation of two packaged plate heat 
exchanger units to maximise energy 
recovery from flash steam, allowing the 
return of hot condensate to the boiler 
water feed tank. The solution also included 
the installation of various other ancillary 
products such as separators; five end of 
line air eliminator and vacuum breaker 
systems; and six non-condensable gas 
eliminations systems.
Following the steam system 
improvements, Viluco has reported that 
they are experiencing greater system 
efficiency and significantly higher 
production levels than previously achieved, 
with much less wastage. Viluco are so 
impressed with Spirax Sarco’s solution 
that they are discussing the possibility 
of further work, including an on-going 
preventative maintenance contract and 
further energy efficiency improvements. 
From an initial £4,100 (US$6,500) contract 
to complete a steam system audit, Spirax 
Sarco engineers applied their expertise to 
deliver a £309,000 (US$490,000) solution 
which significantly increased production 
capacity and process efficiency for the 
customer. Through offering our customers 
an unrivalled service through the 
application of our expertise, we develop 
strong, long-term relationships with our 
customers, helping us achieve growth that 
outperforms our markets.
Customer benefits:
Improved efficiency 
and product quality
Outperforming 
our markets 
by applying 
our expertise Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Qdos pumps from Watson-Marlow 
replace diaphragm pumps in 
electroplating application.
At its manufacturing facility near 
Düsseldorf, Germany, BIA Kunststoff- 
und Galvanotechnik operates four 
electroplating machines to produce 
more than 450,000 metal-plated plastic 
parts every day, for use in the automotive 
industry. Until recently the company used 
diaphragm pumps to dose process-critical 
additives into its electroplating machines. 
However, the diaphragm pumps failed to 
consistently provide the essential level of 
precision required when transporting and 
dosing the additives; needed frequent 
and costly maintenance and downtime as 
highly concentrated acids damaged pump 
components; and produced a flow with 
a high level of pulsation which negatively 
affected the quality of the substances 
being transported. 
According to Mr Zabel, Maintenance 
Manager at the plant, the company had 
been looking for alternatives to diaphragm 
pumps for a long time and “struck gold” 
when introduced to Qdos pumps from 
Watson-Marlow. “In May 2013 we decided 
to test the new Qdos dosing pump,” he 
said. “We were impressed with the results 
right from the start. Qdos provides 100% 
precision. Typically we transport volumes 
of 100ml/min; and when we set the Qdos 
to 100ml it transported precisely that 
amount, even along a route that was more 
than 50 metres long in places.”
In contrast to diaphragm pumps, the Qdos 
pump also works without any accessories, 
such as seals or check valves, making 
installation easier, and operates with 
a pulse free flow. Further crucial 
advantages of the Qdos pump are the 
long maintenance intervals, short down 
times and low maintenance costs. 
The only wearing part in the pump is the 
patented ReNu pump head, which can be 
replaced as a complete part within a few 
minutes and does not require tools or any 
special training.
“We still haven’t been able to see how easy 
it is to replace the pump head because we 
simply haven’t needed to yet,” said  
Mr Zabel. “We installed the first Qdos 
pumps in May 2013 and they haven’t 
caused us any problems since, even 
though they are in constant use six days  
a week.”
Qdos pumps from Watson-Marlow have 
now been installed in two of the four 
electroplating machines – making a current 
total of 12 pumps – with more certain 
to follow. 
Through developing new products we are 
able to take market share from other pump 
types, helping us achieve growth that 
outperforms our markets.
Customer benefits:
Reliable dosing,  
low maintenance 
and pulse-free flow
Outperforming 
our markets 
by developing 
new products 
and taking 
market share Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16
Our business model
Our resilient business model positions us well to create long‑term value 
for our key beneficiaries.
Creating value through meeting customer needs
How we maximise value
Meeting the needs of our customers by helping them to solve their difficult productivity 
and process challenges, improve their operational sustainability and comply with 
increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements, is at the core of what 
we do. Our customers’ needs are at the heart of our business model and it is through 
meeting those needs that we create value. 
To meet our customers’ needs we: manufacture high quality products; advise customers 
on the most effective application of these products; design bespoke engineering packages; 
arrange installation of our engineered solutions; and help our customers to maintain and 
replace our installed equipment to ensure optimum efficiency in their industrial systems.
We maximise value by focusing on our new strategy for growth.
 Read more on pages 18–25
Competitive strengths
Customer closeness 
The expertise of our sales and service engineers and their ability to help our customers solve difficult productivity, 
control and energy efficiency problems enable us to build deep, long‑term relationships that are central to assisting 
our customers to achieve operational sustainability.
Applied engineering
It is not our products alone that provide value to our customers – it is the application of our extensive knowledge of 
systems design, operations and maintenance. Our customers increasingly rely on our expertise to deliver unique 
engineering solutions to achieve enhanced and sustainable operating efficiencies.
Wide product range
The breadth of our product offering is unmatched by our competitors and our one‑stop shop approach 
simplifies the procurement process for our customers who are increasingly seeking partnerships with competent 
full‑service suppliers. We are committed to R&D to further widen our range of products and pre‑fabricated 
engineered packages.
Regional manufacturing
Local availability of a wide range of products, which meet applicable regional design codes, is critical to our business 
model and enhances top‑line revenue growth. We have strategically located our major manufacturing plants across 
the world, in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia.
 
Customer  
closeness
Customer  
needs
Applied  
engineering
Regional 
manufacturing
Wide 
product  
range Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Value creation
Customer
closeness
Applied
engineering
Regional
manufacturing
Wide
product
range
Customer
needs
How we reward our value creation
Key beneficiaries of our value creation during 2014
Our remuneration policy creates a strong alignment between the creation of value and  
Executive Director remuneration. 
 Read more on pages 75–97
Over £300 million 
paid to suppliers of 
materials and services.
By manufacturing 
regionally, using local 
and national suppliers, 
the beneficiaries of our  
value creation are 
geographically  
widespread.
Suppliers
Nearly £200 million 
paid in wages 
and salaries.
We provide jobs and 
salaries in developed, 
emerging and 
developing economies, 
creating local 
purchasing power.
Our customers benefit 
from our products 
and services which 
help them to reduce 
energy and water 
use; improve process 
efficiency, product 
quality, and health and 
safety performance; 
and achieve 
regulatory compliance.
£187,000 plus 
employee time 
donated to charitable 
causes worldwide.
Our communities 
also indirectly benefit 
from the value that 
we create for all our 
stakeholders, across 
our value chain.  
Over £200 million 
paid in taxes 
(corporation tax, 
employment taxes 
and net VAT) to 
national governments.
Through paying 
taxes we support 
the development of 
public infrastructure, 
healthcare and 
educational provision.
£46 million paid 
as dividends to 
shareholders 
during 2014.
Dividends per share 
of 64.5p.
Earnings per share 
of 140.4p.
Employees Customers Communities Governments Shareholders
We use our 
competitive 
strengths to 
differentiate 
our offer
Driving sustainable growth and stakeholder value Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18
Our strategy
Our revised strategy outlines six key strategic priorities for the Group.  
We believe that focusing on these priorities will help us to continue to 
achieve growth that outperforms our markets. 
“ Our strategy is focused on delivering 
self‑generated growth that outperforms 
our markets.”
Nick Anderson 
Group Chief Executive
During the first half of 2014 we undertook 
an extensive strategic review, as a result of 
which we have refined and evolved a more 
customer‑centric strategy. The objectives of 
the strategy are to increase the effectiveness 
of our direct sales organisation, leverage our 
strengths in key sectors, take advantage of 
the most attractive opportunities, expand our 
addressable markets and align and direct 
our resources more effectively to improve 
business performance. This strategy builds 
on the foundation of our robust, direct sales 
business model that has proved resilient 
through the business cycle.
The Group strategy reflects the key elements 
of the Spirax Sarco steam business strategy, 
the Watson‑Marlow niche peristaltic pumps 
and associated fluid path technology 
business strategy, and the Group acquisition 
strategy, which are summarised on the 
following page. The Group strategy is 
outlined on pages 20 to 25, including an 
explanation of why we are focusing on 
each element of the strategy, how we 
are implementing it, results to date and 
next steps. 
Our six-part Group strategy
1
Increase direct sales effectiveness  
through sector focus
  Read more 
on page 20
2
Develop the knowledge and skills of our 
expert sales and service teams
  Read more 
on page 21
3
Broaden our global presence
  Read more 
on page 22
4
Leverage R&D investments
  Read more 
on page 23
5
Optimise supply chain effectiveness
  Read more 
on page 24
6
Operate sustainably and help improve  
our customers’ sustainability
  Read more 
on page 25
1
2
3
4
5
6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Spirax Sarco steam specialties business strategy
During 2014 we completed an extensive 
strategic review in the steam specialties 
business, with participation by over 300 
employees from 38 operating companies, 
across all divisions. Nearly 200 “voice of the 
customer” interviews were conducted, with 
customers chosen from all key geographical 
markets and industries, to ensure that the 
needs of the customer remained central to 
the development of the new strategy.
The purpose of the newly developed 
“Customer first” strategy is to ensure the 
on‑going and future success of the steam 
specialties business through increasing 
alignment throughout the organisation and 
providing a clearer customer focus and a 
better defined offer which will enable us 
to more effectively address the extended 
steam and thermal energy management 
market. We believe that by putting the 
needs of the customer first and focusing 
on our value propositions to them we will 
find opportunities to grow the business and 
outperform our competitors.
The Spirax Sarco vision is “to be recognised 
by customers as the world leader in 
steam and thermal energy solutions”. 
While maintaining our pre‑eminence in 
steam specialties, we will increase our 
expertise and offerings in the field of thermal 
energy management solutions. We will help 
steam users to implement improvements 
in the control, re‑use, recovery and storage 
of thermal energy in steam, utilities and 
related waste streams. Such solutions will 
help our customers to manage energy 
more efficiently, cut costs and increase 
their environmental sustainability. While we 
already offer thermal energy management 
solutions, we will continue to invest in 
product development and furthering the 
knowledge and skills of our engineers to 
ensure that we can more effectively address 
this growing market. 
We have identified several highly attractive 
industries that we believe have the potential 
to provide the greatest return on investment. 
While we will continue to serve a diverse 
range of industries, the priority industries 
will increasingly become the focus of 
Group investments.
We will continue to implement improvements 
to achieve global excellence in our supply 
chain and will further develop the knowledge 
and skills of our employees, ensuring 
that we can consistently outperform our 
competitors and offer outstanding service to 
our customers.
Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group strategy
Watson‑Marlow has moved beyond its 
traditional peristaltic pump business through 
selective product and market sector 
diversification, highlighted by the additions 
of MasoSine (sinusoidal pumps), Flexicon 
(filling systems and associated equipment), 
BioPure (aseptic tubing connection systems), 
and non‑pump transfer tubing development. 
Our Watson‑ Marlow direct sales companies 
employ a market sectorised approach 
to successfully leverage these new and 
associated products and to grow sales of 
our peristaltic pumps.
Our strategy for growth has five 
key elements:
Rapid geographical expansion  
We will expand our global direct sales 
presence, increasing our focus on emerging 
markets. Our dedicated direct sales teams 
drive deeper market penetration than can 
be achieved using third‑party distributors 
and we develop a better understanding of 
customer needs, generating faster sales 
growth and a higher market share.
Market sector sales focus 
We will continue to develop our focused 
market sector approach through our direct 
sales operations, to drive organic sales 
growth. We will increasingly sectorise our 
sales teams to address our key industry 
sectors: biopharmaceutical, industrial, 
environmental, mining, food & beverage 
and OEM. 
Accelerate development of 
breakthrough new products 
We will grow the performance envelope 
of peristaltic pumps to gain market share 
against other positive displacement pump 
types, while investing in new product 
development to expand market sector 
penetration. Continual development of 
our product range will also focus on value 
engineering and cost reduction.
Excellence in manufacturing 
We will strengthen our Make‑to‑Order/ 
Fast Fulfilment Cycle strategy, to improve 
delivery times and reduce costs. We will 
train our people in business improvement 
techniques and introduce automated IT 
solutions for repetitive administrative tasks 
and automated engineering solutions for 
high volume production activities.
Selective product and market sector 
diversification  
We will selectively seek synergistic 
value‑added niche pump and associated 
fluid path equipment acquisitions that will 
allow us to leverage sales of existing and 
new products through our direct market 
sector strategy.
Group acquisition strategy
The aim of the Group acquisition strategy 
is to create significant shareholder value. 
We will do this by supplementing the 
organic growth of the Group; expanding 
the capabilities of our steam specialties and 
niche peristaltic pumping and associated 
fluid path technology businesses, through 
new technologies, skills or geographic 
coverage; and increasing our addressable 
market into adjacent related sectors.
Acquisition targets are likely to have most of 
the following characteristics: 
• benefit from a direct sales business model 
(giving us a strong value add)
• sell to our core target industries
• the potential for geographic growth or 
technology expansion
• provide products or services where there 
is a high cost of non‑performance to the 
customer
• the ability to achieve market leadership
• strong maintenance and repair orders
• be non‑diluting to Group margins.
We have dedicated acquisition personnel 
within our Group Business Development 
function, who work closely with the Group’s 
executive team to ensure that an effective 
due diligence process is followed, so that 
all prospective acquisitions are appraised, 
risk assessed and appropriately valued. 
For all significant acquisitions, we ask 
our Corporate Advisers to provide an 
independent view and recommendation 
to the Board. Once Board approval for an 
acquisition has been gained, an Executive 
Director is assigned to act as a sponsor for 
the acquisition and has overall responsibility 
for the delivery of the acquisition objectives. 
Sponsors ensure that the acquisition is 
properly planned, resourced and executed.
Once acquired, we develop businesses 
by adding value through the application 
of the direct sales model; facilitating the 
internationalisation of businesses which 
are not yet global; and supporting growth 
through further investment. Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20
In practice
Spirax Sarco Inc., USA (SSI) recently began a comprehensive 
reorganisation of its sales force to directly align with industry 
segments. We are focusing our talent development, recruitment and 
resource allocation around several key industries and tailoring our 
market development plans to focus on specific types of customers 
and customer needs. The sectorisation of our sales force is beginning 
to deliver results. PepsiCo recently recognised SSI as a “Supplier of 
the Year” due to our knowledge and understanding of their systems 
and our ability to improve their processes. Through sectorising our 
sales force we will be better able to meet the needs of customers and 
position the Company to deliver growth. 
Our strategy in action
In this section we outline our strategic priorities and demonstrate how we are 
implementing them across the Group.
Increase direct sales effectiveness through 
sector focus
1
Why we are focusing on this
It is not our products alone that provide value to customers. The extensive application and systems knowledge 
of our direct sales and support people are at the heart of our customer value propositions. Through expanding 
the sector focus of our direct sales force we will enhance our customer value propositions and increase our 
sales effectiveness.
How we are doing it
We have identified several priority industries, such as foods, beverages, healthcare and refining & 
petrochemicals, to act as a focus for investment and sales force sectorisation. Our priority industries have 
been chosen for their potential return on investment and for our already strong competitive position within 
these markets. We are also increasing our focus on thermal energy management within those priority sectors, 
with the goal of making our Spirax Sarco steam specialties business the customers’ first choice provider for 
steam solutions and thermal energy management.
Results to date
This is a new strategic priority for the Group, officially launched at the start of Q3 2014. Our General Managers 
are currently implementing the required changes within our operating companies which will increase the 
sectorisation of our sales forces. Where sales force sectorisation has already been implemented, such 
as in our Watson‑Marlow companies and in Spirax Sarco Inc., USA, we have seen the effectiveness of 
our direct sales model increase as our customers experience outstanding service and benefit from our 
heightened expertise. 
Next steps
We will continue to increase our focus on our key industries through implementing the structural changes 
needed to align our sales forces more closely with our priority areas. Furthermore, we will focus our R&D 
investments into developing products to allow us to more effectively address our identified industries.
Lorraine Wiseman 
President of Spirax Sarco Inc. (USA) Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
In practice
Develop the knowledge and skills of our expert 
sales and service teams
2
Why we are focusing on this
Continually improving the competency, technical skills and in‑depth application knowledge of our sales and 
service engineers is central to our direct sales business model. Understanding our customers’ processes 
and applying appropriately engineered solutions to their steam or niche pumping problems are pivotal to our 
business success. Through continually investing in the professional development of our people, we develop 
a level of expertise that is unrivalled by our competitors.
How we are doing it
We train our customer facing employees in our 45 state‑of‑the‑art training centres located around the 
world, most of which are equipped with live steam or pumping installations that facilitate hands‑on training. 
Our engineers also undergo extensive on‑ the‑job training and mentoring. We have developed a wide range 
of training materials and tools that are internet‑based and available through our training centres, to facilitate the 
on‑going professional development of all our engineers.
Results to date
We have 1,300 sales and service engineers located worldwide, who are widely recognised by our customers 
as offering unrivalled expertise. During 2014 we opened new training centres in Turkey and Indonesia, and 
refurbished our training centre in Tokyo, Japan. We also added 36 new training courses to our e‑library and 
increased the average number of training days per customer facing employee. (For more information see  
page 49.)
Next steps
During 2015, two new training centres, currently under construction, will be opened in Malaysia and the 
Philippines and two of our existing training centres, in Singapore and Argentina, will undergo refurbishment. 
During 2016, a new training centre will be opened in France. We plan to add a further 30 courses to our 
e‑library during 2015 and will continue to invest in developing the knowledge and skills of our people.
Spirax Sarco  
South Korea Training Centre
Map key
    Training centres Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22
Our strategy in action continued
Broaden our global presence
3
Why we are focusing on this
Our strong global presence is a result of decades of investment in building easily recognisable brands that 
symbolise expertise and reliability. We achieve a first‑to‑market advantage from early entry into new markets 
and profit from the growth opportunities that the emerging markets represent. 
How we are doing it
Our strong infrastructure around the world is enabling us to branch into neighbouring markets. We generally 
enter new markets through establishing a direct sales presence in the country through the creation of a sales 
office or the installation of one or more sales engineers. Occasionally, we purchase our distributor to allow us 
a foothold in an emerging market. Leveraging our existing strong infrastructure, we are also pioneering the 
introduction of Watson‑Marlow into much of the developing world, demonstrating the superior technology 
and lower life‑cycle costs of peristaltic and niche pumps.
Results to date
During the last five years we have opened a total of 15 new territories for direct sales for the Spirax Sarco 
steam specialties business or Watson‑ Marlow, including establishing Spirax Sarco sales offices in Peru 
and Panama and Watson‑Marlow companies in India, Austria and Malaysia.
Next steps
We will continue to identify geographical markets that provide opportunities for us to expand our global 
presence. In particular we are looking to establish a greater direct sales presence in areas of Africa and hope 
to establish a Spirax Sarco direct sales presence in three additional African countries during 2015.
In practice
Watson‑Marlow recently established an operating company in 
Singapore to create a regional hub in Southeast Asia. Spirax Sarco’s 
local infrastructure was used; notably premises, logistics, warehousing 
and computer systems, and the Company was established as a 
legal entity via Spirax Sarco. The business has grown rapidly as we 
have won market share by demonstrating the benefits of our pumps 
over alternatives such as air operated diaphragm, progressive cavity, 
piston, lobe, and gear pumps. Our sales force has been sectorised 
by industry within the country, allowing us to deliver high quality, 
specialised technical support to customers, build relationships and 
ultimately maximise sales.
Martin Johnston 
Sales and Marketing Director, Asia Pacific, 
Watson‑Marlow Fluid Technology Group Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Leverage R&D investments
4
Why we are focusing on this
Our ability to deliver an increasingly wider range of solutions to reduce energy and water usage, lower 
plant emissions and improve plant productivity and efficiency, rests with our commitment to new product 
development. We believe that investing in R&D is crucial to the long‑term sustainability and success of 
the Group. 
How we are doing it
We have significantly increased our R&D investments in recent years and will leverage these investments 
to generate sales growth, with shorter time‑to‑market of new products and solutions in such areas as 
thermal energy management, controls, condensate management and new pumping technologies and 
systems. Product development will increasingly be aligned to sector requirements. Where appropriate, we 
will look to make acquisitions in related areas that deliver new products and technologies and expand our 
addressable markets.
Results to date
Spirax Sarco has extended product capabilities and also responded to our customers' needs for more  
real‑ time data about their steam systems by expanding our range of monitoring products and increasing 
electro‑ mechanical, electronic and software specialist skills. Within Watson‑ Marlow, a focus on accelerating 
new product development has increased new product launches year‑ on‑ year.
Next steps
We will increasingly focus on supporting our local operating companies to build their capability to sell our 
expanded range of products, to ensure that our new products build traction in the marketplace, and will 
implement a more sector specific approach to R&D. Within Watson‑ Marlow, all aspects of the product 
development process will be reviewed and aligned throughout the Group, from idea creation to product 
launch, to facilitate the flow of ideas and techniques more readily across the business. 
In practice
Central to Watson‑Marlow’s strategy for growth is developing 
breakthrough products that will grow sales and market share against 
other positive displacement pump types. The Qdos product range 
was developed in Falmouth, UK to target diaphragm metering 
pumps in chemical metering applications in the water, wastewater 
and industrial process sectors. The Qdos 30 pump was launched in 
September 2012 and we extended the range with the larger Qdos 60 
pump in 2014. Since its introduction the Qdos product range has 
increased our addressable market by £150 million and in the short 
time since launch Watson‑Marlow’s overall cased pump sales have 
increased by approximately 23%.
Richard Green 
Group Product Manager, Watson‑Marlow Fluid 
Technology Group Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24
Our strategy in action continued
Optimise supply chain effectiveness
5
Why we are focusing on this
Our direct sales business model, with extensive product ranges and short order books, requires a regional 
manufacturing strategy with plants throughout the world to optimise customer service and minimise costs. 
Through optimising effectiveness, we are developing our entire supply chain to enhance product availability, 
increase flexibility, reduce costs and improve service levels in support of sales growth.
How we are doing it
We have strategically located our major manufacturing plants in Europe, North America, Latin America and 
Asia, to optimise supply chain efficiency. During 2014 we appointed a Group Supply Chain Director to provide 
management across the supply chain, to identify inefficiencies, ensure that best practice is shared and to 
better align our manufacturing and sales organisations.
Results to date
During the second half of 2014 plans were established to roll out the lessons learned from the EMEA stock 
optimisation review to the rest of the steam specialties business. By the end of 2014, a further 10 operating 
companies joined the programme and started to implement changes to their stock holdings.
Next steps
Supply chain optimisation remains a focus for the Group, driving continuous service and efficiency 
improvements in both our manufacturing and sales operations. We will continue to roll out the stock 
optimisation programme across the Group. As targets are reached, further opportunities across the supply 
chain will be identified, ensuring that we consistently deliver the highest possible levels of service to our 
customers.
In practice
A focus on delivering higher standards of customer service recently 
led to a stock optimisation review throughout the EMEA division. 
The review identified optimum stock levels and established a 
process for measuring the relationship between customer service 
and stock management. Each operating company appointed a 
stock optimisation “champion” and using cross‑functional teams 
these champions have helped to deliver stock holdings that are 
more aligned with customer requirements. As a result of the 
stock optimisation review, the EMEA division recorded a 650 bps 
improvement in service measures during 2014. 
Ian Farnworth 
Group Supply Chain Director Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Operate sustainably and help improve our 
customers’ sustainability
6
Why we are focusing on this
Sustainability is at the core of our business operations, driving our strategy to innovate and manufacture 
products that improve the sustainability and competitiveness of our customers’ operations, while improving 
our own operational efficiency, reducing our environmental impacts and improving the quality of life of our 
employees, their families and the communities in which we operate. In a resource constrained and competitive 
world we have an obligation to create a more sustainable way of life and to ensure the long‑term sustainability 
of our business.
How we are doing it
Our approach to sustainability encompasses five primary areas of emphasis: our workplaces, our environment, 
our customers, our communities and our supply chain. Through setting strategic objectives in each of these 
areas we are continuously improving our sustainability and the sustainability of our customers’ processes 
and operations.
Results to date
During 2014 we commenced a Group sustainability review, completed a materiality assessment of 
sustainability topics and redefined our key sustainability objectives. We also achieved a 2% reduction in our 
CO
2
e intensity to 50.8 tonnes per £m of inflation adjusted turnover, at constant currency (2013: 51.8) and 
maintained our inclusion in the FTSE4Good Sustainability Index.
Next steps
The strategic review will continue during 2015. Sustainability champions will establish cross‑functional teams to 
identify the next steps to take to further enhance our performance and improve data collection and reporting 
for each of the Group’s sustainability objectives. We will continue to invest management time into driving our 
Group sustainability agenda and will seek to further engage employees, across the Group, to ensure that they 
understand and reflect our commitment to sustainability.
In practice
A core component of our sustainability agenda is to ensure the 
health and safety of our employees, contractors and visitors. 
Spirax Sarco Inc., USA, has implemented a Behavioural Based 
Safety (BBS) programme. Following the tremendous success of that 
programme we have begun to roll it out across our manufacturing 
organisations. This year we established a mentoring system to guide 
our companies in implementing BBS, launched a new incident 
investigation process, and established two‑weekly health and safety 
review meetings between all our manufacturing organisations.
Mark Wyatt 
Group Environment, Health and Safety  
(EHS) Executive Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 26
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
4
4
5
9
9
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
153.0
151.6
136.2
134.0
119.1
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
22.5
22.0
20.6
20.6
20.2
Key performance indicators
We use a range of quantitative financial and non‑financial key 
performance indicators to monitor the Group’s progress against our 
objectives of delivering consistent, profitable and sustainable growth 
and shareholder value.
1.  Revenue growth %  
organic
2.  Adjusted operating  
profit* £m
3.  Operating profit  
margin* %
Definition
Organic revenue growth measures the change 
in revenue in the current year compared with 
the prior year from continuing Group operations. 
The effects of currency movements, acquisitions 
and disposals have been removed. 
 
Definition
Adjusted operating profit is the profit earned from 
our business operations before interest, taxes, the 
share of profit of associate companies and certain 
non‑operational items.*
Definition
Operating profit margin is defined as adjusted 
operating profit expressed as a percentage 
of revenue.
Link to strategy (pages 18–25) Link to strategy (pages 18–25) Link to strategy (pages 18–25)
Progress in 2014
Organic sales increased by over 4%. Growth was 
strongest in Watson‑Marlow, with all geographic 
regions ahead. In the steam specialties business, 
the Americas saw good overall organic sales 
growth and sales were modestly ahead in EMEA 
and Asia Pacific.
Progress in 2014
Adjusted operating profit increased by 12% at 
constant currency. Watson‑ Marlow had a very 
strong year and there were operating profit 
increases at constant currency in each of the 
steam specialties segments in the Americas, 
Asia Pacific and EMEA.
Progress in 2014
Operating profit margin was very good, rising 
to a record 22.5% from 22.0%, despite the stiff 
currency headwind. We benefited from continued 
price management actions, improvements in our 
internal supply chain, broadly flat raw material 
costs and generally favourable business and 
product mix.
Link to remuneration
Revenue growth is a key driver of profit generation 
and a central element in the annual planning 
process. Bonus targets are driven off annual 
plans and therefore revenue growth drives a key 
measure of variable remuneration.
Link to remuneration
Group operating profit is the other key element of 
the annual planning process. Bonus targets are 
driven off annual plans and therefore profit is a key 
measure of variable remuneration.
Link to remuneration
Executive Directors’ variable remuneration is 
measured on two main indicators: profit and 
ROCE. Operating profit margin is a key driver of 
both profit and ROCE.
*   Based on adjusted operating profit. Adjusted operating profit excludes certain non‑ operational items as set out in note 2 on page 120.
4 2 5 6 3 1
   Direct link        Indirect link    Direct link        Indirect link    Direct link        Indirect link 
4 2 5 6 3 1 4 2 5 6 3 1
KPI KPI KPI Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
44.4
44.3
39.4
41.1
42.1
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
140.4
138.8
122.2
†
121.0
†
103.2
†
2014
2013
2012
2011
4.4
5.4
5.5
6.0
4.  Return on capital  
employed (ROCE)* %
5.  Basic earnings per  
share (EPS)* p
6 .  H & S accidents with  
over seven days of lost  
time per 1,000 employees
Definition
ROCE is a pre‑tax measure of the efficiency 
with which the Group generates operating 
profits from its capital. ROCE is calculated as 
adjusted operating profit divided by average 
capital employed.
Definition
Earnings per share is a measure of the profit 
performance of the Group, taking into account the 
equity structure. EPS is defined as after‑tax profit 
attributable to equity shareholders divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue.
Definition
The number of work‑related accidents that 
resulted in over seven days of absence per 1,000 
employees. For an accident to be considered 
“work‑ related” the machinery, plant, substances, 
or equipment being used; the way the work was 
carried out; or the condition of the site, must have 
played a significant role.
Link to strategy (pages 18–25) Link to strategy (pages 18–25) Link to strategy (pages 18–25)
Progress in 2014
Following the marked improvement in 2013, the 
overall return on capital employed was broadly 
unchanged at 44.3% (2013: 44.4%) as a result of 
unfavourable currency movements which masked 
an underlying improvement in ROCE.
Progress in 2014
Basic adjusted earnings per share increased by 
13% at constant currency to 140.4p, including a 
small benefit from the reduction in the average 
number of shares in issue, due to the full‑ year 
effect of the share consolidation in mid‑ 2013.
Progress in 2014
Our accident rate increased slightly to 5.4 
accidents per 1,000 employees. During the latter 
half of 2014 we made significant changes to the 
way we manage H&S across the Group. As a 
result of these improvements, our accident rate 
was significantly lower during the second half of 
the year.
Link to remuneration
ROCE is a key measure in Executive Directors’ 
annual bonus arrangements.
Link to remuneration
Aggregate EPS measured over three‑year periods 
is one of the two components of the Performance 
Share Plan.
Link to remuneration
The safety of our employees is central to the 
sustainability of our business and has an impact 
on the financial success and profitability of the 
Group, creating an indirect link with Executive 
Directors’ variable remuneration.
*   Based on adjusted operating profit.
†
   2012 restated for IAS 19(R), earlier years adjusted on an estimated basis.
   Direct link        Indirect link    Direct link        Indirect link    Direct link        Indirect link        No link
4 2 5 6 3 1 4 2 5 6 3 1 4 2 5 6 3 1
KPI KPI KPI Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28
Risks and risk management
Risk Management Committee
Oversees risk management processes and  
procedures and monitors mitigating actions put  
in place by the Group
Board
Risk assurance
Internal audit and external auditor
Group-wide risk register
Maintained and reviewed by the Committee
Group operating companies
External risk review
Carried out at regular intervals
Audit Committee
Works with Reports to
Bottom up review
T op down review
“ In 2014 we undertook a comprehensive  
risk review and present our updated findings  
in this report.”
Nick Anderson 
Chairman, Risk Management Committee
  A more detailed overview of the role, responsibilities 
and actions of the Risk Management Committee 
in 2014 can be found on pages 72–74 of our 
Governance report 
Risk likelihood, control and impact
The diagram below shows the Committee's analysis of the principal 
risks affecting the Group, before mitigation. 
impact of the risk
  
low priority
  medium priority
  high priority
7
4
2
3
1
6
5
No control High level of control
Low likelihood High likelihood
The numbers relate to the principal risks outlined on page 29. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Principal risk and why it is relevant Change*
Link to strategy 
(pages 18–25) Key mitigation
1
Economic and 
political instability: 
Economic and political instability 
creates risks for our locally based 
direct operations. 
4
2
5 6
3 1
• Compliance with Group Treasury Policy
• Strong internal controls 
• Resilient business model 
2
 Significant exchange rate 
movements:  
The Group reports its results 
and pays dividends in sterling. 
Operating and manufacturing 
companies trade in local currency.
4
2
5 6
3 1
• Regional manufacturing strategy and local currency sales
•  Forward cover where appropriate and in line with the Group  
Treasury Policy
• Focus on reducing manufacturing costs
• Local price management practices
3
Loss of manufacturing output  
at any Group factory:  
Loss of manufacturing output at 
any important plant risks serious 
disruption to sales operations. 
4
2
5 6
3 1
•  Strategic location of the main eight manufacturing plants  
across the world 
• Business continuity planning and disaster recovery plans
•  Stocks of components and finished products in sales companies
• Regular and comprehensive back‑up of IT systems
•  Use of insurance audits/inspections and business interruption 
insurance
4
Breach of legal and regulatory 
requirements:  
The Group is subject to many 
different laws and regulations. 
Breaching these laws and 
regulations could have 
serious consequences.
4
2
5 6
3 1
• Significant improvements to our compliance programme 
• Robust internal controls, policies and procedures 
• Established strong ethical culture 
•  Review of commercial arrangements and  
regulatory requirements 
• Maintain local quality accreditations
5
Non-compliance with 
health, safety and 
environmental legislation: 
The Group places great emphasis 
on health, safety and environmental 
issues so as to avoid the risk of 
major problems.
4
2
5 6
3 1
• Compliance with legislation and codes of best practice
• Regular audits, checks and reporting 
• On‑going training
•  Appointment of Group Environment, Health and Safety Executive
6
Defined benefit pension deficit:  
Defined benefit pension schemes 
carry risks in relation to investment 
performance, security of assets, 
longevity and inflation.
4
2
5 6
3 1
• Use of independent professional advisers and custodians 
• Pension scheme de‑risking strategy 
• Use of Mercer “Dynamic De‑Risking Solution”
7
Failure to respond to 
technological developments  
or customer needs:  
The Group has significantly 
increased R&D resources in 
recent years.
4
2
5 6
3 1
•  Maintain market knowledge and monitor competitor 
developments 
• Maintain investment in R&D programmes 
• Appropriate intellectual property registrations and enforcement
•  Regular updating of technical and product improvement 
roadmaps
  Increased risk            No change to risk           Decreased risk
A summary of the principal risks, their link to our strategy and an explanation of how the Group mitigates each risk are set out in the following 
table. The direction of change during the year is illustrated by the arrow in the “Change” column and an explanation is provided below the 
table. Please note that the “Change” column shows the change in the risk and not the mitigation of the risk. There may be other risks and 
uncertainties which are unknown to the Group or which could become material in the future. These risks may cause the Group's results to 
vary materially from historic and expected results.
* Explanation of change in risk:
  Risk 1  Political instability in the Ukraine and Egypt.
 Risk 2  Sterling strengthened against all currencies used by the Group.
 Risk 6 Significant reduction in deficit on actuarial basis. Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30
Group Chief Executive’s report
“ The good results in 2014 again demonstrate 
the fundamental strengths and resilience 
of our business, with record profits and 
margin improvement achieved against an 
unhelpful economic background and a stiff 
currency headwind.”
Nick Anderson 
Group Chief Executive
Introduction
The good results in 2014 again demonstrate 
the fundamental strengths and resilience 
of our business, with record profits and 
margin improvement achieved against an 
unhelpful economic background and a 
stiff currency headwind. Our direct sales 
business model leverages the skills and 
experience of our 1,300 sales and service 
engineers across the world, to generate 
solutions to customers’ energy and water 
savings, emissions, productivity, quality and 
cost problems. In so doing, we reinforce the 
trusting, long-term relationships that we have 
with our customers and further build our 
installed base, which underpins the resiliency 
of our business that also benefits from the 
high replacement element to our sales.
During 2014, we undertook an extensive 
strategic review that confirmed both the 
quality of our business and identified how 
we could do better what we already do well. 
This evolutionary strategy is captured in our 
six strategic priorities:
• Increase direct sales effectiveness 
through sector focus, enhancing our 
customer value propositions;
• Develop the knowledge and skills of 
our expert sales and service teams, 
enabling them to better understand 
our customers’ processes and apply 
engineered solutions to their steam and 
niche pumping and fluid path problems;
• Broaden our global presence, 
achieving a first-to-market advantage from 
early entry into new markets;
• Leveraging R&D investments, 
widening our range of new products and 
solutions, which is crucial to the long-term 
growth and sustainability of our business;
• Optimise supply chain effectiveness, 
enhancing product availability, increasing 
flexibility, reducing costs and optimising 
customer service;
• Operate sustainably and help improve 
our customers’ sustainability, which is 
at the core of our business operations.
Our focus is on generating our own growth 
and outperforming our markets. Our direct 
sales approach provides opportunities 
for us to unlock unrecognised customers’ 
needs, which is especially valuable in an 
environment of subdued and slowing global 
industrial production growth. Our business 
is very resilient but not immune to any 
market weakness.
We are actively engaged in the 
implementation of our growth strategy 
across the organisation, with the pace of 
strategy roll out increasing as we progress 
priority projects. In addition, we have 
strengthened our acquisition strategy and 
sharpened our target search criteria with 
the aim of expanding the capabilities of our 
core steam specialties and Watson-Marlow 
businesses, extending geographic coverage 
and increasing our addressable markets into 
related areas.
Market environment
Steam provides the heat source across a 
wide range of industries and niche peristaltic 
pumps are used across a range of sectors. 
This wide spread, coupled with the fact that 
a large proportion of our revenue is derived 
from customers’ operating and maintenance 
spend, means that our markets tend to 
reflect the rates of growth in industrial 
production both in individual markets, 
Segment revenue changes* 
£m
Segment operating profit 
changes* £m
FX Watson-
Marlow
Americas Asia Paciﬁc EMEA
-6% +13% +8% +2% +2%
0.0
4.0
8.0
12.0
16.0
-£44m
FX Watson-
Marlow
Americas Asia Paciﬁc EMEA
-10% +20% +31% +4% +4%
10.0
7.5
5.0
2.5
0.0
-£15m
* Rates of change at constant currency.
* Based on adjusted profit at constant currency.
  Unless otherwise stated, all references are to adjusted profit, 
which excludes certain non-operating items as set out in note 2 
on page 120. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), with 
growth in most of the larger operations, and 
in Asia Pacific, with Korea performing well.
Sales of £678.3 million show a reduction 
of nearly 2% compared with sales of 
£689.4 million in 2013, due to unfavourable 
currency movements that impacted 
sales by 6.4% on translation. Sterling was 
stronger against every one of our reporting 
currencies, compounded by significant 
currency weakness in a number of our 
smaller markets. These stiff currency 
headwinds have now largely abated and 
if recent exchange rates prevail for the full 
year, sales in 2015 would show a further net 
reduction of 2% on translation into sterling 
versus 2014 average exchange rates.
Watson-Marlow’s brand has been changed 
to Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group, 
reflecting the evolution of the business 
from a manufacturer of niche peristaltic 
pumps and tubing, to its current position 
as a world leader in niche peristaltic pumps 
and associated fluid path technologies. 
Organic sales growth in Watson-Marlow of 
9% was spread across virtually all product 
lines, with new products continuing to 
make a valuable contribution. There were 
increases in both project work and base 
business, with progress in most industry 
sectors except precious metals mining, 
where sales were down on the prior year. 
Geographically, growth was strongest in 
Asia, from a relatively smaller base, as we 
further penetrate developing markets, and 
sales were well ahead in North America and 
EMEA. The acquisition of BioPure added 
a further 4% to sales, taking total constant 
currency growth of Watson-Marlow to 13%.
Organic sales increased by 3.4% in our 
steam specialties business, with higher than 
average increases in controls and energy 
management that are of increasing strategic 
focus. Higher sales came from improved 
base business, reflecting sustained demand 
from customers’ operating and maintenance 
activities, while project work remained 
broadly flat due to a continued lack of 
confidence by customers to invest in higher 
value expansion, productivity and energy 
saving projects. Geographically, organic 
growth was led by the Americas, with sales 
up in North America and well ahead in Latin 
America; the latter supported by some 
currency-driven pricing gains in Argentina. 
Organic sales rose modestly in EMEA, due 
in part to project work in Italy, and rose in 
Asia Pacific due largely to Korea. Sales were 
flat in China as industrial overcapacity in 
many sectors and government initiated anti-
corruption measures across the country, 
reduced overall levels of project work.
Record operating profit and margins 
were achieved in 2014. Group operating 
profit of £153.0 million was 12% higher at 
constant currency, with a strong currency 
headwind reducing the reported increase 
to 1% over the prior year operating 
profit of £151.6 million. Watson-Marlow 
performed very strongly and there were 
operating profit increases at constant 
currency in each of the steam specialties 
segments in the Americas, Asia Pacific 
and EMEA.
There was a strong increase in operating 
profit margin, rising to 22.5% from 22.0%, 
despite the stiff currency headwind. 
The Group benefited from continued 
price management actions and broadly 
flat raw material and component costs. 
Improvements in our internal supply chain 
enabled a reduced level of subcontract 
costs and increased efficiency, and 
generally business and product mix 
was favourable versus the prior year. 
We continued to invest in product and 
market development for the long term, 
however, we tightened controls of 
overheads through the second half of 
the year, as the world economic growth 
outlook moderated. Our business is 
seasonally biased to the second half and, 
as expected, this was slightly accentuated 
in 2014 by shipment of the larger than 
normal backlog built up in the first 
half year.
Market outlook
We continue to benefit from the many 
improvements made to our business in 
recent years and expect further benefits 
for all stakeholders over the coming 
years as we implement growth strategies 
across all aspects of our business to drive 
outperformance against our markets.
Industrial production growth prospects 
have been scaled back for 2015. 
However, we have an outstanding growth 
record and a direct sales business model 
that offers opportunities for self-help, 
whilst deriving a large proportion of 
revenues from customers’ operating 
and maintenance budgets, giving a high 
degree of resilience to our business 
in more difficult economic conditions. 
We are increasing investment and adding 
resources in support of our growth 
strategy and we are confident that, 
through these actions, we can continue 
to outperform our markets and deliver 
further improvements in our business.
regionally and worldwide. The nature of our 
business is that we generally lag movements 
in economic conditions by a couple of 
quarters. Global industrial production growth 
picked up modestly in the second half of 
2013 and into 2014 but has been slowing 
again since the latter half of 2014 in both 
developed and emerging markets.
Whilst the price of oil may influence the cost 
of energy to our customers, the correlation of 
the price of oil to our sales is weak; payback 
on energy cost savings being only one of 
a wide range of motivations for customers 
to trade with us. Our direct sales business 
model means that our sales engineers 
work closely with customers to identify 
improvements to their steam systems, and 
peristaltic pump and associated fluid path 
systems. Typical benefits, other than energy 
savings, include reduced CO 2e emissions, 
water savings, productivity improvements, 
efficiency improvements, reduced quality 
costs and regulatory compliance.
Market conditions in Europe weakened 
steadily through the year, with year-on-year 
growth in industrial production close to zero 
by the year end. This included negative 
growth all year in France and Italy, and 
steadily slowing growth in Germany but with 
a continued positive reading in the UK and 
indeed Spain.
In the Americas, industrial production 
growth continued at a healthy pace in North 
America throughout the period, in contrast to 
negative growth through the period in South 
America, including in Brazil and Argentina 
where economic conditions remain difficult.
In Asia Pacific, industrial production 
growth was positive but slowed markedly 
in the second half of 2014 due to the 
widely reported deceleration in China and 
negative growth in Korea in the final quarter. 
Market conditions were, however, good in 
Australia and some of our smaller operations 
in Indonesia and the Philippines.
Progress in 2014
Group sales increased by just over 5% 
at constant currency to £678.3 million, 
comprising organic sales growth of over 
4% and nearly 1% from the acquisition of 
BioPure Technology Limited in January 
2014. Growth was strongest in Watson-
Marlow, with all geographic regions 
ahead. In the steam specialties business, 
the Americas segment saw good overall 
organic sales growth, with progress in North 
America and a good gain in Latin America, 
the latter including the benefit of currency-
related price increases in Argentina. 
Organic sales were modestly ahead in  Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32
Steam specialties: 
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
“ Organic sales grew by 2% to £236.2 million and 
operating profit increased by 4% at constant 
currency to £45.9 million. Currency movements 
were unfavourable reducing sales by 5% and 
operating profit by 9%.”
Neil Daws 
Executive Director, EMEA
Market overview
Industrial production growth in EMEA 
improved towards the end of 2013, albeit to 
only relatively low levels of around 2%, and 
this was sustained through to the middle 
of 2014. However, since then industrial 
production growth progressively slowed, 
approaching zero at year end, making 
for overall challenging market conditions. 
Russia and Ukraine account for just over 1% 
of Group sales and events there, together 
with the imposition of sanctions, caused 
increased market uncertainty and some 
loss of customer confidence in associated 
markets in Germany and the Nordic areas. 
Heightened security risks and Ebola had an 
impact on a number of our smaller markets 
in Africa. Market conditions in France were 
very poor but in contrast there has been 
some improvement in Spain and conditions 
have remained positive in the UK. Overall, 
large project business saw a decline, 
although quote levels are encouraging.
Progress in 2014
In EMEA, organic sales grew by 2% to 
£236.2 million. Currency movements were 
unfavourable reducing sales on translation 
by 5%, with reported sales therefore 3% 
down compared with the £244.3 million in 
2013. We made good progress in our larger 
more developed markets in Germany, Italy, 
Spain and the UK, growing overall sales and 
profit by more than the segment average 
and increasing margins. Italy did particularly 
well, winning a number of large projects and 
the UK did well to grow sales again, following 
the strong advance in 2013. France was 
the only one of our larger more developed 
markets to see a decline in sales, reflecting 
the poor market conditions, although we 
are creating a new training centre in France 
to boost our capability and technical 
standing. Our operations in the Nordic areas 
performed well increasing sales and profit, 
as did Poland and Turkey.
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
236.2
244.3
232.8
250.1
230.0
Revenue
£236.2m
(2013: £244.3m) 
-3% at reported exchange rates 
+2% at constant currency
Revenue £m
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
45.9
48.2
36.7
42.5
36.8
Operating profit
£45.9m
(2013: £48.2m)
-5% at reported exchange rates 
+4% at constant currency
Operating profit* £m
* Based on adjusted operating profit
Operating margin %
19.4%
(2013: 19.7%)
-30 bps at reported exchange rates 
+30 bps at constant currency
Group revenue %
35% 
Our division at a glance
•   Number of operating units: 24
•   Direct sales presence: 29 countries
•   Average number of employees: 2,225 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Industrial production  
growth rate 2014*
Strategy update
We continued to develop our markets, 
establishing a new operating company 
in the Netherlands and transitioning to a 
full operating company in the UAE and 
Egypt, the latter commencing local trading 
in January 2015. We achieved good 
improvements in stock management, 
delivery performance and customer 
service levels, which should underpin our 
largely self-generated growth initiatives. 
Resource has been added in a number of 
areas, including wider supply chain skills.
Outlook
We remain positive and continue to identify 
areas where we can grow and improve 
our business in EMEA. Markets remain 
challenging with continued unfavourable 
currency movements and developing events 
in Ukraine and Russia creating uncertainty 
in a number of markets with strong trading 
links to Russia, as well as heightened 
security concerns in Africa and the Middle 
East. In February 2015, we took actions to 
reduce costs in our UK manufacturing plant 
and will incur a one-off cost of £1.0 million 
within ordinary trading in 2015, but this will 
be more than compensated by the on-going 
reduction in overheads during the remainder 
of the year.
Overall, project business was down in the 
year, including a large drop in the refining 
and petrochemicals sector in Russia that 
impacted our business there and which 
necessitated local cost-saving measures 
and a switch in sales focus to more resilient 
areas. Lower project work was also reflected 
in the Middle East, with the non-repeat 
of large hospital projects in the prior year. 
Generally quote logs in EMEA remain at an 
encouraging level.
Operating profit increased by 4% at 
constant currency to £45.9 million 
reflecting the sales increase, the benefit 
of continued price management actions, 
favourable mix and tight control of costs, 
especially in the second half year as the 
economic environment turned down. 
Our manufacturing operations in France and 
Italy did well, improving service levels and 
profit, but our UK steam specialties factory 
saw lower demand, especially through 
the quieter late summer period. Generally, 
we benefited from stable purchase costs 
for materials that mitigated the impact of 
unfavourable currency movements, which 
were large in a number of countries with 
the average exchange rate for the Russian 
rouble -22%, Turkish lira -16% and South 
African rand -15%. This was reflected in 
the overall reported profit, which declined 
by 5% from the prior year’s £48.2 million. 
The operating profit margin for EMEA at 
19.4% (2013: 19.7%) was slightly lower but 
improved by 30 bps at constant currency.
Key markets
Foods
Pharmaceuticals
OEM machinery
Healthcare
Neutral Unfavourable Favourable
-5 to 0% 
>0 to 2% 
>2 to 4% 
>4% 
*  Compared with the prior year. 
(Source: CHR Economics) Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34
Steam specialties: 
Asia Pacific
“ Economic conditions in the region were mixed. 
Organic sales increased by 2% but at reported 
exchange rates sales reduced by 3% to £1 77 .7 
million due to unfavourable currency movements 
versus sterling in all currencies. Operating profit 
increased by 4% at constant currency.”
Klaus Rümler 
Divisional Director, Asia Pacific
Market overview
The economic conditions in the region have 
been mixed, with continued expansion in 
some smaller markets such as Indonesia 
and Malaysia but with overall industrial 
production growth slowing sharply in the 
second half year. In our largest market in 
China, economic growth slowed but was also 
more balanced as the government works to 
partly offset the decline of capital investments 
that have accounted for almost half of GDP , 
with more consumption driven growth. 
Independent estimates of Chinese industrial 
production growth indicated a slowdown to 
mid-single digits by the end of 2014, reflecting 
the overcapacity in many industries, reduced 
foreign direct investment and the impact of 
the Government’s anti-corruption campaign, 
although the latter is a welcome and positive 
development for the medium and longer term. 
Industrial production growth turned negative 
in Korea in the fourth quarter and there was 
political turmoil in Thailand following the coup 
d’état in May. Generally in the region, pricing 
and competitive pressures remain and are 
greater than elsewhere, although our direct 
sales approach and fundamental strengths 
enabled us to outperform our markets.
Progress in 2014
Organic sales increased by 2% but at 
reported exchange rates sales reduced 
by 3% from £182.8 million to £177 .7 million 
due to unfavourable currency movements 
versus sterling in all currencies. As expected, 
sales growth was stronger in the second 
half as a number of large projects in Korea 
were shipped and the usual order build from 
the first half year was unwound. However, 
we were not immune from the general 
economic slowdown across much of the 
region in the second half year.
Our business in Korea performed very 
well, achieving higher sales, especially in 
the refining and petrochemical and power 
industries for export projects, and through 
a strong focus on smaller and mid-sized 
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
177.7
182.8
166.9
147.1
131.5
Revenue
£177.7m
(2013: £182.8m)
-3% at reported exchange rates
+2% at constant currency
Revenue £m
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
46.4
48.0
43.9
37.8
34.3
Operating profit
£46.4m
(2013: £48.0m)
-3% at reported exchange rates
+4% at constant currency
Operating profit* £m
* Based on adjusted operating profit
Operating margin %
26.1%
(2013: 26.3%)
-20 bps at reported exchange rates
+50 bps at constant currency
Group revenue %
26%
Our division at a glance
•   Number of operating units: 12
•   Direct sales presence: 15 countries
•   Average number of employees: 1,045 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
expanded office facilities in a number 
of operations. Unfavourable currency 
movements meant that operating profit 
of £46.4 million (2013: £48.0 million) was 
3% lower at reported exchange rates. 
The operating profit margin was broadly 
unchanged at 26. 1% (2013: 26.3%) and 
ahead 50 bps at constant currency.
Strategy update
Markets in Asia Pacific continue to exhibit 
good long-term growth characteristics. 
Our strategy, as elsewhere in the world, is 
focused on self-generated growth based 
on making improvements to our sales 
effectiveness, with increasing sectorisation 
and enhanced delivery performance. 
Broadening our market presence remains a 
priority, with new operations in new territories 
adding to the aggressive development 
of those established in recent years. 
Our regional manufacturing strategy and 
optimisation of the wider supply chain, is 
focused on local product availability, cost 
effectiveness and flexibility.
Outlook
Overall, regional industrial production growth 
has progressively slowed and economic 
uncertainty persists in our largest market 
in China. However, we remain positive 
about the medium and long-term growth 
prospects, with good exposure to the 
more resilient sectors such as foods and 
healthcare. We expect to benefit from 
our investments in market development, 
especially in Indonesia, and from a 
focus on key industries such as foods, 
beverages and healthcare, where there 
are positive dynamics from a growing and 
ageing population.
We have announced today the 
establishment of a wholly owned company 
in India that is expected to commence 
direct sales operations around mid-2015. 
This exciting start-up will include world-
class manufacturing and training facilities 
and is central to our strategy of accelerating 
energy saving and process improvement 
opportunities. Our Korean sales team did 
well with steam system services and with 
sales into general industry, although there 
were some project delays and postponed 
investment in the shipbuilding sector. 
Profit was well ahead in Korea reflecting the 
higher sales and favourable product mix.
In China, sales were flat and profit slightly 
lower at constant currency. Project work 
related to customers' capital investment, 
which has been significant in this country 
approaching 50% of our sales in prior years, 
declined reflecting the industrial overcapacity 
in the markets we serve, as well as delays 
caused by the government’s anti-corruption 
drive. This was compensated for by 
refocusing on customers’ energy efficiency, 
process improvement and maintenance 
activities, where sales increased. The growth 
in overheads slowed markedly but wage 
pressures continued, which was partially 
offset by efficiency improvements and an 
on-going increase in the proportion of local 
manufacture, as production is expanded in 
line with our regional manufacturing strategy.
Elsewhere in Asia Pacific, we made good 
progress in Japan against a significant 
13% currency headwind, with very effective 
price management and, similarly, did well 
in Australia, growing sales and profit at 
constant currency. Our new company in 
Indonesia became fully operational during 
the year, completing a myriad of approvals, 
and we focused on market development, 
intensive training of our expanding sales 
team and building customer relationships. 
In the Philippines, our business performed 
well in its first full year as an operating 
company and we did well in Thailand, 
against a difficult market background.
Overall in Asia Pacific, operating profit 
increased by 4% at constant currency 
reflecting favourable mix, price management 
and increased regional manufacture, partially 
offset by increased market development 
costs, investment in new IT systems and 
Key markets
HVAC
Beverages
Foods
Refining and 
petrochemical
Neutral Unfavourable Favourable
Industrial production  
growth rate 2014*
*  Compared with the prior year. 
(Source: CHR Economics)
-5 to 0% 
>0 to 2% 
>2 to 4% 
>4% 
growth in this important market. The 49.3% 
shareholding in our long-standing Associate 
company in India, Spirax Marshall Private 
Limited, has been sold to our local partner 
for £6.5 million and both parties will in future 
be free to trade under their respective names 
within and outside India. Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36
Steam specialties: 
Americas
Market overview
Market conditions remained positive in North 
America through the year with good growth 
in industrial production in the USA, although 
in Canada the falling oil price impacted the 
oil tar sands sector. The position in South 
America was very different, with overall 
negative industrial production in all four 
quarters, including in our important markets 
in Brazil and Argentina. Additionally in 
Brazil, the corruption issues at Petrobras 
impacted project work in the sector and 
dented economic confidence in the country. 
Elsewhere, economic conditions were mixed 
in some of our smaller markets and there 
was generally a reduction in large projects 
across the region.
Progress in 2014
Sales in the Americas increased by 8% 
at constant currency, with sales ahead in 
North America and a good advance in Latin 
America, although the latter benefited from 
local currency gains in Argentina from dollar-
based pricing. All currencies were weaker 
against sterling, including the Brazilian 
real -12% and Canadian dollar -1 1%, and 
the Argentine peso suffered a significant 
devaluation of 35%, which meant that sales 
of £126.2 million (2013: £132.0 million) in 
the Americas showed a decline of 4% at 
reported exchange rates.
In North America, sales efforts were 
focused towards our target areas, where 
we achieved sales growth, and away from 
less attractive lower margin project and 
service work, which registered a decline. 
These actions resulted in a favourable mix 
and much improved profit and margin 
performance, albeit at the expense of some 
top-line growth. This was underpinned by 
improved delivery performance, focused 
price management and close control of 
overhead costs, as we carefully implement 
important changes in the USA to expand 
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
126.2
132.0
137.5
134.4
125.2
Revenue
£126.2m
(2013: £132.0m)
-4% at reported exchange rates
+8% at constant currency
Revenue £m
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
28.0
26.1
26.2
27.4
24.3
Operating profit
£28.0m
(2013: £26. 1m)
+7% at reported exchange rates
+31% at constant currency
Operating profit* £m
* Based on adjusted operating profit
Operating margin %
22.2%
(2013: 19.8%)
+240 bps at reported exchange rates
+400 bps at constant currency
Group revenue %
19%
Our division at a glance
•   Number of operating units: 6
•  Direct sales presence: 1 1 countries
•   Average number of employees: 829
“ Operating profit was up 31 % at constant 
currency, although unfavourable currency 
movements meant that the operating profit 
of £28.0 million increased by 7% at reported 
exchange rates. The operating profit margin 
improved to 22.2%.”
Alberto Grandi 
Divisional Director, Americas Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Industrial production  
growth rate 2014*
Strategy update
As mentioned above, our new operating 
company in Chile made an excellent start 
and a new company in Peru commenced 
local trading in January 2015, continuing 
the expansion of our direct presence. 
Self-generated growth is a strategic focus 
for all companies, including a gradual 
alignment of sales along a sector basis and 
intensified training. Regional manufacturing 
was extended, with the completion of the 
new world-class facility in Mexico that 
was designed to comply with the highest 
environmental and sustainability standards 
and became fully operational in April 2014. 
The sustainability of our business was 
enhanced, with improvements in profitability, 
increased return on capital employed and 
improved employee welfare following the 
introduction of Behaviour Based Safety, 
initially in the USA.
Outlook
North America accounts for well over half 
of the sales in the Americas and market 
conditions remain positive in the USA, 
where we expect to benefit from the 
changes being made to effectively increase 
our total addressable market. In Mexico, 
the market is improving but elsewhere in 
Latin America, industrial production growth 
is negative in Brazil, where the focus is on 
self-generated growth, and in Argentina, 
where the economic environment is difficult 
and further currency turmoil cannot be 
ruled out; elections there later in 2015 create 
additional uncertainty.
the total available market, leveraging our 
direct sales resource to uncover and capture 
unrecognised customer needs.
In Latin America, market conditions 
continued to be difficult in our two largest 
markets in Brazil and Argentina, although 
in Mexico, market conditions improved. 
Sales and profit in Brazil were flat at constant 
currency, with lower levels of project work 
in the refining and petrochemicals sector, 
reflecting a significant decline at Petrobras. 
Profit in Brazil benefited from a positive 
sales mix into beverages, pulp and paper, 
and chemicals, and from continued cost 
controls. Trading conditions in Argentina 
were challenging, with the currency 
devaluing, high cost inflation and regulatory 
hurdles. Despite this, sales into the domestic 
and export markets were modestly ahead 
in dollar terms and operating profit was well 
ahead, even at reported exchange rates, 
aided by dollar-based pricing.
Elsewhere in Latin America, our recently 
established company in Chile did 
exceptionally well in its first full year of 
trading, building the knowledge of our direct 
sales team and winning a large bakery 
project. In Mexico, the relocation to our new 
manufacturing plant, offices and training 
centre was completed in the second quarter 
and efficiency gains began to be captured.
Overall in the Americas, operating profit 
increased by 31% at constant currency. 
Unfavourable currency movement, including 
the devaluation in Argentina, meant 
that the operating profit of £28.0 million 
(2013: £26. 1 million) increased by 7% at 
reported exchange rates. The underlying 
profit increase reflects a positive sales 
mix, flat material costs, effective price 
management, dollar-based pricing 
in Argentina and overhead controls. 
The operating profit margin improved to 
22.2% (2013: 19.8%), with good gains in 
both North America and Latin America.
Key markets
Pharmaceuticals HVAC
Neutral Unfavourable Favourable
*  Compared with the prior year. 
(Source: CHR Economics)
Refining and 
petrochemical
Foods
-5 to 0% 
>0 to 2% 
>2 to 4% 
>4%  Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 38
Watson-Marlow
Market overview
Economic conditions in the various regions 
of the world were the same as for the steam 
specialties business. Market conditions 
reflect the different spread of industries 
served by our Watson-Marlow niche 
peristaltic pumps and associated fluid 
path technologies business. Water and 
wastewater markets were particularly 
strong, with good growth in the Americas 
and Asia as pent-up demand was 
released, underpinned by good progress 
with new product releases and market 
share gains in metering applications. 
General industrial markets were strong, as 
was OEM in medical device and clinical 
diagnostic applications. Our largest sector 
biopharmaceutical, accounting for around a 
third of sales, was boosted by the acquisition 
of BioPure Technology Limited. Food and 
beverage markets were generally more 
difficult but strong growth continued in Asia. 
Precious metal mining stabilised against the 
background of a global decline in capital 
expenditure in the industry. Generally, pricing 
pressures remain in most sectors, especially 
in a lower inflation environment.
Progress in 2014
Sales increased by nearly 13% at constant 
currency, including a contribution of 4% 
from the acquisition of BioPure in January 
2014. Sales of £138.2 million were 6% 
ahead of £130.3 million in the comparable 
period at reported exchange rates, reflecting 
unfavourable currency movements that 
reduced sales on translation by 6%. 
Organic sales growth was achieved in all 
regions and was widespread across the 
product range, with a strong advance in 
Flexicon filling systems and Watson-Marlow 
core pumps and tubing. New product 
releases contributed well, including 
extensions to the new Qdos chemical 
metering pump range. Overall, there was an 
increase in both base business and project 
work. There was a seamless integration of 
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
138.2
130.3
124.5
118.4
103.0
Revenue
£138.2m
(2013: £130.3m)
+6% at reported exchange rates
+ 13% at constant currency
Revenue £m
£m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
43.5
39.5
36.8
34.4
30.8
Operating profit
£43.5m
(2013: £39.5m)
+ 10% at reported exchange rates
+20% at constant currency
Operating profit* £m
* Based on adjusted operating profit
Operating margin %
31.5%
(2013: 30.3%)
+ 120 bps at reported exchange rates
+ 190 bps at constant currency
Group revenue %
20% 
Our division at a glance
•  Number of operating units: 26
•   Direct sales presence: 25 countries
•   Average number of employees: 715
“ Sales increased by nearly 13% at constant 
currency, including a contribution of 4% from 
the acquisition of BioPure in January 2014. 
Operating profit increased by 20% at constant 
currency to £43.5 million and was 10% ahead 
at reported exchange rates.”
Jay Whalen 
Executive Director, Watson-Marlow Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Industrial production  
growth rate 2014*
Watson-Marlow’s brand has been changed 
to Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group. 
This change better reflects the evolution 
of the business from a manufacturer of 
niche peristaltic pumps and tubing, to 
its current position as a world leader in 
niche peristaltic pumps and associated 
fluid path technologies. Our business now 
encompasses seven distinct brands which, 
combined, deliver complete fluid technology 
solutions to the biopharmaceutical, 
industrial, food and beverage, mining, 
environmental and OEM market sectors. 
This change recognises our progressive 
product and market diversification, and 
follows the recent acquisition of BioPure, 
which signalled our strategic move to offer a 
wider range of solutions to the biotechnology 
and pharmaceutical markets. Our Watson-
Marlow direct sales companies employ a 
market sectorised approach to successfully 
leverage these new and related products to 
grow sales of our niche peristaltic pumps 
and associated fluid path technologies. 
Outlook
Our market in the USA continues to grow, 
although there is much slower growth and 
more uncertainty in many other markets 
in Europe and Latin America in particular. 
The precious metals mining sector is 
expected to remain sluggish, with low levels 
of project activity. Our focus remains on 
growing sales through the expansion of 
our addressable markets, the development 
of new innovative products that take 
market share from other pump types and 
aggressive geographical expansion of 
our sector-based direct sales presence, 
complemented by related niche acquisitions. 
We expect to increase investment in 
product and market development, and will 
have higher system support costs in the 
current year to support this growth strategy. 
The currency headwinds have largely abated 
and at current exchange rates, there would 
be a small negative impact of 1% in 2015 
versus average rates in 2014.
BioPure into the Group and we achieved a 
smooth transition from BioPure's distribution 
to our direct sales in the USA.
In the EMEA region, sales growth was 
widespread, although sales were down in 
Russia. There was good growth in France 
and Germany, and a strong performance 
in Scandinavia. We continued to benefit 
from our focused market sector approach 
across our key industry sectors, driving a 
better understanding of how we add value 
to our customers’ businesses. Growth was 
strongest in the Asia Pacific region, although 
from a relatively smaller base in these 
developing markets. There was good 
growth in China and Korea but in Australia, 
sales were marginally down reflecting the 
difficulties faced by the local mining sector. 
The Americas region contributed well, 
driven by the USA where the OEM and 
industrial sectors were strong, although 
our business in Brazil was broadly flat, 
due to the downturn in the mining sector 
and weakening industrial production 
impinging investment.
Watson-Marlow’s operating profit increased 
by 20% at constant currency to £43.5 million 
(2013: £39.5 million) and was 10% ahead at 
reported exchange rates. The profit increase 
reflects the higher sales, a good first-time 
contribution of £1.6 million from BioPure 
and unusually favourable product mix. 
The operating profit margin improved from 
30.3% to a very strong 31.5%.
Strategy update
A number of small individual distributors 
were converted to direct sales during the 
year across five product lines in six countries 
and product development was increased 
across all product lines, with the emphasis 
on increasing the addressable market size. 
Our Global Excellence in Manufacturing 
(GEM) programme was stepped up, 
with a number of plants increasing their 
proficiency level.
Key markets
Pharmaceuticals
OEM machinery Water treatment
Neutral Unfavourable Favourable
*  Compared with the prior year. 
(Source: CHR Economics)
Foods
-5 to 0% 
>0 to 2% 
>2 to 4% 
>4%  Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 40
Financial review
“ Good results were achieved in 201 4. Growth was 
strongest in Watson-Marlow, with organic sales 
ahead 9%, boosted by a good first-time contribution 
from BioPure T echnology Limited. Organic sales 
increased by over 3% in the steam specialties 
business, led by an 8% increase in the Americas. ”
David Meredith 
Finance Director
The Group reports under International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
also uses adjusted figures where the Board 
believes that this gives a more representative 
indication of the underlying performance. 
Unless otherwise stated, adjusted figures 
are used throughout and exclude the 
amortisation and impairment of acquisition-
related intangible assets and acquisition and 
disposal costs, together with the tax effects 
of these items (as set out in note 2 on page 
120). Organic measures are at constant 
currency and exclude acquisitions.
We were pleased that our 2013 Annual 
Report was recognised in the top ten in 
“Excellence in reporting in the FT250” at the 
Building Public Trust Awards. The Annual 
Report for 2014 has been prepared in line 
with developing best practice to present an 
integrated, complete and concise picture of 
the Group and the performance for the year, 
with the Board taking care that it is “fair, 
balanced and understandable”. At the heart 
of the Annual Report is an explanation of our 
strategy for sustainable growth, how this is 
delivered through our business model and 
the linkage to risk management, key 
performance indicators, corporate 
governance and Executive Directors’ 
remuneration. We have enhanced the 
Sustainability report section, with clear 
reporting of our progress across five key 
sustainability areas. There was particular 
focus during the year on employee health 
and safety, with a reduction in the accident 
rate in the second half, and the appointment 
of a new senior executive position for Group 
Environmental, Health and Safety. More of 
our operating units achieved accreditation 
to ISO14001 during the year and we now 
have over 70% of our employees in 
accredited operations.
Good results were achieved in 2014. Sales 
of £678.3 million (2013: £689.4 million) were 
ahead 5% at constant currency, comprising 
organic sales growth of over 4% and a 
contribution of nearly 1 % from acquisitions, 
which was more than offset by unfavourable 
currency movements that reduced sales on 
translation by 6.4%. At reported exchange 
rates, sales declined by less than 2%. 
Growth was strongest in Watson-Marlow, 
with organic sales ahead 9%, boosted by 
a good first-time contribution from BioPure 
Technology Limited acquired in January 
2014. Organic sales increased by over 3% in 
the steam specialties business, led by an 8% 
increase in the Americas, with sales ahead 
in North America and a good advance 
in Latin America benefiting from some 
strong currency-related price increases in 
Argentina. In EMEA and Asia Pacific, organic 
sales growth was more modest at 2%.
Currency movements were strongly 
negative with a £44. 1 million or 6.4% sales 
translation headwind in 2014. Sterling was 
stronger against every currency in which 
we operate, including 5% against both the 
euro and dollar, and there were individually 
weak currencies in a number of developing 
markets, including the Argentine peso -35% 
against sterling on average, the Russian 
rouble -22%, Turkish lira -16%, South African 
rand -15%, Brazilian real -12% and Canadian 
dollar -1 1%. These headwinds have largely 
abated, although if recent exchange rates 
prevailed for the full year, there would still 
be a 2% negative sales translation impact 
in 2015.
Operating profit increased by 1% from 
£151.6 million to £153.0 million and by over 
12% at constant currency. The statutory 
operating profit was £148. 1 million 
(2013: £147 .0 million). In addition to a 
significant impact of £1 1.3 million from 
exchange translation, there was a 
negative exchange transaction impact 
of £4. 1 million, creating a total operating 
profit currency headwind of 10.2% or 
£15.5 million for the year. This impact was 
spread across all segments with EMEA 
-£4. 1 million, Asia Pacific -£3.3 million, the 
Americas -£4.8 million and Watson-Marlow 
-£3.2 million. 
Key highlights
• The Board has proposed a final 
dividend of 45.0p per share. 
T ogether with the interim dividend 
this gives a total Ordinary dividend 
of 64.5 per share, an increase 
of 9%
• Adjusted basic earnings per share 
increased by 13% at constant 
currency to 140.4p
• Return on capital employed of 
44.3p
• Good cash flow and return of 
capital to shareholders via a special 
dividend of 120.0p per share
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
131.4
143.0
129.8
76.2
91.7
Adjusted operating 
cash flow £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
64.5 120.0
59.0
100.0 53.0
49.0
25.0 43.0
Dividend per share p 
  Special dividend
Unless otherwise stated, all references are to adjusted profit,  
which excludes certain non-operating items as set out in note 2 
on page 120. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
The factors driving the underlying operating 
profit increase of 12% in 2014 were:
• Benefit and modest leverage from the 
organic sales increase of over 4%;
• The continued focus on price 
management and business mix;
• Favourable product mix in both 
the steam specialties and Watson-
Marlow businesses;
• The benefit of broadly flat costs for 
materials reflecting subdued prices for 
raw materials, castings, forgings and 
other components;
• Close control of overhead costs, 
especially in the second half year, as 
industrial production growth slowed in 
both developed and developing markets.
The operating profit margin improved from 
22.0% to 22.5% despite the unfavourable 
currency headwind, reflecting the above 
factors and the very strong margin 
performance in Watson-Marlow.
Early in 2015, we took cost reduction 
actions in our steam specialties 
manufacturing operation in the UK, resulting 
in a reduction of 43 permanent positions, 
representing around 7% of the Cheltenham 
manufacturing workforce. There is a one-off 
cost of £1.0 million that will be included 
within adjusted operating profit in the first 
half, which will be more than compensated in 
2015 by the on-going annualised £2.0 million 
reduction in overhead, with a further modest 
full-year effect benefiting 2016.
Interest
Net interest cost increased from £2.3 million 
to £3.0 million. Net finance costs under 
IAS19 in respect of the Group’s defined 
benefit pension schemes increased by 
£0.2 million to £2.9 million. Net bank interest 
deteriorated by £0.5m due to the full-year 
effect on cash balances in 2014 of the 
£78 million special dividend paid in July 
2013, variations in interest rates and the 
location of cash balances and borrowings.
Associates
The Group’s after tax share of the profits 
of Associates was significantly lower at 
£1.2 million (2013: £1.7 million) due to a 
disappointing 32% decline in the profits 
from our 49.3% share of Spirax Marshall 
in India. The Group’s initial 30% interest 
in the Econotherm heat pipe technology 
start-up was increased in two stages during 
the year to 39% and further progress was 
made in commercialising this innovative heat 
transfer technology.
Pre-tax profit
The profit before tax at £151. 1 million was 
12% ahead at constant exchange rates. 
Unfavourable currency movements meant 
that at reported exchange rates, the pre-tax 
profit was fractionally ahead of the prior 
year. The statutory profit before tax was 
£144.8 million (2013: £145.7 million) and 
includes those non-operating items, listed 
below, that have been excluded from the 
adjusted profit:
• A charge of £4. 1 million (2013: £4.0 million) 
for the amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangible assets;
• Acquisition and disposal costs of 
£0.8 million (2013: £0.6 million);
• A charge of £1.5 million (2013: £0.8 million) 
against the Associate profit comprising 
£0.5 million (2013: £0.7 million) for the 
amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangible assets and £1.0 million for the 
impairment of goodwill and other assets 
in respect of the sale of the Group’s 
49.3% holding in our Associate company 
Spirax Marshall in India (2013: £0. 1 million 
in respect of the disposal of the HVAC 
business of Eirdata).
Taxation
The tax charge on the adjusted profit before 
tax, excluding Associates' profit (which 
is presented on an after-tax basis), was 
virtually unchanged at 29.9% (2013: 29.8%). 
The Group comprises around 70, mainly 
small, operating units in over 40 countries, 
which reflects the business model that 
requires a direct sales presence, with local 
sales engineers providing solutions direct to 
end-users wherever possible, holding local 
stocks for optimum customer service levels 
and invoicing in local currency. The Group’s 
overall tax rate essentially reflects the 
blended average of the tax rates in the many 
different tax jurisdictions in which we operate 
and make profits.
Earnings per share
The Group’s strategy is directed at 
sustainable growth in shareholder value, with 
consistent growth in earnings and dividends 
per share. Adjusted basic earnings per share 
increased by 1% to 140.4p (2013: 138.8p) 
and by 13% at constant currency, including 
a small benefit from the reduction in the 
average number of shares in issue, due to 
the full-year effect of the share consolidation 
in mid-2013. The statutory earnings per 
share decreased by less than 1% to 132.8p 
(2013: 133.4p). The fully diluted earnings 
per share were not materially different in 
either year. Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42
Financial review continued
Dividends 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
45.0p per share (2013: 41.0p per share) 
payable on 29th May 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 1st May 2015. Together  
with the interim dividend of 19.5p per share 
(2013: 18.0p), the total Ordinary dividend 
is therefore 64.5p per share, which is an 
increase of 9% on the 59.0p total Ordinary 
dividend in 2013. This extends our dividend 
record to 47 years, with a compound  
annual increase of 1 1% over that period;  
the increase over the last 10 years has  
been 12% pa and over the last five years 
also 12% pa.
In addition, having reviewed the capital 
requirements of the Company and 
recognising the Group’s significant 
cash generation capability, the Board is 
proposing a return of capital to shareholders 
of £91 million in the form of a special 
dividend of 120p per share in respect of 
2014 (2013: nil). If approved at the AGM, 
the special dividend will be paid on 15th 
July 2015 to shareholders on the register 
at 12th June 2015. This is equivalent 
to approximately 4% of the market 
capitalisation of the Company and, as is 
common with a significant return of capital 
to shareholders, the Board is recommending 
that this is combined with an appropriate 
share consolidation. This is intended to 
maintain, as far as possible, the share price, 
earnings per share and dividends per share, 
before and after the special dividend, and to 
remove the impact of the special dividend 
on employee equity-based incentives. 
It is anticipated, therefore, that the market 
price of each Ordinary share will remain at 
a broadly similar level following the special 
dividend and share consolidation.
The total dividend in respect of 2014, 
combining both the Ordinary and special 
dividends, will therefore be 184.5p per share.
Acquisitions and disposals
We continue to actively search for suitable 
acquisitions opportunities that meet our 
strict criteria, in order to supplement our 
organic growth strategy. Acquisitions fall into 
three broad categories;
• geographic expansion, typically through 
the acquisition of a distributor in a 
developing market;
• products that can be integrated into our 
existing businesses; and,
• related acquisitions that fit alongside our 
existing steam specialties and Watson-
Marlow businesses.
Our strong balance sheet and debt capacity 
provides us with considerable flexibility. 
On 6th January 2014, we announced the 
acquisition of BioPure Technology Limited 
for £8.2 million. BioPure specialises in 
the design and production of advanced 
single-use tubing connector systems for the 
biopharmaceutical industry, operating as 
part of our Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology 
business. The first-time contribution from 
BioPure was ahead of our expectations, with 
a very smooth integration in to our Watson-
Marlow sector-based sales structure.
Econotherm continues to make progress in 
commercialising their innovative heat pipe 
technology. In May 2014, the Group invested 
a further £150,000 and in December 2014, 
an additional £250,000 into the business, 
taking our interest in this Associate company 
to 39%.
On 22nd May 2014, we completed the 
purchase of the thermocompressor 
business of Transvac Systems Limited 
for £0.9 million. Good progress has been 
made in bringing in-house this acquired 
technology, which can improve steam 
system efficiency and is well-suited to our 
technical sales approach. This acquisition 
also included jet heaters and steam 
jet syphons.
We have announced today that the Group 
has established a wholly-owned company in 
India that will commence direct sales around 
mid-year 2015, operating from a new site in 
Chennai where investment of £1 1 million in 
a manufacturing plant, warehouse, training 
centre and offices has commenced.  
On 1st March 2015, we sold the Group’s 
49.3% interest in Spirax Marshall Private 
Limited for £6.5 million to our Indian partners 
and both parties are now free to trade under 
their own respective names inside and 
outside India. Spirax Sarco retains sole rights 
to the Spirax Sarco brands and product 
nomenclatures. The disposal proceeds were 
broadly in line with the net tangible asset 
value. To reflect the impending sale of the 
business, our investment in this Associate 
company as at 31st December 2014 was 
categorised as an asset held for sale and 
an impairment charge of £1.0 million was 
recognised, largely in respect of goodwill 
relating to an increase in our shareholding in 
2008 from 40% to 49.3%. This impairment 
charge is included within the statutory results 
for 2014 but has been excluded from the 
adjusted trading results, as explained earlier. 
The Group’s results for 2015 will reflect 
our 49.3% share of the after tax profits of 
the Associate company for January and 
February 2015 of £0.2 million (2014 full 
year £1.3 million) and an expected modest 
trading loss in our newly established direct 
sales operation. We anticipate an increasing 
contribution to Group sales and profits from 
India in future years. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Research and development
In the steam specialties business, our 
research and development programme 
was refined to more fully align with the sales 
growth strategy. We continue to focus on 
a smaller number of larger opportunities 
centred on our key areas of interest in 
controls and thermal energy management, 
where we have overall smaller market 
shares and larger addressable markets. 
New product development projects are 
expected to increasingly reflect the needs of 
customers in specific industries, reflecting 
the gradual move to a more industry sector-
based sales approach.
In our Watson-Marlow niche peristaltic pump 
and associated fluid path technologies 
business, we continue to follow the 
successful strategy of focusing on increasing 
the addressable market size, with innovative 
products that take market share from 
other positive displacement pump types. 
There were extensions to the new Qdos 
pump range, together with tube and hose 
developments, where Watson-Marlow is at 
the forefront of technological advances.
Overall the Group’s total investment in 
research and development was £9.6 million 
(2013: £9.6 million).
Capital employed
Total capital employed increased by less 
than 1% to £346 million. At constant 
exchange rates the increase was just 2%.
Tangible fixed assets increased by 3% at 
constant currency to £177 million, with 
increased investment in land and buildings, 
including in respect of additional land 
adjacent to our existing plant in Shanghai, 
China, and in a new site at Chennai in India. 
Both these sites will now be developed, 
with a new facility in India scheduled to be 
completed in early 2016, and a significant 
plant extension in China scheduled for 
completion in 2017 . We will continue to 
invest in capital expenditure projects that 
deliver good returns through increased 
efficiency, reduced costs and flexibility in 
support of our wider supply chain strategy. 
At the end of 2014, the combined heat and 
power plant in Cheltenham was brought on 
stream, which will reduce our energy usage, 
reduce our CO 2e emissions and improve 
our sustainability.
Total working capital increased by 2% at 
constant currency to £170 million. This was 
due to an increase in trade receivables of 
9%, reflecting the higher level of project 
work shipped in the final two months of the 
year, particularly in Asia Pacific. We continue 
to roll out improved stock management 
techniques aimed at optimising stock levels 
across both manufacturing units and sales 
operations in support of sales growth. 
Inventory levels reduced by 3% at constant 
currency, which compares with an increase 
in sales of 5% on the same basis. The overall 
ratio of working capital to sales nudged 
up to 25.0% (2013: 24.7%) reflecting the 
higher debtors.
Return on capital employed
This is one of our most important key 
performance indicators and forms a 
meaningful element of Executive Directors’ 
annual bonuses. Effective deployment and 
efficient use of fixed assets, together with 
close control of debtors and optimisation 
of inventories, drive improved levels of 
capital employed. Following the marked 
improvement in 2013, the overall return on 
capital employed was virtually unchanged 
at 44.3% (2013: 44.4%). The improvement 
in adjusted operating profit was contained 
to just 1% due to the considerable currency 
headwind, excluding which operating profit 
was ahead over 12%. Average capital 
employed (using the average of opening 
and closing sterling balance sheet values 
for the period) also increased by 1%, 
although this was much less affected by 
currency movements and therefore masked 
an underlying improvement in return on 
capital employed.
Capital employed
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Property, plant and equipment 176,668 174,218
Inventories 98,007 104,164
Trade receivables 155,696 145,380
Prepayment and other current assets/(liabilities) (84,134) (79,284)
Capital employed 346,237 344,478
Intangibles and investment in Associate/assets held for sale 101,959 97,398
Post-retirement benefits (75,779) (72,043)
Deferred tax 18,529 18,619
Provisions and long-term payables (1,561) (1,318)
Net cash 52,493 16,400
Net assets 441,878 403,534
Adjusted operating profit 152,950 151,626
Average capital employed 345,358 341,775
Return on capital employed 44.3% 44.4% Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44
Financial review continued
Post-retirement benefits
The net post-retirement benefit liability 
under IAS19 shows a small increase to 
£75.8 million (2013: £72.0 million). The value 
of assets held by the Group’s various defined 
benefit pension arrangements (around 90% 
of which are held in the main UK defined 
benefit pension schemes) increased by 12%, 
reflecting returns on assets again above the 
scheme assumptions and deficit reduction 
contributions of £3.4 million into the UK 
schemes in the year. However, assessed 
liability values increased by 1 1% reflecting 
the continuing fall in yields on AA Corporate 
Bonds, the use of which is mandated under 
IAS19 to determine the present value of 
post-retirement benefit outflows. The main 
UK schemes were closed to new members 
in 2001 but have remained open to future 
service accrual. These schemes have been 
managed for the last three years under a 
dynamic de-risking strategy whereby asset 
and liability values are monitored on a daily 
basis by the asset manager and appropriate 
asset allocation decisions taken as the 
funding level improves against pre-agreed 
trigger points.
The last actuarial valuation of the UK 
schemes, as at 31st December 2013, was 
completed in September 2014 and showed 
those schemes to be broadly in balance. 
As a consequence, deficit reduction cash 
contributions by the Company were ceased 
with effect from October 2014. This actuarial 
position compares with a deficit of 
£42 million, as at 31st December 2013, 
under IAS19.
Cash flow and treasury
2014 was another good year for cash flow, 
founded on a high conversion of profit 
into cash through close control of working 
capital, whilst continuing to invest in capital 
expenditure projects in support of business 
growth and margin improvement.
Adjusted operating cash flow was 
£131.4 million (2013: £143.0 million). 
Cash conversion was 86%, down from 94% 
for the prior year partly due to an increase 
of £4.6 million in capital expenditure to 
£31.3 million, as we invested in a new site 
in India and in additional land adjacent 
to our existing plant in China. We would 
expect capital expenditure in the current 
year to increase again to over £35 million. 
Working capital absorbed £14.5 million 
(2013: £7 .3 million), due to an increase 
in trade debtors reflecting the greater 
proportion of project work in the last two 
months of the year. Our business is vertically 
integrated with high value added, where 
we purchase raw materials in the form 
of castings, forgings and components, 
and manufacture, test, hold inventories 
of finished product and sell direct to end-
users wherever possible. This business 
model means that our working capital 
largely comprises debtors and inventories, 
with a relatively low value of trade creditors 
but also delivered a 44.3% return on 
capital employed.
Taxation paid was £41.9 million, which was 
similar to the previous year and close to 
the tax charge in the profit & loss account, 
with tax paid in virtually every one of the 40 
countries in which the Group has operating 
units. Free cash flow of £89.4 million 
(2013: £101. 1 million) was therefore 
generated and available for dividends 
to shareholders, acquisitions and other 
corporate uses.
Dividend payments were £45. 1 million 
reflecting the increase in the Ordinary 
dividend, partially offset by the reduction in 
the number of shares in issue following the 
share consolidation. Total dividend payments 
in the prior year were £120.0 million and 
included £78.3 million in respect of the 
2012 special dividend paid in July 2013. 
Pension deficit reduction cash contributions 
and provision movements were lower at 
£4.9 million (2013: £7 .0 million) due to the 
cessation of such contributions following the 
triennial actuarial valuation of the main UK 
schemes completed during 2014. There was 
an outflow of £10.0 million for acquisitions, 
largely comprising the purchase of BioPure 
in January 2014. There was an inflow of 
£2.2 million in respect of share capital 
comprising an inflow of £5.2 million for 
shares issued under the Group’s various 
employee share schemes and an outflow 
of £3.0 million for shares bought back and 
lodged in the Group’s Employee Benefit 
Trust, to provide shares for future vesting 
of awards under the Group’s long-term 
performance share plan. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
We therefore generated an increase in 
net cash of £31.7 million during the year. 
Currency movements increased net cash 
balances by £4.4 million, giving closing net 
cash of £52.5 million at 31st December 2014, 
compared with £16.4 million a year earlier.
The Group’s profit and loss account and 
balance sheet are exposed to movements 
in a wide range of different currencies. 
This stems from our direct sales business 
model, with a large number of local 
operating units. These currency exposures 
and risks are managed through a rigorously 
applied Treasury Policy, typically using 
centrally managed and approved simple 
forward contracts to mitigate exposures 
to known cash flows and avoiding the 
use of complex derivative transactions. 
The largest exposures are to the euro, 
US dollar, Chinese renminbi and Korean 
won. Whilst currency effects can be 
significant, the structure of the Group 
provides mitigation through our regional 
manufacturing strategy, diverse spread of 
geographic locations and through the natural 
hedge of having a high proportion of our 
overhead costs in local currency in our direct 
sales operating units.
Capital structure
The Board keeps the capital requirements of 
the Group under regular review, maintaining 
a strong balance sheet to protect the 
business and provide flexibility of funding for 
growth. The Group generates high returns 
on capital and our priority is to maximise 
reinvestment in the business to generate 
further returns in the future. We also prioritise 
the search for suitable acquisitions that can 
expand our geographic reach, deepen our 
market penetration, broaden our product 
range or add to our addressable markets 
in related areas. Acquisition targets need 
to exhibit good strategic fit and meet strict 
commercial, economic and return on 
investment criteria.
Where cash resources exceed expected 
future requirements, we will seek to 
return capital to shareholders and have 
today announced a £91 million return 
via a special dividend of 120p per share. 
This is equivalent to approximately 4% of 
the Company’s share capital and, as is 
common with a significant return of capital, 
is being combined with an appropriate 
share consolidation. The purpose of the 
share consolidation is to maintain, as far as 
possible, the comparability of the share price 
before and after the special dividend and to 
remove the impact of the special dividend on 
employee equity-based incentives.
Adjusted cash flow
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Operating profit 152,950 151,626
Depreciation and amortisation 22,703 22,707
Adjustments (including share plans) 1,615 2,700
Working capital changes (14,523) (7,345)
Net capital expenditure (including software and R&D) (31,331) (26,693)
Cash from operations 131,414 142,995
Net interest (53) 417
Tax paid (41,915) (42,318)
Free cash flow 89,446 101,094
Net dividends paid (45,109) (119,992)
Pension deficit reduction payments and provisions (4,870) (6,985)
Restructuring costs paid – (1,623)
Proceeds from issue of shares/buy-back 2,218 (582)
Acquisitions (9,984) (5,601)
Cash flow for the year 31,701 (33,689)
Exchange movements 4,392 (1,587)
Opening net cash 16,400 51,676
Net cash at 31st December 52,493 16,400 Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 46
Sustainability report
“ We are investing to improve the sustainability of 
our operations because it is the right thing to do 
for the long‑term prospects of our business, our 
key stakeholders and the environment.”
Nick Anderson 
Group Chief Executive
Sustainability is one of the six key strategic priorities through which we are 
driving growth and achieving shareholder value.
Creating a sustainable way of life: the 
business case
As an organisation, we believe that we have an ethical responsibility 
to manage our economic, environmental and social impacts, while 
helping our customers and suppliers to do the same. 
We also believe that it makes good business sense to do so; a 
focus on sustainability drives behaviours that cut costs and increase 
operational efficiency, while creating new business opportunities 
and mitigating risk. Sustainability enhances our competitive edge, 
helps us achieve growth that outperforms our markets and deliver 
shareholder value. 
Sustainability: core to our strategy for growth
Sustainability is one of the six key strategic priorities through 
which we are driving growth and achieving shareholder value. 
Sustainability is at the core of our business operations, driving our 
strategy to innovate and manufacture products that improve the 
sustainability and competitiveness of our customers’ operations, 
while managing our own social and environmental impacts. 
As a global business, we recognise that in an increasingly resource 
constrained and competitive world, we have an obligation to create a 
more sustainable way of life, an aim that is reflected in the standards 
we set ourselves every day.
Managing sustainability
We have a clear and well‑defined management structure in place to 
help us achieve our sustainability objectives.
Employees and organised 
employee groups
Oversee and report on key aspects of sustainability within 
their workplaces at a local level
CEO
Responsible for Company’s 
sustainability strategy
Divisional Directors, Regional and 
General Managers
Ensure the Group’s sustainability policies are upheld and 
implemented by our operating companies
Supported by
Board of Directors 
Group EHS Executive
Group Supply Director
Group HR Director 
Other senior managers
Ensure policies, systems and reporting metrics are in place  
to achieve the Group’s sustainability objectives
Creating a more sustainable  
way of life
Innovating and manufacturing 
products to improve the 
sustainability and competitiveness 
of our customers’ operations.
Operating sustainably and helping to improve our 
customers’ sustainability
Managing our own social and 
environmental impacts. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Sustainability: a strategic review
During 2014, we continued to invest management time into 
developing and furthering our sustainability agenda. We commenced 
a sustainability review, facilitated by an external consultant, Carbon 
Clear, with the aim of enhancing our Group sustainability strategy.  
The review began with a materiality assessment of sustainability 
topics, using the guidelines outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative 
– namely assessing the impacts (positive or negative) that each 
topic has the potential to exert on the business, the extent to which 
we have power to influence performance and outcomes, and their 
significance to stakeholders. As a result of this assessment we have 
broadened our sustainability strategy to encompass five core areas: 
our workplaces, our environment, our customers, our communities 
and our supply chain. We have also redefined our key sustainability 
objectives, as outlined below.
The sustainability review will continue into 2015. We have identified 
sponsors for each of our sustainability objectives and will form 
cross‑functional teams to review current performance, reporting 
metrics and future development opportunities. Where necessary,  
we will implement more reliable data collection processes to 
ensure that we are monitoring and recording progress accurately 
against each of our objectives. Finally, we will focus on employee 
engagement to ensure widespread commitment to achieving our 
objectives across the Group.
In summary: progress to date
• Sustainability materiality assessment completed with an 
external consultant
• Sustainability strategy broadened to include five core areas
• Sustainability objectives redefined
Next steps
• Strategic sustainability review to be continued in 2015
• Further refinements to be made 
Understanding and focusing on material sustainability areas
1. Our workplaces
• To achieve H&S excellence through engagement, empowerment and fostering good behaviours, 
while targeting zero accidents
• To provide for the on‑going training and development of our people
• To promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination 
and in accordance with international human rights principles
• To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding a zero tolerance approach to bribery  
and corruption
2. Our environment
• To limit the environmental impacts of our operations through reducing water use and minimising 
and managing effluent and waste
• To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with 
the aim of reducing carbon emissions
3. Our customers
• To provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers’ operations 
through helping them to improve plant efficiency and productivity, reduce energy and water use 
and maintain product quality
4. Our communities
• To engage positively with the communities in which we operate and to offer financial support to 
approved charities
5. Our supply chain
• To embed sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 48
Sustainability report continued
Our workplaces
Objective
T o achieve health and safety (H&S) excellence through engagement, empowerment and fostering good 
behaviours, while targeting zero accidents
Target: Zero accidents
2014
2013
2012
2011
5.4
4.4
5.5
6.0
2014
2013
2012
2011
26
21
26
28
2014
2013
2012
2011
31
32
32
36
Accidents with over seven 
days of lost time per 1,000 
employees
Total number of accidents 
with over seven days of 
lost time
Total number of accidents 
with over three days of 
lost time
“ We are empowering our people 
to take action to mitigate risk 
and strengthening the H&S 
culture across the Group.”
Mark Wyatt 
Group Environment, Health 
and Safety (EHS) Executive
Performance in 2014 
Looking after the health and wellbeing of our people is a key 
priority for the Group. We are striving to achieve excellence in our 
H&S performance, ensuring that our workplaces are safe for our 
employees, contractors and visitors. We seek to promote a H&S 
culture throughout the organisation, through employee engagement, 
empowerment and the fostering of good behaviours.
The Group Chief Executive and Board have overall responsibility 
for H&S, and review H&S matters at least bi‑annually. During 2014, 
we appointed Mark Wyatt as Group EHS Executive. Mark has 
responsibility for the day‑to‑day management of EHS across the 
Group, facilitates the sharing of best practice and ensures that 
appropriate processes are in place for collecting and reporting 
H&S data. At a local level, H&S officers and committees record and 
report data and review H&S performance, while General Managers 
have ultimate responsibility for ensuring the implementation of H&S 
policies and procedures within their operating companies.
All H&S accidents, near misses and incidents of occupational 
diseases are recorded locally and reported monthly, with RIDDOR 
recordable accidents and incidents being reported immediately to 
the Group EHS Executive. A follow‑up report is expected within two 
days of the accident report, detailing improvements made to prevent 
a repeat of the incident.
All of our operating companies are expected to adhere to the Group 
H&S Policy. Each operating company is also expected to have a 
more detailed local policy in place. Appropriate H&S management 
systems are in effect in all our operating companies, with eight of our 
15 manufacturing sites certified to OHSAS 18001 (2013: seven).
During 2014, our over seven days of lost time accident rate increased 
slightly to 5.4 per 1,000 employees and the total number of over 
seven day accidents increased by five to 26 incidents. The H&S 
benchmark that we use is the RIDDOR over seven day accident rate 
in the UK manufacturing sector, which was 3.99 accidents per 1,000 
employees in 2013/2014. We are disappointed not to have achieved 
a below industry average accident rate during 2014. 
Although the total number of accidents that resulted in over seven 
days of lost time increased during 2014, we saw a significant 
difference between the first and second halves of the year. 
During the first six months of the year, a total of 19 over seven day 
lost time accidents occurred, an average of three per month, while 
during the latter six months of the year just seven such accidents 
occurred, an average of one per month. If we are able to maintain 
the much lower accident rate achieved during the latter half of 2014, 
our accident rate during 2015 will be significantly below the industry 
average benchmark.
During 2014, the total number of accidents that resulted in over three 
days of lost time fell slightly to 31 accidents (2013: 32). Since 201 1, 
the total number over three day lost time accidents has fallen 
by 14%.
During the latter half of 2014, in particular, we made significant 
changes to the way we manage H&S across the Group and we 
believe that our significantly reduced serious accident rate during the 
second half of the year is reflective of the increased focus on H&S 
and a result of initiatives that have been introduced.
During 2014 we established an improved Group accident  
investigation process. The process standardises a common 
approach across the Group and allows each operating company 
to thoroughly investigate incidents to identify the root cause of an 
accident, using a “5 Why” approach. A “strengths of defences” 
matrix has been established to capture good H&S practices and 
improve defences with the aim of preventing future risks. A corrective 
action matrix has also been established, which is tracking corrective 
actions to completion. These matrices are regularly reviewed by the 
Group EHS executive, to ensure that strong H&S defences have 
been identified and implemented.  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
0
1
2
3
4
5
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
  Total accidents         Six month average
Objective
T o provide for the on‑going training and development 
of our people
Target: 10 days of training per customer facing employee
2014
2013
2012
7.4
7.2
5.6
Average number of formal training days 
per customer facing employee
Accidents with over seven days of lost time 
per 1,000 employees during 2014
Performance in 2014 
Recruiting high calibre employees and developing their skills 
is essential for the long‑term sustainability of the business. 
The knowledge and skills of our customer facing sales and service 
engineers is one of our key differentiators and is central to our 
ability to offer value to customers. It is also one of the six strategic 
priorities through which we are driving growth and delivering 
shareholder value.
The Group Human Resources Director has ultimate responsibility 
for ensuring the professional development of our people, he is 
supported in this by the Group Head of Learning and Talent. 
At a local level, the Company’s management structure provides for 
mentoring and the professional development of all our employees.
Our engineers are expected to participate in on‑going training and 
we provide opportunities for them to do so, through a combination 
of classroom based, online and on‑ the‑ job learning. Our engineers 
receive intensive training to build their knowledge of products and 
applications, and accumulate significant experience over typically 
many years. 
We have 45 training centres worldwide, which are used by both our 
employees and our customers. We also have an extensive e‑learning 
library which contains courses on a wide variety of topics, such as 
condensate removal, customer service, project management and 
problem solving. 
During 2014, we slightly increased the average number of formal 
training days per customer facing employee and added 36 new 
e‑learning courses to our library.
Our Spirax Sarco Leadership Academy prepares promising 
employees for future leadership positions within the Group. 
Since launching in 201 1, 42 of our future leaders have attended a 
two‑week Advanced Management Programme, run by the Ashridge 
Business School, 15 of those during 2014.
In addition to supporting the professional development of our people, 
we provide training on our Core Values, the environment, health and 
safety, and anti‑bribery and corruption, ensuring that our employees 
understand their personal responsibility in these areas.  
Two‑ weekly H&S review meetings/conference calls have been 
established and these are attended by H&S officers from all of 
our manufacturing sites. Details of all incidents and near misses 
are shared during the meetings and all of our sites are expected 
to quickly implement changes to ensure that no recurrence of the 
incident occurs in their locality.
We have continued to roll out our Behavioural Based Safety (BBS) 
programme across our manufacturing sites and have established 
a mentoring system with Spirax Sarco Inc., USA – the first Group 
company to establish BBS – mentoring the manufacturing 
companies in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, and the Group EHS 
Executive mentoring our other manufacturing organisations. 
Four manufacturing companies adopted BBS during 2014 and we 
will continue to roll out the programme during 2015.
H&S awareness training is a key component of BBS. All our 
manufacturing facilities hold regular EHS training sessions. 
For example, every month the entire workforce at the Spirax Sarco 
manufacturing facility in the USA participate in an EHS training 
session which is delivered by the EHS leader. “Tool box talks” are 
held at Spirax Sarco UK’s manufacturing site, while our Spirax Sarco 
operating company in France holds a three‑ day training event for 
field engineers annually, which includes EHS awareness training. 
Spirax Sarco Inc.'s BBS programme and monthly EHS training event 
are two of the key drivers that have helped the Company to achieve 
over one year without a lost time accident. In celebration, they 
recently held an award dinner for employees with prizes given for 
commitment to the Company’s health and safety programmes.
Central to our Group H&S programme is the empowerment of 
employees to identify and report potential hazards in the workplace 
and to exercise their right to withdraw from unsafe work areas. 
In this way, we seek to prevent accidents before they occur. 
During 2015 we will launch a new H&S excellence vision that will 
be based on a leading indicator programme. The programme 
will include an employee concern reporting system, further H&S 
training, an enhanced near miss reporting system and an action 
tracking system. The leading indicator programme will prevent the 
occurrence of incidents, driving down lagging indicators such as the 
accident rate, making our workplaces safer.
 Read more on page 21
Our workplaces Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50
Sustainability report continued
Objective
T o promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination and in 
accordance with international human rights principles
Target: 25% women on our Board as opportunities arise
Board gender diversity Senior management  
gender diversity 
Total workforce gender 
diversity
Males : 8  Females: 1 Males: 348 Females: 68 Males: 3,792 Females: 1,005
“ We promote all aspects of 
equality and actively develop 
diverse management teams 
with different backgrounds 
and experiences, contributing 
to our highly successful global 
business.”
Frank Richardson 
Group Human Resources Director 
Performance in 2014
We recognise that diversity of gender, age, culture, experience and 
expertise serve to enhance our ability to govern and operate the 
business effectively and ethically.
We are fully committed to the principle of equal opportunity in 
employment and ensure that all applicants and employees receive 
equal treatment during their recruitment, transfer, promotion, training 
and assessment of salary and benefits, irrespective of sex, race, 
gender reassignment, disability, sexual orientation, age, religion, 
beliefs, pregnancy or maternity, marriage or civil partnership. We are 
also committed to maintaining workplaces free from discrimination, 
victimisation, harassment or bullying.
As an international business with a direct sales presence in 55 
countries worldwide, diversity is an integral part of our operations. 
For example, the General Managers of our operating companies 
represent over 35 nationalities. Diversity is also a feature of our Board 
of Directors, with Board members variously having British, American 
and Dutch citizenship and an overseas citizenship of India.
We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment 
made by disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes 
and abilities. We have practices in place to facilitate the continuing 
employment of those who may become disabled during the 
period in which they are employed by the Company, and disabled 
persons are entitled to the same opportunities for training, career 
development and promotion as all other Company employees. 
Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc is a member of the Business Disability 
Forum, an organisation that offers help and support to companies 
that are striving to increase their disability awareness, through giving 
practical advice and sharing best practice.
Achieving an even balance between the genders is a common 
challenge within the engineering sector as internationally there 
remains a preponderance of males with engineering qualifications, 
as well as entrenched gender stereotyping associated with 
technical careers. Through our work in the community we 
are trying to address this imbalance and encourage students, 
irrespective of gender, to consider engineering as a career (see 
page 54). Graduate recruitment is a key area of focus through 
which we are seeking to address the gender imbalance in our 
business. For example, during 2014 Spirax Sarco UK recruited four 
engineering graduates; two males and two females. We also work 
with universities to offer “Year in Industry” placements to engineering 
students and attend Graduate Engineering shows. Through contact 
with young engineers we aim to spread the message that Spirax 
Sarco is a great place to work and an equal opportunities employer.
The Group supports the human rights principles set out in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions 
of the International Labour Organisation. Our Group Human Rights 
Policy recognises that all individuals have the right to lead a dignified 
life, free from fear and want, and free to express independent beliefs. 
It also includes the right of all employees to equal opportunities and 
non‑discriminatory treatment, security of person, a safe working 
environment and a fair wage. We also recognise the rights of children 
and reject the use of forced or compulsory labour. 
We communicate regularly with our employees through a variety of 
channels, such as face‑to‑face meetings and employee surveys. 
Our aim is to ensure that all our employees are informed about, 
and are engaged in, their part of the business locally, while having 
a wider understanding of the Group and its future direction. 
Such communication channels also provide opportunities for 
employees to air grievances or raise concerns which can then be 
reviewed and appropriately addressed. 
Our workplaces Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
2014
2013
2012
2011
73
66
59
47
Employees working in operations  
with ISO 14001 %
Objective
T o limit the environmental impacts of our operations 
through reducing water use and minimising and 
managing effluent and waste
Target:  All our operating companies to achieve ISO 14001: 2004  
by the end of 2016
Performance in 2014
ISO 14001 is an international environmental management standard 
which demonstrates that the environmental impacts of a business 
are being managed and reduced. The certification process is 
rigorous and requires external auditing against prescribed standards, 
including waste management and energy consumption. This year we 
have further increased the total number of our employees who work 
in operations covered by ISO 14001 to 73% (2013: 66%). We have 
set a rigorous target for all our operating companies to achieve  
ISO 14001: 2004 by the end of 2016.
We recognise that clean water is a valuable resource that should be 
managed effectively. While excellent water management practices 
are in place locally in some of our operating companies, it is our 
aim to improve water management across the Group. We do not 
currently collect water use data at a Group level, but it is our intention 
to commence Group‑wide data collection during 2015. Once a 
water consumption baseline is established, we will actively monitor 
and manage performance at a Group level and set water use 
reduction targets.
Reducing the amount of waste generated by our operations and 
the quantity of waste sent to landfill is an important component of 
managing our environmental sustainability. Recycling schemes are 
in operation across the Group and we have dedicated contractors to 
pro‑actively manage waste. In addition to working hard to manage 
waste once it is generated, we seek to prevent the creation of waste 
within our operations. For example, through reducing the quantity 
of packaging materials and using sustainably sourced and recycled 
materials wherever possible when shipping our products around 
the Group and to customers, we prevent the creation of waste and 
reduce landfill. 
Although we have been monitoring waste production and recycling 
for some time, we do not currently have robust Group‑wide waste 
management and recycling data; it is our intention to improve our 
data collection processes during 2015.
Our environment
Objective
T o act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding 
a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption
Target: Zero incidents of bribery or corruption
“ We will not tolerate breaches of 
our Anti‑Bribery and Corruption 
Policy; any suspected 
infringements will be thoroughly 
investigated.”
Andy Robson 
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Performance in 2014 
Our Core Values of respect, accountability, passion, integrity and 
delivery, provide the foundation upon which we make our decisions, 
drive innovation and manage our global operations. The practice of 
our Core Values makes us more competitive in the marketplace and 
a better company to work for. 
In addition to our Core Values, our Group Management Code 
articulates the standards that we expect everyone in the Group to 
meet, including the requirement to comply with laws, regulations and 
Group policies; the rejection of bribery and corruption; the promotion 
of ethical business practices; the fair treatment of customers; 
the confidentiality of information; and respect for our people, 
communities and the environment. 
It is Group policy to conduct business free from bribery and 
corruption. We will not enter into contractual relationships with third 
parties who are known to engage in corrupt practices and we will 
not be involved in giving or receiving bribes or favours. In accordance 
with Group policy, we do not make political donations. 
We raise employee awareness of our Core Values and the 
Group Management Code through our induction processes, the 
requirement for all employees to sign up to the Group Management 
Code and training. 
All Directors, senior managers and employees who have regular 
contact with customers or suppliers must take part in anti‑bribery 
and corruption training and pass an online test to demonstrate their 
understanding of the Group’s Anti‑Bribery and Corruption Policy 
and its implementation. Since its introduction in 2012, over 3,500 
employees have completed this training. In this way the Group 
ensures that it has implemented adequate procedures to comply 
with the Bribery Act 2010.
It is the responsibility of all employees to alert their manager to 
any breach of Group policies or procedures. If an employee has 
reasonable grounds for believing that the Group Management Code 
is being breached and does not receive a satisfactory response, or 
feels unable to voice the matter with his or her manager, he or she is 
able to contact the Company Secretary in Cheltenham and provide 
full details. The Company Secretary will ensure that the allegation is 
properly investigated and the employment of the person contacting 
the Company Secretary will be protected appropriately.
Our workplaces Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52
Sustainability report continued
Objective
T o minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with the aim of 
reducing carbon emissions
Target: To achieve a year‑on‑year reduction in our CO 2e emissions intensity
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
50.8
51.8
44.9
45.9
48.2
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
34,431
33,961
29,266
29,392
29,579
CO
2
e intensity tonnes per  
£m of inflation adjusted sales,  
at constant currency
Total Group CO
2
e emissions  
(scope 1 and 2) tonnes
Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions inventory*
* Scope 1 and 2 emissions
“ We are investing in energy 
efficient equipment and 
systems to improve our 
CO
2
e emissions intensity.”
Mark Wyatt 
Group Environment, Health 
and Safety (EHS) Executive
Performance in 2014
To demonstrate our commitment to measuring, managing and 
disclosing our emissions, our CO 2e 2014 emissions data have been 
audited by TÜV Nord UK, who have provided limited assurance 
as follows:
“TÜV NORD UK is acting as the independent verifier of the carbon 
footprint of SPIRAX SARCO. Based on our checks and reviews, 
taking into consideration a materiality level of 10% and a limited 
level of assurance we have found no evidence suggesting that the 
calculated greenhouse gas emissions are materially misstated and, 
hence, they are not an unreasonable assertion of the greenhouse 
gas-related data and information. 
Further, no facts became evident, which led us to the assumption 
that the calculation was not carried out in accordance with the 
applied international norm for the quantification, monitoring and 
reporting of GHG emissions (GHG-Protocol).
The emissions for the reporting period 1st January 2014 to 
31st December 2014 (inclusive) are: 16,273 tCO 2e for Scope 1 
and 18, 158 tCO 2e for Scope 2.
TÜV NORD UK 
London 
March 2015”
While our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO 2e emissions increased 
marginally this year, we reduced our CO 2e emissions intensity 
by 2% to 50.8 tonnes per £m of inflation adjusted sales at 
constant currency.
We have employed an “operational control” definition to outline 
our carbon footprint boundary. Included within that boundary are 
manufacturing facilities, administrative and sales offices where we 
have authority to implement our operating policies. For each of these 
entities we have measured and reported on our relevant Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions. (Scope 1 refers to direct emissions from 
sources owned or controlled by the Company; Scope 2 refers to 
indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of energy generated 
off site, including electricity.) Excluded from our footprint boundary 
are entities where we do not have operational control. In 2014 this 
included Spirax Marshall Private Ltd and Econotherm. Also excluded 
from the footprint boundary are emission sources from operating 
companies established during 2014 and from companies acquired 
during the year. We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and 
emission factors from the UK Government’s GHG Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to calculate our total CO 2e 
emissions figures.
Several important steps were taken during 2014 to improve energy 
management across the Group. For example, Spirax Sarco Korea 
became our first operating company to obtain ISO 50001, an 
energy management standard which enables organisations to more 
efficiently manage energy. 
To improve energy management and reduce carbon emissions 
at the Spirax Sarco manufacturing and R&D site in Cheltenham, 
UK, the most energy intensive of our operations, during 2014 we 
commissioned and installed both a Building Energy Management 
System (BEMS) and a Combined Heat and Power plant (CHP). 
The BEMS enables the identification of areas of high energy 
consumption or inefficiency within the plant which can then be 
targeted to increase efficiency. The CHP plant simultaneously 
generates usable heat and power (electricity) in a single process. 
It employs a gas engine to drive an alternator and the resulting 
electricity is used on site. The heat produced during power 
generation is recovered and used to raise steam, which is used in 
our production and testing facilities.
In addition, Spirax Sarco South Africa installed solar panels and 
energy saving lighting, to generate renewable energy and reduce 
energy use on site.
  Electricity 53%
  Business travel 20%
  Natural gas 24%
  Other 3%
   Scope 1          Scope 2
Our environment Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Objective
T o provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers’ operations through helping 
them to improve plant efficiency and productivity, reduce energy and water use and maintain product quality
2014
2013
2012
2011
4.8m
4.6m
4.9m
4.0m
Tonnes of CO
2
e emissions our customers 
saved as a result of purchasing our energy 
management products
Spirax Sarco, China helps Jiangxi Xinglin Baima 
Pharmaceutical Company Ltd reduce annual coal 
consumption by 200 tonnes
With a desire to increase energy efficiency and reduce associated 
costs, the Jiangxi Xinglin Baima Pharmaceutical Company, located 
in Nanchang, China, recently asked Spirax Sarco to complete an 
energy survey of their steam system.
The survey found that inappropriately selected and poorly sized 
steam traps were resulting in steam leakage and a build‑up 
of condensate in the steam system, reducing plant efficiency. 
Our knowledgeable engineer was able to identify and install the 
most appropriate type and size of steam traps throughout the steam 
system to optimise efficiency. 
The new steam traps have now been in use for one year. During that 
time daily coal consumption has been reduced by over 6% saving 
200 tonnes of coal in a year. As a result of these impressive 
improvements in energy efficiency, the pharmaceutical company 
won an award from the Nanchang Energy Saving Office.
MasoSine pumps save orange juice manufacturer 
28,000kWh electricity per year
The energy saving benefits of our MasoSine pumps were central 
to an orange juice manufacturer’s recent decision to purchase 
two SPS 500 pumps to move highly viscous fruit juices at their 
manufacturing site in the USA. 
Our customer had considered alternative pump types, each of 
which required a 45kW electrical motor to power the pump to 
enable it to handle the highly viscous fluids. When our sales engineer 
demonstrated the ability of a MasoSine pump to handle fluids using 
only a 31kW electrical motor, the benefits of our pumps were clear. 
Assuming 1,000 operating hours a year (four hours/day, five days/
week, 50 weeks/year) each MasoSine pump installed at the factory 
saves the customer 14,000kWh of electricity and reduces CO 2 
emission by 7 ,000kg.
Customer case studies:
Performance in 2014
Helping our customers to achieve their environmental targets, 
through improving plant efficiency, reducing energy and water usage 
and maintaining product quality and hence avoiding waste, is central 
to our sustainability strategy and business model. 
Reducing CO 2e emissions is one of the key drivers that our 
customers have for improving their on‑site energy management. 
We estimate that the Spirax Sarco energy management products 
sold during 2014 will reduce our customers’ CO 2e emissions by 
4.8 million tonnes annually. The methodology used to determine 
these savings has been independently assessed with the assistance 
of Ricardo‑ AEA Ltd. The methodology remains unchanged but is 
reviewed annually by Ricardo‑ AEA taking revised emission factors 
into account. The calculation is based on a selected range of energy 
saving products, for which we can quantify savings with reasonable 
accuracy. Many of our other products, such as pressure and 
temperature controls, will also provide CO 2e savings but as these are 
not easily quantifiable they are excluded from our methodology. 
The design and unique action of our pumps, as well as the greater 
efficiency that our customers can achieve as a result of the 
application of our pumps to their processes, can provide substantial 
energy savings over other pump types. For example, our MasoSine 
pumps are designed to gently handle highly viscous products such 
as raw silicone gum, used in industrial applications. Alternative pump 
technologies require large electrical motors to handle viscous 
fluids, which results in a high demand on electrical power. 
MasoSine pumps are unaffected by high viscosity and use smaller 
motors compared with other established technologies, requiring less 
energy to run.
In addition to improving energy efficiency and reducing our 
customers’ CO 2e emissions, our products and services often help to 
reduce water consumption. For example, within the mining industry 
the application of a peristaltic pump from Watson‑Marlow results in 
an average water saving of over 70%, in comparison with common 
centrifugal pumps. For our steam customers, our products and 
services can reduce water consumption in many ways, for example 
through improving the management of condensate and returning it 
to the boiler house; capturing and utilising flash steam, which would 
otherwise be lost to atmosphere; or improving the quality of boiler 
feed water, thus reducing the need for boiler “blow‑ down”. 
STAPS wireless steam 
trap monitor
Our customers Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54
Sustainability report continued
Objective
T o engage positively with the communities in which we operate and to offer financial support  
to approved charities
“ C o mm un i t y e n ga g e me n t 
is more than charitable 
donations, it is giving our 
talents and time to make 
people’s lives better .”
Klaus Rümler 
Divisional Director, Asia Pacific
Performance in 2014
As a responsible business we recognise the importance of positively 
affecting the communities in which we operate. Through providing 
employment that fairly remunerates people for the work they do, we 
contribute to the economic wellbeing of individuals, families and the 
local economies of the areas in which we operate. We supplement 
this through making charitable donations and engaging in our 
local communities.
The Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust (Trust) makes donations in 
accordance with the Group Charitable Donations Policy and focuses 
its donations in the following areas: education; social services for 
the less advantaged, disabled or abused; healthcare; the arts; the 
environment; and disaster relief. 
During 2014, the Trust made 44 donations, ranging from £150 to 
£20,000. Charitable donations were made to a geographically 
widespread and diverse range of charities. For example, the Trust 
donated £10,000 to the Cheltenham Open Door charity which 
offers relief to people of a rootless way of life, and made a sizable 
donation to Masagna UK's "Mentor Ebola Initiative" which is focused 
on educating local communities to prevent practices that spread 
the virus.
In addition to donations made by the Trust, a further £47 ,000  
(2013: £64,000) was donated to charitable causes by our operating 
companies during 2014. 
The following principles guide our charitable donations. 
Donations should: 
• benefit the largest possible number of people
• benefit people in our local area
• be given to registered charities
•  assist with disaster relief, particularly where our employees or  
their families might be affected, regardless of location in the world
• not be given to any cause which conflicts with our Ethics Policy
• not be given to political parties.
We encourage our employees to be involved in contributing their 
time and resources towards improving the quality of life in the 
communities in which they live and work, and support them in 
their efforts. Our employees frequently undertake independent 
fundraising initiatives and raise significant funds for charitable causes 
that have particular importance to them. For example, this year a 
group of six Spirax Sarco employees participated in a 24‑ hour relay 
race in Shanghai, China to raise money for a charity that provides 
free operations for children born with a cleft lip or palate. The six 
runners (five males and one female) between them ran 325km in just 
24 hours. Spirax Sarco China donated the race entrance fee and 
made a contribution to the charity after the race. 
As a Group we place particular emphasis on education, particularly 
in the fields of science and engineering. For example, every year 
Spirax Sarco UK sponsors the Cheltenham Science Festival and 
designs a stand, which is manned by our employees, through 
which it engages children in the science of steam and its modern 
applications. The Company also hosts STEMnet (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Network) events for local 
school pupils at our Cheltenham site. During 2014, Spirax Sarco 
Korea held free classes for university students whose major is in 
mechanics, chemical or other engineering‑ related fields, at their 
live‑steam training facility in Seoul. 
Charitable giving is currently organised locally by our operating 
companies. However, under the direction of Klaus Rümler, Divisional 
Director, the Asia Pacific division of Spirax Sarco is taking steps 
to better co‑ordinate community engagement across the region. 
As well as increasing reporting and data collection, Klaus has 
set community engagement targets and during 2015 will begin a 
programme of education to raise awareness of the importance of 
community engagement across our operating companies in the Asia 
Pacific region. 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
140
136
132
132
112
Group Charitable Trust 
donations £000
STEMnet event for local school 
pupils, Cheltenham
Our communities Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Performance in 2014
Embedding sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes is 
central to ensuring the sustainability of our supply chain. Our Supplier 
Development Guide (Guide) outlines the expectations that we have 
for our suppliers, particularly in relation to their employees. 
Key components of the Guide include:
The employer is chosen
• Suppliers should not use forced, bonded or non‑voluntary prison 
labour; employees should be free to choose to work for, or leave 
the employment of the supplier
Employment relationships
• Suppliers should establish recognised employment relationships 
with their employees that are in accordance with national law and 
good practice
• Suppliers’ employees should be provided with an easy to read 
contract of employment with clarity in relation to wage levels
Suppliers' treatment of employees
• Under no circumstances should suppliers abuse or intimidate 
employees
• Suppliers should have a grievance/appeal procedure that is clear 
and easy to understand 
Discrimination
• Suppliers should have a policy of equality for all in the workplace 
with no discrimination on the basis of race, caste, religion, 
nationality, age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, 
union membership or political affiliation 
Law
• Suppliers should always work within the laws of their country
Objective
T o embed sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes
“ We are systematically working 
with our suppliers to develop a 
more sustainable supply chain.”
Ian Farnworth 
Group Supply Chain Director
Health and safety
• Suppliers should have appropriate H&S policies and procedures 
and these should be demonstrable in the workplace
• Suppliers should monitor compliance with a H&S policy
• Suppliers should provide employees (at the supplier’s expense) 
with all necessary H&S equipment, eg gloves, masks, helmets
• Working conditions should be comfortable and hygienic, 
employees should have regular breaks and have access to water 
suitable for drinking and washing
• Suppliers should identify specific hazards, eg substances or 
equipment, and should implement processes to minimise risk
We also expect our suppliers to adhere to the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the 
International Labour Organisation and we will not countenance the 
use of child labour in our supply chain. 
In addition to requiring our suppliers to demonstrate high standards 
in their employment practices, we expect our suppliers to take steps 
to mitigate their environmental impacts, reject bribery and corruption, 
maintain product quality and source responsibly. 
Pre‑qualification questionnaires, annual supplier reviews and on‑site 
visits allow us to assess and monitor suppliers’ performance against 
our required standards. If suppliers are found to fall short of our 
standards we try to work with them to implement better practices; 
if they are unwilling, or fail, to improve, we seek to source from an 
alternative supplier.
During 2014, we established a new Supplier Code that builds upon 
the key components of the Guide and outlines a more extensive set 
the non‑ negotiable minimum standards that we expect our suppliers 
to adhere to. The new Supplier Code will be rolled out across the 
Group during 2015. For more information see page 69.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index
FTSE Group confirms that Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria 
and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global index company 
FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, 
social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practices.
Our supply chain Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56
Our governance
Krishnamurthy 
Rajagopal  
Independent  
Non‑Executive  
Director
Trudy  
Schoolenberg  
Independent  
Non‑Executive  
Director
Jay Whalen  
Executive Director 
WMFTG
Neil Daws  
Executive Director 
EMEA
Andy Robson  
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Bill Whiteley  
Chairman
David Meredith 
Finance Director
Jamie Pike 
Independent  
Non‑Executive  
Director
Senior Independent 
Director
Clive Watson  
Independent  
Non‑Executive  
Director
Nick Anderson  
Group Chief 
Executive Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58
Chairman’s introduction
“ The highest standards of corporate  
governance are ingrained in our culture 
allowing our shareholders to be confident 
that what we do, we do right.”
Bill Whiteley 
Chairman
Our approach to governance
Governance helps us to:
• Ensure our shareholders receive a good 
return on their investment
• Behave with integrity as colleagues, 
making sure that each feels valued, 
motivated and rewarded
• Treat our customers, suppliers and local 
communities properly
• Respect the environment.
Key points in this section:
• Our shareholders' perceptions
•  Full compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code
• Changes recommended by 
shareholder representative bodies 
implemented
• Promoting Group values
• Strengthening and refreshing our 
compliance programme
What governance means to us
We believe that good governance is about 
being honest, transparent and accountable 
in the way we run our business. In 2014 
we asked external advisers, Investor 
Perceptions Ltd, to carry out a study to 
clarify what our shareholders think about 
us. One of the main findings was that 
shareholders like our reliability and consider 
that we are a safe pair of hands. High praise 
indeed and the Board intends to make 
sure that we live up to those expectations. 
To me, good governance and strong ethical 
values are absolutely essential to a long‑term 
reliable business.
In this section of the Annual Report and 
Accounts, we set out our approach to 
governance, explain how the Board and its 
Committees are structured and what they 
have done during the year. 
Our Governance report explains how 
the Group has applied the principles 
and complied with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2012
1
 (Code). We are fully compliant 
with the requirements of the Code, as 
set out in detail on the Group’s website, 
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com, under 
the Governance section.
Regulatory disclosures required under the 
Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules 
7 .2.6 can be found on page 100.
Turning to the Remuneration report, on 
pages 76 and 77 , Krishnamurthy Rajagopal, 
the Remuneration Committee Chairman, 
summarises our three‑year Remuneration 
policy that was approved by 98.5% of 
shareholder votes at our Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) in May 2014. The Annual 
report on remuneration 2014 sets out 
the details of executive compensation 
throughout 2014, which will be subject to 
the normal advisory vote at the 2015 AGM. 
At the AGM we will also seek shareholder 
approval for the renewal of our Performance 
Share Plan.
Key actions during the year
During 2014 we continued our active 
dialogue with our principal investors and 
shareholder representative bodies to 
ensure that we understand their views. 
Indeed, we carried out a review of the 
annual analysis conducted by Institutional 
Shareholder Services Inc., The Investment 
Association (formerly IVIS) and Pensions & 
Investment Research Consultants Ltd. As a 
direct result of their comments, we have 
introduced a cap on non‑audit fees paid to 
the auditor of 70% of the average audit fees 
over the last three years, automatic audit 
tendering no later than every 10 years, a 
general statement on matters discussed 
at the Board to ensure shareholders 
have adequate information and we have 
fully disclosed in our Sustainability report 
employee and health/safety KPIs. Finally, 
whistle‑blowing has been fully reviewed 
by the Audit Committee and a new 
whistle‑blowing policy issued, compliant 
with the Whistle‑blowing Arrangements 
Code of Practice issued by the British 
Standards Institute and Public Concern at 
Work. We have also improved employee 
access to the whistle‑blowing process 
by the introduction of a multi‑lingual 
independent hotline. 
As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility 
for the Group’s performance and for 
overseeing the management of risk. 
The Board and the Risk Management 
Committee will ensure that new processes 
are in place for the on‑going monitoring 
of risk management and internal controls 
from 1st January 2015 as a result of Code 
changes published in September 2014.
We acknowledge that shareholders look 
to us to promote the long‑term success of 
the Group and, as Chairman, I recognise 
that it is my role to provide the leadership to 
enable it to do so effectively. Building on the 
externally‑facilitated independent review by 
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Ltd in 
2012, the Board carried out a full anonymous 
1
  Compliance statement
    The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on 
their website, www.frc.org.uk. The edition of the Code published 
in September 2012 applied throughout our financial year ended 
31st December 2014.
Governance is at the core of our business Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
self‑appraisal in 2014. As a result of this 
review, it was decided that, where possible, 
Committee meetings would be held on 
separate days to the Board meetings to 
allow for more in‑depth discussion and the 
number of meetings between all Directors 
and shareholders would be increased, to 
their mutual advantage. We are looking 
forward to Dr Long engaging with us for a 
second time by carrying out an independent 
Board effectiveness review in 2015.
The Board takes seriously its responsibility 
for promoting the Group’s values and, in 
particular, for ensuring that all employees, 
and everyone associated with the Group, 
are aware of their responsibility to act lawfully 
and conduct themselves in accordance 
with high standards of business integrity. 
These values are embedded in our Group 
Management Code. 
A strong anti‑corruption culture has long 
been at the centre of the Group’s values. 
In 2014 we again improved our compliance 
programme. Over 3,500 employees have 
taken our anti‑bribery training using a 
specialised “anti‑bribery@work” programme. 
We will shortly be introducing a biennial 
refresher examination.
To ensure our suppliers comply with human 
rights principles, we introduced a Supplier 
Code which is written to international 
standards such as the OECD Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, 
the Core Conventions of the International 
Labour Organisation and the 10 Principles 
of the United Nations Global Compact. 
In striving to achieve excellence in our 
health and safety performance, we 
appointed a Group Environment, Health and 
Safety Executive. 
Good corporate governance is part of our 
everyday life at Spirax Sarco.
I look forward to meeting you at our AGM on 
Monday, 1 1th May 2015.
Focus on our Board
Core expertise
  Engineering  9
  International  5
  Finance  3
  Operational  3
  Sales and marketing  3
  Senior management  3
Nationality
  British
1, 2
 7
  American
1
 2
  Dutch 1
Gender
  Male  8
  Female  1
1
  N.J. Anderson holds dual British and American citizenship.
2
 K. Rajagopal also holds an overseas citizenship of India.
  Full Board biographies can be found on pages 60–61 Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60
Board of Directors
Bill Whiteley
BSc, FCMA (66) 
Chairman
Committees
Nomination (Chairman)
Appointed to the Board
July 2002. Appointed Chairman in June 2009
Areas of experience
Senior management, engineering, international
Background
Until his retirement in 2008, Bill Whiteley was 
Chief Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been 
a Director since 1984. Bill has been awarded 
an honorary Doctorate of Engineering by the 
University of Bath.
External appointments
Chairman of Brammer plc and Hill & Smith 
Holdings PLC.
David Meredith
FCMA, CGMA (55)
Finance Director
Committees
Risk Management
Appointed to the Board 
June 1992
Areas of experience
Finance and accounting, engineering, international, 
pensions
Background
Before joining the Group in 1988 as Group 
Accountant, David Meredith trained as an 
accountant with Redman Heenan International, a 
specialist engineering group, and was appointed 
Accountant at their Heenan Drives Ltd subsidiary. 
David later joined English & American Reinsurance 
Company where he held finance positions.
Jamie Pike
MBA, MA, MIMechE (59)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Senior Independent Director
Committees
Audit, Nomination, Remuneration
Appointed to the Board 
May 2014
Areas of experience
Senior management, engineering, international
Background
Jamie Pike joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 and 
was Chief Executive of Burmah Castrol Chemicals 
before leading the Foseco buy‑out in 2001 and 
its subsequent flotation in 2005. Prior to joining 
Burmah, he was a partner at Bain & Company. 
Jamie was educated at Oxford, holds an MBA 
from INSEAD and is a Member of the Institute of 
Mechanical Engineers.
External appointments
Chairman of Lafarge Tarmac Limited, Tyman plc 
and RPC Group.
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal
FREng, CEng, FIET, FIMechE, FIE, FCMI, PhD (61) 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Committees
Audit, Nomination, Remuneration (Chairman)
Appointed to the Board
February 2009
Areas of experience
Remuneration, engineering, senior management, 
operations
Background
On completing his Doctorate in 1980, 
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal held senior positions 
in BOC Group plc prior to being named Chief 
Executive of BOC Edwards and Executive Director 
of the BOC Group plc, before retiring in 2006. 
He was previously a Non‑Executive Director of FSI 
International Inc., Foseco Ltd and Dyson Group plc.
External appointments
Chairman of UMI
3
 Ltd and HHV Pumps Ltd.  
Non‑Executive Director of WS Atkins plc, Bodycote 
plc, e2v technologies plc and Porvair plc. 
Nick Anderson
BSc Engineering, MBA (54)
Group Chief Executive
Committees
Nomination, Risk Management (Chairman)
Appointed to the Board
March 2012. Appointed Chief Operating Officer 
in August 2013 and Group Chief Executive in 
January 2014
Areas of experience
International, operational, industrial, sales and 
marketing, engineering
Background
Before joining the Group in 201 1 as Director EMEA, 
Nick Anderson was Vice‑President of John Crane 
Asia Pacific (part of Smiths Group plc), based in 
Singapore, and President of John Crane Latin 
America, based in the USA. Previously, Nick held 
senior positions with Alcoa Aluminio in Argentina 
and the Foseco Minsep Group plc in Brazil. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Neil Daws
CEng, FIMechE (52)
Executive Director, EMEA
Committees
Risk Management
Appointed to the Board
June 2003
Areas of experience
Manufacturing, engineering, product development 
sales, broad operational experience
Background
Neil Daws joined the Group in 1978 and held 
positions in production and design engineering 
prior to being named as UK Supply Director. 
Following this Neil has held responsibility for Asia 
Pacific, Latin America and the Group’s Supply 
operations, including the Group’s health, safety and 
environmental matters. 
Jay Whalen
BA, MBA (58)
Executive Director, WMFTG
Committees 
Risk Management
Appointed to the Board 
March 2012
Areas of experience
Sales and marketing, engineering, international 
business development
Background
Jay Whalen joined the Group in 1991 as President 
of Watson‑Marlow Inc. in the USA. He was 
named Sales and Marketing Director of the global 
Watson‑Marlow pump business in 2002 and in 
2010 was appointed to his current Group position 
of President, Watson‑Marlow Fluid Technology 
Group. Prior to joining Watson‑Marlow,  
Jay was Vice‑President Operations for 
Harvard Bioscience, Inc.
Trudy Schoolenberg
PhD (56)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Committees
Audit, Nomination, Remuneration
Appointed to the Board
August 2012
Areas of experience
Engineering, product development, oil and 
petrochemical
Background
Prior to her current position at AkzoNobel, 
Trudy Schoolenberg served as Vice‑President 
of Global Research & Development at Wärtsilä 
Oy. Trudy previously held senior management 
positions with Royal Dutch Shell plc and was Head 
of Strategy for Shell Chemicals.
External appointments
Director of Integrated Supply Chain and Research, 
Development and Innovation, Decorative Paints 
Division of AkzoNobel. Non‑Executive Director of 
COVA and Low & Bonar PLC.
Clive Watson
B Comm (Acc), ACA, CTA (57)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Committees
Audit (Chairman), Nomination, Remuneration
Appointed to the Board
July 2009
Areas of experience
Finance, tax and treasury, engineering
Background
Clive Watson held several tax and finance roles 
before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as Director of 
Tax and Treasury Europe. He was later appointed 
Vice‑President of Business Planning and Analysis 
in the USA. Clive then joined Thorn Lighting as 
Group Finance Director before working for Borealis 
as Chief Financial Officer and Executive  
Vice‑President of Business Support.
External appointments 
Executive Director and Group Finance Director of 
Spectris plc.
Note:
Mark Vernon retired as Group Chief Executive in January 2014 and 
Gareth Bullock retired as an independent Non‑Executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director in May 2014. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62
Corporate governance report
Board activities in 2014
The Board embeds governance practices 
throughout the Group so that they are 
an integral part of running a successful 
business. In the diagram below we have 
set out how the Board spent its time during 
2014. The Board agendas are linked to the 
fundamentals of a trusted brand, a clear 
strategic plan, strong leadership, motivated 
employees and satisfied customers, 
together with the necessary checks and 
balances. We focus on long‑term plans for 
our businesses, the issues that matter on 
the ground, and what our management and 
people are doing day‑to‑day. The Board 
spends 20% of its time ensuring the Group’s 
operations and risk management controls 
are effective. In 2014 the Board devoted 
35% of its time to the steam business and 
pump business strategies, the Group 2020 
plan and the Group corporate strategy. 
During 2014 the Board also regularly 
reviewed the Group’s performance and 
satisfied itself that, despite difficult trading 
conditions and foreign exchange headwinds, 
management was on track in delivering 
the strategic business plan. In addition, 
the Board concentrated its efforts on 
succession planning during its strategic 
planning meeting in June. The Board also 
regarded engagement with shareholders on 
governance, remuneration and trading as a 
significant issue.
The Board adopted a Human Rights Policy 
to support our values, which is explained in 
the Sustainability report on page 50.
Director development
Directors attend formal training seminars 
to update their knowledge and duties. 
The Board is regularly notified of changes 
to relevant laws and regulations.  
Non‑Executive Directors are invited to 
attend Group conferences, which provide 
information on business strategy, new 
product development and sales and 
marketing initiatives. Business presentations 
are given at Board meetings to enable 
a review of new product development, 
regional operations, business strategies and 
employee development.
An induction pack is provided to new 
appointees to the Board and induction 
procedures include site visits, briefings 
by senior managers and meetings with 
major shareholders.
Fair, balanced and 
understandable
In accordance with the Code, the Directors 
confirm that they consider the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Board focus during 2014
  Strategy   35%
   Operations and risk   20%
   Governance and shareholders  15%
  Finance  10%
   New product development  10%
   People and succession  10%
Compliance with the Code
The governance rules which applied 
to the Group for 2014 are found in the 
Code. The Group’s compliance in 2014 
with each provision of the Code is set 
out in detail on the Group’s website, 
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com, under 
the Governance section.
The Group complies with every 
provision of the Code including provision 
B. 1.2 (balance of the Board between 
Executive and Non‑Executive Directors). 
Following the retirement of Mark Vernon 
and Gareth Bullock, and the appointment 
of Jamie Pike as an independent 
Non‑Executive Director, we deliberately 
moved to a position of compliance as the 
number of independent Non‑ Executive 
Directors, excluding the Non‑Executive 
Chairman, now equals the number of 
Executive Directors.
The Board is committed to the Code 
provisions on board diversity and has set 
measurable objectives to monitor progress. 
Diversity is discussed in more detail in the 
Nomination Committee’s report on pages  
70 and 71. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Board attendance
Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings, and individual attendance by Director for 2014, are set out in the table below.
Board effectiveness
In 2012, we commissioned an independently facilitated Board effectiveness review conducted by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Ltd, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Code. We intend to carry out a follow‑up review with Dr Long in 2015. The Board effectiveness 
review for 2013 focused on monitoring progress with Dr Long’s recommendations and this was taken a step further in 2014 when we 
conducted our own Board effectiveness evaluation. As a result, the Board actioned the following in 2014:
• Detailed strategic business and corporate planning in June 2014
• Reviewed succession planning and development of senior managers
•  Actively engaged in diversity through the deployment of diversity training for all UK employees and was involved in senior succession 
planning, including the appointment of females in the roles of Head of Group Marketing, UK Head of Human Resources, EMEA Strategic 
Programme Manager and Group Head of Compensation and Benefits
•  Formalised Committee feedback to the Board
•  Reviewed the schedule of Board and Committee meetings across the year and, wherever possible, ensured that Committee meetings 
are held on a different day from the Board meetings to ensure that there is adequate time for important matters to be fully and properly 
discussed.
Board evaluation cycle
2012 External
2013 Internal
2014 Internal
Next  
external  
evaluation  
2015
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination  
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Number of meetings 7 3 2 3 2
W.H. Whiteley 7 N/A 2 N/A N/A
N.J. Anderson 7 N/A 2 N/A 2
D.J. Meredith
1
6 N/A N/A N/A 2
N.H. Daws 7 N/A N/A N/A 2
J.L. Whalen 7 N/A N/A N/A 2
G.R. Bullock
2
2 0 1 1 N/A
K. Rajagopal 7 3 2 3 N/A
J. Pike
3
4 1 0 1 N/A
G.E. Schoolenberg 7 3 2 3 N/A
C.G. Watson
4
7 3 2 2 N/A
1
  Absence due to illness.
2
  Retired 20th May 2014.
3
  Appointed 1st May 2014.
4 
  Absence due to prior commitment. 
N/A means not applicable. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64
Responsibility
Corporate governance report continued
Governance structure 
The Board Committees and functions are listed below, together with an overview of their activities and the main person responsible. 
The Terms of Reference for the Committees are published on the Group’s website, www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com, under the  
Governance section.
Audit  
Committee
Clive Watson 
(Chairman)
Nomination 
Committee
Bill Whiteley 
(Chairman)
Risk Management 
Committee
Nick Anderson 
(Chairman)
Remuneration 
Committee
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal 
(Chairman)
Monitors integrity of 
financial statements
Ensures significant issues 
have been addressed
Reviews effectiveness 
of internal controls and 
external auditor.
Recommends Board 
appointments
Reviews succession plans.
Ensures risk management 
is meaningful, relevant and 
focused on improving the 
business
Risk scenario planning: China 
and EMEA
Risk review compliance.
Recommends remuneration 
strategy and framework to 
attract, retain and reward 
senior executives
Determines annual Executive 
Director and senior executive 
remuneration
Approves Performance Share 
Plan (PSP) awards
Determines the remuneration 
policy set out in the 
Remuneration policy  
report 2014.
Group Board
Bill Whiteley  
(Chairman)
Further information on each of the Committees' activities during the 12‑month period to 31st December 2014 is set out in pages 66 to 97 . Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Roles and responsibilities
Group Board
The Board relies on executive management 
to run the business and monitor 
management activities and holds them 
accountable against targets and standards. 
The Board also approves long‑term 
corporate and strategic plans after a full 
review and assessment of market and 
technology trends, business drivers and 
risks. Having a senior management team 
that is capable of executing the strategic 
plans is a key focus.
The formal schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board’s decision 
is available on the Group’s website, 
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com, under 
the Governance section.
The Non‑Executive Directors provide 
independent challenge and review, bringing 
wide experience, specific expertise and a 
fresh objective perspective.
The Board meets as often as is necessary 
to discharge its duties. In 2014 the Board 
met seven times. All Directors are expected 
to attend all Board meetings and relevant 
Committee meetings unless prevented by 
prior commitments, illness or a conflict of 
interest. Directors unable to attend specific 
Board or Committee meetings are sent 
the relevant papers and asked to provide 
comments in advance of the meeting to 
the Chairman of the Board or Committee. 
In addition, all Board and Committee 
members receive the minutes of meetings 
as a matter of course.
The Directors’ attendance record at Board 
and Committee meetings is set out on 
page 63. The Non‑Executive Directors 
meet without the Executive Directors 
present to discuss the Executive Directors’ 
performance and other matters. The Senior 
Independent Director is available to discuss 
concerns with shareholders, in addition to 
the normal channels of the Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
The Board has a conflicts of interest policy 
and has put in place procedures for the 
disclosure and review of any potential or 
actual conflicts.
Committee composition
The Non‑Executive Directors play an 
important governance role in the detailed 
work they carry out on our Committees on 
behalf of the Board. All the Non‑Executive 
Directors are determined by the Board to be 
independent in character and judgement, 
in compliance with the Code. The Chairman 
was independent on appointment.
The General Counsel and Company 
Secretary supports the Committee 
Chairmen in making sure members are 
equipped for informed decision‑making 
and that they allocate their time to the 
right subjects.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least 
one member of the Audit Committee, 
namely Clive Watson, has recent and 
relevant financial experience and is 
confident that the collective experience 
of its members enables it to be effective. 
The Audit Committee also has access to 
the financial expertise of the Group, the 
external and internal auditors and can seek 
further professional advice at the Company’s 
expense, if required.
Key Board matters 
The approval of corporate and strategic 
business plans
The approval of the annual and interim 
results
Interim management statements
Acquisitions/disposals
Major capital expenditure
Director appointments
Major litigation
Group Chief Executive 
Leadership 
The Group’s short, medium and long‑term 
performance
Stewardship of capital, technical and 
human resources 
Corporate and business strategy 
Internal risk management controls
Organisational structure
Chairman 
Managing the Board 
Safeguarding governance 
Performance – with Group Chief Executive
Shareholder contact – with Group Chief 
Executive and Finance Director
Director performance
Succession planning Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66
Audit Committee
“ The transition to Deloitte LLP as the Group’s 
auditor proceeded seamlessly and, on the back 
of this change, we now regularly assess the 
auditor’s effectiveness which we will use as the 
basis for reporting to shareholders.” 
Clive Watson 
Chairman, Audit Committee
How the Committee spent  
its time during the year
  Finance and tax reviews  20%
  Corporate governance  15%
  External audit  15%
  Internal audit  15%
  Results review  15%
  Risk management and controls  15%
  Information security  5%
Summary of the key Committee activities in 2014
• Financial statements
• Auditor effectiveness and audit process
• Human rights
• Restructure of finance team
• Internal audit  Read more 
on pages 
67–69
Membership and attendance
Committee member Attendance
Number of meetings 3
C.G. Watson 3
G.R. Bullock
1
0
J. Pike
2
1
K. Rajagopal 3
G.E. Schoolenberg 3
1
 Retired 20th May 2014.
2
 Appointed 1st May 2014. 
Role of the Committee
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review the effectiveness 
of the Group’s financial reporting and internal controls. The T erms of 
Reference for the Committee are set out in detail on the Group's website, 
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com, under the Governance section. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Review of 2014
The Committee met three times in 2014.
Both the internal and external auditors attend 
its meetings and have direct access to the 
Committee Chairman.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal audit and tracks the findings 
and the responsiveness of management to 
any issues identified. As a safeguard, the 
Committee holds separate meetings with 
the external and internal auditors, without 
management present, to discuss their 
respective areas and any issues arising from 
their audits.
During the year the Committee received 
reports from external and internal auditors 
on the major findings of their work and the 
progress of management follow‑up by way 
of management reports. 
The Committee received assurance on 
going concern, pension valuation and 
risk management.
The Group has complied with the provisions 
of the Competition & Market Authority 
(CMA) Order issued by the CMA in 
September 2014.
Auditor
Following shareholder approval at the 
2014 AGM, Deloitte LLP was appointed 
as the Company’s external auditor as of 
20th May 2014. We explained the tender and 
appointment process relating to Deloitte’s 
appointment in full in the 2013 Annual 
Report and Accounts. This appointment will 
be subject to on‑going monitoring and will 
run for a maximum period of 10 years before 
being tendered.
Responding to recent amendments to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 
(Code) that focus attention on the 
robustness of the audit process and how the 
external audit process has been assessed 
by audit committees, the Committee 
revised its Terms of Reference to include an 
assessment of external audit effectiveness. 
Significantly, the Committee has changed 
its processes so that external audit 
effectiveness is now regarded as an 
on‑going matter.
The effectiveness of the independent 
external audit was assessed by the 
Committee following a review from all 
audited operating units, the Group Finance 
team and feedback from Directors and 
senior management. The assessment 
included a questionnaire covering audit 
quality and client service. 
Further, in anticipation of forthcoming 
EU legislation and responding to 
recommendations from shareholders, the 
Committee has adopted a cap on non‑audit 
fees paid to the external auditor of 70% of 
the average of audit fees charged in the 
last three years. The Committee noted that 
non‑audit fees have historically been well 
below this cap.
Restructure of finance team
In light of the increasing complexity and size 
of the Group’s business, the Finance Director 
undertook a review of the finance function. 
The new organisation equips the Group for 
the future in terms of financial skills, resource 
and technology. The Committee reviewed 
and approved the changes.
Internal audit
The Committee focused on the plan of work 
for the internal audit team and scrutinised 
the internal audit report to ensure any 
deficiencies in operations were remedied. 
The internal audit process is explained on 
page 73.
Information security
Whilst the Group does not consider that 
it is a high risk for information theft and 
assesses itself as a low value opportunity for 
cyber‑ attack, it recognises that cyber‑ crime 
is a growing threat to all businesses and is 
taking the appropriate measures to remain 
secure. As a result of an increased focus in 
this area a small number of attacks, primarily 
in countries where cyber‑ crime is more 
common, were detected and prevented 
before being able to affect the security of our 
systems during the year. 
Appropriate measures are in place across 
the Group in this area and include:
• Identification of information assets at risk 
to ensure relevant protection is in place
• Anti‑ virus software, provided by third‑ party 
experts, regularly updated to detect and 
prevent attack infection of our systems by 
unwanted and potentially malicious code
• Email filtering, provided by third‑ party 
experts, to reduce the risk of software 
attacks
• Cyber‑ security testing to assess our 
systems and help provide solutions to 
prevent possible future attack. The testing, 
carried out by the Commercial Arm 
of the Government Communications 
Headquarters, covers threat modelling 
and vulnerability analysis. A report is 
provided covering areas such as poor 
password control, poor configuration of 
software or hardware, and the strength 
of defences in place such as anti‑ virus software and security patching. 
Any identified risks are addressed and a 
re‑ test performed to ensure the issues 
have been fully resolved
Matters considered
In 2014, the following matters were considered by the Committee and, where applicable, by the Board or other Committees:
Global competition and markets
Acquisitions/disposals Operating company reviews
Annual forward plan
Return of capital to shareholders Share plans and similar arrangements
Audit tender and appointment of 
Deloitte LLP
Anti-bribery and corruption
Reprioritisation of principal risks Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68
• A single third party, who is Government 
and Ministry of Defence certified, to 
provide, monitor, and manage our global 
network, in line with industry best practice
• Information security audits and an 
Information Systems risk register to 
manage, mitigate and prevent risks
• Processes and procedures to prevent 
incidents affecting our information systems 
and to continuously improve our policies 
and procedures.
In addition an on‑ going programme of 
education for key business leaders and 
Information Systems staff in prevention, 
detection and control of cyber‑ attacks has 
been rolled out.
Significant issues in relation 
to the financial statements
During the year the Committee considered 
significant issues in relation to the Group’s 
financial statements and disclosures 
relating to:
(i) Taxation
There is judgement involved in the estimation 
of the Group’s tax charge, in assessing the 
risk of successful challenge by local tax 
authorities and the recoverability of deferred 
tax assets. The Committee considered 
reports by the Company, including those 
relating to transfer pricing arrangements. 
The Committee also considered the 
appropriateness of recognition of deferred 
tax assets, including those relating to 
brought forward tax losses in the UK as a 
result of accelerated pension payments, 
noting that such payments ceased from 
October 2014. The Committee reviewed, 
and is comfortable with, the forecasts 
and assumptions supporting utilisation of 
these losses.
(ii) The carrying value of goodwill
The Committee focused on the carrying 
value of goodwill, including the sensitivity 
analysis and agreed with the conclusion 
reached that no impairments were required, 
other than in relation to the goodwill 
carried in respect of the Group's Associate 
Company, Spirax Marshall, in India. 
The Committee agreed with the conclusion 
that in this case the goodwill should be 
impaired to nil value reflecting the impending 
sale of this business.
(iii)  Inventories
These are judgements required in assessing 
the proportion and value of slow‑ moving 
inventory that should be written down 
in value. The value of inventory was 
considered by the Committee to ensure 
that the accounting policy had been 
consistently applied.
(iv)  Pensions
There are judgements made in selecting 
appropriate assumptions in valuing the 
Group's defined benefit pension obligations, 
including discount ratios, mortality, inflation 
and salary increases. The Committee 
considered reports by the Company, 
including that from independent external 
advisers and is comfortable that the key 
assumptions are reasonable.
(v)  Ensuring the Annual Report and 
Accounts is fair, balanced and 
understandable
The Committee carried out a full assessment 
and review to ensure the new more exacting 
standard was satisfied.
(vi)  Other judgements in the financial 
statements
Provisions and acquisitions were addressed.
After reviewing the presentations and reports 
from management and consulting with the 
auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the 
financial statements appropriately address 
the critical judgements and key estimates, 
both in respect of the amounts reported 
and the disclosures. The Committee is also 
satisfied that the significant assumptions 
used for determining the value of assets and 
liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, 
challenged and are sufficiently robust.
Audit Committee continued
Whistle-blowing
The Group is committed to promoting a safe and effective 
culture for employees to raise genuine concerns. To this end, 
and as a matter of best practice, in 2014 the Committee 
reviewed all whistle‑blowing cases that had occurred over the 
previous three years, together with actions taken, and refreshed 
the Whistle‑blowing Policy. The Committee also oversaw the 
implementation of a multi‑lingual whistle‑blowing helpline to ensure 
that employees can freely access an independent third party. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Review of financial 
statements
During 2014 the Committee considered 
many components of business performance 
in order to ensure it has a full understanding 
of the operations of the Group.
Key considerations made by the 
Committee include:
• Determining the position adopted in key 
judgement areas including pensions, 
provisions, goodwill impairment and 
acquisitions
• Risk areas set out in the Risk 
Management Committee report
• Receipt of regular strategy reports from 
the Group Chief Executive and operational 
reports from the Divisional Directors
• Requesting members of management to 
attend Committee meetings to provide 
updates on operational and strategic 
matters
• Reviews of the budget and operational plan
• Review of information security.
Through these processes and its monitoring 
of the effectiveness of controls, internal 
audit and risk management, the Committee 
is able to maintain a good understanding 
of business performance, key areas of 
judgement and decision‑making processes 
within the Group.
Fair, balanced and 
understandable report 
and accounts
One of the key governance requirements is 
for the Annual Report and Accounts to be 
fair, balanced and understandable.  
The co‑ordination and review of the 
Group‑wide input into the Annual Report 
and Accounts is a significant exercise 
performed within an exacting time frame, 
which runs alongside the formal audit 
process undertaken by the external auditor.
To ensure the Annual Report and Accounts 
is fair, balanced and understandable, the 
Committee adopted a process of assessing 
the consistency of the risks and judgements, 
reviewed the Board minutes to ensure issues 
of significance were given prominence 
and arrived at a position where initially the 
Committee and then the Board are satisfied 
with the overall fairness, balance and clarity 
of the document which is underpinned by 
the following:
• Comprehensive guidance for contributors 
at operational level
• A verification process dealing with the 
factual content of the reports
• Comprehensive reviews undertaken at 
different levels in the Group that aim to 
ensure consistency and overall balance
• Comprehensive review by the senior 
management team.
The Directors’ statement on a fair, balanced 
and understandable Annual Report and 
Accounts is set out on page 62.
The Committee also reviewed a 
benchmarking exercise of the Company’s 
2013 Annual Report and Accounts against a 
sample of 50 FTSE 350 companies, which 
produced a number of recommendations 
to improve this year’s Annual Report and 
Accounts: separate approval of the Strategic 
report; explanation of management of 
human rights in the supply chain; enhanced 
disclosure on audit effectiveness.
Committee plans for 2015
• Financial statements
• Effectiveness assessment
• On ‑ going monitoring of risks
•  Review opinion and management 
actions.
Human rights in the supply chain
In 2014, the Group made a renewed commitment to check and 
satisfy itself that proper procedures for compliance with health and 
safety requirements and adherence to the Group’s Human Rights 
Policy are present in its supply chain. The new Group Environment, 
Health and Safety Executive will, in the future, ensure compliance 
by all suppliers with the Spirax Sarco Supplier Code, which sets 
out the non‑negotiable minimum standards that we expect our 
suppliers and their sub‑tier suppliers to respect and to adhere 
to when conducting business with the Company. The Code is 
written to international standards such as the OECD Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights, the Core Conventions of the International 
Labour Organisation and the 10 Principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70
Nomination Committee
“ We aim for a strong, well balanced and diverse 
Board and senior management, equipped with 
professional skills and experience.”
Bill Whiteley 
Chairman, Nomination Committee
How the Committee spent 
its time during the year
  Recruitment 40%
  Succession planning  30%
  Board and Committee composition  15%
  Diversity  15%
Committee member Attendance
Number of meetings 2
W.H. Whiteley 2
N.J. Anderson
1
 2
G.R. Bullock
2
1
J. Pike
3
0
K. Rajagopal 2
G.E. Schoolenberg 2
C.G. Watson 2
1
  Appointed to Committee 16th January 2014.
2
  Retired 20th May 2014. 
3
  Appointed 1st May 2014. 
Summary of the key Committee activities in 2014
•  Recommended to the Board the appointment of Jamie Pike 
as an independent Non‑ Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director 
• Succession planning
• Diversity
  Read more 
on page 71
Role of the Committee
The main role of the Committee is to recommend changes to the Board 
and consider succession planning for the future.
Membership and attendance Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Review of 2014
We recommended the appointment of 
Nick Anderson as Group Chief Executive. 
This appointment was part of the Group’s 
on‑going succession planning and followed 
a comprehensive nomination process. 
Gareth Bullock advised the Board that he 
did not intend to seek re‑election at the 
AGM after completing nine years as an 
independent Non‑Executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director, which is the 
maximum period of tenure for assured 
independence as set out in the Code. 
In consequence of Gareth Bullock stepping 
down, the Committee recommended to 
the Board that Krishnamurthy Rajagopal 
take over as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
The Committee engaged in a planned 
succession process to appoint Jamie Pike 
as an independent Non‑Executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director, with 
the appointment being approved by 
shareholders at our 2014 AGM.
Korn Ferry, who do not have any other 
connection with the Company, assisted with 
the appointments of Nick Anderson and 
Jamie Pike.
We have given increased focus to leadership 
development through robust succession 
planning and a strengthened performance 
management culture. We seek to ensure 
that we have a high‑performing workforce 
and that we better identify tomorrow’s 
leaders. We have a management 
development plan for those individuals 
demonstrating high potential fulfilled through 
our Leadership Academy in conjunction with 
Ashridge Business School and our “Aspire” 
programme for senior managers.
The Executive Directors meet frequently to 
review organisational staffing requirements 
against career planning of high‑potential 
leaders. The most recent review of 
succession planning by the full Board 
formed part of the strategic planning 
meeting held in June 2014.
The Group seeks to have Directors who, 
in addition to relevant technical and 
commercial expertise, meet the highest 
standards of judgement, critical thinking 
and openness. Furthermore, the Group 
recognises the importance of diversity at 
all levels of the Company as well as on 
the Board.
We believe that the Board’s perspective 
and approach is greatly enhanced through 
gender, age and cultural diversity and it is 
our policy to consider overall Board balance 
and diversity when appointing new Directors. 
As illustrated on page 59, the diverse range 
and nationalities of our Board is particularly 
relevant given the broad international reach 
of the Group. 
We are committed to a target of a 
minimum of 25% women on our Board as 
opportunities arise. This is a key element of 
our Board succession plan and therefore 
we are confident that this target can be 
achieved. We ensure that, when vacancies 
arise, women candidates for Board positions 
are actively encouraged as part of the 
recruitment process. Board appointments 
are, in the final analysis, made on merit. 
We will also encourage the progress of 
women in senior positions throughout the 
Group and, during 2014, women were 
appointed as Head of Group Marketing, 
UK Head of Human Resources, EMEA 
Strategic Programme Manager, Head of 
Compensation and Benefits and Head of 
Learning and Talent. We are also constantly 
improving the intake of female professionals 
to ensure a better talent pipeline for senior 
leadership roles in the future.
We have offered practical support for the 
Department for Business Innovation and 
Skills’ “Women on Boards – FTSE 250” 
initiative, by nominating and supporting two 
women from our senior management team 
to serve as Non‑Executive Directors on other 
company boards.
Responsibilities
Make appropriate 
recommendations to the 
Board for the appointment, 
re-appointment or 
replacement of Directors
Review the structure and 
composition of the Board; 
with regard to the overall 
balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience of Board 
members against current 
and perceived future 
requirements of the Group
Recommend any proposed 
changes to the Board
Consider succession 
planning arrangements 
for Directors and, more 
generally, senior executives Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72
Risk Management Committee
Committee member Attendance
Number of meetings 2
N.J. Anderson 2
D.J. Meredith 2
N.H. Daws 2
J.L. Whalen 2
“ We seek to identify, manage and mitigate 
risks to protect our business.”
Nick Anderson 
Chairman, Risk Management Committee
How the Committee spent 
its time during the year
  Risk management framework  20%
  Anti‑bribery  15%
  Group policies  15%
  Internal controls  15%
  Sanctions and embargo compliance  15%
  Business continuity  10%
  Competition compliance  10%
The following executives are also members of the Committee: Divisional Director, Americas 
(Alberto Grandi), Divisional Director, Asia Pacific (Klaus Rümler), Group Human Resources 
Director (Frank Richardson), Steam Finance Director (Byron Thomas), Group Supply Chain 
Director (Ian Farnworth) and General Counsel and Company Secretary (Andy Robson).
Summary of the key Committee activities in 2014
• Group risk register and principal risks review
• Scenario planning
• Sanctions
• Global insurance programme
• Historical review  Read more 
on pages 
73–74
Role of the Committee
The Committee ensures that the Group has risk management policies 
and procedures covering project governance, sanctions and embargoes, 
human rights, business continuity and business management. 
The Committee is responsible for the management and control of 
significant risks affecting the Group.
Membership and attendance Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Our approach and appetite 
for risk
Our aim is to continue to build a sustainable 
business through consistent, profitable 
growth and to provide value to our customers 
and shareholders. Creating shareholder 
value is the reward for taking acceptable 
risks. The effective understanding and 
management of risk is fundamental to the 
long‑term success of the Group.
The risk review process
We have adopted an integrated approach 
to our risk management, independent 
assurance and internal controls to ensure 
greater linkage across our review and 
assessment of risk. Internal controls and 
risk management are designed to limit 
the chance of failure to achieve corporate 
objectives. Independent assurance is 
provided by the external auditor and 
internal audit.
The Committee has accountability for 
overseeing the risk management processes 
and procedures, works with the Audit 
Committee and reports to the Board on the 
risks facing the Group.
The Committee also monitors the mitigating 
actions put in place by the relevant divisions 
and Group companies to address the 
identified risks.
At a local level, each operating company is 
required to undertake a formal review of the 
risks which impact on its business at least 
once a year. The reviews are consolidated 
into Group‑wide risk reports which are 
maintained and reviewed by the Committee 
on a regular basis.
We have a robust risk management process 
in place through which we identify, evaluate 
and manage the principal risks that could 
impact on the Group’s performance. 
The principal risks and the product of the 
2014 review are set out on pages 28 and 29.
Internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the system of internal controls and for 
reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of 
management is to implement Board policies 
on risk and control. 
There is an on‑going review process for 
identifying and managing risks faced 
by the Group which has been in place 
from 2013 and up to the date of the 
Annual Report and Accounts. The review 
covers and assesses the effectiveness 
of all material controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and 
risk management systems. This ensures 
that proper accounting records have been 
maintained, financial information used within 
the business is reliable and the consolidated 
accounts preparation and financial reporting 
process comply with all relevant regulatory 
reporting requirements. The system of 
internal controls is designed to manage, 
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve the business objectives.
The Board believes from its annual reviews 
that the system of internal controls is 
embedded in the business and regular 
review allows for assessment of new and 
changing risks in the Group’s business.
In pursuing these objectives, internal 
controls can provide only reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
As required by the UK Listing Authority, the 
Group has complied throughout the year 
and up to the date of the Annual Report 
and Accounts with the Code provisions on 
internal controls.
All operating companies are required 
annually to complete self‑certification 
questionnaires regarding compliance with 
the policies, procedures and minimum 
requirements for an effective system of 
internal controls. 
Self‑certification is given by both the General 
Manager and the Finance Manager of 
each operation.
Internal audit
The Board has an established internal audit 
function which allows each of the Group 
operating companies to be audited at 
least every three years and those judged 
to be in higher risk territories are audited 
more frequently. 
All businesses acquired by the Group are 
subject to internal audit within one year 
from the date of acquisition. Internal audit 
resource is supplemented by experienced, 
qualified accounting staff from principal 
Group operating companies and a 
professional auditing firm, BDO International. 
Reports are made to the Audit Committee 
and the Board as a whole. Whilst there were 
some areas for local improvement identified 
in the internal audit reports, no significant 
matters were raised in the reports made in 
the operating companies audited during 
the year. 
As explained by the Chairman, in his 
introduction to Governance on pages 
58 and 59, we have built on our strong 
anti‑corruption culture and our Anti‑Bribery 
and Corruption Policy, which includes 
specific policies and a comprehensive 
training programme called “anti‑bribery@
work”. The programme, which is available 
in 14 different languages, was successfully 
rolled out across the entire Group in 2013 
and 2014, resulting in over 3,500 employees 
having participated. We also ensure that 
all relevant new appointees undertake the 
training. The training will be refreshed on a 
biennial basis. The Group Legal function 
also makes face‑to‑face presentations 
throughout the Group on business ethics.
The Committee has ensured compliance 
with centrally documented control 
procedures on such matters as capital 
expenditure, information and technology 
security and legal and regulatory 
compliance. We also followed up on 
compliance with our Competition Policy, 
which was introduced in 2012, to ensure the 
Group conducts its business in accordance 
with the competition laws of all the countries 
in which it operates.
Responsibilities
To identify and understand 
the risks facing the Group
To assess and transfer or 
avoid those risks which are 
beyond our appetite for risk
To establish the authority 
levels within the Group, by 
consideration of materiality, 
at which decisions on 
acceptance and mitigation 
of these risks are taken 
To accept and manage within 
the business those risks 
which our employees have 
the skills and expertise to 
understand and leverage Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74
Risk Management Committee continued
Important developments in the year
Our risk management approach is subject to continuous review and updating to take account of new and developing issues which might 
impact our business objectives. The following actions have been undertaken during the year to address significant developments:
Group risk register review
We eliminated some of the lower impact/
likelihood risks on the risk register and 
reduced the number of risks from 21 to 
14, to enable resources to be focused 
on the most important risks. We have 
made sure that our mitigation actions 
remain robust and implemented changes 
to improve mitigation of the risks where 
necessary. The Committee’s analysis of 
the risks affecting the Group are shown 
in the “bubble” diagram on page 28. 
This analysis informed the determination 
of the principal risks set out on page 29.
Principal risks
We reviewed to determine whether 
the risks themselves have changed 
during 2014, and for the purposes of 
reprioritisation. Our view of the changes 
are set out in the principal risks table on 
page 29. We have removed one principal 
risk shown in our 2013 Annual Report and 
Accounts (Failure to realise acquisition 
objectives). The Committee will assist 
the Board in complying with significant 
changes to the Code's requirements on 
risk management and internal controls, 
effective 1st January 2015. The key 
change is Board monitoring throughout 
the year rather than an annual review.
Historical review
We carried out a historical review to 
determine if the principal risks and risks 
on the risk register relate to the events that 
actually occurred in the last three years 
and if there was effective mitigation. In the 
main, the Committee considered that the 
predictions were correct and the risks 
were managed effectively.
Serious incident procedure
We implemented a Serious Incident 
Procedure to ensure that the Group is 
well‑ positioned in responding to serious 
incidents which require extraordinary 
action.
Sanctions policy
We updated the Sanctions Policy 
and Guide to ensure compliance with 
UN, USA, European and UK laws 
and regulations.
Global insurance programme
We reviewed and improved our global 
insurance cover. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Remuneration Committee
“ Alignment between our strategy, the interests 
of shareholders and Executive Directors by 
rewarding excellent long-term performance is 
our goal.”
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Membership and attendance
Committee member Attendance
Number of meetings 3
K. Rajagopal 3
G.R. Bullock
1
1
J. Pike
2
1
G.E. Schoolenberg 3
C.G. Watson
3
2
1
 Retired 20th May 2014. 
2
 Appointed 1st May 2014.
3
 Absence due to prior commitment.
How the Committee spent  
its time during the year
  Implementing pay policy  35%
  Bonus target setting 15%
  PSP target setting 15%
  Bonus achievement 10%
  Determining pay policy  10%
  PSP achievement  10%
  Directors' contracts 5%
Summary of the key Committee activities in 2014
• Set bonus and L TIP performance targets
• Ensured compliance with Remuneration policy 201 4
• Reviewed Executive Director pay and benefits
  Read more 
on pages 
76–97
Role of the Committee
The Committee determines executive remuneration policies and 
sets targets for medium and long-term performance-based incentive 
schemes. It also monitors compliance with the Remuneration policy 201 4. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 76
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration report for 2014. I am happy to confirm that the implementation of 
Executive Director remuneration, in 2014, complied fully with our Remuneration policy agreed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014. 
We also comply with the Government (Department for Business, Innovation and Skills) reporting regulations on Directors’ pay, introduced in 
October 2013. 
This report has been split into three sections:
• Statement by the Chairman of the Committee
• An Annual report on remuneration 2014 which explains how the Remuneration policy has been implemented during the year ended 
31st December 2014
• The approved Remuneration policy which describes and explains the components of the Company’s Remuneration policy, unchanged 
from 2013. 
We will seek your support for the Annual report on remuneration, in the form of an advisory vote, at the AGM on 1 1th May 2015. 
We would like to thank shareholders for their support of the Annual report on remuneration 2013 and the Remuneration policy 2014. At the 
AGM on 20th May 2014, the advisory vote on the Annual report on remuneration 2013 received 99.4% of the votes in favour and the binding 
vote on the Remuneration policy 2014 received 98.5% of the votes in favour. The Remuneration policy was implemented immediately 
following the AGM. We have continued to actively seek and take into account the views of shareholders when reviewing Executive Director 
remuneration. The Committee is satisfied that the Remuneration policy continues to reflect the interests of shareholders and aligns Executive 
Director remuneration with Company strategy, while allowing the Group to attract and retain motivated and talented individuals.
Executive Director salary reviews 2015
Salaries were reviewed in accordance with the Remuneration policy taking into account Company and individual performance, wider 
workforce comparisons and market benchmarking. 
In line with policy, Nick Anderson’s salary on appointment was set below what would normally be paid for this position and below the market 
median, with the intention, subject to performance, of realignment over the next two or three years. Considering this and Nick’s strong 
performance in his first year as Group Chief Executive, the Committee agreed to an initial increase in his salary of 4.2%, which is higher than 
the average increase for the broader UK employee population this year of around 2%. 
Jay Whalen also received a 4.2% increase, which is higher than the USA average increase of 3%. Jay is now permanently located in the USA 
and revised market data was obtained for a divisional head of a UK parent located in the USA to ensure Jay’s remuneration is competitive in 
that market. Jay’s performance in achieving consistently good results at WMFTG was considered as excellent by the Board. 
Both Nick Anderson’s and Jay Whalen’s salaries remain below market median.
Business performance
As noted in the Chairman’s statement on pages 2 and 3, the Company made further progress in 2014 with Group revenue up 5% and  
pre-tax profit up 12%, both at constant currency, contributing to earnings per share (EPS) growth of 13% at constant currency, or 1% at 
reported exchange rates, and a Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) of 44.6% (as determined under the annual bonus plan rules). Over the 
three-year period ending in 2014, the Company delivered a total shareholder return (TSR) of 65.2%. A 9% increase in the total dividend for 
the year (excluding the special dividend), extends our dividend record to 47 years. 
Our Remuneration policy is designed to ensure that a significant percentage of Executive Director pay is based on the achievement of 
demanding performance targets and is, therefore, “at risk”. Maximum payout in the annual bonus plan and Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
is only available as a result of significant outperformance by the business. The Committee considers that the remuneration paid to Executive 
Directors in 2014 (given as a single figure for each Director on page 78) reflects the progress made by the Company during 2014, as well as 
over the last three years. 
Annual bonuses are based on adjusted operating profit and ROCE targets. The Group profit achievement of £153,509,000 (as determined 
under the annual bonus plan rules) was 1.5% below the plan target and the ROCE achieved of 44.6% was 1. 1% above the 44. 1% plan target. 
These achievements resulted in a 55.76% bonus award for the Group Chief Executive and Finance Director. Other Executive Directors' 
targets have an additional divisional profit element and details of their bonus targets and level of achievement can be found on pages 79 
and 80. 
Continuing difficult macro-economic conditions have resulted in some of the demanding performance targets in the PSP only being partially 
met. Shares awarded in the PSP up to 2013 vest based on growth of two measures TSR (60%) and EPS (40%) over the three-year plan 
period. Performance on the EPS measure resulted in a nil vesting. A 65.2% increase in TSR in the three years to 2014 triggered a 55. 1% 
award for the TSR element. The total number of shares vesting under both elements was therefore 33.06% of the total shares awarded. 
(Details of bonus and PSP awards can be found on pages 80 and 81.)
Remuneration Committee continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Board changes in 2014
As reported in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, Nick Anderson was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2014. In light of 
his new appointment, the Committee reviewed Nick’s contract and remuneration package to ensure compliance with the Remuneration 
policy and, in line with that policy, his salary on appointment was set below median and below what would normally be paid for this position. 
It is the Committee’s intention that all new appointments to the Board, or significant changes to the scale, scope or responsibilities of existing 
Executive Directors, will result in new contracts being agreed in accordance with the policy. For more information see Service agreements 
and termination policy on pages 94 and 95.
Committee change in 2014
As previously reported, Gareth Bullock stepped down as Chairman of the Committee in December 2013. He also retired as an independent 
Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director in May 2014. Jamie Pike was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director in May 2014 and has joined the Remuneration Committee. 
Our Remuneration policy and links to strategy
The elements of Executive Director remuneration are described and explained in the Policy table on pages 90 to 92. The principal aims of the 
Committee, as it reviews and establishes remuneration policy, are outlined below:
1)   To maintain a competitive remuneration package that will attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the calibre required to meet 
the Group’s strategic objectives both in the short and long term.
2)   To align the interests of shareholders and Executive Directors. This will be achieved through the use of long-term incentives, which reward 
TSR and EPS growth, and by requiring Executive Directors to build a significant shareholding themselves, ensuring that they are directly 
exposed to the same degree of gains or losses as all other shareholders.
3)   To support the achievement of the Group’s strategic priorities to:
• Increase direct sales effectiveness through sector focus
• Develop the knowledge and skills of our expert sales and service teams
• Broaden our global presence 
• Leverage our R&D investments
• Optimise supply chain effectiveness
• Operate sustainably and help improve our customers’ sustainability.
  For more details of the strong connection between strategy and remuneration, and the description of performance measures and 
relevant targets, see the Policy table on pages 90 to 92.
4)   To align Executive Director remuneration with financial KPIs. For more details see the description of performance measures and relevant 
targets on pages 90 to 92.
5)   To ensure that superior awards are only paid for exceptional performance against challenging targets. Base salary is reviewed annually 
and takes into account the scale, scope and responsibility of Executive Director roles; the skills and experience of individuals; wider 
workforce comparisons; and market benchmarking, within a defined external comparator group.
The annual bonus plan and PSP reward financial performance, both absolute and relative, to ensure that there is clear and demonstrable pay 
for performance.
The Committee believes that the current Remuneration policy, implemented during 2014 and outlined in this Remuneration report, offers a fair 
and competitive package for Executive Directors: rewarding performance while supporting the interests of shareholders.
Changes for 2015
Performance Share Plan
The current Performance Share Plan rules expire on 15th March 2015 and the new rules will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM. 
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
4th March 2015 Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 78
Annual report on remuneration 2014
1.0 Annual report on remuneration 2014
This section sets out the Directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 31st December 2014.
The following information has been audited by Deloitte LLP:
•  Single total figure of remuneration
•  Pension
•  Scheme interests awarded between 1st January 2014 and 31st December 2014
•  Payments to past Directors
•  Loss of office payments
•  Directors’ shareholdings.
1.1 Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
Salary/Fees Benefits Annual bonus PSP/Options
1
Pension ESOP
2
Total
2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014
Executive Directors
M.E. Vernon
3
£500,000 £21,154 £236,863 £59,168 £476,200 £0 £229,806 £191,572 £150,281 £26,730 N/A N/A £1,593,150 £298,624
N.J. Anderson
4
£287,669 £468,442 £12,815 £16,782 £273,947 £261,203 £77,846 £136,777 £71,917 £115,443 £2,050 £1,468 £726,244 £1,000,115
D.J. Meredith £307,000 £317,000 £19,519 £19,387 £292,387 £176,759 £140,332 £156,759 £96,340 £105,980 £2,079 £1,468 £857,657 £777,353
N.H. Daws £280,000 £288,000 £17,627 £17,523 £259,075 £168,077 £122,247 £144,151 £70,000 £72,000 £2,079 £1,468 £751,028 £691,219
J.L. Whalen
5
£250,955 £258,599 £25,909 £24,591 £198,054 £168,891 £77,250 £128,893 £105,261 £143,753 N/A N/A £662,150 £724,727
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
W.H. Whiteley £143,000 £150,000 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A £143,000 £150,000
G.R. Bullock
3
£55,000 £20,000 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A £55,000 £20,000
J. Pike
6
N/A £31,954 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A £31,954
K. Rajagopal £44,500 £54,500 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A £44,500 £54,500
G.E. Schoolenberg £44,500 £46,000 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A £44,500 £46,000
C.G. Watson £53,000 £54,500 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A £53,000 £54,500
1
   The 2014 column relates to PSP awards. The 2013 column relates to PSP awards for all Executive Directors, with the exception of J.L. Whalen where it relates to share options granted prior to his appointment to 
the Board.
2
  Matching shares awarded during the year. 
3
  2014 remuneration calculated to date of retirement from the Board. M.E. Vernon retired on 15th January 2014 and G.R. Bullock retired on 20th May 2014.
4
  N.J. Anderson was appointed Group Chief Executive on 16th January 2014.
5
 Paid in US dollars. All elements of J.L. Whalen’s remuneration are shown in £ sterling as this is the presentation currency of the Annual Report and Accounts.
6
 Remuneration calculated from date of appointment to the Board on 1st May 2014.
Salary/fees
The following table sets out the 2014 base salary increase for each of the Executive Directors compared to 2013.
Executive Directors 2014 2013 Increase
M.E. Vernon
1
£500,000 £500,000 0.0%
N.J. Anderson
2
£475,000 £320,000 48.4%
D.J. Meredith £317,000 £307,000 3.3%
N.H. Daws £288,000 £280,000 2.9%
J.L. Whalen £258,599 £250,955 3.1%
1
  M.E. Vernon’s salary did not increase due to his retirement on 15th January 2014.
2
  N.J. Anderson’s 2013 salary refers to his role as Chief Operating Officer. The 48.4% increase in salary reflects N.J. Anderson’s appointment as Group Chief Executive on 16th January 2014.
The increases for the Executive Directors were similar to the average increase for UK employees for 2014 and also took into account market 
positioning, Company and individual performance and returns to shareholders over the period. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
The following table sets out the 2014 fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors. Pay for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
does not vary with performance.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Basic fees Additional fees Total fees
W.H. Whiteley £150,000 N/A £150,000
G.R. Bullock
1
£46,000 £2,000 £48,000
J. Pike
1
£46,000 £2,000 £48,000
K. Rajagopal
2
£46,000 £8,500 £54,500
G.E. Schoolenberg £46,000 N/A £46,000
C.G. Watson
2
£46,000 £8,500 £54,500
1
   G.R. Bullock received £2,000 (pro-rated) in respect of his duties as Senior Independent Director up to his retirement on 20th May 2014. J. Pike received £2,000 (pro-rated) in respect of his duties as Senior 
Independent Director with effect from 21st May 2014. 
2
  K. Rajagopal received £8,500 in respect of his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. C.G. Watson received £8,500 in respect of his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Benefits (excluding pension)
Benefits M.E. Vernon N.J. Anderson D.J. Meredith N.H. Daws J.L. Whalen
Company car and associated running costs  
or cash alternative allowance £957 £16,376 £18,432 £16,776 £15,156
Private health insurance £18 £406 £406 £406 £9,435
Telecommunications and computer equipment £0 £0 £549 £341 £0
Mobility-related benefits: 
 – Tax Treaty Adjustment payment  
    (not tax equalisation, see page 91) £58,192 N/A N/A N/A N/A
 – Tax advice
1
£11,750 N/A N/A N/A £12,350
Life assurance
1
£30 £732 £488 £444 £398
Long-term disability insurance
1
£82 £2,014 £1,344 £1,221 £1,096
1
  Not taxable therefore not included in Single total figure of remuneration.
Pension
Full details of the pension benefits are set out at section 1.2 on pages 82 and 83.
Annual bonus
Executive Directors participate in the annual bonus plan. The annual bonus plan rewards Executive Directors for financial performance both 
at Group level and, where appropriate, for the division for which they are responsible. Targets are reviewed annually to ensure continuing 
alignment with strategy. Bonus levels are determined following the year end by the Committee based on performance against targets. 
Bonus is payable entirely in cash for the financial year ended 31st December 2014. In accordance with the share ownership guidelines, 
Nick Anderson and Jay Whalen will use that part of their 2014 annual bonus over 60% of base salary (net of tax) to buy shares within 
12 months of receipt of bonus.
Any bonus payment is based entirely on the achievement of challenging financial measures, which have been chosen as they are clearly 
aligned with the Company’s strategy. The mix of performance measures is tailored to the specific role of the Executive Director:
Group roles: Group operating profit (65%) + Group ROCE (35%)
Divisional roles:    Group operating profit (35%) + Group ROCE (35%) + divisional operating profit (30%)
The above performance measures are adjusted to reflect certain non-operating items including the amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangible assets and exceptional reorganisational costs, and to exclude the impact of the start-up of the new operation in India.
Bonus payments are subject to clawback for up to three years following payment. Circumstances include financial misstatement, erroneous 
calculations determining bonus payments or gross misconduct.
The table below sets out the performance measures that each of the Executive Directors’ bonus awards were subject to:
Executive Directors 2014 Measures
N.J. Anderson 
D.J. Meredith
Group operating profit (65%)
Group ROCE (35%)
N.H. Daws
J.L. Whalen
Group operating profit (35%)
Group ROCE (35%)
Divisional operating profit (30%) Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80
Annual report on remuneration 2014 continued
Achievement of target performance results in a bonus of 60% of salary, increasing to 100% of salary for maximum performance.
2014 was a good year for the Group which delivered earnings growth, increased operating profit margin and increased dividends to 
shareholders. The annual bonus payments to Executive Directors ranged between 55.76% and 65.31% of target.
The annual bonus has stretching targets that the Committee determines each year for the Executive Directors, in order to incentivise above 
target performance.
The table below summarises the achieved performance in 2014 in respect of each of the measures used in the determination of annual 
bonus, together with an indication of actual performance relative to target. 
Performance assessment in 2014
Actual 
performance
1
Below 
target Target
Above 
target Maximum
Group operating profit £153.5m
Group ROCE 44.6%
EMEA operating profit
2
£45.9m
Watson-Marlow operating profit £46.2m
1
   To comply with the annual bonus plan rules these metrics use, as a base, the actual adjusted operating profit of £152,950,000 and exclude centrally allocated overheads from both the target measure and 
actual performance.
2
 Excludes performance of the UK and French manufacturing units, for which N.H. Daws is not responsible, and the impact of the start-up of the new operation in India.
Group operating profit
The Group plan profit target for 2014 was set at £155.8 million. Entry point at which bonus payment starts was set at the 2013 profit which, 
on the same basis of calculation and exchange rate, was £145.2 million or 6.8% below plan. Maximum bonus profit target was £165. 1 million 
or 6.0% above plan.
Group ROCE
The Group ROCE target was 44. 1% with a total 600 bps accrual range around the ROCE target.
Divisional operating profit – EMEA
For Neil Daws profit target was set at £46.2 million with the entry point 10% below target and the maximum 10% above target. 
Divisional operating profit – Watson-Marlow
On a similar basis the profit target for Jay Whalen was set at £44.0 million with a range 10% either side of target.
As a result of this performance in 2014, the following bonuses were achieved:
Executive Directors Bonus achieved Bonus (% of salary)
N.J. Anderson £261,203 55.76%
D.J. Meredith £176,759 55.76%
N.H. Daws £168,077 58.36%
J.L. Whalen £168,891 65.31%
Group operating profit/ROCE 
The following graph provides a five-year summary of bonus outcomes against the performance of Group operating profit and ROCE. 
This illustrates the strong historical alignment between pay and performance.
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
44.3%
44.4%
39.4%
41.1%
42.1%
152,950
151,626
136,245
133,960
119,125
Actual bonus percentage of salary %
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Group operating profit (£000)
ROCE
Actual bonus % of salary 
(Group measures)
1
1
  Calculated in accordance with the metrics on pages 79 and 80. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Spirax-Sarco Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The Committee makes an annual conditional award of shares to each Executive Director under the PSP . Prior to award, the Committee 
reviews the performance targets for each measure to ensure they remain sufficiently stretching. For financial measures this includes a review 
of analysts’ forecasts.
In normal circumstances, the maximum award under the PSP is 100% of base salary but, in exceptional circumstances, this may be 
increased to 150% of base salary. Vesting is based on two performance measures, which have been chosen as they are aligned with 
our strategy:
• TSR performance relative to a comparator group
• Aggregate EPS relative to target aggregate EPS.
Performance is measured over a three-year period.
Clawback provisions apply for PSP awards made from 2012 onwards.
PSP awards vesting over 2012–2014
In 2012 the Executive Directors received share awards under the PSP , with vesting subject to EPS growth and relative TSR performance. 
The diagrams below set out details of the performance measures and targets that applied, along with the actual performance during the 
period 1st January 2012 to 31st December 2014.
Relative TSR performance (60% of PSP award)
Over the three-year period to 31st December 2014, the Company 
delivered a TSR of 65.2%. This ranked at the 55th percentile relative 
to the comparator group.
Shares subject to TSR vesting
TSR performance
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
0% 25% 50% 75% 100%
Aggregate EPS performance (40% of PSP award)
Over the three-year period to 31st December 2014, the Company 
delivered aggregate adjusted EPS of 401.4p. Adjusted EPS was 
121.0p in 201 1 (restated for IAS 19R) and so this equated to growth 
of approximately 5. 1% per annum over the three years.
Shares subject to EPS vesting
Aggregate EPS (pence)
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
350 375 400 425 450 475
TSR Payout
Threshold Median 25%
Maximum Upper quartile 100%
Actual 55th percentile 55%
The comparator group for the purpose of measuring relative 
TSR performance comprises 25 similar companies, namely BAE 
Systems, Bodycote, Chemring Group, Cobham, Domino Printing 
Sciences, Fenner, Halma, IMI, Meggitt, Melrose Industries, Morgan 
Advanced Material, Oxford Instruments, QinetiQ Group, Renishaw, 
Rexam, Rolls-Royce Holdings, Rotork, RPC Group, Senior, Smith 
(DS), Smiths Group, Spectris, Ultra Electronics Hdg, Vesuvius and 
Weir Group. For 2013 Dialight has been added. For awards made in 
2014 the comparator group has been expanded to the constituents 
of the FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services Supersector.
Performance Payout
Threshold 405.9p 25%
Maximum 454.6p 100%
Actual 401.4p 0%
EPS is derived from the audited Annual Report and Accounts for 
the relevant financial year but adjusted to exclude any non-operating 
items shown separately on the face of the Company’s profit and 
loss account.
In respect of the 2012 PSP awards, actual performance for the combined relative TSR and aggregate EPS resulted in 33.06% of shares  
vesting.
Executive Directors Award Vested Lapsed
Value on 
vesting
1
M.E. Vernon
2
23,029 0 23,029 N/A
N.J. Anderson 12,961 4,285 8,676 £136,777
D.J. Meredith 14,855 4,911 9,944 £156,759
N.H. Daws 13,659 4,516 9,143 £144,151
J.L. Whalen 12,213 4,038 8,175 £128,893
1
  Based on share price on date of vesting (3192.0p).  
2
  M.E. Vernon retired on 15th January 2014. The performance period was pro-rated to date of retirement, resulting in a nil vesting.  Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 82
Annual report on remuneration 2014 continued
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Share Option Schemes
In 201 1, Jay Whalen received share options with vesting subject to an increase in EPS of more than 9% greater than the increase in the 
UK RPI over the three-year period from 1st January 201 1 to 31st December 2013. The auditor (KPMG Audit Plc at that time) confirmed 
the performance measure had been met and the 7 ,500 share options became exercisable on 18th March 2014. The value of the share 
options on that date was £217 ,725, based on a share price of 2903.0p, less an exercise cost of £140,475. The figure disclosed represents a 
correction to that disclosed in the 2013 single figure table.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Executive Directors (excluding Jay Whalen who is a USA citizen) are eligible to participate in an HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan known 
as the ESOP . The maximum annual investment in shares is £1,500 per Executive Director which can be matched by the Company on a 
one-for-one basis for each share that is purchased by an Executive Director and dividend shares can be reinvested.
No shares acquired under the ESOP are subject to performance measures as the aim of the ESOP is to encourage increased shareholding in 
the Company by all eligible UK employees.
1.2 Pension (audited)
Mark Vernon and Jay Whalen are members of the Spirax Sarco Inc. defined benefit plan. The benefit paid under normal retirement from the 
USA defined benefit plan is a single life annuity equal to the number of years of service multiplied by the sum of 1.0% of pensionable salary up 
to social security covered compensation, plus 1.45% of pensionable salary in excess of social security covered compensation. Final average 
salary is the average of the highest pensionable pay for any five consecutive years prior to retirement up to a ceiling. Both Mark Vernon’s and 
Jay Whalen’s final average salary is higher than the salary ceiling as at 31st December 2014. Mark Vernon retired from the Company on  
15th January 2014, but has not yet commenced his pension.
Mark Vernon’s and Jay Whalen’s defined benefit plan arrangements are as follows:
Age attained at 
31.12.14
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.13 
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.14
Change  
in accrued 
pension during 
the year
Change  
in accrued 
pension during 
the year
1
Change in the value
2
 of accrued 
pension over the year net of 
inflation
1
 and Director’s own 
contributions
3 
M.E. Vernon 61 £20,796 £22,235 £1,439 £1,094 £21,880
J.L. Whalen 58 £43,851 £49,202 £5,351 £4,624 £92,480
1
  Net of inflation at a rate of 1.7% per annum.
2
  This year the value of pension has been calculated based on a factor of 20 in line with that required under the disclosure regulations. 
3
  This is a non-contributory plan so M.E. Vernon and J.L. Whalen paid zero contributions into the plan over the year.
The following additional information is provided:
• Death in service: a spouse’s pension equal to one-half of the member’s pension, based on pensionable service to the date of death, 
is payable. After payment of the pension commences the accrued pension shown has no attaching spouse’s pension. However, at 
retirement there is an option to reduce the member’s pension to provide for a spouse’s pension after death. 
• Early retirement rights: after leaving the service of the Company, both members have the right to draw their accrued pension at any time 
after their 65th birthday with no reduction. Both members have the right to commence their pension earlier if they meet the age and service 
requirements, with the pension being reduced. The annual reductions for early retirement are 3% for each year from age 65 to age 60 and 
5% for each year from age 60 to earliest retirement age. 
• Pension increases: the pension has no guaranteed increases. Spirax Sarco Inc. has the discretion to provide increases. 
• Other discretionary benefits: additionally, Mark Vernon benefited from an amount in lieu of contributions to a UK defined contributions 
plan. The total amount made by the Group was £4,850. Jay Whalen benefited from Company contributions to a USA defined contribution 
pension plan and to a 401k plan. The total amount contributed by the Group was £51,273. 
David Meredith is a member of an HMRC registered, contributory defined benefit scheme, the Spirax-Sarco Executives Retirement Benefits 
Scheme. The benefit paid under normal retirement is a pension based on 1/60th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable 
service to 31st March 201 1 and 1/80th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service after 31st March 201 1, with final 
pensionable salary defined as basic annual salary over the last 12 months of service. David Meredith accrues pro-rata additional service at 
a rate which gives a further two and a half years of service at age 62½ based on 1/60th accrual. At retirement he is entitled to commute a 
proportion of his pension for a tax-free cash lump sum payment within HMRC limits.
Details of David Meredith’s pension are as follows: 
Age attained at 
31.12.14
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.13
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.14 
Change  
in accrued 
pension during 
the year
Change  
in accrued 
pension during 
the year
1
Change in the value
2
 of accrued 
pension over the year net of 
inflation
1
 and Director’s own 
contributions
3 
D.J. Meredith 55 £149,003 £158,325 £9,322 £5,299 £105,980
1
 Net of inflation at a rate of 2.7% per annum.
2
 This year the value of pension has been calculated based on a factor of 20 in line with that required under the disclosure regulations. 
3
 D.J. Meredith paid zero contributions into the defined benefit scheme over the year having elected in 201 1 to reduce the accrual rate from 1/60th to 1/80th. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
The following additional information relating to David Meredith's pension is provided:
• Death in service: a spouse’s pension equal to one-half of pension, based on pensionable service to the date of death, is payable. 
On death after payment of the pension commences, a spouse’s pension of one-half of pension entitlement at the date of death, ignoring 
commutation and any early retirement actuarial reduction, is payable. In addition David Meredith’s pension is guaranteed to be paid for five 
years from retirement. 
• Early retirement rights: David Meredith may retire on an actuarially reduced pension on early retirement with the Company’s consent. 
No consent is required for retirement on or after age 60 and no early retirement reduction is applied to the scale pension on retirement at or 
after age 60. 
• Pension increases in payment: pensions are subject to annual increases in line with the annual rise in the RPI subject to a maximum of 5% 
per annum. The Trustees and the Company have the discretion to apply a greater increase.
• Other discretionary benefits: there are currently no discretionary practices which apply to David Meredith’s pension benefits.
Neil Daws became a deferred member of an HMRC registered, contributory defined benefit scheme, the Spirax-Sarco Executives Retirement 
Benefits Scheme, with effect from 31st December 2012, and is, therefore, no longer accruing any pension benefits within the defined benefit 
scheme. In lieu of pension benefits, Neil Daws now receives 25% of his basic salary, which in the year ended 31st December 2014 amounted 
to £72,000.
Nick Anderson receives 25% of his basic salary in lieu of pension benefits, which in the year ended 31st December 2014 amounted to 
£115,443.
1.3 Scheme interests awarded during the financial year (audited)
Spirax-Sarco Performance Share Plan (PSP)
All awards were granted under the PSP as a contingent right to receive shares, with the face value calculated as a percentage (100%) of base 
salary, using the share price at date of award (2873.0p). Awards were made on 14th March 2014. 
Executive Director PSP award Face value (£)
Last day of the 
performance 
period
Vesting at 
threshold 
performance
N.J. Anderson 16,533 shares £474,993 31.12.16 25%
D.J. Meredith 11,034 shares £317,007 31.12.16 25%
N.H. Daws 10,024 shares £287,990 31.12.16 25%
J.L. Whalen 8,963 shares £257,507 31.12.16 25%
In respect of the PSP awards made to Executive Directors in 2014, vesting is dependent on the following TSR and EPS performance 
measures.
Relative TSR performance (40% of PSP award) Performance Payout
Threshold Median 25%
Maximum Upper quartile 100%
For awards made in 2014 the comparator group has been expanded to the constituents of the FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and 
Services Supersector.
Aggregate EPS performance (60% of PSP award) Performance Payout
Threshold RPI +3% CAGR 25%
Maximum RPI +9% CAGR 100%
EPS is as defined in previous years.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Nick Anderson, David Meredith and Neil Daws are participants in the HMRC approved ESOP . During the year ended 31st December 
2014 they purchased 53 partnership shares each, were awarded 53 matching shares each and received 4, 122 and 35 dividend 
shares respectively.
1.4 Payments to past Directors (audited)
There have been no payments to former Directors during the year ended 31st December 2014.
1.5 Payments for loss of office (audited)
During the year ended 31st December 2014 there have been no payments made to Directors for loss of office. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 84
Annual report on remuneration 2014 continued
1.6 Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
Progress towards share ownership guideline
The following chart sets out the Executive Directors’ progress towards the Company’s share ownership guidelines which require Executive 
Directors to hold shares in the Company with a value of not less than 100% of base salary. The value of the shareholding is taken at 
31st December 2014 as a percentage of 2014 base salary. 
N.J. Anderson
D.J. Meredith
N.H. Daws
J.L. Whalen
0 100 200 300 400 500
470%
187%
39%
96%
Share ownership guideline is 100% of base salary.
Outstanding share interests
The following table summarises the total interests of the Directors in shares of the Company as at 31st December 2014. These cover 
beneficial and conditional interests. No Director had any dealing in the shares of the Company between 31st December 2014 and 
4th March 2015.
Beneficial
1
PSP awards
2
Nil Cost 
Options
3
ESOP shares
4
Total 
31.12.14
(or date of 
retirement if 
earlier
5
)
Total 
04.03.15
6
W.H. Whiteley 11,443 N/A N/A N/A 11,443 11,443
M.E. Vernon
5
80,549 67,242 N/A N/A 147,791 N/A
N.J. Anderson 6,213 39,666 N/A 252 46,131 37,455
D.J. Meredith 45,882 37,629 4,586 5,976 94,073 84,129
N.H. Daws 17,003 34,390 16,735 1,757 69,885 60,742
J.L. Whalen 8,635 30,736 N/A N/A 39,371 31,196
G.R. Bullock
5
1,203 N/A N/A N/A 1,203 N/A
J. Pike 2,750 N/A N/A N/A 2,750 2,750
K. Rajagopal 1,925 N/A N/A N/A 1,925 1,925
G.E. Schoolenberg 962 N/A N/A N/A 962 962
C.G. Watson 2,537 N/A N/A N/A 2,537 2,537
1
  Shares include any owned by connected persons.
2
  Subject to the performance measures as set out on page 85.
3
  Explained in note 1 to the PSP table on page 85.
4
  Not subject to performance measures.
5
  M.E. Vernon retired on 15th January 2014. G.R. Bullock retired on 20th May 2014.
6
   The decrease in shareholding at 4th March 2015 for N.J. Anderson, D.J. Meredith, N.H. Daws and J.L. Whalen is as a result of 33.06% of the 2012 PSP award vesting and the balance of the award therefore 
lapsing. Full details are set out on page 81. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Share Option Schemes (Option Schemes)
Only Jay Whalen had interests under the Option Schemes, summarised below.
No options were granted to Executive Directors during the financial year ended 31st December 2014 and no options held by Executive 
Directors lapsed during the year. The options held by Jay Whalen were granted before his appointment to the Board. The performance 
measure required an increase in EPS of more than 9% greater than the increase in the UK RPI over the three-year period from 1st January in 
the year the grant was made. The auditor (KPMG Audit plc at that time) confirmed that the performance measure had been met. There are 
no interests to disclose in relation to the other Executive Directors.
The mid-market price of the shares on 31st December 2014 was 2876.0p. During the period from 1st January 2014 to 31st December 2014 
the mid-market share price ranged between 2561.0p and 3101.0p.
Balance 
01.01.14 Granted Exercised Lapsed
Balance 
31.12.14
Option price 
(p)
2014 gain 
arising on 
exercise (£)
Date from 
which first 
exercisable Expiry date
J.L. Whalen 7,500 0 7,500 0 0 1873.0 75,804 18.03.14 18.03.21
Spirax-Sarco Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The interests of Executive Directors in the PSP are set out below.
Date of award
Balance 
01.01.14
Vested 
04.03.14
1,6
Lapsed 
04.03.14
1,6
Awarded 
14.03.14
4,5
Balance 
31.12.14 18.03.11
1
 01.09.11
1
06.03.12
2
08.03.13
3
M.E. Vernon
6
25,093 – 23,029 19,120 67,242 13,883 53,359 – –
N.J. Anderson – 8,500 12,961 10,172 31,633 2,544 5,956 16,533 39,666
D.J. Meredith 15,323 – 14,855 11,740 41,918 4,586 10,737 11,034 37,629
N.H. Daws 13,347 – 13,659 10,707 37,713 3,995 9,352 10,024 34,390
J.L. Whalen – – 12,213 9,560 21,773 – – 8,963 30,736
1
  The mid-market prices of the shares on 18th March 201 1 and 1st September 201 1 were 1860.3p and 1845.0p respectively. 29.93% of the PSP awards vested on 4th March 2014 as the performance measures 
applicable to those PSP awards were partly met. During the performance period 1st January 201 1 to 31st December 2013, the EPS performance of the Company resulted in 7 4.8% vesting of this element. 
However, the TSR performance of 70.9% fell below the median of the comparator group. For N.J. Anderson, D.J. Meredith and N.H. Daws, the PSP awards vested in the form of nil cost options (detailed below). 
M.E. Vernon's PSP award (7 ,510 shares) vested in the form of shares. The mid-market price of the shares on 4th March 2014 was 3060.0p.
Vested  
04.03.14 Exercised
Balance  
31.12.14
2014 gain 
arising on 
exercise (£)
Date from  
which first 
exercisable Expiry date
N.J. Anderson 2,544 2,544 0 72,046 04.03.14 04.03.21
D.J. Meredith 4,586 0 4,586 – 04.03.14 04.03.21
N.H. Daws 3,995 0 3,995 – 04.03.14 04.03.21
2
  The mid-market price of the shares on 6th March 2012 was 2006.0p. The period over which performance measures are measured is 1st January 2012 to 31st December 2014. Details of the performance 
measures attached to these PSP awards are set out on page 81. (Figures corrected due to an administrative error.)
3
  The mid-market price of the shares on 8th March 2013 was 2615.0p. The period over which performance measures are measured is 1st January 2013 to 31st December 2015. There are two performance 
measures governing vesting of this PSP award: 60% of the PSP award is subject to a TSR performance measure which requires the Company to rank at median relative to a comparator group of 25 companies 
for 25% of this portion of the PSP award to vest, increasing to full vesting for ranking at the upper quartile; 40% of the PSP award is subject to an EPS performance measure which requires growth of RPI +3% 
CAGR per annum for 25% of this portion of the PSP award to vest, increasing to full vesting for growth of RPI +9% CAGR per annum.
4
  The mid-market price of the shares on 14th March 2014 was 2873.0p. This was applied in determining the number of shares subject to the PSP awards granted on 14th March 2014. The period over which 
performance measures are measured is 1st January 2014 to 31st December 2016. Details of the performance measures attached to these PSP awards are set out on page 83.
5
  The 2012 TSR comparator group is set out on page 81. The peer group for 2013 is the same as 2012, apart from the inclusion of Dialight. The 2014 TSR comparator group has been changed to the full 
FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services Supersector.
6
  In accordance with the PSP rules, M.E. Vernon's retirement on 15th January 2014 triggered the vesting of the 2012 and 2013 awards, with the performance period being pro-rated to date of retirement. 
This resulted in a nil vesting of the 2012 award and 100% vesting (6,373 shares) of the 2013 award. 
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
The interests of eligible Executive Directors are set out below.
Balance  
01.01.14
Partnership 
shares 
purchased
1
Matching 
shares 
awarded
1
Dividend  
shares
2
Balance  
31.12.14
Period of 
qualifying 
conditions
3
N.J. Anderson 142 53 53 4 252 3 years
D.J. Meredith 5,748 53 53 122 5,976 3 years
N.H. Daws 1,616 53 53 35 1,757 3 years
1
  Partnership shares were purchased, at a price of 2808.0p, and matching shares were awarded on 7th October 2014. The mid-market price of the shares on that date was 2770.0p.
2
  107 dividend shares were received on 30th May 2014, on which date the mid-market price of the shares was 2859.0p. 54 dividend shares were received on 7th November 2014, on which date the mid-market 
price of the shares was 2870.0p. 
3
  Partnership shares are not subject to qualifying conditions. No matching shares or dividend shares were released from the ESOP or forfeited during the year ended 31st December 2014. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 86
Annual report on remuneration 2014 continued
1.7 Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for a period of three years, subject to annual  
re-election at the AGM. Appointments may be terminated by the Company or individual with one month’s notice. The appointment letters for 
the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors provide that no compensation is payable on termination, other than accrued fees and expenses.
Directors’ terms of service
The tables below set out the dates on which each Director was initially appointed, their latest service agreement or letter of appointment and 
their notice period. All Directors are subject to election (if newly appointed in the year) or re-election at the next AGM.
Executive Director Original appointment date
Current 
agreement Expiry date Notice period
N.J. Anderson 15.03.12 13.12.13 16.01.26 12 months
D.J. Meredith 19.06.92 17.08.12 18.08.24 12 months
N.H. Daws 01.06.03 25.09.12 01.07.27 12 months
J.L. Whalen 15.03.12 17.04.12 28.05.21 12 months
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Original appointment date Letter Expiry date Notice period
W.H. Whiteley 26.07.02 15.05.12 30.06.15 1 month
J. Pike 01.05.14 04.03.14 30.04.17 1 month
K. Rajagopal 10.02.09 05.02.15 09.02.18 1 month
G.E. Schoolenberg 01.08.12 12.07.12 31.07.15 1 month
C.G. Watson 17.07.09 15.05.12 16.07.15 1 month
1.8 TSR performance graph
The graph demonstrates the growth in value of a £100 investment in the Company compared to the FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services 
Supersector over the last six years. This comparison is chosen as it is the Supersector within which the Company is classified and it is a 
broad equity market index including companies of a similar size, complexity and sector. 
Historical five-year TSR performance
The table below shows the historic levels of the Group Chief Executive’s pay (single figure of total remuneration) and annual variable and PSP 
awards as a percentage of maximum. 
Single figure of annual remuneration
Annual variable pay awarded as a 
percentage of maximum
Value of vested PSP awards as a 
percentage of maximum
2014 £1,000,115 55.76% 33.06%
2013 £1,593,150 95.24% 29.93%
2012 £1,402,668 31.69% 74.60%
2011 £1,516,798 80.08% 100.00%
2010 £1,720,765 100.00% 100.00%
2009 £1,092,229 37.00% 100.00%
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014
Spirax Sarco FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
Source: Datastream
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
£350
£400 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
1.9 Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive
The following table provides a summary of the 2014 increase in base salary, benefits and bonus for the Group Chief Executive compared to 
the average increase for the general employee population across the Group in the same period. 
2014 increase 2013 increase
Salary Group Chief Executive
1
-4.6% 2.0%
General employee population 2.0% 2.1%
Benefits Group Chief Executive
1, 2
-28.2% 3.1%
General employee population 2.0% 2.1%
Bonus Group Chief Executive
1
-45.1% 207.7%
General employee population -51.4% 243.0%
1
 In 2013 the Group Chief Executive was M.E. Vernon. With effect from 16th January 2014, the Group Chief Executive was N.J. Anderson.
2
 Excludes one-off repatriation payment made in 2013 to M.E. Vernon and Tax Treaty Adjustment payments made in 2013 and 2014 to M.E. Vernon.
1.10 Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below demonstrates the relative importance of total remuneration spend relative to total employee numbers, profit before tax and 
dividends payable in respect of the year.
2014 2013 Change
Total pay spend £233m £232m 0.2%
Headcount 4,797 4,725 1.5%
Profit before tax £145m £146m -0.6%
Dividends payable £49m £44m 9.9%
Special dividend payable £91m N/A N/A
1.11 Statement of implementation of Remuneration policy in 2015
Base salaries effective January 2015
For 2015, the Executive Directors' salaries have been increased by an average of 3.4%. Increases for the broader UK employee population 
were on average 2.0%, increasing to 5.0% in accordance with internal guidelines for top performers. The increases for Executive Directors, 
like those for the broader UK employee population, took account of both individual performance and market data, to ensure that salaries 
remain competitively positioned in the market.
Base salaries:
– N.J. Anderson:  £495,000 (4.2%) 
– D.J. Meredith:  £326,500 (3.0%) 
– N.H. Daws:  £293,750 (2.0%) 
– J.L. Whalen:  £268,250 (4.2%)
Fees effective January 2015
The Chairman’s fee has been increased by 5.0% and the Non-Executive Directors’ base fee by an average of 2.2% in 2015.
Base fees:
– Chairman: £157 ,500 
– Non-Executive Directors: £47 ,000
Additional fees:
– Senior Independent Director: £2,000 
– Audit/Remuneration Committee Chairmen: £8,700
Benefits
No change.
Annual bonus
No change has been made to the maximum opportunity under the annual bonus plan. The performance measures and their respective 
weightings also remain unchanged. 
Bonus targets for the current year 2015 are not disclosed because they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive. 
The targets will be retrospectively reported in the Annual report on remuneration 2015. In respect of the bonus for 2014 we have 
retrospectively disclosed the targets on page 80. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88
Annual report on remuneration 2014 continued
Spirax-Sarco Performance Share Plan (PSP)
EPS growth calculation
From 2015 EPS will be measured on a point-to-point basis rather than an aggregate basis as is the case currently (see page 140). The targets 
will be unchanged, requiring a compound annual growth rate of RPI +3% to RPI +9% per annum. This change has been made to focus on 
growth in EPS over the medium to long-term improvements and reduce the risk of one year's performance over-influencing the outcome of 
three award cycles in either direction.
Expiry and renewal of PSP
The current PSP expires on 15th March 2015.
New rules for a replacement PSP , the Spirax-Sarco 2015 Performance Share Plan (2015 PSP), will be put to shareholders for approval at the 
AGM. The key changes to the PSP are as follows:
• Holding period: Committee discretion to grant awards subject to a holding period. Where a holding period is attached to an award, the 
default holding period is two years. The Committee does not intend to apply a holding period to PSP awards granted in 2015 but will keep 
the application of this provision under review for future grants
• Malus and clawback: the PSP already covered both malus (reduction in the amount of deferred and as yet unpaid compensation) and 
clawback (reimbursement of compensation that has already been paid). We have updated the provisions to ensure they can be applied 
during a holding period
• Treatment of good leavers: new provisions have been introduced so that, in the future, the Committee can choose the most appropriate 
timing of vesting considering the individual circumstances of a good leaver. Currently, we calculate performance at the point employment 
ceases and settle awards on a time pro rata basis. We prefer to move to a default “wait and see” approach for good leavers during the 
performance period as this provides a longer-term interest in performance after a participant’s departure and also reduces some of the 
costs associated with operating the PSP . We will retain the time pro rata adjustment, and early vesting is maintained in the case of death or 
at the Committee's discretion. 
Pensions
No change.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
No change.
1.12 Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
Operation of the Remuneration Committee in 2014
Membership and attendance
Each of the Committee members is an independent Non-Executive Director and thus brings independence to consideration of all aspects of 
Board remuneration and the application of professional advice to matters relating to remuneration.
During 2014, the Committee was chaired by Krishnamurthy Rajagopal, and the members comprised Gareth Bullock (up to 20th May 2014), 
Jamie Pike (from 1st May 2014) Trudy Schoolenberg and Clive Watson, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
In 2014 the Committee met three times and all members attended each meeting, with the exception of Gareth Bullock, who attended one of 
the two meetings held prior to his retirement, and Clive Watson, who was absent from one meeting due to a prior commitment. Jamie Pike 
attended the one meeting held following his appointment.
Advisers to the Committee
During 2014 the Committee sought advice and information from Bill Whiteley, the Chairman, Nick Anderson, the Group Chief Executive 
and Frank Richardson, the Group Human Resources Director. None of the invitees participated in any discussions regarding their own 
remuneration or fees. The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee received external advice from Towers Watson. Towers Watson were appointed by the Committee and provided 
material advice to the Committee on various matters such as executive remuneration levels and structure, performance updates in respect 
of the PSP , the remuneration report and attendance at Committee meetings. Towers Watson’s fees in respect of these services totalled 
£65,000 in 2014. In addition, Towers Watson work with management on other matters relating to remuneration with the approval of the 
Committee. A separate advisory team within Towers Watson provides support and advice to management on pensions and other employee 
benefit-related matters. The Committee is of the opinion that the advice received is objective and independent, given that Towers Watson are 
a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct, the manner in which advice is delivered and the separate teams that 
advise management more generally.
In 2014, Herbert Smith Freehills LLP provided legal advice to the Company (which was available to the Committee). Legal fees relate to advice 
provided to the Company and not the Committee, and are charged on a time-cost basis. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
1.13 Statement of voting at general meeting
At the AGM in 2014, shareholders approved the Annual report on remuneration 2013 and Remuneration policy report 2014. The table below 
shows the results in respect of the resolutions, which required a simple majority (ie 50%) of the votes to be cast to be in favour in order for the 
resolutions to be passed.
Votes for % Votes against % Votes withheld
Annual report on remuneration 2013 60,062,377 99.4 339,801 0.56 513,953
Remuneration policy report 2014 56,203,099 98.5 880,848 1.54 3,834,218
Approval
This Annual report on remuneration 2014 has been approved by the Board of Directors of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc and signed on its 
behalf by:
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
4th March 2015 Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 90
Remuneration policy report 2014
2.0 Remuneration policy report 2014
Please note that the Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are 
necessarily historical.
2.1 Remuneration policy
The table below summarises the remuneration policy which will take effect, if approved, from the AGM to be held on 20th May 2014.
Element Purpose and link to 
strategy
Operation Performance 
measures
Maximum potential 
value
Fixed elements of Executive Director remuneration
Base salary To enable the 
Group to attract, 
retain and motivate 
high‑performing 
Executive Directors 
of the calibre required 
to meet the Group’s 
strategic objectives. 
 Reviewed annually by the Committee, taking into account:
–  Scale, scope and complexity of the role
–  Skills and experience of the individual
–  Wider workforce comparisons
–  Market benchmarking, within a defined external comparator 
group. The Committee uses this information with caution, 
given the limited number of direct comparators and to avoid 
remuneration inflation as a result of benchmarking exercises 
with no corresponding improvement in performance.
The Committee considers the impact of any base salary 
increase on the total remuneration package.
 Reviews take into 
account Company and 
individual performance.
 O r d i na r i l y , s a la r y 
increases will not 
exceed the average 
increase awarded to 
other Group employees. 
The maximum value 
of any annual increase 
in Executive Director 
salaries will be capped 
at country of residence 
inflation plus 5%.  
The Committee may 
award increases above 
this level, subject to a 
maximum of country of 
residence inflation plus 
10%, in circumstances 
such as (i) where a new 
recruit or promoted 
Executive Director’s 
salary has been set lower 
than the market level for 
such a role, or (ii) where 
there is a significant 
increase in the size and 
responsibilities of the 
Executive Director’s role.
Pension To offer market 
competitive levels of 
pension and benefit.
To attract and retain 
individuals with the 
personal attributes, 
skills and experience 
required to deliver 
Group strategy.
For eligible Executive Directors who joined the UK Company 
before 2001 the Company provides a UK defined benefits 
pension scheme (DB scheme) or cash alternative allowance.
For UK nationals who joined the UK Company after 2001 
the Company provides a defined contribution pension 
arrangement (DC plan) and/or contributions to a private 
pension and/or a cash allowance.
Executive Directors who have transferred internally from 
overseas may continue to participate in home country 
pension arrangements and/or receive a cash allowance.
N/A For DB scheme as per 
actuarial value.
For all other 
arrangements the 
total contribution to all 
pension arrangements 
will comprise no more 
than 25% of base salary.
No element other than 
base salary is 
pensionable.
Common 
benefits
To provide market 
competitive benefits.
To enable the Executive 
Directors to undertake 
their roles through 
ensuring their wellbeing 
and security.
The Company provides common benefits including:
–  Company car and associated running costs or cash 
alternative allowance
– Private health insurance
– Telecommunications and computer equipment
– Life assurance
– Long‑term disability insurance.
N/A The aggregate maximum 
cash value of providing all 
common benefits will not 
exceed 20% of  
base salary. 
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Element Purpose and link to 
strategy
Operation Performance 
measures
Maximum potential 
value
Variable elements of Executive Director remuneration
Mobility‑  
related 
benefits
To ensure that 
Executive Directors 
who have relocated 
nationally or 
internationally are 
compensated for 
costs incurred.
The Company will pay all reasonable expenses for the Executive 
Director to relocate on appointment. Costs will primarily be 
dependent on geographical location and family size. 
The Company will pay all reasonable expenses for repatriation 
of the Executive Director and his/her family to the original home 
country at the end of their assignment and/or employment.
Executive Directors are personally responsible for all taxes 
and social charges incurred in the home and host locations 
as a result of their appointment. To ensure that Executive 
Directors who relocate internationally are able to fulfil their tax 
obligations in the home and host countries the Company will 
pay for reasonable tax advice and filing support in relation to 
work‑related income for international Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are reimbursed under a Tax Treaty 
Adjustment for any double tax they might be liable for as a 
result of being subject to home country and host country 
taxation typically for days worked in the home location. 
Executive Directors are not entitled to tax equalisation.
N/A Based on individual 
circumstances 
and subject to 
written agreement.
Maximum values will 
not exceed the normal 
market practice of 
companies of a similar 
size and nature at the 
time of relocation.
Annual 
bonus
To incentivise and 
reward performance 
against selected KPIs 
which are directly linked 
to business strategy.
 T o r e c o g ni se 
performance through 
variable remuneration 
and enable the 
Company to flexibly 
control its cost base 
and react to events and 
market circumstances.
To ensure a significant 
proportion of Executive 
Director remuneration 
is directly linked to 
business performance.
Measures, targets and their relative weightings are reviewed 
regularly by the Committee to ensure continuing alignment 
with strategic objectives, and will be detailed in the relevant 
Annual report on remuneration. In 2012 and 2013, the target 
was 60% and the maximum was 100% of base salary.
Bonus is based largely or entirely on the achievement of 
challenging financial performance measures, which have 
been selected to ensure the Company is focused on its 
strategic objectives.
Bonus is delivered in cash. Executive Directors must use 
that part of the bonus over 60% of base salary (net of tax) to 
buy shares until the shareholding guidelines have been met. 
Purchase to be made within 12 months of bonus receipt.
 Bonus is subject to clawback for up to three years following 
payment. Circumstances include financial misstatement, 
erroneous calculations determining bonus payments or gross 
misconduct. 
The Committee can adjust some performance targets to 
reflect certain non‑operating items such as the amortisation 
of acquisition‑related intangible assets and exceptional 
reorganisational costs, and to reflect the inclusion of 
Associate companies. These adjustments are mechanical 
rather than discretionary.
Subject to the 
Committee’s 
judgement, 
performance measures 
and their respective 
targets are set at a 
Group or divisional 
level depending 
on the Executive 
Director’s role.
 Any measure can 
be incorporated at 
the Committee’s 
discretion provided 
it is clearly aligned to 
the Group’s strategic 
objectives, subject to 
the requirement that 
financial measures will 
account for a minimum 
of 90% of bonus 
opportunity, with up to 
10% being available for 
sustainability or other 
strategic measures. 
The weighting of each 
component will be 
chosen specifically to 
reflect the Executive 
Director’s role. 
Threshold: 0% of salary.
 Target: 75% of salary 
(60% in 2014).
Maximum: 125% 
of salary (100% in 2014).
 Or such lower sum 
as determined by the 
Committee. 
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 92
Element Purpose and link to 
strategy
Operation Performance 
measures
Maximum potential 
value
Variable elements of Executive Director remuneration
Performance 
Share Plan 
(PSP)
 To incentivise and 
reward Executive 
Directors for delivery 
against long‑term 
Group performance.
 To align Executive 
Directors’ interests to 
those of shareholders.
To drive sustainable 
Company 
performance.
 To retain key 
executive talent.
The Committee makes an annual conditional award of shares 
to each Executive Director. Annual participation is subject to 
Committee approval. 
 Measures, targets and their relative weightings are reviewed 
regularly by the Committee to ensure continuing alignment 
with strategic objectives, and will be detailed in the relevant 
Annual report on remuneration.
 Performance is measured over a three‑year period, starting 
at the beginning of the financial year in which awards 
are granted.
 Share awards made from 2012 are subject to clawback for 
up to three years following award. Circumstances include 
financial misstatement, erroneous calculations determining 
bonus payments or gross misconduct.
Dividends are not payable on PSP awards prior to vesting.
Vesting is currently 
based on two 
performance 
measures, which have 
been chosen as they 
are clearly aligned with 
our strategic objectives:
–  T S R
–  EPS growth
 The Committee will 
review performance 
to ensure outcomes 
under the PSP are fair 
and reasonable.
 Nor ma l ci r c um s t a n c e s : 
100% of salary.
 E x c e p t i ona l 
circumstances: up to 
150% of salary.
Employee 
Share 
Ownership 
Plan (ESOP)
 To offer all eligible 
UK‑based employees 
the opportunity to build 
a shareholding in a 
tax‑efficient way.
 To align Executive 
Director interests to 
those of shareholders.
Eligible UK Executive Directors are entitled to participate in an 
HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan known as the ESOP .
Whilst not currently operated, if in the future employee share 
plans are offered outside the UK, eligible Executive Directors 
will be entitled to participate on the same basis as all other 
eligible employees.
Awards granted under the ESOP are not subject to clawback.
The ESOP operates over a five‑ year period.
N/A Maximum annual 
investment subject to 
HMRC limits or such 
lower sum as determined 
by the Board.
 Potential 1:1 matching 
share award from 
the Company and 
dividend shares (can 
be reinvested).
If the ESOP (or an 
approved sub‑plan) is 
offered outside the UK, 
Executive Directors 
will be subject to the 
same limitations as all 
other participants.
Share 
ownership 
guidelines
 T o p r ov i d e 
alignment with 
shareholder interests.
Following the date of appointment to the Board, Executive 
Directors are required to accumulate, over a maximum period 
of five years, a shareholding in the Company worth at least 
100% of base salary and to maintain this level of shareholding 
whilst the Executive Director remains on the Board. 
N/A N/A
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Fees To attract and retain 
high‑calibre individuals, 
with appropriate 
experience or 
industry‑related skills, 
by offering market 
competitive fee levels.
The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities. 
The Non‑Executive Directors are paid a basic fee. The 
Chairmen of the main Board Committees and the Senior 
Independent Director are paid an additional fee to reflect their 
extra responsibilities.
Fees for the Chairman and the Non‑Executive Directors are 
reviewed annually by the Board, with reference to any change 
in the time commitment required, UK market levels and the 
average base salary increase across the wider workforce.
 The Chairman and the Non‑Executive Directors do not 
participate in any annual bonus or incentive plans, pension 
schemes, healthcare arrangements, the Company’s PSP 
or ESOP .
The Company repays the reasonable expenses that the 
Chairman and the Non‑Executive Directors incur in carrying 
out their duties as Directors.
N/A The aggregate value 
of fees paid to the 
Chairman and 
Non‑Executive Directors 
will not exceed £750,000 
as set out in the Articles 
of Association.
Remuneration policy report 2014 continued
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
2.2 Notes to the policy table
2.2 (i) Outstanding incentive awards
Details of outstanding incentive awards granted to Executive Directors prior to the Policy coming into force, including awards granted in 2013, 
and details of the performance targets are set out on pages 84 to 87 of the Annual report on remuneration 2013.
All incentive awards granted prior to this Policy coming into force will continue on their existing terms including the exercise of discretion 
to amend such awards.
2.2 (ii) Remuneration policy for other employees
The Company’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of 
experience, responsibility, individual performance and market pay levels. The most senior managers in the business (approximately 80 people 
globally) participate in bonus arrangements with similar targets, measures and relative weightings to the Executive Directors. Target and 
maximum potential values are lower and determined by the grade of the manager’s role. Performance targets are based on an appropriate 
combination of Group, divisional and local operating company financial measures. Contractual terms and benefits for the wider workforce 
are subject to local employment legislation and best practice.
2.2 (iii) Measure selection and the target setting process
Measures are selected taking into account the key strategic priorities of the Company, shareholder expectations and factors that sit within 
an individual’s span of control.
Targets are set with reference to internal and external forecasts to ensure that they are realistic, yet sufficiently stretching. An appropriate mix 
of long and short‑term targets will be used, informed by the nature of the measure.
2.3 External directorships
Directors are permitted to hold external directorships in order to broaden their experience, to the benefit of the Company. Such appointments 
are subject to approval by the Board and the Director may retain any fees paid in respect of such directorships. The Board ensures 
compliance by Directors with Code provision B.3.
Mark Vernon served as a Non‑Executive Director at Senior plc during 2013, for which he received and retained total fees of £40,400.
2.4 Approach to recruitment and promotion remuneration
When appointing external hires or when promoting executives, or an Executive Director, internally, the Committee will continue to act in the 
best interests of shareholders when determining remuneration, in line with the stated policy. The main elements of the remuneration policy 
for Executive Director appointments are:
•  Base salary will be set on appointment taking into account the factors set out in the policy table, but also the individual’s experience. 
Depending on an individual’s prior experience, the Committee may set salary below market norms, with the intention that it is realigned 
over time, typically two to three years, subject to performance in the role. In this situation, the Committee is permitted to exceed the 
“normal” rate of annual salary increase set out in the policy table.
•  On‑going annual incentive pay opportunity will not exceed 275% of salary, in line with the maximums stated in the policy table (up to 125% 
of salary for annual bonus and an award of up to 150% of salary under the PSP). In the year of appointment an off‑cycle award under the 
PSP may be made by the Committee to ensure an immediate alignment of individual interests.
•  In addition to the standard elements of remuneration, on the appointment of an external candidate, the Committee reserves the right to 
buy‑out incentive awards that the individual has foregone by accepting the appointment, if appropriate. The terms of such awards would 
be informed by the amounts being forfeited and the associated terms (for example the extent to which the outstanding awards were 
subject to performance, the vehicles and the associated time horizons). It is the intention of the Committee that on an “expected” basis, the 
value of the awards being made would not exceed those being forfeited. Awards would be made either through the existing share plans or 
in accordance with the relevant provisions contained within the Listing Rules.
•  When an internal appointment to the Board is made, any pre‑existing obligations may be honoured by the Committee and payment will 
be permitted under this remuneration policy. 
• For Executive Director internal promotions, salary will be capped at that of the incumbent Group Chief Executive.
The Committee shall have discretion to grant one‑off cash or share‑based awards to Executive Directors pursuant to the Listing Rules. 
The Committee will exercise this discretion only in exceptional circumstances, where it determines that such an award is necessary to secure 
the recruitment or retention of an Executive Director and where the Committee determines that it is in the best interests of the Company 
to do so. Any one‑off award will be subject to a maximum of 100% of salary and will be performance ‑ related. In such circumstances, the 
Company will disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for the one‑off award. The Committee does not expect to have to make any 
one‑off awards as a matter of course, and this power has been included in the policy to cater for any exceptional and genuinely unforeseen 
circumstances, such as a grant to a key individual where it is vital to retain them in the business.
Details of the remuneration for any new Chairman or Executive Director appointed to the Board will be disclosed on a timely basis on the 
Group’s website, www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com.
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 94
2.5 Service agreements and termination policy
The Company’s policy on service agreements and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below. Service agreements 
are designed to reflect the interests of the Company, as well as the individual concerned. Executive Directors’ service agreements are kept 
at the Company’s headquarters in Cheltenham.
In accordance with the Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors, Executive Directors have service agreements that are terminable 
by either the Company or the Executive Director on 12 months’ notice. In the event of termination or resignation, and subject to business 
reasons, the Company would not necessarily hold the Executive Director to his or her full notice period. All Directors are subject to election 
(if newly appointed in the year) or re‑election at the AGM.
Service agreements set out restrictions on the ability of the Executive Director to participate in businesses competing with those of the Group 
or to entice or solicit away from the Group any senior employees or to solicit/deal with clients of the Group or interfere with supply, in the 
12 months following the cessation of employment. 
Salary, pension and benefits are included in the agreements and are treated as described in the policy table on pages 75 to 77 . There is 
no contractual entitlement to payment of an annual bonus or granting of an award under the PSP , until individual participation, level of award, 
measures and targets have been set for a particular year.
The Chairman and Non‑Executive Directors do not have service agreements but serve the Company under letters of appointment, for an 
initial period of three years, subject to annual re‑election at the AGM. Appointments may be terminated by the Company or individual with 
one month’s notice. 
Group Chief Executive and new appointments from 1st January 2013
The details of the service agreements of the Group Chief Executive and for new appointments to the Board are outlined below. The Group 
Chief Executive's service agreement has been updated to reflect latest best practice. In the event of a material change in role, function 
or responsibilities, Executive Directors’ agreements will be reviewed and will be expected to be updated to meet the requirements 
outlined below.
Notice Period 12 months by the Executive Director and 12 months by the Company
Termination No payment if Executive Director commits a repudiatory breach of the service agreement or for gross misconduct or in certain 
circumstances
No additional termination payment if notice worked
If notice only part worked/part on garden leave, payment in respect of unexpired period of notice
Otherwise 12 months’ base salary only 
Company discretion to pay in lieu of notice in lump sum or monthly except within 12 months of a change of control, when a lump sum 
will be paid
If paid monthly, payment will be reduced by the value of any salary, fees and benefits, excluding long‑term incentives, earned in new 
paid employment in that period 
No automatic entitlement to payments under the annual bonus or PSP . See page 80
Garden leave clause
Robust post‑termination restrictions on confidentiality, non‑compete, non‑solicitation and non‑interference with customers or 
suppliers
Service agreements may be terminated without notice and without payment of compensation on the occurrence of certain events, 
such as gross misconduct or financial misstatement
Clawback Bonus payments and PSP awards are subject to clawback for up to three years following award 
Circumstances include financial misstatement, erroneous calculations determining bonus payments or gross misconduct
Executive Directors’ legacy agreements
Within the legacy agreements of Executive Directors, termination of agreements is subject to a 12 month notice period. Where payment is 
made in lieu of notice on termination, the payment of a sum in respect of lost future bonus opportunity (based on an average of the preceding 
three years’ bonus payments) is subject to the Committee’s discretion, with the power to reduce the amount to reflect performance on the 
part of the Executive Director which is considered by the Committee to be unsatisfactory. On termination of such an Executive Director’s 
service agreement, the Committee will take into account the departing Executive Director’s need to mitigate his or her loss when determining 
the amount of bonus. Payment will only be made at the discretion of the Committee after taking into account individual performance in order 
to ensure that there will be no “payments for failure”. In any event, payments will be subject to clawback provisions. 
Executive Directors’ service agreements may be terminated without notice and without payment of compensation on the occurrence of 
certain events, such as termination for gross misconduct or financial misstatement. 
Remuneration policy report 2014 continued
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
While the Executive Directors’ service agreements include a provision to deal with termination on a change of control, in the event of an 
offer being made, shareholders have discretion to accept the offer or not. The decision to recommend acceptance, or not, is a matter for 
the Board and the Committee is of the clear view that the change of control provision within the Executive Directors’ service agreements 
would have no influence on the voting pattern of those Executive Directors. Executive Directors’ legacy agreements are summarised in the 
table below.
Notice Period 12 months by the Executive Director and 12 months by the Company
Termination No payment if Executive Director commits a repudiatory breach of the service agreement or for gross misconduct or in certain 
circumstances
No additional termination payment if notice worked 
If notice only part worked/part on garden leave, payment in respect of unexpired period of notice
Otherwise 12 months’ base salary, the value of other benefits, plus the cost of pension credits or contributions for the period plus the 
average of the prior three years’ annual bonus payments, with Committee discretion to reduce the amount of the bonus that would 
otherwise be calculated, to reflect performance on the part of the Executive Director that is considered by the Committee to be below 
the required standards, provided that termination by the Company does not occur within 12 months of a change of control
Committee discretion to pay in lump sum or monthly except within 12 months of a change of control when a lump sum will be paid
If paid monthly, payment will be reduced by the value of any salary, fees and benefits excluding long‑term incentives, earned in new 
paid employment in that period 
No automatic entitlement to payments under the current annual bonus or PSP . See below
Garden leave clause
Robust post‑termination restrictions on confidentiality, non‑compete, non‑solicitation and non‑interference with customers or 
suppliers 
Clawback Bonus payments and PSP awards are subject to clawback for up to three years following award
Circumstances include financial misstatement, erroneous calculations determining bonus payments or gross misconduct
Treatment of leavers under the incentive plans
Whilst it is not an entitlement, it is expected that where an Executive Director is a “good leaver” (ie where the cessation of employment is 
due to death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company business in which he/she works being disposed of where the ending of 
employment is instigated by the Company and is not for cause), payments will be made under the annual bonus plan if performance targets 
are met subject to, and in accordance with, the plan rules. If the Executive Director is not a “good leaver” it is expected that no bonus will 
be paid.
The treatment of leavers under the PSP is determined in accordance with the shareholder approved PSP rules. Any awards granted within 
six months prior to termination (or the giving or receiving of notice) will lapse. Any awards granted six months or longer prior to termination of 
employment (but prior to the end of the performance period) will lapse unless the Executive Director is considered to be a “good leaver”.
In the case of a “good leaver” the award will vest on the termination date, or the normal vesting date, at the Committee’s discretion. 
This is subject to the satisfaction of the performance targets at that date and a pro‑rata reduction in the number of shares to take account 
of the shortening of the performance period. 
For awards granted on or after 1st March 2012, if the Executive Director is a “good leaver” where the ending of employment is not for cause, 
the number of shares vested may be reduced (including to zero) by the Committee in its absolute discretion. 
If an Executive Director ceases employment (or notice is given) on or after the end of the performance period but prior to the date on which 
the Committee has determined the extent to which the award has vested, if the Executive Director is a “good leaver”, his/her award will be 
preserved and will be treated in the same way as if his/her employment had continued, whereas if the Executive Director is not a “good 
leaver”, his/her award will lapse on the earlier of his/her cessation of employment and the giving of notice.
Change of control
Bonus: if termination occurs within 12 months of a change of control, the Executive Director is entitled to (i) a lump sum payment in lieu of 
notice and (ii) receive a full bonus payment calculated by reference to the average of the preceding three years’ bonus payments (without any 
reduction for performance).
PSP: the rules provide that in the event of a change of control, outstanding share‑based awards will vest to the extent that performance 
targets are met at the date of the event. Any such vesting would generally be on a time pro‑rated basis. The Committee may, at its discretion, 
increase the level of vesting if it believes that exceptional circumstances warrant such treatment. 
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 96
Maximum
Target
Threshold
£0.0m £2.0m
100% 0% 0%
61% 28% 12%
40% 30% 30%
£0.62m
£0.38m
£0.96m
£1.0m
Neil Daws (Executive Director EMEA)
Maximum
Target
Threshold
£0.0m £2.0m
100% 0% 0%
62% 11%
40%
£0.70m
£1.07m
£0.43m
£1.0m
27%
30% 30%
David Meredith (Finance Director)
Maximum
Target
Threshold
£0.0m £2.0m
100% 0% 0%
65% 25% 10%
44%
£0.63m
£0.93m
£0.41m
£1.0m
28% 28%
Jay Whalen (Executive Director WMFTG)
Maximum
Target
Threshold
£0.0m £1.0m £2.0m
100% 0% 0%
60% 28%
40% 30% 30%
£1.01m
£1.56m
£0.61m
12%
Nick Anderson (Group Chief Executive)
Total remuneration by performance scenario
  Fixed    Annual bonus   PSP
2.6 Illustrations of application of the remuneration policy
Under the remuneration policy, a significant portion of remuneration is variable and depends on the Company’s performance. Below we 
illustrate how the total pay opportunity for the Executive Directors varies under three performance scenarios: maximum, on target, and 
below threshold. 
The scenarios, informed by the current application of our pay policy, are defined as follows:
Element
Fixed pay, benefits and ESOP Fixed pay and ESOP does not vary with performance and comprises:
– Base salary effective 1st January 2014
 – Benefits value based on 2013 disclosure
– Pension value (DB 2013 as reported; cash allowance: rate applied to 2014 salary)
 – ESOP participation of up to £1,500 1:1 matching shares for eligible Executive Directors
Percentage of base salary
Below threshold On target Maximum
Annual bonus (% of salary) 0% 60% 100%
PSP
1
 (% of salary at award) 0% 25% 100%
1
  A level of 25% vesting for “on target” performance is equivalent to threshold performance under the PSP , which the Committee believes to be a fair assumption for on target performance given the approach 
taken to setting performance targets.
Remuneration policy report 2014 continued
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
2.7 Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
When determining the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Committee considers the pay of employees across the Group. 
When conducting the annual salary review, the average base salary increase awarded to the UK workforce and senior managers across 
the Group provides a key reference point when determining levels of increase for Executive Director remuneration. The remuneration policy 
was drawn up by the Committee without the need for any consultation with employees.
The Committee also determines the principles and policy of remuneration which shall apply to the Group’s senior managers. 
The responsibility for determining precise compensation packages that meet local practice and performance targets lies with the Group Chief 
Executive and the responsible Executive Director.
To ensure consistency in remuneration policy across the Group and to encourage a performance culture, senior managers participate in the 
PSP . The Board believes that share ownership is an effective way of aligning the interests of managers and shareholders and to strengthen 
the development of the business.
2.8 Statement of consideration of shareholder views
In developing and reviewing the Company’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives, the Committee seeks 
and takes into account the range of views of shareholders. The Committee Chairman actively engages with institutional shareholders when 
appropriate and takes into account their views when reviewing and implementing the Company’s remuneration policy.
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative 
bodies more generally. This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during the year at meetings with shareholders, is considered 
as part of the Company’s annual review of remuneration policy. At the AGM in 2013, the advisory vote on the 2012 Directors’ remuneration 
report received 96.3% in favour. 
The views of shareholders have been helpful and constructive and assisted in the development of a pro‑forma Executive Director service 
agreement which has been applied to Nick Anderson on his appointment as Group Chief Executive and which will apply to all new 
appointments. Specifically in relation to the termination arrangements, the revised service agreement restricts any termination payment to 
12 months’ base pay. This applies to the new Group Chief Executive service agreement and, in the event of a material change in the role, 
function or responsibilities, existing Executive Directors’ service agreements will be reviewed and changed to meet the new standard.
The Remuneration policy report 2014 is reproduced exactly as published in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Therefore, as the 
content remains the same the page numbers, examples and illustrations are necessarily historical. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98
Principal activities
Spirax Sarco is a multi‑national engineering group that is domiciled and incorporated in the UK under registration number 596337 and which 
is tightly focused on its two niche businesses of steam system specialties and peristaltic pumps and associated fluid path technologies. 
An overview of our principal activities, by business, is given on pages 8 and 9 of the Strategic report.
Future development
An indication of likely future developments in the Group is given in the Strategic report.
Strategic report
From the beginning of the Annual Report and Accounts to page 55 you will find the Strategic report.
Risk management and principal risks
A description of risk management and the principal risks facing the business is on pages 28 and 29.
Constructive use of AGM
We are delighted when our shareholders attend our AGM. Those who are unable to attend are encouraged to vote using the proxy card 
mailed to them.
In 2014, 59.23% of the proxy votes received were lodged electronically through the CREST system.
The Chairman and other Board members answer questions raised by shareholders. Shareholders are invited to vote on the resolutions by 
way of a polled vote. The results are announced instantaneously using the Equiniti “Vote Now” polling system and via the Group’s website, 
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com, and the London Stock Exchange. Following the AGM, the Group Chief Executive will give a presentation 
about the previous year and generally about the Group’s future plans. The Board is then available to answer questions and meet informally 
with individual shareholders. Shareholders are also invited to view our Steam Technology Centre.
The Notice of Meeting convening the AGM, to be held on Monday, 1 1th May 2015, and an explanation of the resolutions sought, is set out in 
the enclosed Circular.
Results
The Group’s results for the year have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union. They are set out in the Consolidated income statement which appears on page 109.
Dividend
The Directors are proposing the payment of a final dividend of 45.0p (2013: 41.0p) which, together with the interim dividend of 19.5p 
(2013: 18.0p), makes a total distribution for the year of 64.5p (2013: 59.0p). If approved at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29th May 
2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1st May 2015.
Special dividend and share consolidation
Following a review of the Company’s capital requirements, the Board is recommending a return of capital to shareholders of £91 million in the 
form of a special dividend of 120.0p per share in respect of 2014 (2013: nil) which, if approved at the AGM, will be paid on 15th July 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12th June 2015. 
Regulatory disclosures
“ Good legal and compliance practice 
improves our business for the benefit of 
our shareholders.”
Andy Robson 
General Counsel and Company Secretary Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
As is common with a significant return of capital to shareholders, the Board recommends that this is combined with an appropriate share 
consolidation. This is intended to maintain, as far as possible, the comparability of the share price, earnings per share and dividends per 
share before and after the special dividend, and to remove the impact of the special dividend on employee equity‑ based incentives. It is 
anticipated, therefore, that the market price of each Ordinary share should remain at a broadly similar level following the special dividend 
and share consolidation.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc as at 31st December 2014 are set out on page 84.
Substantial shareholdings
The voting rights (including CFDs) in the table have been notified to the Company under the requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s 
Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTR 5, which represent 3% or more of the voting rights attached to issued shares in the Company 
as at 27th February 2015 and 31st December 2014. So far as can be ascertained, the holdings are beneficially held.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31.12.14 As at 27.02.15
Number of 
Ordinary shares
% of issued 
share capital
Number of 
Ordinary shares
% of issued 
share capital
BlackRock Inc 8,009,409 10.57 8,924,167 11.77
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 3,714,090 4.90 4,006,288 5.28
Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 3,554,208 4.69 3,910,783 5.16
Schroders 3,921,208 5.17 3,305,510 4.36
Allianz Global Investors 3,100,718 4.09 3,304,431 4.36
Sprucegrove Investment Management 3,345,789 4.41 3,295,889 4.35
Baillie Gifford & Co 2,386,993 3.15 2,384,793 3.15
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance 
The Company provides Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance for Board members, Directors of the Group’s operating companies and 
senior Officers.
The Company has also provided each Director with an indemnity to the extent permitted by law in respect of the liabilities incurred as a result 
of their holding office as a Director of the Company.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Company’s Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 
and related legislation. As previously announced, Nick Anderson was appointed as Group Chief Executive with effect from 16th January 
2014 and Gareth Bullock retired as Non‑Executive Director and Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the AGM on 20th May 2014. 
Jamie Pike was appointed as an independent Non‑Executive Director with effect from 1st May 2014 and took over as Senior Independent 
Director on 20th May 2014 following Gareth Bullock’s retirement. 
All Directors will seek re‑election at the AGM and will do so thereafter on an annual basis at each future AGM, in accordance with the Code. 
The Board considers that all Directors standing for re‑ election continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles. 
In addition, the Board considers that all Directors have the necessary skills and experience, as set out in their biographies on pages 60 and 61.
Conflicts
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board is required to consider potential 
conflicts of interest. The Company has established formal procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, 
of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such matters of conflict by the Board. To this end the Board considers 
and, if appropriate, authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest as they arise and reviews any such authorisation annually. 
New Directors are required to declare any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest to the Board at the first Board meeting after his or her 
appointment. The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association are available from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the General Counsel and Company 
Secretary at the Group’s registered office in Cheltenham. Amendments to the Articles of Association can only be made by means of a special 
resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders of the Company. Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100
Share capital
As at 27th February 2015 there were no treasury shares held by the Company. Details of shares issued during the year are set out in note 23 
on page 132.
As at 31st December 2014 the Company’s share capital was made up of Ordinary shares which each carry one vote at general meetings of 
the Company. Except as set out in the Articles of Association or in applicable legislation, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in 
the Company and there are no restrictions on the voting rights in the Company’s shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements entered into between any shareholders in the Company which restrict the transfer of shares or 
the exercise of any voting rights attached to the shares.
Powers of the Directors and purchase of own shares
Subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company. A shareholder’s authority 
for the purchase by the Company of a maximum of 10% of its own shares was in existence during the year. However, the Company did 
not purchase any of its shares during that time. This authority expires at the forthcoming AGM and it is proposed that a similar authority be 
approved. The total number of shares in issue as at 31st December 2014 was 75,795,877 .
PSP and Employee Benefit Trust
In December 2014 the Company instructed Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited, as trustee of the Spirax‑ Sarco Engineering Employee 
Benefit Trust (EBT), to purchase 100,000 shares to satisfy awards under the PSP . At 31st December 2014, 216,513 of these shares were held 
in the EBT. Dividends on shares in the EBT are waived.
Significant contracts
The Company is not a party to any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid.
There are provisions in the Executive Directors’ service agreements which state that following a takeover or change of control, if the Executive 
Director’s employment is terminated then both salary/benefits and a sum in respect of lost future bonus opportunity become payable as a 
lump sum.
The Strategic report contains all the information required to comply with Section 414(c) of the Companies Act 2006 and there are no 
contractual arrangements that need to be disclosed which are essential to the business of the Group.
Disclosure of information to auditor
As at the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all such steps as he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Auditor
The Company’s auditor up to the conclusion of the AGM on 20th May 2014 was KPMG Audit Plc, following which Deloitte LLP 
was appointed. 
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re‑appoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Research and development
The Group continues to devote significant resources to the development and the updating and expansion of its range of products in order 
to remain at the forefront of its world markets. The Group steam specialties R&D function, which is based in Cheltenham, is tasked with 
improving the Group’s pipeline of new products, decreasing the time to launch, expanding the Group’s addressable market and realising 
additional sales. Further information on the expenditure on R&D is contained in note 1 on page 1 16. The amount of R&D expenditure 
capitalised, and the amount amortised, in the year, are given in note 13 on page 126.
Treasury and foreign exchange
The Group has in place appropriate treasury policies and procedures, which are approved by the Board. The treasury function manages 
interest rates for both borrowings and cash deposits for the Group and is also responsible for ensuring there is sufficient headroom against 
any banking covenants contained within its credit facilities, and for ensuring there are appropriate facilities available to meet the Group’s 
strategic plans.
In order to mitigate and manage exchange rate risk, the Group routinely enters into forward contracts and continues to monitor exchange rate 
risk in respect of foreign currency exposures.
Regulatory disclosures continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
All these treasury policies and procedures are regularly monitored and reviewed. It is the Group’s policy not to undertake speculative 
transactions which create additional exposures over and above those arising from normal trading activity.
Political donations
The Group has a policy of not making political donations and no political donations were made during the year (2013: nil).
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of our greenhouse gas emissions can be found on page 52 of the Sustainability report.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, 
and the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Financial review on pages 
40 to 45. In addition note 31 on page 145 includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, its financial instruments and hedging activities, its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with contracts with a diverse range of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas and industries. No one customer accounts for more than 1% of Group turnover. As a consequence, the Directors believe 
that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence and that the Directors intend to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial statements were signed, and 
that therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Pages 98 to 101 form the Directors’ report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The Strategic report and the Directors’ report were approved by the Board on 4th March 2015.
Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report and Accounts
The Board has prepared a Strategic report (including the Chairman’s statement and the Group Chief Executive’s report) which provides an 
overview of the development and performance of the Company’s business in the year ended 31st December 2014 and its position at the end 
of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4. 1.5 R(2) and DTR 4. 1.8 R, the required content of the management report can be found in the 
Strategic report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R can be found in the following locations:
Section Topic Location
(1) Interest capitalised Not applicable
(2) Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable
(4) Details of long‑ term incentive schemes Not applicable
(5) Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
(6) Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
(7) Non pre‑ emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
(8) Item (7) in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable
(9) Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable
(10) Contracts of significance Regulatory disclosures, page 100
(11) Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable
(12) Shareholder waivers of dividends Regulatory disclosures, page 100
(13) Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable
(14) Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
Andy Robson
General Counsel and Company Secretary
4th March 2015
Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc 
Registered no. 596337 Governance
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
“ Our Annual Report and Accounts: a true and fair view of the state  
of affairs of the Group.”
Board of Directors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
In addition, by law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
• Properly select and apply accounting policies
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance
• Make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s website, 
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Cautionary statement
All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses of Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc and its strategy, plans and objectives and the markets 
and economies in which it operates, are forward‑looking statements. These forward‑looking statements, which reflect management’s 
assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important 
factors which could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc or the markets and economies 
in which we operate to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward‑looking 
statements. Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc and its Directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise 
under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined 
in accordance with schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. It should be noted that schedule 10A contains limits on the 
liability of the Directors of Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc so that their liability is solely to Spirax‑Sarco Engineering plc.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole
• The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face
• The Annual Report and Accounts and Financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 4th March 2015 and is signed on its behalf by:
David Meredith
Finance Director  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Financial statements
David Meredith  
Finance Director
John Senior  
Group Financial Controller Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only
Opinion on financial statements of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Statements of financial position, the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Statement of changes in equity, the Cash flow statements 
and the related notes 1 to 31. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement contained within the Regulatory disclosures section of the 
Governance report that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is 
appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue recognition
The risk in revenue recognition focuses on the recognition of 
revenue for product by reference to contracted shipping terms 
and the transfer of ownership for product despatch and delivery 
spanning the year end. There is significant volume of trade in the 
final quarter of the year. 
Additionally, there is a risk in the judgement involved in determining 
the extent of revenue to be recognised on fixed price contracts. 
There is management judgement in determining the revenue to be 
recognised and in particular in estimating the stage of completion 
and the costs to complete the contract at the balance sheet date.
There is also a focus on any significant new contracts to determine 
the appropriate recognition of revenue.
Refer to note 1 for the Group’s revenue recognition policy.
We performed walkthroughs to understand the adequacy of the 
design and implementation of the revenue cycles and at all significant 
components we produced revenue flow-charts. We reviewed the 
product despatch cycle across the year-end period and sampled a 
selection of items confirming the date of transfer of ownership was in 
line with the revenue recognition date in accordance with the terms of 
trade with customers.
We performed testing on a sample of contracts, including new 
contracts, which spanned the year end to assess whether revenue 
was recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the 
contract in accordance with the Group’s revenue recognition policy.
Inventory obsolescence
Inventory of £98 million at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 
£104 million) is a material balance for the Group. There is risk 
surrounding the obsolescence of inventory in niche markets and 
industries where local demand fluctuates over periods. There are 
judgements required in determining inventory provisions as they 
require assessment based on past and future product usage and 
whether the provision is adequate to cover any obsolescence.
Refer to note 1 for the Group’s inventory policy and note 18 for the 
financial disclosure.
We compared the methodology applied in calculating the inventory 
obsolescence provisions to the Group’s policy and we challenged 
management’s judgement of the adequacy of the policy by reviewing 
the level of provision held across the Group. We reviewed a sample of 
provision calculations by recalculating the provision and testing and 
verifying the accuracy of the usage data to underlying documentation 
to confirm the accuracy of the data used in the calculation. 
We investigated manual override to the mechanical application of 
the Group inventory obsolescence provisioning policy and where 
applicable obtained evidence such as the order book or post-year-end 
orders or sales to support any significant adjustments.  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Defined benefit pension plan assumptions
At 31 December 2014 the net retirement benefit liability recognised 
in the statement of financial position was £76 million (31 December 
2013: £72 million). There is a risk relating to the judgements made 
by management in valuing the defined benefit pension plans 
including the use of key model input assumptions including the 
discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation level. These 
variables can have a material impact in calculating the quantum 
of the retirement benefit liability.
Refer to note 1 for the Group’s policy on defined benefit plans and 
note 27 for the financial disclosure including the key assumptions 
used in the defined benefit pension plan valuation. 
We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the key assumptions 
applied in determining the pension obligations, and determined 
whether the key assumptions are reasonable. Key assumptions 
assessed included future mortality, discount rate, inflation and 
salary increases. Our assessment included reviewing available yield 
curves and inflation data to recalculate a reasonable range for the 
key assumptions. We challenged management to understand the 
sensitivity of changes in key assumptions and quantify a range of 
reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation. We checked 
the arithmetic accuracy of the pension calculation models. Additionally 
we benchmarked key assumptions against other listed companies to 
check for any outliers in the data used.
Goodwill impairment
At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of goodwill was 
£48 million (31 December 2013: £46 million). There is a risk relating 
to the key assumptions and assertions used by management to 
support their assessment of the carrying value of goodwill due to 
the material amounts recorded on the consolidated statement of 
financial position and the number of judgements in determining 
the recoverable amounts. Key assumptions include growth rates, 
discount rates applied and the forecast trading performance based 
on management’s view of future business prospects.
Refer to note 1 for the Group’s policy for intangible assets and note 
13 for the financial disclosures including the key assumptions used 
in management’s impairment calculations.
We challenged the adequacy and reasonableness of the key 
assumptions used in management’s impairment calculations. We also 
challenged the appropriateness of assumptions and forecasts used 
to conclude on asset impairment including a specific review and 
challenge of discount rates and growth rates, the appropriateness of 
the level of aggregation of individual cash generating units (CGUs) and 
the methodology applied. We benchmarked the discount rates with 
published rates for an external peer group. In addition we used our 
valuation specialists within the audit team to calculate an acceptable 
range of discount rates and compared our range to that determined 
by management. We challenged the perpetuity growth rates by 
benchmarking against industry and GDP growth rates. There are 
1 1 CGU groups and we checked the CGU groupings to information 
reviewed by management to make decisions about their business. 
We challenged the forecast cash flows used in the model against 
historical performance and assessed historical forecasting accuracy. 
We also challenged management’s sensitivity analysis to assess 
whether it reflected a reasonable worst case scenario.
Having audited the assumptions within management’s impairment 
model, we checked the arithmetic accuracy and integrity of the model.
Taxation
The tax risk concerns the judgements and estimates applied in the 
determination of tax balances, in particular in relation to provisions 
for liabilities attributed to specific uncertain tax positions linked to 
the Group’s corporate arrangements.
Refer to note 1 for the Group’s accounting policy for taxation and 
note 8 for the financial disclosure.
In conjunction with taxation audit specialists we assessed the 
assumptions and judgements concerning the adequacy of 
tax provisions for uncertain tax positions by viewing the latest 
correspondence from the various tax authorities and drawing on the 
experience of our tax specialists in respect of similar situations.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on 
page 68.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to 
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the 
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Last year the previous auditor’s report included a risk relating to development costs and software costs which is not in our report this year. 
For the 2014 audit we did not consider these items to be risks that had the greatest impact on our strategy. New risks identified in our report 
that were not included in the previous auditor’s report include revenue recognition, inventory obsolescence and defined benefit pension 
plan assumptions. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 106
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 
evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £7 .3 million which is 5% of statutory profit before tax. In 2013 the previous auditors set 
materiality at £10.5 million on the basis of 7% of statutory profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £145,000 (in 2013 the threshold 
used by the previous auditor was £400,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. We considered acquisitions made during 2014 and included BioPure Technology 
Limited as a full scope audit. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 25 components. 
21 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst four were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based 
on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations at those components. These 25 
components represent the principal business units and account for 93% of the Group’s total assets, 80% of the Group’s revenue and 87% 
of the Group’s profit before tax. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks 
of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at the 25 components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each 
individual component which was lower than Group materiality ranging from £0. 1 million to £3.6 million.
In 2013, the previous auditors focused their work at 17 components where audits for Group reporting purposes were performed. 
These components accounted for 7 4% of Group revenue, 72% of profit before tax and 79% of total assets. Analytical procedures were 
performed at a further four components covering 4% of revenue, 4% of profit before tax and 4% of total assets.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or 
audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team have established a programme of planned component visits that has been designed so that the a senior member of 
the Group audit team visits each of the key components where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years and the 
most significant of them at least once a year. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 
Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 
(UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. 
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Mullins FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Reading, United Kingdom
4th March 2015 Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 108
Statement of financial position
at 31st December 2014
The Group Parent company
Notes
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013* 
Restated
£000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 176,668 174,218 7,930 7,626
Goodwill 13 47,682 45,765 – –
Other intangible assets 13 48,123 44,594 – –
Prepayments 402 162 – –
Loans to subsidiaries 14 – – 37,500 39,157
Investment in subsidiaries 15 – – 160,577 160,671
Investment in associate 16 377 7,039 1,399 220
Deferred tax assets 17 35,941 34,472 936 936
309,193 306,250 208,342 208,610
Current assets
Inventories 18 98,007 104,164 – –
Trade receivables 31 155,696 145,380 – –
Due from subsidiaries – – 140,247 149,920
Other current assets 19 23,973 19,880 1,299 1,643
Taxation recoverable 4,420 3,709 – –
Associate held for sale 16 5,777 – 248 –
Bank deposits 28 24,437 32,901 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 28 117,981 84,417 78 –
430,291 390,451 141,872 151,563
Total assets 739,484 696,701 350,214 360,173
Equity and liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 90,754 86,108 2,084 2,234
Bank overdrafts 28 461 1,809 – 1,465
Short-term borrowing 28 40,070 39,338 35,000 34,000
Current portion of long-term borrowings 28 298 298 – –
Current tax payable 22,175 16,927 – –
153,758 144,480 37,084 37,699
Net current assets 276,533 245,971 104,788 113,864
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 28 49,096 59,473 47,000 55,000
Deferred tax liabilities 17 17,412 15,853 519 428
Post-retirement benefits 27 75,779 72,043 (2,596) (2,141)
Provisions 22 556 720 – –
Long-term payables 1,005 598 – –
Due to subsidiaries – – 9,695 8,300
143,848 148,687 54,618 61,587
Total liabilities 297,606 293,167 91,702 99,286
Net assets 2 441,878 403,534 258,512 260,887
Equity
Share capital 23 19,622 19,568 19,622 19,568
Share premium account 65,067 59,954 65,067 59,954
Other reserves 23 (6,486) 11,474 3,129 4,768
Retained earnings 362,796 311,737 170,694 176,597
Equity shareholders’ funds 440,999 402,733 258,512 260,887
Non-controlling interest 879 801 – –
Total equity 441,878 403,534 258,512 260,887
Total equity and liabilities 739,484 696,701 350,214 360,173
* Restated see note 9.
These accounts of Spirax Sarco Engineering plc, company number 00596337 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4th March 2015 
and signed on its behalf by:
N J Anderson D J Meredith     Directors Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31st December 2014
Notes
Adjusted 
2014 
£000
Adjustments 
2014 
£000
Total 
2014 
£000
Adjusted 
2013 
£000
Adjustments 
2013 
£000
Total 
2013 
£000
Revenue 2 678,277 – 678,277 689,388 – 689,388
Operating costs 3 (525,327) (4,855) (530,182) (537,762) (4,586) (542,348)
Operating profit 2 152,950 (4,855) 148,095 151,626 (4,586) 147,040
Financial expenses (5,229) – (5,229) (4,268) – (4,268)
Financial income 2,246 – 2,246 1,968 – 1,968
5 (2,983) – (2,983) (2,300) – (2,300)
Share of profit of associates 1,151 (1,469) (318) 1,730 (756) 974
Profit before taxation 6 151,118 (6,324) 144,794 151,056 (5,342) 145,714
Taxation 8 (44,857) 636 (44,221) (44,542) 1,148 (43,394)
Profit for the period 106,261 (5,688) 100,573 106,514 (4,194) 102,320
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders 106,015 (5,688) 100,327 106,298 (4,194) 102,104
Non-controlling interest 246 – 246 216 – 216
Profit for the period 106,261 (5,688) 100,573 106,514 (4,194) 102,320
Earnings per share 10
Basic earnings per share 140.4p 132.8p 138.8p 133.4p
Diluted earnings per share 139.5p 132.0p 137.8p 132.4p
Dividends 11
Dividends per share 64.5p 59.0p
Special dividend per share 120.0p –
Dividends paid during the year 
(per share) 60.5p 155.0p
Adjusted figures exclude certain non-operational items as detailed in note 2. All amounts relate to continuing operations.
The notes on pages 1 14 to 151 form an integral part of the accounts. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 110
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
The Group
Notes
2014
£000
2013
£000
Profit for the year 100,573 102,320
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement loss on post-retirement benefits 27 (5,159) (2,866)
Deferred tax on remeasurement loss on post-retirement benefits 27 (258) (1,074)
(5,417) (3,940)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign exchange translation differences 23 (15,155) (12,875)
Non-controlling interest foreign exchange translation differences 22 (49)
Profit on cash flow hedges net of tax 31 (232) 48
(15,365) (12,876)
Total comprehensive income for the year 79,791 85,504
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders 79,523 85,337
Non-controlling interest 268 167
Total comprehensive income for the year 79,791 85,504
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31st December 2014
The Group
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
account
£000
Other
reserves
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Equity
shareholders’
funds
£000
Non-
controlling
interest
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance at 1st January 2014 19,568 59,954 11,474 311,737 402,733 801 403,534
Profit for the year – – – 100,327 100,327 246 100,573
Other comprehensive 
(expense)/income
Foreign exchange translation 
differences – – (15,155) – (15,155) 22 (15,133)
Remeasurement loss on post 
retirement benefits – – – (5,159) (5,159) – (5,159)
Deferred tax on remeasurement 
loss on post-retirement benefits – – – (258) (258) – (258)
Profit on cash flow hedges 
reserve – – (232) – (232) – (232)
Total other comprehensive 
(expense) for the year – – (15,387) (5,417) (20,804) 22 (20,782)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – (15,387) 94,910 79,523 268 79,791
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners of the 
Company
Dividends paid – – – (45,715) (45,715) (190) (45,905)
Equity settled share plans net 
of tax – – – 1,864 1,864 – 1,864
Issue of share capital 110 5,113 – – 5,223 – 5,223
Employee Benefit Trust Shares (56) – (2,573) – (2,629) – (2,629)
Balance at 31st December 2014 19,622 65,067 (6,486) 362,796 440,999 879 441,878
Other reserves represent the Group’s translation, cash flow hedge and capital redemption reserves (see note 23).
The non-controlling interest is a 2.5% share of Spirax-Sarco (Korea) Ltd held by employee shareholders.
for the year ended 31st December 2014 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
The Group
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
account
£000
Other
reserves
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Equity
shareholders’
funds
£000
Non-
controlling
interest
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance at 1st January 2013 19,536 56,172 28,098 331,945 435,751 798 436,549
Profit for the year – – – 102,104 102,104 216 102,320
Other comprehensive  
(expense)/ income
Foreign exchange translation 
differences – – (12,875) – (12,875) (49) (12,924)
Remeasurement loss on post 
retirement benefits – – – (2,866) (2,866) – (2,866)
Deferred tax on remeasurement 
loss on post-retirement benefits – – – (1,074) (1,074) – (1,074)
Profit on cash flow hedges reserve – – 48 – 48 – 48
Total other comprehensive 
(expense) for the year – – (12,827) (3,940) (16,767) (49) (16,816)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – (12,827) 98,164 85,337 167 85,504
Contributions by and distributions 
to owners of the Company
Dividends paid – – – (120,792) (120,792) (164) (120,956)
Equity settled share plans net of tax – – – 2,420 2,420 – 2,420
Issue of share capital 66 3,782 – – 3,848 – 3,848
Employee Benefit Trust Shares (34) – (3,797) – (3,831) – (3,831)
Balance at 31st December 2013 19,568 59,954 11,474 311,737 402,733 801 403,534
for the year ended 31st December 2013 Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 112
Statement of changes in equity
Parent company
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
account
£000
Other
reserves
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance at 1st January 2014 19,568 59,954 4,768 176,597 260,887
Profit for the year – – – 39,492 39,492
Other comprehensive (expense)/ income
Remeasurement gain on post-retirement benefits – – – 406 406
Deferred tax on remeasurement gain on post-retirement 
benefits – – – (81) (81)
Total other comprehensive income for the year – – – 325 325
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 39,817 39,817
Contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company
Dividends paid – – – (45,715) (45,715)
Equity settled share plans net of tax – – – (5) (5)
Issue of share capital 110 5,113 – – 5,223
Employee Benefit Trust Shares (56) – (2,573) (2,629)
Investment in subsidiaries in relation to share options granted – – 934 – 934
Balance at 31st December 2014 19,622 65,067 3,129 170,694 258,512
Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31st December 2013
Parent company
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
account
£000
Other
reserves
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance at 1st January 2013 19,536 56,172 6,969 120,136 202,813
Profit for the year – – – 174,934 174,934
Other comprehensive (expense)/ income
Remeasurement gain on post-retirement benefits – – – 431 431
Deferred tax on remeasurement gain on post-retirement 
benefits – – – (86) (86)
Total other comprehensive income for the year – – – 345 345
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 175,279 175,279
Contributions by and distributions to owners of the Company
Dividends paid – – – (120,792) (120,792)
Equity settled share plans net of tax – – – 1,974 1,974
Issue of share capital 66 3,782 – – 3,848
Employee Benefit Trust Shares (34) – (3,797) – (3,831)
Investment in subsidiaries in relation to share options granted – – 1,596 – 1,596
Balance at 31st December 2013 19,568 59,954 4,768 176,597 260,887
Other reserves represent the parent company’s share-based payments, capital redemption and Employee Benefit Trust reserves 
(see note 23).
for the year ended 31st December 2014 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Cash flow statements
The Group Parent company
Notes
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before taxation 144,794 145,714 41,318 178,962
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 26,799 26,678 – –
Dividends received – – (44,912) (186,059)
Share of profit of associates 318 (974) – –
Equity settled share plans 2,374 3,315 (5) 1,974
Net finance income/(expense) 2,983 2,300 37 (836)
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 
and provisions 177,268 177,033 (3,562) (5,959)
Change in trade and other receivables (20,032) (8,704) 344 (1,388)
Change in amounts due from subsidiaries – – 10,244 (13,984)
Change in amounts due to subsidiaries – – 1,395 (17,786)
Change in inventories 1,111 (3,573) – –
Change in provisions and post-retirement benefits (4,870) (6,985) (608) (2,423)
Change in trade and other payables 4,398 3,309 (150) 1,424
Cash generated from operations 157,875 161,080 7,663 (40,116)
Interest paid (2,299) (1,551) (1,656) (186)
Income taxes paid (41,915) (42,318) – –
Net cash from operating activities 113,661 117,211 6,007 (40,302)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (27,032) (20,451) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2,980 1,777 – –
Purchase of software and other intangibles (4,647) (5,240) – –
Development expenditure capitalised (2,632) (2,779) – –
Acquisition of businesses (9,984) (5,601) (399) –
Bank deposits 9,038 (32,901) – –
Interest received 2,246 1,968 1,520 1,652
Dividends received 796 964 44,912 99,798
Net cash used in investing activities (29,235) (62,263) 46,033 101,450
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of Share Capital 5,223 3,848 5,223 3,848
Employee Benefit Trust Share purchase (3,005) (4,430) (3,005) (4,430)
Repaid borrowings (8,995) (4,383) (7,000) (500)
New borrowings – 57,506 – 55,000
Change in finance lease liabilities 28 (241) (353) – –
Dividends paid (including minorities) (45,905) (120,956) (45,715) (120,792)
Net cash used in financing activities (52,923) (68,768) (50,497) (66,874)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 31,503 (13,820) 1,543 (5,726)
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 82,608 99,445 (1,465) 4,261
Exchange movement 28 3,409 (3,017) – –
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of period 117,520 82,608 78 (1,465)
Bank deposits 28 24,437 32,901 – –
Borrowings and finance leases 28 (89,464) (99,109) (82,000) (89,000)
Net cash 28 52,493 16,400 (81,922) (90,465)
for the year ended 31st December 2014 Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 114
Notes to the accounts
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The parent company and consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that have been adopted by the European Union (EU).
The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are 
based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which 
form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates. As further explained below, the most significant effect on the financial statements from 
accounting policies requiring judgement are in the areas of inventory, goodwill, taxation and pensions.
The major judgement made in respect of inventory is assessing the proportion and value of slow-moving inventory that should be written 
down in value. The Group applies a consistent provisioning policy across all subsidiary companies.
The judgements made in respect of goodwill are those relating to the key assumptions used to assess the value in use in the annual 
impairment tests. More detail about these key assumptions is disclosed in note 13.
The judgements made in respect of taxation are those in assessing the amount of exposure to challenges from tax authorities with regard 
to liabilities in relation to corporate and indirect taxation. Judgement is also required in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets. 
More detail is given in the taxation accounting policy on page 1 18 below.
The judgements made in respect of pensions are those in assessing the assumptions chosen to calculate the net obligation in respect of 
defined benefit pensions. More detail is given in the Employee Benefits accounting policy on page 1 17 below.
The key estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a diverse range of products and customers across wide geographic areas and 
industries. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Further information on the Group’s business activities, performance and position, together with the financial position of the Group, its capital 
structure and cash flow are included in the Strategic report from pages 1 to 55. In addition, note 31 to the financial statements discloses 
details of the Group’s financial risk management and credit facilities.
The consolidated accounts are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The Group's income statement includes an adjustment column where certain non-operational items are included. The definition of non-
operational items includes the amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, acquisition and disposal-related costs 
and exceptional restructuring costs. An analysis of non-operational items is detailed in note 2. In 2014 adjustments included a write down to 
fair value of Spirax Marshall Ltd as disclosed in note 2.
During the year, the Group has applied IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 1 1 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of 
Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 (as revised in 201 1) Separate Financial Statements, IAS 28 (as revised in 201 1) Investment in Associates 
and Joint Ventures, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures, IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments 
Recognition and Measurement. Their adoption has not had a material impact on the disclosures or amounts reported in these accounts. 
Otherwise the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to both years presented in these consolidated 
financial statements. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied 
in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and some of which were pending endorsement by the EU). IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments, IFRS 10 (amended), IFRS 12 (amended) and IAS 18 (amended Investment Entities, IFRS 1 1 (amended) Joint ventures, IFRS 
15 revenue from contracts, IAS 1 (amended) Disclosure initiatives, IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amended) Depreciation and amortisation. IAS 19 
(amended) Employee Contributions and IAS 27 (amended) Separate Financial Statements. The cumulative impact of these standards, 
with the exception of IFRS 15, for which we have not done a detailed assessment, is not expected to be significant. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
1 Accounting policies continued
Basis of accounting
(i) Subsidiaries 
  The Group accounts include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the 
Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as 
to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into 
account. The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date that control commences until the date that 
control ceases. 
(ii) Associates 
  Associates are those entities for which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. 
The accounts include the Group’s share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from 
the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. 
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
  Intra Group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the accounts. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in 
the entity. 
(iv) Company 
  Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement.  Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 116
1 Accounting policies continued
Foreign currency
(i) On consolidation 
 The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.  
  The revenues, expenses and cash flows of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the 
year. Where the notes to the Group accounts include tables reconciling movements between opening and closing balances, assets and 
liabilities are translated at balance sheet rates and revenue and expenses are translated at average rates with the exchange differences 
arising being disclosed separately. 
  Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to a separate translation reserve 
within equity. They are recycled and recognised in the income statement upon disposal of the operation. In respect of all foreign 
operations, any differences that have arisen before 1st January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are not presented as a separate 
component of equity.
(ii) Foreign currency transactions 
  Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective currencies of the Group entities at the foreign exchange rate at the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date denominated in a currency other than the functional 
currency of the entity are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation 
are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates fair value was determined. 
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecasted transaction, 
the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the 
Cash flow hedge reserve. The associated gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the period in which 
the transaction to which it relates occurs.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1st January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, 
are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis at rates which write down the value of assets to their residual values 
over their estimated useful lives. Land is not depreciated. The principal rates are as follows:
Freehold buildings 1.5% Office equipment 12.5–33.3%
Plant and machinery 10–12.5% Motor vehicles 20%
Office furniture and fittings 10% Tooling and patterns 10%
The depreciation rates are reassessed annually.
Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill 
  All business combinations after 1st January 2004 are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill represents the 
difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill is stated at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment 
(see note 13 for more detail). In respect of acquisitions prior to 1st January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, 
which represents the amount recorded under previous UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP). 
(ii) R&D 
  Expenditure on R&D is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred except that development expenditure is 
capitalised where the development costs relate to new or substantially improved products that are subsequently to be released for sale 
and will generate future economic benefits. The expenditure capitalised includes staff costs and related expenses.  
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and any impairment losses. 
(iii) Other intangible assets 
  Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and 
any impairment losses. Annual impairment tests are performed on acquired intangible assets by comparing the carrying value with the 
recoverable amount, being the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and value in use, discounted at an appropriate discount rate, of 
future cash flows in respect of intangible assets for the relevant cash generating unit. More detail is given in note 13. 
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
1 Accounting policies continued
(iv) Amortisation 
  Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than 
goodwill, from the date they are available for use. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually. The principal amortisation rates are as follows: 
Capitalised development costs 20% Manufacturing designs and core technology 6–15%
ERP systems and software 12.5–20% Non compete undertakings 20–50%
Brand names and trademarks 5–20%
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the 
inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs in bringing them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured 
inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity . Cost also 
includes transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of inventories.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity usually of three months or less. 
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of 
cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statements.
Going concern
The statement on the going concern assumption is included within corporate governance on page 101.
Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution plans 
  Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. 
(ii) Defined benefit plans 
  The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are calculated in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries 
and spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees’ services. The Group’s net obligation 
in respect of defined benefit pensions is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. Past service costs are recognised straight away. That benefit 
is discounted at rates reflecting the yields on AA credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of 
the Group’s obligations to determine its present value. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. 
Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions 
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year they arise. Any scheme surplus (to the extent it is considered 
recoverable) or deficit is recognised in full in the balance sheet. 
  The cost of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the 
period which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. 
(iii) Employee share plans 
  Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and share award schemes. The fair value of these options 
and awards at their date of grant is charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods with a corresponding increase in 
equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options and share awards vesting. 
(iv) Long-term share incentive plans 
  The fair value of awards is measured at the date of grant and the cost spread over the vesting period. The amount recognised as an 
expense is not adjusted to reflect market based performance conditions, but is adjusted for non-market based performance conditions. 
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business by subsidiary companies to external customers, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related 
taxes. Revenue is reduced for customer returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
Revenue from the sale of goods, which represent more than 90% of Group revenue, is recognised in the income statement when:
• The significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer in accordance with the contracted terms of sale;
• The amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably;
• The Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement nor effective control over the goods; and
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
This is typically on delivery of the products. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 118
1 Accounting policies continued
Revenue from projects and service contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract based on the fair value of 
goods and services provided at the balance sheet date. Judgements can be required to assess the stage of completion, although in the vast 
majority of projects the position is relatively easy to identify. The stage of completion of the contract is determined as follows:
• Installation fees are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the installation, determined as the proportion of the total time  
expected to install that has elapsed at the balance sheet date.
• Service fees included in the price of products sold are valued by taking a proportion of the sales price (based on the cost of providing the  
servicing) and only recognised in revenue when the service is provided; and
• Revenue from time and material contracts is recognised at the contractual rates as labour hours are delivered and direct    
expenses incurred.
As soon as the outcome of a project or service contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and expenses are recognised in the income 
statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the project or service contract. Where it is probable that total contract costs exceed 
total contract revenue, the expected loss on a project or service is recognised immediately.
 Leases
(i) Operating leases 
  Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
(ii) Finance leases 
  Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset 
had been purchased outright. Assets acquired under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital and interest 
elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations in creditors. Depreciation is charged on a consistent basis with similar 
owned assets or over the lease term if shorter. The interest element of the lease payment is charged to the income statement on a basis 
which produces a consistent rate of charge over the period of the liability. 
Taxation
The tax charge comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items 
recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income, when it is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 
respectively. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the profit for the year and any adjustments in respect of previous years using tax 
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for 
temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts in the accounts. Deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax 
is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date or the date that the temporary 
differences are expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Share capital and repurchased shares
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is 
recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares or placed in an Employee Benefit Trust and are 
presented as a deduction from total equity.
Share options granted to subsidiary employees
The parent company grants share options over its own Ordinary shares directly to employees of subsidiary companies. These employees 
provide services to the subsidiary companies. The cost of these shares is not recharged and therefore the fair value of the share options 
granted is recognised as a capital contribution to the subsidiary companies. This is accounted for as an increase in investments with a 
corresponding increase in a non-distributable component of equity.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
2 Segmental reporting
As required by IFRS 8, Operating Segments, the following segmental information is presented in a consistent format with management 
information considered by the Board.
Analysis by location of operation  
2014
Gross 
revenue 
£000
Inter-segment 
revenue 
£000
Revenue 
£000
Total 
operating 
profit 
£000
Adjusted 
operating 
profit 
£000
Adjusted 
operating 
margin 
%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 274,271 38,039 236,232 44,855 45,929 19.4%
Asia Pacific 182,556 4,894 177,662 46,191 46,418 26.1%
Americas 131,869 5,681 126,188 26,478 27,961 22.2%
Steam Specialties business 588,696 48,614 540,082 117,524 120,308 22.3%
Watson-Marlow 138,195 – 138,195 41,428 43,499 31.5%
Corporate expenses (10,857) (10,857)
726,891 48,614 678,277 148,095 152,950 22.5%
Intra Group (48,614) (48,614)
Total 678,277 – 678,277 148,095 152,950 22.5%
Net finance expense (2,983) (2,983)
Share of profit of associates (318) 1,151
Profit before tax 144,794 151,118
Analysis by location of operation  
2013
Gross 
revenue 
£000
Inter-segment 
revenue 
£000
Revenue 
£000
Total 
operating 
profit 
£000
Adjusted 
operating 
profit 
£000
Adjusted 
operating 
margin 
%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 286,551 42,240 244,311 47,057 48,205 19.7%
Asia Pacific 187,916 5,142 182,774 48,033 48,033 26.3%
Americas 138,676 6,642 132,034 24,243 26,119 19.8%
Steam Specialties business 613,143 54,024 559,119 119,333 122,357 21.9%
Watson-Marlow 130,325 56 130,269 37,940 39,502 30.3%
Corporate expenses (10,233) (10,233)
743,468 54,080 689,388 147,040 151,626 22.0%
Intra Group (54,080) (54,080)
Total 689,388 – 689,388 147,040 151,626 22.0%
Net finance expense (2,300) (2,300)
Share of profit of associates 974 1,730
Profit before tax 145,714 151,056
Net revenue generated by Group companies based in the USA is £109,879,000 (2013: £108,937 ,000), in China is £7 4,266,000 
(2013: £76,807 ,000), in the UK £69,889,000 (2013: £71,438,000) and the rest of the world £424,243,000 (2013: £432,206,000). Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 120
2 Segmental reporting continued
The total operating profit for the period includes non-operational items, as analysed below:
2014
Amortisation 
and impairment 
of acquisition-related 
intangible assets 
£000
Acquisition 
and disposal 
costs 
£000
Total
£000
Europe, Middle East & Africa (427) (647) (1,074)
Asia Pacific (227) – (227)
Americas (1,430) (53) (1,483)
Steam Specialties business (2,084) (700) (2,784)
Watson-Marlow (2,012) (59) (2,071)
Total non-operational items (4,096) (759) (4,855)
2013
Amortisation 
and impairment 
of acquisition-related 
intangible assets 
£000
Acquisition 
and disposal 
costs 
£000
Total
£000
Europe, Middle East & Africa (629) (519) (1,148)
Asia Pacific – – –
Americas (1,780) (96) (1,876)
Steam Specialties business (2,409) (615) (3,024)
Watson-Marlow (1,562) – (1,562)
Total non-operational items (3,971) (615) (4,586)
Impairment of acquisition related intangible assets was £nil (2013: £145,000). The 2013 charge was in relation to the disposal of the HVAC 
business of Eirdata in Ireland.
Share of profit of associates
The share of profit of associates analysed between adjusted income and total (including non-operational items) is as follows:
2014 
Adjusted 
£000
2014 
Total 
£000
2013 
Adjusted 
£000
2013 
Total 
£000
Europe, Middle East & Africa (172) (367) (205) (663)
Asia Pacific 1,323 49 1,935 1,637
Americas – – – –
Steam Specialties business 1,151 (318) 1,730 974
Watson-Marlow – – – –
Total share of profit of associates 1,151 (318) 1,730 974
Adjusted share of profit of associates excludes amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets of £1, 125,000 
(2013: £756,000) and in 2014 excludes an impairment of tangible assets in respect of Spirax Marshall in India of £344,000 (2013: £nil).
Net financing income and expense
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Europe, Middle East & Africa (2,310) (1,848)
Asia Pacific 1,215 796
Americas (326) (418)
Steam Specialties business (1,421) (1,470)
Watson-Marlow (5) (51)
Corporate (1,557) (779)
Total net financing expense (2,983) (2,300)
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
2 Segmental reporting continued
Net assets
2014 
Assets 
£000
Liabilities 
£000
2013 
Assets 
£000
Liabilities 
£000
Europe, Middle East & Africa 203,729 (94,959) 215,933 (96,942)
Asia Pacific 136,592 (22,831) 119,704 (22,038)
Americas 103,318 (33,244) 102,575 (25,278)
Watson-Marlow 113,066 (17,060) 102,989 (15,210)
556,705 (168,094) 541,201 (159,468)
Liabilities (168,094) (159,468)
Deferred tax 18,529 18,619
Current tax payable (17,755) (13,218)
Net cash 52,493 16,400
Net assets 441,878 403,534
Non-current assets in the UK were £102,889,000 (2013: £103,589,000).
Capital additions and depreciation,  
amortisation and impairment
2014 2013
Capital 
additions 
£000
Depreciation, 
amortisation 
and 
impairment 
£000
Capital 
additions 
£000
Depreciation, 
amortisation 
and 
impairment 
£000
Europe, Middle East & Africa 15,301 10,476 10,532 11,859
Asia Pacific 8,657 5,144 6,602 4,707
Americas 4,159 5,335 6,770 5,912
Watson-Marlow 11,271 5,844 7,323 4,200
Group total 39,388 26,799 31,227 26,678
Capital additions include property, plant and equipment of £26,876,000 (2013: £21,835,000) and other intangible assets of £12,512,000 
(2013: £9,392,000) of which £5,233,000 (2013: £1,373,000) relates to acquired intangibles from acquisitions in the period. Capital additions 
split between the UK and rest of the world are UK £20,902,000 (2013: £12, 154,000), rest of the world £18,486,000 (2013: £19,073,000). 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment includes the profit on disposal of fixed assets of £473,000 (2013: £467 ,000).
3 Operating costs
2014 
Adjusted 
£000
Total 
£000
2013 
Adjusted 
£000
Total 
£000
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress 5,764 5,764 (364) (364)
Raw materials and consumables 165,686 165,686 179,574 179,574
Staff costs (note 4) 232,806 232,806 232,449 232,449
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 22,702 26,799 22,707 26,678
Other operating charges 98,369 99,127 103,396 104,011
Total operating costs 525,327 530,182 537,762 542,348
Total depreciation and amortisation includes amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets of £4,096,000 (2013: £3,826,000). 
Operating costs include exchange difference benefits of £7 47 ,000 (2013: £375,000 cost). Other operating charges include acquisition 
and disposal costs of £759,000 (2013: £615,000). Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 122
4 Staff costs and numbers
The aggregate payroll costs of persons employed by the Group were as follows:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Wages and salaries 181,808 184,152
Social security costs 34,428 32,713
Other pension costs 16,570 15,584
Total payroll costs 232,806 232,449
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was as follows:
2014 2013
United Kingdom 1,345 1,315
Overseas 3,452 3,410
Group average 4,797 4,725
5 Net financing income and expense
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Financial expenses
Bank and other borrowing interest payable (2,310) (1,551)
Net interest on pension scheme liabilities (2,919) (2,717)
(5,229) (4,268)
Financial income
Bank interest receivable 2,246 1,968
2,246 1,968
Net financing expense (2,983) (2,300)
 
Net pension scheme financial expense (2,919) (2,717)
Net bank interest (64) 417
Net financing expense (2,983) (2,300)
6 Profit before taxation
Profit before taxation is shown after charging:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Depreciation of owned tangible fixed assets 18,986 18,502
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets held under finance leases 298 298
Hire of plant and machinery 238 221
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 473 467
Other operating leases 4,864 5,146
R&D 9,259 8,860
Auditor’s remuneration
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Audit of these financial statements 140 126
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 862 943
Interim agreed upon procedures 22 –
Audit-related assurance services 40 85
Taxation compliance services 38 207
Other tax advisory services 62 288
All other services 73 194
Total auditor's remuneration 1,237 1,843
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
7 Directors’ emoluments
Directors represent the key management personnel of the Group under the terms of IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures. Total remuneration is 
shown below.
Further details of salaries and short-term benefits, post-retirement benefits and share plans and long-term share incentive plans are shown 
in the Annual report on remuneration 2014 on pages 78 to 89. The share-based payments charge comprises a charge in relation to the 
Performance Share Plan and the Employee Share Ownership Plan (as described in note 27).
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Salaries and short-term benefits 2,623 3,821
Post-retirement benefits 464 387
Share-based payments 308 722
Total Directors' remuneration 3,395 4,930
8 Taxation
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Analysis of charge in period
UK corporation tax
Current tax on income for the period 2,440 1,538
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 945 136
3,385 1,674
Double taxation relief (851) (1,538)
2,534 136
Foreign tax
Current tax on income for the period 42,233 40,169
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 247 (989)
42,480 39,180
Total current tax charge 45,014 39,316
Deferred tax – UK (179) 2,127
Deferred tax – Foreign (614) 1,951
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 44,221 43,394
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Profit before tax 144,794 145,714
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 31,131 33,879
Effect of higher/(lower) overseas tax rates 8,605 8,131
Associated companies (391) (382)
Non-deductible expenditure 2,904 1,833
Under/(Over) provided in prior years 770 (761)
Other reconciling items 1,202 694
Total tax in income statement 44,221 43,394
Effective tax rate 30.5% 29.8%
The Group’s tax charge in future years is likely to be affected by the proportion of profits arising and the effective tax rates in the various 
territories in which the Group operates.
The UK corporation tax charge is calculated after deducting tax allowable deficit reduction cash contributions to the UK post-retirement 
benefit schemes of £3,366,000 (2013: £7 ,302,000) covering all employees in the UK defined benefit schemes.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax from 26% to 24% (effective from 1st April 2012) and to 23% (effective 1st April 2013) were substantively 
enacted on 26th March 2012 and 3rd July 2012 respectively. Further reductions to 21% (effective from 1st April 2014) and 20% (effective 
from 1st April 2015) were substantively enacted on 2nd July 2013. This will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. 
The deferred tax asset at 31st December 2014 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date.
No UK tax (after double tax relief for underlying tax) is expected to be payable on the future remittance of the retained earnings of 
overseas subsidiaries. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 124
9 Parent company
The loss before dividends received dealt with in the accounts of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc was £5,420,000 (2013: £1 1, 125,000). 
Dividends from subsidiary undertakings of £44,097 ,000 (2013: £185,244,000) and dividends from associate companies of £815,000 
(2013: £964,000) are excluded from this amount. 
The 2013 parent company statement of financial position has been restated to include a freehold property transferred to the parent from a UK 
subsidiary company in 2012. The value of the restatement is £7 ,626,000 and increases property, plant and equipment and reduces amounts 
due from subsidiaries.
10 Earnings per share
2014 2013
Profit attributable to equity shareholders (£000) 100,327 102,104
Weighted average shares in issue 75,532,018 76,566,689
Dilution 455,530 549,341
Diluted weighted average shares in issue 75,987,548 77,116,030
Basic earnings per share 132.8p 133.4p
Diluted earnings per share 132.0p 132.4p
Adjusted profit attributable to equity shareholders (£000) 106,015 106,298
Basic adjusted earnings per share 140.4p 138.8p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 139.5p 137.8p
The dilution is in respect of unexercised share options and the Performance Share Plan.
11 Dividends
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Amounts paid in the year
Final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2013 of 41.0p (2012: 37 .0p) per share 30,960 28,942
Special dividend for the year ended 31st December 2013 of nil (2012: 100.0p) per share – 78,260
Interim dividend for the year ended 31st December 2014 of 19.5p (2013: 18.0p) per share 14,755 13,590
Total dividends paid 45,715 120,792
Amounts arising in respect of the year
Interim dividend for the year ended 31st December 2014 of 19.5p (2013: 18.0p) per share 14,755 13,590
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2014 of 45.0p (2013: 41.0p) per share 34,134 30,903
Proposed special dividend for the year ended 31st December 2014 of 120.0p (2013: nil) 91,024 –
Total dividends arising 139,913 44,493
The proposed dividends are subject to approval in 2015. They are therefore not included as liabilities in these accounts.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
12 Property, plant and equipment
The Group
Land and buildings
Freehold 
£000
Leasehold 
£000
Plant and 
machinery 
£000
Fixtures, 
fittings, 
tools and 
equipment 
£000
Total 
£000
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1st January 2014 110,194 20,145 143,179 68,389 341,907
Exchange adjustments (2,351) 416 (2,281) (1,065) (5,281)
107,843 20,561 140,898 67,324 336,626
Additions 5,047 3,474 11,131 7,224 26,876
Disposals (1,914) (46) (14,380) (11,503) (27,843)
At 31st December 2014 110,976 23,989 137,649 63,045 335,659
Depreciation:
At 1st January 2014 21,471 2,282 97,086 46,850 167,689
Exchange adjustments (527) (55) (1,198) (619) (2,399)
20,944 2,227 95,888 46,231 165,290
Charged in year 1,784 764 9,925 6,811 19,284
Disposals (434) (19) (13,879) (11,251) (25,583)
At 31st December 2014 22,294 2,972 91,934 41,791 158,991
Net book value:
At 31st December 2014 88,682 21,017 45,715 21,254 176,668
The Group
Land and buildings
Freehold 
£000
Leasehold 
£000
Plant and 
machinery 
£000
Fixtures, 
fittings, 
tools and 
equipment 
£000
Total 
£000
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1st January 2013 107,470 18,468 141,901 64,593 332,432
Exchange adjustments (2,149) 63 (1,795) (846) (4,727)
105,321 18,531 140,106 63,747 327,705
Additions 4,941 1,696 8,114 7,084 21,835
Disposals (68) (82) (5,041) (2,442) (7,633)
At 31st December 2013 110,194 20,145 143,179 68,389 341,907
Depreciation:
At 1st January 2013 20,270 1,308 92,771 43,247 157,596
Exchange adjustments (346) (79) (962) (671) (2,058)
19,924 1,229 91,809 42,576 155,538
Charged in year 1,600 1,114 9,708 6,378 18,800
Disposals (53) (61) (4,431) (2,104) (6,649)
At 31st December 2013 21,471 2,282 97,086 46,850 167,689
Net book value:
At 31st December 2013 88,723 17,863 46,093 21,539 174,218
Included in the above are finance leases with a net book value of £827 ,000 (2013: £1,068,000).
The parent company holds freehold property with a cost of £8,781,000, accumulated depreciation of £851,000 and a net book value 
of £7 ,930,000. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 126
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets
The Group
Acquired 
intangibles 
£000
Development 
costs 
£000
Computer 
software 
£000
Total 
intangibles 
£000
Goodwill 
£000
Cost or valuation:
At 1st January 2014 40,085 21,094 36,457 97,636 46,726
Exchange and other adjustments (2,644) 90 (553) (3,107) (2,537)
37,441 21,184 35,904 94,529 44,189
Additions 5,233 2,632 4,647 12,512 4,301
Disposals – – (207) (207) –
At 31st December 2014 42,674 23,816 40,344 106,834 48,490
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1st January 2014 17,885 13,180 21,977 53,042 961
Exchange adjustments (1,764) 105 (454) (2,113) (153)
16,121 13,285 21,523 50,929 808
Amortisation and impairment 4,096 2,281 1,611 7,988 –
Disposals – – (206) (206) –
At 31st December 2014 20,217 15,566 22,928 58,711 808
Net book value:
At 31st December 2014 22,457 8,250 17,416 48,123 47,682
The Group
Acquired 
intangibles 
£000
Development 
costs 
£000
Computer 
software 
£000
Total 
intangibles 
£000
Goodwill 
£000
Cost or valuation:
At 1st January 2013 39,201 18,438 31,706 89,345 46,834
Exchange and other adjustments (489) (123) (293) (905) (612)
38,712 18,315 31,413 88,440 46,222
Additions 1,373 2,779 5,240 9,392 828
Disposals – – (196) (196) (324)
At 31st December 2013 40,085 21,094 36,457 97,636 46,726
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1st January 2013 14,552 11,279 19,803 45,634 979
Exchange adjustments (638) (104) (127) (869) (18)
13,914 11,175 19,676 44,765 961
Amortisation and impairment 3,971 2,005 2,369 8,345 –
Disposals – – (68) (68) –
At 31st December 2013 17,885 13,180 21,977 53,042 961
Net book value:
At 31st December 2013 22,200 7,914 14,480 44,594 45,765
Development
All capitalised development costs arise from internal product development.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Acquired intangibles
The disclosure by class of acquired intangibles assets is shown in the tables below.
The Group
Customer 
relationships 
£000
Brand names 
and 
trademarks 
£000
Manufacturing 
designs and 
core 
technology 
£000
Non-compete 
undertakings 
and other 
£000
Total acquired 
intangibles 
£000
Cost or valuation:
At 1st January 2014 24,413 6,413 5,607 3,652 40,085
Exchange and other adjustments (1,610) (423) (370) (241) (2,644)
22,803 5,990 5,237 3,411 37,441
Additions 2,252 1,009 1,813 159 5,233
At 31st December 2014 25,055 6,999 7,050 3,570 42,674
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1st January 2014 8,562 3,839 3,005 2,479 17,885
Exchange adjustments (844) (379) (296) (245) (1,764)
7,718 3,460 2,709 2,234 16,121
Amortisation and impairment 2,240 753 771 332 4,096
At 31st December 2014 9,958 4,213 3,480 2,566 20,217
Net book value:
At 31st December 2014 15,097 2,786 3,570 1,004 22,457
Additions comprise intangibles arising from acquisitions during the year £4,395,000 (note 30) and transfers from associates held for  
sale £838,000.
The Group
Customer 
relationships 
£000
Brand names 
and 
trademarks 
£000
Manufacturing 
designs and 
core 
technology 
£000
Non-compete 
undertakings 
and other 
£000
Total acquired 
intangibles 
£000
Cost or valuation:
At 1st January 2013 24,088 6,474 5,662 2,977 39,201
Exchange and other adjustments (337) (61) (55) (36) (489)
23,751 6,413 5,607 2,941 38,712
Additions 662 – – 711 1,373
At 31st December 2013 24,413 6,413 5,607 3,652 40,085
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1st January 2013 6,651 3,047 2,574 2,280 14,552
Exchange adjustments (267) (149) (130) (92) (638)
6,384 2,898 2,444 2,188 13,914
Amortisation and impairment 2,178 941 561 291 3,971
At 31st December 2013 8,562 3,839 3,005 2,479 17,885
Net book value:
At 31st December 2013 15,851 2,574 2,602 1,173 22,200 Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 128
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Impairment
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units, or groups of 
cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill as analysed 
in the table below.
2014 
Goodwill 
£000
2013 
Goodwill 
£000
Spirax-Sarco Mexicana 8,151 8,636
Flexicon A/S Denmark 7,531 7,888
MasoSine 6,587 7,062
BioPure Technology Ltd 4,100 –
Spirax Sarco Inc USA 3,290 3,098
M & M product unit 2,841 3,046
Alitea product unit 2,412 2,596
UK Supply product unit 1,844 1,977
Spirax Inter Valf Turkey 1,538 1,576
Spirax-Sarco S A S France 1,244 1,334
Watson-Marlow South Africa 839 872
Other cash-generating units 7,305 7,680
Total goodwill 47,682 45,765
The goodwill balance has been tested for annual impairment on the following basis:
• The carrying values of goodwill have been assessed by reference to value in use. These have been estimated using cash flows based on 
forecast information for the next financial year and in the case of recent acquisitions on detailed five year forecasts. This information has 
been approved by the Board. 
• The key assumptions on which the impairment tests are based are the discount and growth rates and the forecast cash flows.
• Pre-tax discount rates range from 1 1–16% (2013: 10–14%).
• Short-term growth rates vary between 2.5–7 .0% depending on detailed forecasts (2013: 2.5–6.5%). The short-term is defined as not more 
than five years.
• Long-term growth rates are set using IMF forecasts and vary between 1.0–6.0% (2013: 1.0–6.0%). 
• No impairments were identified as a result of this exercise. 
The principal value in use assumptions for the three largest cash-generating units were as follows:
Cash-generating unit
Pre-tax 
Discount Rate
Short-term 
Growth Rate
Long-term 
Growth Rate
Spirax-Sarco Mexicana 15.6% 7.0% 3.8%
Flexicon A/S Denmark 11.0% 4.0% 3.0%
MasoSine 12.3% 3.0% 1.3%
Sensitivity analysis shows that if long-term revenue growth assumptions are lowered by 1% and pre-tax discount rates raised by 1%, no 
impairment would arise. The 1% sensitivity threshold is considered a reasonable estimate of possible change.
14 Loans to subsidiaries
Parent company
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Cost:
At 1st January 40,199 65,197
(Repayment)/loans (1,657) (24,998)
At 31st December 38,542 40,199
Amounts written off:
At 1st January and 31st December (1,042) (1,042)
Net book value:
At 31st December 37,500 39,157
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 129
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
15 Investment in subsidiaries
Parent Company
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Cost:
At 1st January 161,665 49,651
Share options issued to subsidiary company employees 934 1,596
New investment – 110,418
Reclassifications during the year (1,028) –
At 31st December 161,571 161,665
Amounts written off:
At 1st January and 31st December (994) (994)
Net book value:
At 31st December 160,577 160,671
Investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment in value.
Details relating to subsidiary undertakings are given on the inside back cover. Except where stated all classes of shares were 100% 
owned by the Group at 31st December 2014. The country of incorporation of the principal Group companies is the same as the country 
of operation with the exception of companies operating in the United Kingdom which are incorporated in Great Britain. All are in the fluid 
control business except Spirax-Sarco Investments Ltd, Spirax-Sarco Overseas Ltd, Spirax-Sarco America Ltd, Sarco International Corp, 
Watson-Marlow Bredel Holdings BV, Spirax-Sarco Engineering SL, Spirax-Sarco Engineering BV, Spirax-Sarco Germany Holdings GmbH, 
Spirax-Sarco Netherlands Holdings Cooperative W.A. Spirax-Sarco Italy Holdings Srl and Spirax-Sarco Investments BV which are investment 
holding companies.
16 Associates
Associate held 
for sale
Other 
associate Associates
2014 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Cost of investment 3,194 1,399 4,194
Share of equity 3,607 (1,022) 2,845
Adjustment to fair value (1,024) – –
Total investment in associate 5,777 377 7,039
 
Summarised financial information
Revenue 19,494 485 23,593
Profit for the period 2,686 (512) 2,786
Current assets 5,873 304 6,177
Non-current assets 9,754 571 10,325
Current and non-current liabilities 3,186 410 2,759
Details of the Group’s associate at 31st December 2014 are as follows:
Name of associate
Country of incorporation 
and operation
Proportion of ownership interest 
and voting power held
Principal 
activity
Spirax-Marshall Ltd (held for sale) India 49.3% Manufacturing and selling
Econotherm (UK) Ltd UK 38.9% Manufacturing and selling
The investment in Spirax-Marshall Ltd has been adjusted to fair value as it was held for sale as at 31st December 2014. The £1,024,000 
adjustment includes goodwill impairment of £672,000 and a loss on sale of £352,000. The sale was completed on 1st March 2015.
The Group increased its investment in Econotherm (UK) Ltd by £149,000 in May 2014 and by £250,000 in December 2014. The Group's 
share of Econotherm's equity increased to 33.9% in May and to 38.9% in December. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 130
17 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
The Group
Assets Liabilities Net
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Accelerated capital allowances 3,987 1,467 (5,291) (5,280) (1,304) (3,813)
Provisions 4,037 5,566 (920) (430) 3,117 5,136
Losses 3,173 2,770 – (8) 3,173 2,762
Inventory 3,002 1,698 (2,049) (636) 953 1,062
Pensions 19,466 20,248 (1,763) (2,255) 17,703 17,993
Other temporary differences 2,276 2,723 (7,389) (7,244) (5,113) (4,521)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 35,941 34,472 (17,412) (15,853) 18,529 18,619
Movement in deferred tax during the year 2014
The Group
1st January 
2014 
£000
Recognised in 
income 
£000
Recognised in 
OCI 
£000
Recognised in 
equity 
£000
Acquisitions 
£000
31st December 
2014 
£000
Accelerated capital allowances (3,813) 2,419 90 – – (1,304)
Provisions 5,136 (2,079) 60 – – 3,117
Losses 2,762 426 (15) – – 3,173
Inventory 1,062 (395) 286 – – 953
Pensions 17,993 (32) (258) – – 17,703
Other temporary differences (4,521) 454 – (307) (739) (5,113)
Group total 18,619 793 163 (307) (739) 18,529
Movement in deferred tax during the year 2013
The Group
1st January 
2013 
£000
Recognised in 
income 
£000
Recognised in 
OCI 
£000
Recognised in 
equity 
£000
Acquisitions 
£000
31st December 
2013 
£000
Accelerated capital allowances (3,578) (235) – – – (3,813)
Provisions 5,114 56 (34) – – 5,136
Losses 4,434 (1,719) 47 – – 2,762
Inventory 1,359 (311) 14 – – 1,062
Pensions 21,480 (2,413) (1,074) – – 17,993
Other temporary differences (5,113) 544 (16) 117 (53) (4,521)
Group total 23,696 (4,078) (1,063) 117 (53) 18,619
Movement in deferred tax during the year 2014
Parent company
1st January 
2014 
£000
Recognised 
in income 
£000
Recognised 
in OCI 
£000
Recognised 
in equity 
£000
31st December 
2014  
£000
Other temporary differences (asset) 936 – – – 936
Pensions (liability) (428) (10) (81) – (519)
Parent company total 508 (10) (81) – 417
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 131
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
17 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Movement in deferred tax during the year 2013
Parent company
1st January 
2013 
£000
Recognised 
in income 
£000
Recognised 
in OCI 
£000
Recognised 
in equity 
£000
31st December 
2013  
£000
Other temporary differences (asset) 824 100 – 12 936
Pensions (liability) – (342) (86) – (428)
Parent company total 824 (242) (86) 12 508
18 Inventories
The Group
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Raw materials and consumables 35,366 35,759
Work in progress 14,954 15,622
Finished goods and goods for resale 47,687 52,783
Total inventories 98,007 104,164
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost. None of the inventory has been 
pledged as security.
19 Other current assets
The Group Parent company
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Other receivables 13,025 11,480 83 –
Prepayments and accrued income 10,948 8,400 1,216 1,643
Total current assets 23,973 19,880 1,299 1,643
20 Trade and other payables
The Group Parent company
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Trade payables 27,670 30,135 – –
Bills of exchange payable 201 190 – –
Social security 2,839 4,384 – –
Other payables 25,976 24,443 – 87
Accruals 34,068 26,956 2,084 2,147
Total trade and other payables 90,754 86,108 2,084 2,234
21 Obligations under finance leases
The Group
Minimum lease payments Present value lease payment
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Amount payable
Within 1 year 300 315 298 298
1–5 years inclusive 531 814 529 770
After 5 years – – – –
831 1,129 827 1,068
Less future finance charges (4) (61) – –
Total obligations under finance leases 827 1,068 827 1,068
Finance lease obligations are further disclosed in note 28. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 132
22 Provisions
The Group
Warranty and other provisions
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Provisions at 1st January 720 991
Exchange adjustments (29) 112
691 1,103
Utilised in the year (135) (383)
Provisions at 31st December 556 720
Provisions include non-current product warranties charged against profit from operations that are expected to be incurred in the next 
three years.
23 Called up share capital and reserves
The Group Parent company
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Ordinary shares of 25 
25
/
26
p (2013: 25 
25
/
26
p) each
Authorised 1 15,555,590 (2013: 1 15,555,590) 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid 75,579,364 (2013: 75,37 4,081) 19,622 19,568 19,622 19,568
286,315 shares with a nominal value of £7 4,332 were issued in connection with the Group's Employee Share Schemes for a consideration 
of £5,223,000 received by the Company.
In December 2014 the parent company purchased 100,000 shares representing 0. 1% of called up share capital with a nominal value of 
£25,962 for consideration of £3,004,751. The shares were placed in an Employee Benefit Trust to be used in connection with the Group’s 
Employee Share Schemes.
At 31st December 2014 216,513 shares were held in an Employee Benefit Trust and available for use in connection with the Group’s 
Employee Share Schemes.
187 senior employees of the Group have been granted options on Ordinary shares under the Share Option Scheme and Performance Share 
Plan (details in note 27).
Other reserves in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 1 10 are made up as follows:
The Group
1st January 
2014  
£000
Change  
in year  
£000
31st December 
2014  
£000
Translation reserve 13,742 (15,155) (1,413)
Cash flow hedge reserve (303) (232) (535)
Capital redemption reserve 1,832 – 1,832
Employee Benefit Trust reserve (3,797) (2,573) (6,370)
Total other reserves 11,474 (17,960) (6,486)
Parent company
1st January 
2014 
£000
Change 
in year 
£000
31st December 
2014 
£000
Share-based payments reserve 6,733 934 7,667
Capital redemption reserve 1,832 – 1,832
Employee Benefit Trust reserve (3,797) (2,573) (6,370)
Total other reserves 4,768 (1,639) 3,129
Translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses on net investment hedges.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 133
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
23 Called up share capital and reserves continued
Cash flow hedge reserve
The reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective cash 
flow hedge relationships.
Capital redemption reserve
This reserve records the historical repurchase of the Group’s own shares.
24 Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is one of the Group's key performance indicators, but is a non-statutory measure. An analysis of the components 
is as follows:
The Group
2014 
£000
2013  
£000
Capital employed
Property, plant and equipment 176,668 174,218
Prepayments 402 162
Inventories 98,007 104,164
Trade receivables 155,696 145,380
Other current assets 23,973 19,880
Tax recoverable 4,420 3,709
Trade and other payables (90,754) (86,108)
Current tax payable (22,175) (16,927)
Capital employed 346,237 344,478
Average capital employed 345,358 341,775
Operating profit 148,095 147,040
Adjustments (note 2) 4,855 4,586
Adjusted operating profit 152,950 151,626
Return on capital employed 44.3% 44.4%
25 Capital commitments
The Group Parent company
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided 1,657 1,217 – –
All capital commitments related to property, plant and equipment.
26 Operating lease obligations
The Group
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Commitments under non-cancellable leases due as follows:
Within 1 year 4,449 4,412
1–5 years inclusive 6,976 9,513
After 5 years 403 641
Total operating lease obligations 11,828 14,566
Operating leases are primarily in respect of property, plant and equipment. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 134
27 Employee benefits
Retirement benefit obligations – the Group
The Group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements, which are established in accordance with local conditions and 
practices within the countries concerned. These include funded defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution arrangements
The majority of the retirement benefit arrangements operated by the Group are of a defined contribution structure, where the employer 
contribution and resulting income statement charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employee’s pay. Contributions made to 
defined contribution schemes and charged to the income statement totalled £9,07 4,000 (2013: £7 ,373,000). In the UK, following the closure 
of the defined benefit schemes to new entrants, the main scheme for new employees is a defined contribution scheme.
Defined benefit arrangements
The Group operates several funded defined retirement benefit schemes where the benefits are based on employees’ length of service. 
Whilst the Group’s primary schemes are in the UK, it also operates other material benefit schemes in the US as well as less material schemes 
elsewhere. In funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or similar 
structures in the countries concerned.
UK defined benefit arrangements
The defined benefit schemes in the UK account for approximately 50% of the Group’s net balance sheet liability for defined retirement benefit 
schemes. Spirax Sarco operates three UK schemes: the Spirax Sarco Employees Pension Fund, the Spirax Sarco Executives Retirement 
Benefits Scheme and the Watson Marlow Pension Fund. These are all final salary pension schemes. The UK schemes are closed to new 
members but are open to future accrual. There is a mix of different inflation-dependent pension increases (in payment and deferment) which 
vary from member to member according to their membership history and which scheme they are a member of. All three schemes have 
been setup under UK Law and are governed by a Trustee committee, which is responsible for the scheme’s investments, administration 
and management. A funding valuation is carried out for the Trustees of each scheme every three years by an independent firm of actuaries. 
Depending on the outcome of that valuation a schedule of future contributions is negotiated with Spirax Sarco. Further information on the 
contribution commitments is shown in the Financial review on page 44.
US defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a pension scheme in the US which is open to new entrants and defines the pension in terms of the highest average 
pensionable pay for any five consecutive years prior to retirement. No pension increases (in payment and deferment) are offered by this 
scheme. It also operates a post-retirement medical plan in the US, which is unfunded, as is typical for these plans.
Principal risks
The pension schemes create a number of risk exposures. Annual increases on benefits are, to a varying extent from scheme to scheme, 
dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable are future inflation levels (including the impact of 
inflation on future salary increases) and the actual longevity of the membership. Benefits payable will also be influenced by a range of other 
factors including member decisions on matters such as when to retire and the possibility to draw benefits in different forms. A key risk is that 
additional contributions are required if the investment returns fall short of those anticipated when setting the contributions to the pension 
schemes. All pension schemes are regulated by the relevant jurisdictions. These include extensive legislation and regulatory mechanisms that 
are subject to change and may impact on the Group’s pension schemes. The IAS 19 liability measurement (DBO) and the Service Cost are 
sensitive to the actuarial assumptions made on a range of demographic and financial matters that are used to project the expected benefit 
payments, the most important of these assumptions being about the future inflation and salary growth levels and the assumptions made 
about life expectation. The DBO and Service Cost are also very sensitive to the IAS 19 discount rate, which determines the discounted value 
of the projected benefit payments. The discount rate depends on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds. Investment strategies are 
set with funding rather than IAS 19 considerations in mind and do not seek to provide a specific hedge against the IAS 19 measurement of 
DBO. As a result the difference between the market value of the assets and the IAS 19 DBO may be volatile.
Sensitivity analysis to changes in discount rate and inflation are included on page 136.
The financial assumptions used at 31st December were:
Assumptions weighted by value of liabilities % per annum
UK pensions
Overseas pensions  
and medical
2014 2013 2014 2013
Rate of increase in salaries 3.5 4.0 3.3 3.3
Rate of increase in pensions 2.9 3.1 1.7 1.7
Rate of price inflation 3.0 3.4 2.3 2.3
Discount rate 3.7 4.5 3.6 4.5
Medical trend rate 5.0 5.0
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 135
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
27 Employee benefits continued
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the 
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:
UK pensions
Overseas pensions  
and medical Total
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Fair value of schemes’ assets 313,556 278,147 37,588 35,684 351,144 313,831
Present value of funded schemes’ liabilities (351,289) (322,929) (57,227) (45,739) (408,516) (368,668)
(Deficit) in the funded schemes (37,733) (44,782) (19,639) (10,055) (57,372) (54,837)
Present value of unfunded schemes’ liabilities – – (18,407) (17,206) (18,407) (17,206)
Retirement benefit liability recognised in the 
balance sheet (37,733) (44,782) (38,046) (27,261) (75,779) (72,043)
Related deferred tax asset 7,825 8,956 9,878 9,037 17,703 17,993
Net pension liability (29,908) (35,826) (28,168) (18,224) (58,076) (54,050)
UK pensions
Overseas pensions  
and medical Total
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Equities 176,595 142,603 21,447 20,613 198,042 163,216
Bonds 126,723 74,710 8,728 8,678 135,451 83,388
Other 10,238 60,834 7,413 6,393 17,651 67,227
Total market value in aggregate 313,556 278,147 37,588 35,684 351,144 313,831
The actual return on plan assets was £35.9 million (2013: £30.9 million).
The movements in the defined benefit obligation (DBO) recognised in the balance sheet during the year were:
UK pensions
Overseas pensions  
and medical Total
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year (322,929) (288,566) (62,945) (64,699) (385,874) (353,265)
Current service cost (5,522) (5,859) (2,030) (2,352) (7,552) (8,211)
Past service cost – – 56 – 56 –
Interest cost (14,331) (12,917) (2,638) (2,441) (16,969) (15,358)
Contributions by members (629) (633) – – (629) (633)
Remeasurement (loss)/gain (27,497) (25,433) (10,511) 5,189 (38,008) (20,244)
Actual benefit payments 9,550 9,835 2,580 2,431 12,130 12,266
Experience (loss)/gain 10,069 644 975 (1,515) 11,044 (871)
Currency loss – – (1,121) 442 (1,121) 442
Defined benefit obligation at end of year (351,289) (322,929) (75,634) (62,945) (426,923) (385,874)
The movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year were:
UK pensions
Overseas pensions  
and medical Total
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Value of assets at beginning of year 278,147 249,668 35,684 30,934 313,831 280,602
Expected return on assets 12,496 11,414 1,554 1,227 14,050 12,641
Remeasurement gain 23,907 14,714 (2,102) 3,535 21,805 18,249
Contributions paid by employer 7,927 11,553 3,421 3,643 11,348 15,196
Contributions paid by members 629 633 – – 629 633
Actual benefit payments (9,550) (9,835) (2,580) (2,431) (12,130) (12,266)
Currency gain – – 1,611 (1,224) 1,611 (1,224)
Value of assets at end of year 313,556 278,147 37,588 35,684 351,144 313,831 Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 136
27 Employee benefits continued
The estimated employer contributions to be made in 2015 are £7 ,312,000.
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
2010 
£000
Defined benefit obligation at end of year (426,923) (385,874) (353,265) (323,327) (303,338)
Fair value of schemes’ assets 351,144 313,831 280,602 251,402 239,910
Retirement benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet (75,779) (72,043) (72,663) (71,925) (63,428)
Experience adjustment on schemes’ liabilities 11,044 (871) (126) 5,797 (984)
As a percentage of schemes’ liabilities 2.6% 0.2% 0.0% 1.8% 0.3%
Experience adjustment on schemes’ assets 21,805 18,249 13,561 (12,041) 10,454
As a percentage of schemes’ assets 6.2% 5.8% 4.8% 4.8% 4.4%
The expense recognised in the Group income statement was as follows:
UK pensions
Overseas pensions 
and medical Total
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Current service cost (5,522) (5,859) (2,030) (2,352) (7,552) (8,211)
Past service cost – – 56 – 56 –
Net interest on schemes’ liabilities (1,835) (1,503) (1,084) (1,214) (2,919) (2,717)
Total expense recognised in income 
statement (7,357) (7,362) (3,058) (3,566) (10,415) (10,928)
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the Group income statement:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Operating costs (7,496) (8,211)
Net financial expenses (2,919) (2,717)
Total expense recognised in income statement (10,415) (10,928)
Statement of comprehensive income (OCI)
UK pensions
Overseas pensions  
and medical Total
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Remeasurement amount recognised in OCI 6,479 (10,075) (11,638) 7,209 (5,159) (2,866)
Deferred tax on remeasurement amount 
recognised in OCI (1,296) 2,015 1,038 (3,089) (258) (1,074)
Cumulative loss recognised in OCI at  
beginning of year (57,952) (49,892) (9,279) (13,399) (67,231) (63,291)
Cumulative loss recognised in OCI at end  
of year (52,769) (57,952) (19,879) (9,279) (72,648) (67,231)
Sensitivity analysis
The effect on the defined benefit obligation at 31st December 2014 of an increase or decrease in key assumptions is as follows:
UK pensions 
£000
Overseas 
pensions and 
medical 
£000
Total 
£000
Increase/(decrease) in pension deficit
Discount rate assumption being 0.25% higher (14,000) (3,000) (17,000)
Discount rate assumption being 0.25% lower 19,000 3,000 22,000
Inflation assumption being 0.25% higher 11,000 1,000 12,000
Inflation assumption being 0.25% lower (11,000) (1,000) (12,000)
The average age of active participants in the UK schemes at 31st December 2014 was 51 years and in the overseas schemes 50 years.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 137
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
27 Employee benefits continued
Pension plans – parent company
The parent company is accounting for pension costs in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19.
The disclosures shown here are in respect of the parent company’s defined benefit obligations. Other plans operated by the Parent 
Company were defined contribution plans.
The total expense relating to the parent company’s defined contribution pension plans in the current year was £150,000 (2013: £49,000).
The post-retirement mortality assumptions in respect of the parent company Defined Benefit Scheme follows the SAPS light tables, with 
improvements based on the 2009 CMI Core Projections with a 1.5% long-term trend. This basis gives a life expectancy of 24 years and 
26 years respectively for a male and female currently aged 65. These figures reflect the generally recognised trend of increased longevity. 
These assumptions are regularly reviewed in light of scheme specific experience and more widely available statistics.
The financial assumptions used at 31st December were:
Assumptions weighted 
by value of liabilities 
% per annum
UK pensions
2014 2013
Rate of increase in salaries 3.5 3.9
Rate of increase in pensions 2.9 3.1
Rate of price inflation 3.0 3.4
Discount rate 3.7 4.5
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due to the 
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
UK pensions
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Equities 28,577 25,232
Bonds 25,954 14,522
Other 2,426 14,026
Total market value in aggregate 56,957 53,780
The actual return on plan assets was £5.4 million (2013: £4.9 million).
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are determined as follows:
UK pensions
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Fair value of scheme’s assets 56,957 53,780
Present value of funded scheme’s liabilities (54,361) (51,639)
Retirement benefit asset recognised in the statement of financial position 2,596 2,141
Related deferred tax (519) (428)
Net pension asset 2,077 1,713 Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 138
27 Employee benefits continued
The movements in the defined benefit obligation (DBO) recognised in the statement of financial position during the year were:
UK pensions
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year (51,639) (49,650)
Current service cost (171) (248)
Interest cost (2,271) (2,197)
Contributions from members (83) (10)
Remeasurement (loss) (3,361) (2,768)
Actual benefit payments 2,457 2,740
Experience (loss)/gain 707 494
Defined benefit obligation at end of year (54,361) (51,639)
The movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year were:
UK pensions
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Value of assets at beginning of year 53,780 49,594
Expected return on assets 2,370 2,239
Remeasurement gain/(loss) 3,060 2,705
Contributions paid by employer 202 1,972
Contributions from members 2 10
Actual benefit payments (2,457) (2,740)
Value of assets at end of year 56,957 53,780
The estimated employer contributions to be made in 2015 are £1 19,000.
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
2010 
£000
Defined benefit obligation at end of year (54,361) (51,639) (49,650) (47,200) (52,594)
Fair value of scheme’s assets 56,957 53,780 49,594 44,745 45,055
Retirement benefit (liability) recognised in the balance sheet 2,596 2,141 (56) (2,455) (7,539)
Experience adjustment on scheme’s liabilities 707 494 (6) 7,357 (1)
As a percentage of scheme’s liabilities 1.3% 1.0% 0.0% 15.6% 0.0%
Experience adjustment on scheme’s assets 3,060 2,705 2,250 (2,579) 2,320
As a percentage of scheme’s assets 5.4% 5.0% 4.5% 5.8% 5.1%
The expense recognised in the parent company income statement was as follows:
UK pensions
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Current service cost (252) (248)
Net interest on scheme’s assets/(liabilities) 99 42
Total income recognised in income statement (153) (206)
Statement of comprehensive income (OCI)
UK pensions
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Remeasurement (loss)/gain recognised in OCI 406 431
Deferred tax on remeasurement amount recognised in OCI (81) (86)
Cumulative loss recognised in OCI at beginning of year (12,727) (13,072)
Cumulative loss recognised in OCI at end of year (12,402) (12,727)
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 139
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
27 Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments – The Group
Disclosures of the share-based payments offered to employees are set out below. More detail on each scheme is given in the Annual report 
on remuneration 2014 on pages 78 to 89. The charge to the income statement in respect of share-based payments is made up as follows:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Share Option Scheme 131 564
Performance Share Plan 1,453 1,974
Employee Share Ownership Plan 790 777
Total expense recognised in income statement 2,374 3,315
Share Option Scheme
The Group operates equity settled share option schemes for employees, although no grants have been made since 201 1 because awards 
have been made using the Group's Performance Share Plan instead. Awards were determined by the Remuneration Committee whose 
objective was to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders by giving an incentive linked to added shareholder value. 
Options are subject to performance conditions, which if met make the options exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date 
of grant. For options granted from 1995 to 2001 the performance condition is an increase in EPS of more than 6% greater than the increase 
in the UK Retail Price Index over a consecutive three-year period between grant and ten years from date of grant. From and including the 
2002 options, the increase in EPS was revised to 9% greater than the increase in the UK Retail Price Index over a three-year consecutive 
period and from 2007 the performance condition needs to be met over the three-year period from 1st January prior to the date of the grant. 
If the condition is not met at the end of the three year period the option will lapse.
The share options granted have been measured by Towers Watson, using the Present Economic Value (PEV) valuation methodology. 
The relevant disclosures in respect of the share option scheme grants are set out below. 
2009 
Grant
2010 
Grant
2011 
Grant
Grant date 11th March 26th March 18th March
Exercise price 765.0p 1366.0p 1873.0p
Number of employees 70 75 87
Shares under option 223,500 290,000 350,000
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 25% 25% 25%
Risk-free interest rate 2.5% 3.5% 3.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 2.5% 2.5%
Fair value 145.5p 341.7p 442.9p
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Option (exercise price) 
Outstanding at 
start of year
Granted during 
year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed during 
year
Outstanding at 
end of year
2004 grant (541.9p) 15,500 – (15,500) – –
2005 grant (686p) 32,933 – (6,762) – 26,171
2006 grant (960p) 30,650 – (5,875) – 24,775
2007 grant (1019.6p) 51,075 – (16,531) – 34,544
2008 grant (959.0p) 49,568 – (10,400) – 39,168
2009 grant (765.0p) 40,500 – (11,000) – 29,500
2010 grant (1366.0p) 120,500 – (38,170) – 82,330
201 1 grant (1873.0p) 306,000 – (113,201) (6,000) 186,799
646,726 – (217,439) (6,000) 423,287
Weighted average exercise price £14.36 – £14.63 £18.73 £14.16
Weighted average contractual life remaining 4.6 years
Performance conditions in respect of all exercisable shares have been met. The number of shares exercisable at 31st December 2014 is 
423,287 (2013: 646,726). The weighted average share price during the period was £28.69 (2013: £26.57). Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 140
27 Employee benefits continued
Performance Share Plan
Awards under the Performance Share Plan are made to Executive Directors and other senior managers and take the form of contingent 
rights to acquire shares, subject to the satisfaction of a performance target. To the extent that they vest, awards may be satisfied in cash, in 
shares or an option over shares. The performance criteria is split into two separate parts. For awards granted up to 2013 60% of the award 
is based on a TSR measure where the performance target is based on the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the TSR of 
other companies included in the FTSE All-Share Industrial Engineering Sector over a three-year performance period where awards will vest 
on a sliding scale. All shares within an award will vest if the Company’s TSR is at or above the upper quartile. 25% will vest if the TSR is at the 
median and the number of shares that will vest will be calculated pro-rata on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% if the Company’s 
TSR falls between the median and the upper quartile. No shares will vest if the Company’s TSR is below the median. For awards granted up 
to 2013 the second part, amounting to 40% of the award, is subject to achievement of a target based on aggregate EPS over a three-year 
performance period. 25% will vest if the compound growth in EPS is equal to the growth in the UK Retail Price Index plus 3% and 100% will 
vest if the compound growth in EPS is equal to or exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Price Index plus 9%, there is pro-rata vesting for actual 
growth between these rates. For the 2014 award, the Remuneration Committee have changed the weighting between the TSR and EPS 
elements to 40% TSR and 60% EPS. 
Shares awarded under the Performance Share Plan have been valued by Towers Watson, using the Monte Carlo simulation valuation 
methodology. The relevant disclosures in respect of the Performance Share Plan grants are set out below.
2010 
Grant
2011 
Grant
2012 
Grant
2013 
Grant
2014 
Grant
Grant date 26th March 18th March 9th March 8th March 14th March
Mid market share price at grant date 1366.0p 1873.0p 2106.0p 2615.0p 2873.0p
Number of employees 5 5 89 105 124
Shares under scheme 99,983 78,588 179,980 168,708 170,521
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Probability of vesting 69.5% 69.2% 66.5% 62.5% 75.2%
Fair value 949.4p 1296.1p 1400.5p 1634.4p 2160.5p
Employee Share Ownership Plan
UK employees are eligible to participate in the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP). The aim of the ESOP is to encourage increased 
shareholding in the Company by all UK employees and so there are no performance conditions. Employees are invited to join the ESOP 
when an offer is made each year. Individuals save for 12 months during the accumulation period and subscribe for shares at the lower of the 
price at the beginning and the end of the accumulation period under HMRC rules. The Company provides a matching share for each share 
purchased by the individual.
Shares issued under the ESOP have been measured by Towers Watson, using the Present Economic Value (PEV) valuation methodology. 
The relevant disclosures in respect of the Employee Share Ownership Plans are set out below.
2010 
Grant
2011 
Grant
2012 
Grant
2013 
Grant
2014 
Grant
Grant date 1st October 1st October 1st October 1st October 1st October
Exercise price 1808.7p 1832.0p 2100.3p 3018.0p 2821.33p
Number of employees 955 1,012 1,017 1,015 1,064
Shares under scheme 41,584 45,327 41,703 29,610 34,204
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% 25% 25% 20%
Risk free interest rate 0.6% 0.6% 0.2% 0.4% 0.6%
Expected dividend yield 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
Fair value 1922.6p 1934.6p 2228.5p 3208.1p 2948.3p
The accumulation period for the 2014 ESOP ends in September 2015, therefore some figures are projections.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 141
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
27 Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments – parent company
Disclosures of the share-based payments offered to employees of the parent company are set out below. The description and operation of 
each scheme is the same as outlined in the Group disclosure set out above.
Share Option Scheme
The equity settled share options issued to employees of the parent company are charged in the parent company’s income statement. 
The relevant disclosures in respect of the share option scheme grants are set out below. No options have been granted since 201 1.
2009 
Grant
2010 
Grant
2011 
Grant
Grant date 11th March 26th March 18th March
Exercise price 765.0p 1366.0p 1873.0p
Number of employees 1 1 5
Shares under option 2,500 4,000 19,000
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 25% 25% 25%
Risk-free interest rate 2.5% 3.5% 3.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 2.5% 2.5%
Fair value 145.5p 341.7p 442.9p
Fair value 1922.6p 1934.6p 2228.5p
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Outstanding 
at start of year
Granted 
during year
Exercised  
during year
Lapsed 
during year
Outstanding at 
end of year
2005 grant (686p) 1,862 – (1,862) – –
2007 grant (1019.6p) 2,131 – (2,131) – –
2008 grant (959p) 1,228 – – – 1,228
2009 grant (765.0p) – – – – –
2010 grant (1366.0p) 4,000 – – – 4,000
201 1 grant (1873.0p) 10,500 – (5,101) – 5,399
19,721 – (9,094) – 10,627
Weighted average exercise price £15.09 £14.30 £15.77
Weighted average contractual life remaining 5.5 years
Performance conditions in respect of all exercisable shares have been met. The number of shares exercisable at 31st December 2014 is 
10,627 (2013: 19,721).
Performance Share Plan
The relevant disclosures in respect of the Performance Share Plan grants are set out below.
2010 
Grant
2011 
Grant
2012 
Grant
2013  
Grant
2014  
Grant
Grant date 26th March 18th March 9th March 8th March 14th March
Mid market share price at grant date 1366.0p 1873.0p 2106.0p 2615.0p 2873.0p
Number of employees 5 5 9 12 11
Shares under scheme 99,983 78,588 84,230 69,174 61,154
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Probability of vesting 69.5% 69.2% 66.5% 62.5% 75.2%
Fair value 949.4p 1296.1p 1400.5p 1634.4p 2160.5p Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 142
28 Analysis of changes in net cash
The Group
At 1st 
January 
2014 
£000
Cash flow* 
£000
Exchange 
movement 
£000
At 31st 
December 
2014 
£000
Current portion of long-term borrowings (298) (298)
Non-current portion of long-term borrowings (59,473) (49,096)
Short-term borrowings (39,338) (40,070)
Total borrowings (99,109) 9,236 409 (89,464)
Comprising:
Borrowings (98,041) 8,995 409 (88,637)
Finance leases (1,068) 241 – (827)
(99,109) 9,236 409 (89,464)
Cash and cash equivalents 84,417 30,184 3,380 117,981
Bank overdrafts (1,809) 1,319 29 (461)
Net cash and cash equivalents 82,608 31,503 3,409 117,520
Bank deposits 32,901 (9,038) 574 24,437
Net cash 16,400 31,701 4,392 52,493
The present value of finance lease payments are shown in note 21 on page 131.
* £1,008,000 of cash was acquired as part of the purchase of BioPure Technology Limited during the year.
29 Related party transactions
The Group
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Sales to associated companies 1,002 569
Dividends from associated companies 815 964
Amounts due from associated companies at 31st December 21 52
Parent Company
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Dividends received from subsidiaries 44,912 186,059
Dividends received from associates 815 964
Loans and amounts due from subsidiaries at 31st December 179,479 189,077
Amounts due to subsidiaries at 31st December 9,295 8,300
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 143
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
30 Purchase of businesses
2014
Acquisitions
Book value 
£000
Fair value adj 
£000
Fair value 
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 829 – 829
Intangibles – 4,395 4,395
829 4,395 5,224
Current assets
Inventories 283 – 283
Trade receivables 517 – 517
Cash 1,008 – 1,008
Total assets 2,637 4,395 7,032
Current liabilities
Trade payables 439 – 439
Deferred tax – 739 739
Total liabilities 439 739 1,178
Total net assets 2,198 3,656 5,854
Goodwill – – 4,301
Total – – 10,155
Satisfied by
Cash paid 10,055
Deferred consideration 100
10,155
Cash outflow for acquired businesses in the Cash Flow statements (page 1 13):
Cash paid for businesses acquired in the period 10,055
Less cash acquired (1,008)
Deferred consideration for businesses acquired in prior years 937
Net cash outflow 9,984
1  The acquisition of BioPure Technology Limited, a company specialising in the design and production of advanced single-use tubing 
connector systems for the Biopharmaceutical process industry based in the UK was completed on 6th January 2014. The acquisition 
method of accounting has been used. Consideration of £9,255,000 was paid on completion. Separately identified intangibles are recorded 
as part of the fair value adjustment. The goodwill recognised represents the skilled workforce acquired and the synergies that can be 
achieved by being part of the Spirax Group. 100% of voting rights were acquired. Goodwill arising is not expected to be tax deductible. 
BioPure Technology Limited has generated £4,885,000 of revenue and £1,654,000 of pre-tax profit since acquisition. 
2  The acquisition of the UK Transvac thermocompressor business was completed on 22nd May 2014. The acquisition method of accounting 
has been used. Consideration of £800,000 was paid during the year with a further £100,000 being payable by the end of May 2015. 
The payment is dependent upon the delivery of the assets, designs and training. Separately identified intangibles are recorded as part of 
the fair value adjustment. The goodwill recognised represents the opportunity to sell a wider range of products to our existing customer 
base to fully utilise the Group's applications expertise to expand sales. Goodwill arising is expected to be tax deductible. The acquisition led 
to a product launch in February 2015 from which revenue and profit are anticipated.
  £107 ,000 of acquisition costs were incurred in relation to these acquisitions. The acquired intangibles relate to customer relations, 
technology based assets and marketing based assets. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 144
30 Purchase of businesses continued
2013
Acquisitions
Book value 
£000
Fair value adj 
£000
Fair value 
£000
Non-current assets
Intangibles – 1,373 1,373
Total assets – 1,373 1,373
Current liabilities
Deferred tax – 53 53
Total liabilities – 53 53
Total net assets – 1,320 1,320
Goodwill – – 828
Total – – 2,148
Satisfied by
Cash paid – – 473
Deferred consideration – – 1,675
– – 2,148
Cash outflow for acquired businesses in the Cash Flow statements
Cash consideration (for the current year and deferred consideration on prior years’ acquisitions) 5,601
Net cash outflow 5,601
1  The acquisition of the business and assets of the steam specialties business, PT Petrolog MYM, based in Indonesia was completed on 
30th August 2013. The acquisition method of accounting has been used. Fixed consideration of £1,675,000 will be paid over the next 
five years. Separately identified intangibles are recorded as part of the fair value adjustment. The goodwill recognised represents the 
opportunity to take direct control of the sale of the Group’s product and services in the Indonesian market. No deferred tax liability has 
been created in respect of intangible assets acquired because tax relief will be available over the assets’ useful life.
2  The acquisition of the distribution rights of Watson-Marlow Bredel products in Austria and Sweden was made on 1st October 2013. 
The acquisition method of accounting has been used. Consideration of £473,000 was paid on completion. Separately identified intangibles 
are recorded as part of the fair value adjustment. The goodwill recognised represents the opportunity to sell a wider range of the Group’s 
existing products to the acquired customer base to fully utilise the Group’s applications expertise to expand sales.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 145
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
31 Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Group does not enter into significant derivative transactions. The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, cash and 
short-term deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various 
other financial instruments such as trade debtors and trade creditors, which arise directly from its operations. It is, and has been throughout 
the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. The Board 
reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. These policies have remained fundamentally 
unchanged since the beginning of 2000.
Credit risk
The Group sells products and services to customers around the world and its customer base is extremely varied in size and industry sector. 
The Group operates credit control policies to assess customers’ credit ratings and provides for any debt that is identified as non-collectable.
Interest rate risk
The Group borrows in desired currencies at both fixed and floating rates of interest as appropriate to the purposes of the borrowing.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts, loans and finance 
leases as appropriate.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has operations around the world and therefore its balance sheet can be affected significantly by movements in the rate of 
exchange between sterling and various other currencies particularly the US dollar and euro. The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of this 
structural currency exposure by borrowing in these currencies where appropriate while maintaining a low cost of debt.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures principally as a result of trading between Group companies. Such exposures arise from 
sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the unit’s functional currency. Net cash flows between any two currencies of 
less than £1 million per annum would not usually be considered sufficiently material to warrant forward cover. Forward cover is not taken out 
more than 24 months in advance or for more than 90% of the next 12 months’ and 60% of the following 12 months’ forecast exposure.
Fair values
The following table compares amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities:
2014 2013
Carrying 
value 
£000
Fair 
value 
£000
Carrying 
value 
£000
Fair 
value 
£000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 117,981 117,981 84,417 84,417
Bank deposits 24,437 24,437 32,901 32,901
Trade and other receivables 168,721 168,721 156,860 156,860
Total financial assets 311,139 311,139 274,178 274,178
2014 2013
Carrying 
value 
£000
Fair 
value 
£000
Carrying 
value 
£000
Fair 
value 
£000
Financial liabilities
Bank loans 88,637 88,637 98,041 98,041
Finance lease obligations 827 831 1,068 1,132
Bank overdrafts 461 461 1,809 1,809
Trade payables 27,670 27,670 30,135 30,135
Other payables 25,976 25,976 25,041 25,041
Total financial liabilities 143,571 143,575 156,094 156,158
There are no other assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis for which fair value is disclosed.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. Fair value of derivative financial instruments are calculated based on discounted 
cash flow analysis using appropriate market information for the duration of the instruments. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 146
31 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Financial instruments fair value disclosure
Fair value measurements are classified into three levels, depending on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from other observable inputs for the asset or liability; and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
We consider that the derivative financial instruments fall into level 2.
Interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the Group as at 31st December was as follows:
2014
The Group
Total 
£000
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Financial 
liabilities on 
which no 
interest is paid 
£000
Euro 16,173 – 461 15,712
US dollar 2,050 – – 2,050
Sterling 90,763 795 82,000 7,968
Other 34,585 32 6,637 27,916
Group total 143,571 827 89,098 53,646
2013
The Group
Total 
£000
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Financial  
liabilities on 
which no 
interest is paid 
£000
Euro 17,071 – 331 16,740
US dollar 3,994 – – 3,994
Sterling 100,829 1,068 90,465 9,296
Other 34,200 – 9,054 25,146
Group total 156,094 1,068 99,850 55,176
2014
The Parent
Total 
£000
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Financial  
liabilities on 
which no 
interest is paid 
£000
Sterling 82,000 – 82,000 –
Parent company total 82,000 – 82,000 –
2013
The Parent
Total 
£000
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£000
Financial  
liabilities on 
which no 
interest is paid 
£000
Sterling 90,552 – 90,465 87
Parent company total 90,552 – 90,465 87
The benchmark rates for the floating rate financial liabilities are LIBOR.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 147
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
31 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Terms and debt repayment schedule
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
Currency
Nominal 
interest rate
Year 
of maturity
2014  
Carrying value 
£000
2013  
Carrying value 
£000
Unsecured bank facility € 2.0% 2015 461 318
Unsecured bank facility Won 3.5% 2015-2017 2,625 3,604
Unsecured bank facility YEN 1.2% 2015 4,012 4,308
Unsecured bank facility £ 1.5% 2015 15,000 4,000
Secured bank facility £ 1.3% 2015 – 30,000
Secured bank facility £ 1.1% 2015 20,000 30,000
Unsecured bank facility £ – 2014 – 1,465
Unsecured bank facility TRL – 2014 – 13
Unsecured bank facility € – 2014 – 13
Secured bank facility £ 1.0% 2017 47,000 25,000
Unsecured bank facility RAND – 2017 – 1,129
Finance leases S$ 3.0% 2015-2016 32 –
Finance leases £ – 2015-2016 795 1,068
Total outstanding loans 89,925 100,918
The £47 million bank facilities maturing in 2017 are secured on the assets of various Group companies. Covenant tests are performed twice 
annually at 30th June and 31st December. The Directors have prepared an analysis and conclude that the covenants are met.
The £20 million bank facility maturing in 2015 is secured by the bank deposits of another Group company.
The weighted average interest rate paid during the year was 1.2% (2013: 1.3%).
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets
The interest rate profile of the financial assets of the Group as at 31st December 2014 was as follows:
2014
The Group
Total 
£000
Floating rate  
financial assets 
£000
Financial assets on which  
no interest is earned 
£000
Sterling 15,160 – 15,160
Euro 62,960 15,356 47,604
US dollar 27,749 3,128 24,621
RMB 93,738 72,360 21,378
Other 111,532 21,134 90,398
Group total 311,139 111,978 199,161
2013
The Group
Total 
£000
Floating rate  
financial assets 
£000
Financial assets on which  
no interest is earned 
£000
Sterling 15,101 – 15,101
Euro 55,957 13,981 41,976
US dollar 27,008 268 26,740
RMB 67,966 50,068 17,898
Other 108,146 25,898 82,248
Group total 274,178 90,215 183,963 Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 148
31 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
2014
The Parent
Total 
£000
Floating rate 
financial assets 
£000
Financial assets on which 
no interest is earned 
£000
Sterling 1,299 – 1,299
Other – – –
Parent company total 1,299 – 1,299
2013
The Parent
Total 
£000
Floating rate 
financial assets 
£000
Financial assets on which 
no interest is earned 
£000
Sterling 1,643 – 1,643
Other – – –
Parent company total 1,643 – 1,643
Financial assets on which no interest is earned comprise trade and other receivables and cash at bank and in hand.
Floating rate financial assets comprise cash placed on money market deposit mainly at call and three month rates. The average rate of 
interest received on sterling deposits during the year was nil (2013: nil).
Currency exposures
As explained above, the Group’s objectives in managing the currency exposures arising from its net investment overseas (in other words, its 
structural currency exposures) are to maintain a low cost of debt while partially hedging against currency depreciation. All gains and losses 
arising from these structural currency exposures are dealt with in the statement of total comprehensive income.
Transactional (or non-structural) exposures give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the income statement. 
Such exposures include the monetary assets and monetary liabilities in the Group balance sheet that are not denominated in the operating 
(or “functional”) currency of the operating unit involved. At 31st December 2014 the currency exposures in respect of the euro was a net 
monetary asset of (£335,000) (2013 net monetary liability: £706,000) and in respect of the US dollar a net monetary asset of £422,000  
(2013: net monetary liability £696,000).
At 31st December 2014, the percentage of debt to net assets, excluding debt was 0. 1% (2013: 0.08%) for the euro and nil (2013: nil) for the 
US dollar.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities at 31st December 2013 mature in the following periods:
2014
The Group
Trade and 
other 
payables 
£000
Overdrafts 
£000
Short-term 
borrowings 
£000
Finance 
leases 
£000
Long-term 
borrowings 
£000
Total 
£000
In six months or less, or on demand 53,646 466 25,116 149 – 79,377
In more than six months but no more than 12 – – 15,105 149 – 15,254
In more than one year but no more than two – – – 8 1,082 1,090
In more than two years but no more than three – – – 505 48,162 48,667
In more than three years but no more than four – – – 8 – 8
In more than four years but no more than five – – – 8 – 8
In more than five years – – – – – –
Total contractual cash flows 53,646 466 40,221 827 49,244 144,404
Balance sheet values 53,646 461 40,070 827 48,567 143,571
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 149
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
31 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
2013
The Group
Trade and 
other 
payables 
£000
Overdrafts 
£000
Short-term 
borrowings 
£000
Finance 
leases 
£000
Long-term 
borrowings 
£000
Total 
£000
In six months or less, or on demand 54,578 1,814 39,487 149 693 96,721
In more than six months but no more than 12 – – – 149 346 495
In more than one year but no more than two 114 – – 298 56,653 57,065
In more than two years but no more than three 109 – – 298 906 1,313
In more than three years but no more than four 104 – – 174 516 794
In more than four years but no more than five 99 – – – – 99
In more than five years 94 – – – – 94
Total contractual cash flows 55,098 1,814 39,487 1,068 59,114 156,581
Balance sheet values 55,176 1,809 39,338 1,068 58,703 156,094
2014
The Parent
Trade and 
other 
payables 
£000
Overdrafts  
£000
Short-term 
borrowings 
£000
Finance 
leases 
£000
Long-term 
borrowings 
£000
Total 
£000
In six months or less, or on demand – – 20,073 – – 20,073
In more than six months but no more than 12 – – 15,056 – – 15,056
In more than one year but no more than two – – – – – –
In more than two years but no more than three – – – – 47,118 47,118
In more than three years but no more than four – – – – – –
In more than four years but no more than five – – – – – –
In more than five years – – – – – –
Total contractual cash flows – – 35,129 – 47,118 82,247
Balance sheet values – – 35,000 – 47,000 82,000
2013
The Parent
Trade and 
other 
payables 
£000
Overdrafts  
£000
Short-term 
borrowings 
£000
Finance 
leases 
£000
Long-term 
borrowings 
£000
Total 
£000
In six months or less, or on demand 87 1,465 34,000 – – 35,552
In more than six months but no more than 12 – – – – – –
In more than one year but no more than two – – – – 55,000 55,000
In more than two years but no more than three – – – – – –
In more than three years but no more than four – – – – – –
In more than four years but no more than five – – – – – –
In more than five years – – – – – –
Total contractual cash flows 87 1,465 34,000 – 55,000 90,552
Balance sheet values 87 1,465 34,000 – 55,000 90,552
Cash flow hedge
The Group uses forward currency contracts to manage its exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. The forward contracts are 
designated as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship. At 31st December 2014 the Group had contracts outstanding to 
purchase £5,923,000 and €2,014,000 with US dollars, £900,000 with Korean Won, £291,000 with Singapore dollars and £120,000 with 
Japanese Yen. The fair values at the end of the reporting period were £232,000 (2013: £48,000). The fair value of cash flow hedges falls into 
the Level 2 category of the fair value hierarchy in accordance with IFRS 7 .
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using readily available 
market data. Financial statements
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 150
31 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 31st December in respect of which all 
conditions precedent had been met at that date were as follows:
The Group
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Expiring in one year or less 24,009 11,577
Expiring in more than two years but no more than three 64,644 18,535
Total Group undrawn committed facilities 88,653 30,112
The Parent
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Expiring in one year or less 10,000 6,000
Expiring in more than two years but no more than three 63,000 18,535
Parent company undrawn committed facilities 73,000 24,535
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2014 are not materially different from book values due to their size or the fact 
that they were at short-term rates of interest. Fair values have been assessed as follows:
• Derivatives  
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market using year-end exchange rates 
• Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows 
• Finance lease liabilities  
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease 
agreements. The estimated fair values reflect change in interest rates 
• Trade and other receivables/payables  
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. 
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. 
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
At the year end borrowings totalled £89,925,000 (2013: £100,918,000). At 31st December 2014, it is estimated that a general increase of one 
percentage point in interest rates would reduce the Group’s profit after tax and equity by approximately £50,000 (2013: £300,000).
For the year ended 31st December 2014, it is estimated that a decrease of one percentage point in the value of sterling weighted in relation 
to the Group’s profit and trading flows would have increased the Group’s profit before tax by approximately £2,400,000 (2013: £2,000,000). 
The effect can be very different between years due to the weighting of different currency movements. Forward exchange contracts have 
been included in this calculation.
Notes to the accounts continued Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 151
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
31 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
The credit risk profile of trade receivables
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross 
2014 
£000
Impairment 
2014 
£000
Gross 
2013 
£000
Impairment 
2013  
£000
Not past due date 108,348 (112) 100,132 (28)
0–30 days past due date 25,043 (102) 23,653 (52)
30 days to one year past due date 25,143 (2,624) 23,814 (2,139)
More than one year 7,093 (7,093) 6,792 (6,792)
Group total 165,627 (9,931) 154,391 (9,011)
Based on past experience, the Group believes no further impairment allowance is required for receivables that are past their due date. 
Other than trade receivables there are no financial assets that are past their due date at 31st December 2014.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Balance at 1st January 9,011 9,554
Movement in impairment 920 (543)
Balance at 31st December 9,931 9,011 Corporate information
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 152
Financial Summary 2005–2014
2005 
£000
2006 
£000
2007 
£000
2008 
£000
2009 
£000
2010 
£000
2011 
£000
2012
†
 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
Revenue 349,100 384,249 417,317 502,316 518,705 589,746 649,991 661,723 689,388 678,277
Operating profit 55,170 61,941 68,336 81,028 76,522 121,396 129,498 125,714 147,040 148,095
Operating profit* 
(adjusted) 55,345 62,291 68,720 85,669 89,938 119,125 133,960 136,245 151,626 152,950
Operating profit margin 
(adjusted)* 15.9% 16.2% 16.5% 17.1% 17.3% 20.2% 20.6% 20.6% 22.0% 22.5%
Profit before taxation 56,959 65,344 72,163 85,162 76,415 123,493 132,341 124,093 145,714 144,794
Profit before taxation* 
(adjusted) 57,134 65,694 72,796 90,146 90,196 121,613 137,169 134,948 151,056 151,118
Profit after taxation 38,187 44,066 49,190 59,788 53,091 86,654 93,238 87,642 102,320 100,573
Dividends in respect  
of the year 18,318 20,038 22,754 25,668 27,569 52,624 38,072 119,469 44,493 139,913
Net assets 198,246 199,722 242,965 296,006 307,364 379,524 400,120 436,549 403,534 441,878
Earnings per share 
(basic) 50.0p 57.7p 64.7p 78.0p 69.6p 112.5p 120.0p 112.2p 133.4p 132.8p
Earnings per share* 
(adjusted) 50.2p 58.1p 65.5p 83.4p 82.2p 109.5p 124.8p 122.2p 138.8p 140.4p
Dividends in respect  
of the year (per share) 23.8p 26.5p 29.9p 33.3p 36.1p 43.0p 49.0p 53.0p 59.0p 64.5p
Special dividend 
(per share) – – – – – 25.0p – 100.0p – 120.0p
Return on capital 
employed (note 24) 30.4% 32.2% 33.6% 35.5% 33.3% 42.1% 41.1% 39.4% 44.4% 44.3%
* Adjusted items exclude non-operating items (see note 2 on page 120).
†
 The results for 2012 have been restated to reflect IAS 19(R), prior years have not been restated.  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 153
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Earnings per share (adjusted)* p Dividends per share p
Revenue £m Operating profit (adjusted)* £m
678.3
689.4
661.7
650.0
589.7
518.7
502.3
417.3
384.2
349.1
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
140.4
138.8
122.2
124.8
109.5
82.2
83.4
65.5
58.1
50.2
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
†
153.0
151.6
136.2
134.0
119.1
89.9
85.7
68.7
62.3
55.3
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
64.5
59.0
53.0
49.0
43.0
36.1
33.3
29.9
26.5
23.8
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
100.0
120.0
25.0
Special dividend Corporate information
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 154
Steam specialties
EMEA
Belgium
Spirax-Sarco N V
Czech Republic
Spirax Sarco spol sro
Denmark
Spirax-Sarco Ltd (Branch)
Egypt
Spirax Sarco Energy Solutions LLC
Finland
Spirax Oy
France
Spirax-Sarco SAS
Germany
Spirax-Sarco GmbH
HygroMatik GmbH
Spirax-Sarco Germany Holdings GmbH
Ireland
Spirax-Sarco Ltd (Branch)
Italy
Spirax-Sarco Srl
M & M International Srl
Colima Srl
Spirax-Sarco Italy Holdings Srl
Middle East
Spirax Sarco Middle East Ltd
Netherlands
Spirax-Sarco Engineering BV
Spirax-Sarco Investments BV
Spirax-Sarco Netherlands BV
Spirax-Sarco Netherlands Holdings
Coöperatieve WA
Norway
Spirax Sarco AS
Poland
Spirax Sarco Sp Zoo
Portugal
Spirax Sarco Equip Ind Lda
Russia
Spirax-Sarco Engineering LLC
South Africa
Spirax-Sarco South Africa (Pty) Ltd
Spain
Spirax Sarco SA
Spirax-Sarco Engineering SL
Sweden
Spirax-Sarco AB
Switzerland
Spirax-Sarco AG
Turkey
Spirax Inter Valf Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd Sirketi
United Kingdom
Spirax-Sarco Ltd
Spirax-Sarco America Ltd
Spirax-Sarco Investments Ltd
Spirax-Sarco Overseas Ltd
Asia Pacific
Australia
Spirax-Sarco Pty Ltd
China
Spirax Sarco Engineering (China) Ltd
Hong Kong
Spirax Sarco Hong Kong Company Ltd
India
Spirax Marshall Private Ltd (49.3%)
Spirax-Sarco India Private Ltd
Indonesia
PT Spirax-Sarco Indonesia
Japan
Spirax-Sarco Ltd (Branch)
Malaysia
Spirax-Sarco Sdn Bhd
New Zealand
Spirax Sarco Ltd
Philippines
Spirax-Sarco Philippines, Inc
Singapore
Spirax-Sarco (Private) Ltd
South Korea
Spirax-Sarco (Korea) Ltd (97 .5%)
Taiwan
Spirax Sarco Co Ltd
Thailand
Spirax Sarco (Thailand) Ltd
Americas
Argentina
Spirax Sarco SA
Brazil
Spirax Sarco Ind e Com Ltda
Canada
Spirax Sarco Canada Ltd
Chile
Spirax-Sarco Chile Ltda
Mexico
Spirax-Sarco Mexicana SAPI DE CV
Peru
Spirax Sarco Peru SAC
USA
Spirax Sarco Inc
Sarco International Corp
Our global operations Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 155
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Watson-Marlow 
Fluid Technology Group
Austria
Watson-Marlow Austria GmbH
Argentina
Watson-Marlow Argentina, operating  
via Spirax Sarco SA
Australia
Watson-Marlow Pty Ltd
Belgium
Watson-Marlow N V
Brazil
Watson-Marlow Bredel Ind  
e Com de Bombas Ltda
China
Watson-Marlow China, operating  
via Spirax Sarco Engineering (China) Ltd
Denmark
Watson-Marlow Flexicon A/S
France
Watson-Marlow SAS
Germany
Watson-Marlow GmbH
India
Watson-Marlow India Private Ltd
Italy
Watson-Marlow Srl
Malaysia
Watson-Marlow Malaysia, operating via Spirax-
Sarco Sdn Bhd
Mexico
Watson-Marlow S de RL de C V
Netherlands
Watson-Marlow Bredel BV
Watson-Marlow Bredel Holdings BV
Watson-Marlow BV
New Zealand
Watson-Marlow Ltd
Poland
Watson-Marlow Sp Zoo
Russia
Watson-Marlow LLC
Singapore
Watson-Marlow Pte Ltd
South Africa
Watson-Marlow Bredel S A (Pty) Ltd
South Korea
Watson-Marlow Korea, operating  
via Spirax-Sarco (Korea) Ltd
Sweden
WM Alitea A B
Switzerland
Watson-Marlow Ltd (Branch)
United Kingdom
Watson-Marlow Ltd
BioPure Technology Ltd
USA
Watson Marlow Inc Corporate information
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 156
Officers and advisers
Secretary and registered office
A.J. Robson 
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 
Charlton House 
Cirencester Road 
Cheltenham 
Gloucestershire GL53 8ER
Telephone: 01242 521361 
Facsimile: 01242 581470 
Email: company.secretary@uk.spiraxsarco.com 
Website:  www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Joint financial advisers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
Rothschild
Financial PR
Citigate Dewe Rogerson 
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC 
HSBC Bank PLC
Corporate brokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Registrars
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road, Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone:   0871 384 2349* (UK) 
or +44 (0)121 415 7047 (overseas)
  *   Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras 
Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday
Website:    www.shareview.co.uk
Solicitors
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP
Important dates
Annual General Meeting  1 1th May 2015
Final dividend**
Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend 30th April 2015 
Record date for final dividend  1st May 2015 
Final dividend payable  29th May 2015
Special dividend**
Record date for special dividend    12th June 2015 
Existing Ordinary shares marked  
ex-entitlement to special dividend    15th June 2015 
Special dividend payable   15th July 2015
**  Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM. Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
This document is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk; a paper 
containing 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste 
paper and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, 
responsible, FSC® certified forests.The factory that 
printed this document is an EMAS certified company 
and its Environmental Management System is certified 
to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil 
based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further 
use and, on average 99% of any waste associated 
with this production will be recycled. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc
Charlton House
Cirencester Road
Cheltenham
Gloucestershire
GL53 8ER UK
www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com
