 Leading the digital inkjet revolution
Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Highlights
Financial highlights
• As previously reported, sales into the Group’s largest end application, ceramic tiles, 
suffered a step-down in demand in the second half of the year due to the slowing 
property and construction markets in China 
• Total annual Group adjusted revenue reduced by 19% in 2014 following the 
exceptional growth into ceramics experienced in 2013
•	 Str ong	pr ofitability	was	achieved	in	2014	despite	the	lower	level	of	sales;	gr oss	
margin of 44.5% and adjusted operating margin of 22.2%
• Gross research and development (R&D) investment (before capitalisation of 
development costs relating to the Thin Film programme) increased by 17% to  
£19.2 million in 2014 
•	 T o	pr otect	Xaar’ s	financial	performance	in	2015,	cost	cutting	measur es	wer e	swiftly	
implemented	in	the	final	quarter	of	2014,	with	160	r oles	r emoved	(20%	of	global	
headcount) and a reduction in the Group’s total annual cost base of £9 million
Operational highlights
• New products announced to maintain clear leadership in ceramic tile decoration, 
extend inkjet into other tile manufacturing processes and increase sales in other 
applications
• Growth in applications outside of ceramics slower than planned, but future progress 
is expected as our partners continue to develop solutions with our technology
• Encouraging pre-production activities continue within the ‘Direct-to-Shape’ 
application
• Manufacturing capacity expansion programme in Huntingdon, UK completed in the 
year, below budget, and provides a platform to exploit growth opportunities with 
current products 
•	 Substantial	pr ogr ess	on	our	Thin	Film	piezo	technology	development	(P4);	
manufacturing	partner	selected,	ar chitectur e	of	the	first	pr oduct	defined	and	early	
product demonstrations with potential OEM partners planned for H1 2015
Adjusted measures exclude items from the IFRS results, such as  
share-based payment charges, exchange differences relating to 
Swedish 	 operations, 	 unr ealised 	 gains/losses 	 on 	 derivative 	 financial 	
instruments, non-recurring royalty income, R&D expenditure credit, 
impairment on trade investments, commercial agreement costs, and 
r estructuring 	 costs, 	 per 	 the 	 r econciliation 	 of 	 adjusted 	 financial 	measur es	
on 	 page 	 82. 	 Net 	 cash 	 includes 	 cash 	 and 	 cash 	 equivalents, 	 tr easury	
deposits, 	 less 	 obligations 	 under 	 loan 	 and 	 finance 	 lease 	 liabilities.
Adjusted profit before tax £m
Net cash balance £m
Adjusted revenue £m
Adjusted operating margin %
24.6
41.1
18.4
10.6
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010
47.0
53.5
28.9
17.4
22.0
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010
22.2
30.4
21.1
15.3
10.3
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010
109.2
134.1
86.3
68.7
54.7
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010
14 million was raised, after expenses, 
through placing an open offer to fund 
the £22 million capacity expansion 
at the Huntingdon facility to meet 
growing demand for the Xaar 1001  
in the ceramics market.
Xaar completed a second consecutive 
year above 25% sales growth through 
the adoption of the Xaar 1001 by the 
ceramics and label printing sectors.
The Xaar 1002 replaced the Xaar 1001, 
delivering	 performance	 and	 print	 quality	
enhancements. Also launched were 
the small drop Xaar 1002 AMp, and 
the Xaar 1002 GS40 which produces 
intense colours and special effects for 
ceramics applications.
Ceramics conversion accelerated, driven by adoption 
of the technology in China. Further capital investment 
was undertaken to increase capacity by a further 75% 
by mid-2014 versus the status at the end of 2012.
2011
2010
Xaar announced the launch of the Xaar 1001 
GS12. Xaar recorded a third consecutive 
year of revenue growth in excess of 25%, 
and	posted	a	74%	incr ease	in	annual	pr ofits.	
The capacity expansion programme at 
Huntingdon successfully completed ahead  
of schedule and below budget .
The Xaar Proton was launched  
to	deliver	outstanding	print	quality ,	
superior throughput and exceptional 
value for a range of applications, 
including wide-format graphics  
and coding & marking.
2012
2009
2013
2014
5.6
Welcome to Xaar plc
Contents
Strategic Report
Highlights 1
Our business at a glance 2
Chairman’s statement 4
Market	overview	 6
Chief Executive’s statement 8
Business model 10
Our strategy 11
– Developing new products and new technology 12
– Building the eco-system 13
– Converting multiple markets 14
– Enhancing our capability 15
Key	performance	indicators	 16
Risk management 18
Finance Director’s report 20
Corporate social responsibility 22
Board approval of the Strategic and Annual Reports 25
Governance
Boar d	of	Dir ectors	 26
Directors’ report 28
Governance 32
– Corporate governance statement 32
– Directors’ Remuneration report 39
–	 Dir ectors’	Responsibilities	statement	 65
Financial Statements 
Independent	auditor’ s	r eport	 66
Consolidated income statement 71
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 71
Consolidated	statement	of	financial	position	 72
Consolidated	statement	of	changes	in	equity	 73
Consolidated	cash	flow	statement	 74
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	 75
Company	balance	sheet	(UK	GAAP)	 106
Notes to the (UK GAAP) Company balance sheet 107
Five year record 112
Notice of the Annual General Meeting 113
Notes	 116
Advisors IBC
Xaar is a world leader in 
the development of inkjet 
technology and manufacture of 
piezoelectric drop-on-demand 
industrial inkjet printheads.
Xaar was formed in Cambridge, 
UK	to	acquir e,	develop	and	
commercially exploit a new digital 
inkjet printing technology arising 
out of work done by Cambridge 
Consultants Ltd. 
Further greyscale developments 
led	to	the	launch	of	the	Xaar	760,	
delivering a choice of binary or 
greyscale drop sizes to provide 
the	ultimate	in	flexibility ,	r eliability	
and speed.
Xaar	acquir ed	MIT ,	an	existing	licensee.	
MIT was integrated into Xaar and 
became Xaar’s dedicated manufacturing 
facility at Järfälla, Sweden. Xaar’s 
product portfolio has expanded 
considerably	since	this	acquisition.
Xaar launched the revolutionary Xaar 
1001 printhead with TF Technology™ 
delivering	a	significant	step	forwar d	 
in	inkjet	r eliability .	Xaar	is	confirmed	 
as a market-leader in the innovation  
of digital inkjet printing.
Xaar completed a successful 
listing on the London Stock 
Exchange.
Xaar	invested	£6	million	in	a	
new manufacturing plant in 
Huntingdon, UK.
 1 997 2006
Xaar	intr oduced	its	first	full	pr oduction	
printhead	incorporating	its	unique,	
patented greyscale technology. The 
Xaar 318 is manufactured in Japan by 
Xaar licensee Toshiba TEC and offers 
photographic-quality	printing	with	no	
compromise in speed.
2003
 1 990 1 999 2005 2007
Our history
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Leading the digital inkjet revolution
Industrial 
The Industrial sector presently includes 
ceramic tile decoration, decorative laminate, 
and advanced/additive manufacturing 
processes.
Market sectors 
Ceramic tile production
Ceramics is a 10.5 billion m² market currently 
and digital conversion was estimated to 
be over 50% at the end of 2014. There 
are c.10,000 production lines around the 
world, with almost half of these in China. 
The creative design is the key feature which 
sells a tile. Xaar’s digital inkjet solution 
provides an end result which is superior 
in	terms	of	image	quality ,	at	a	lower	cost,	
plus	with	the	advantages	of	flexibility ,	
inventory reduction, and larger tile size 
capability. Tile manufacturing operates in 
a harsh industrial environment with high 
r eliability/duty	cycle	r equir ements;	hence	
any technology deployed needs to be 
appropriately robust. The market has been 
moving to digital inkjet decoration over 
the last ten years with the pace of change 
accelerating after the launch of the Xaar 
1001 which achieved volume sales from 
2009 onwards. Today the Xaar 1002 family 
of printheads with TF Technology™ continue 
to	deliver	both	quality	and	cost	advantages	
over traditional analogue methods within 
a robust architecture suitable to this harsh 
environment, giving rise to maximum 
production uptime. 
Decorative laminates
Decorative laminates is estimated to be at 
7.9	billion	m²	of	annual	output	with	c.1,600	
production lines around the world supplying 
simulated wood materials to the furniture and 
building	industries.	Realistic	wood	finishes	
or creative design are the key features which 
sell	the	boar d/plank/finished	item	and	the	
digital	quality	that	is	now	being	demonstrated	
with Xaar printheads matches the analogue 
process, thereby offering the opportunity 
for more economic short run work to be 
undertaken whilst reducing inventories and 
improving time to market. Inkjet is the only 
digital solution which meets the high reliability 
and	high	duty	cycle	r equir ements	needed	
within this industry. 
Digital adoption is still at the very early stages 
in this application, and the rate of adoption is 
expected to grow over the next few years.
Advanced/additive manufacturing
Applications 	 include 	 demand 	 for 	 the 	 fine 	
coating, patterning and printing of functional 
fluids 	 onto 	 numer ous 	 substrates 	 in 	 numer ous 	
industries. Applications are challenging and 
push inkjet to its known limits and beyond 
in 	 fields 	 such 	 as 	 nano 	 imprinting, 	 solar 	 cell 	
manufacturing and display screen production. 
Xaar has been working with multiple partners 
in laboratories all over the world exploring 
what may be possible in the future. Technical 
progress is promising but the commercial 
implementation of many of these applications 
is still believed to be some years into the 
future.
Packaging
The Packaging sector presently includes 
primary labels, secondary labels, coding  
and marking, and Direct-to-Shape printing.
Market sectors 
Coding and marking 
Coding and marking is an application of 
printing predominantly monochrome bar 
codes and logos on outer case/secondary 
packaging of consumer goods. This is an 
established and stable business based on 
bulk piezo technology which competes with 
alternative technologies including laser and 
thermal inkjet.
Primary label 
Primary label printing is estimated to be a 
market producing over 55 billion m² annually, 
with only 9% of this market converted to 
digital printing to date. The change driver is 
the delivery of lower cost per copy on run 
lengths up to 100,000 impressions (versus 
only 50,000 impressions 3 years ago). There 
is a large range of substrates and inks in 
this application which adds complication to 
the conversion process. In 2014 the launch 
of	high	definition	mode	label	printers	using	
the Xaar 1002 delivered an observable step 
change	in	print	quality .
Direct-to-Shape 
Direct-to-Shape is a new application where 
bottles and containers have the image 
printed directly onto their surface without 
the need for a label. This emerging sector 
underwent	its	first	field	trials	during	2014.	
The solution is aimed at shortening time 
to market whilst simultaneously reducing 
inventory and unit costs versus existing 
methods. This approach also enables mass 
customised marketing and event targeting. 
Graphic Arts
The Graphic Arts sector presently includes 
Grand/Wide-format graphics.
Market sectors 
Grand/Wide-format graphics
Grand/Wide-format graphics (GWFG) 
includes both internal and external signage 
and advertising, including billboards, posters 
and point of sale advertising. It is the most 
mature industrial inkjet market, active for 
over 15 years. Xaar’s growth to date has 
been based on its original set of bulk piezo 
products, which delivered annual growth 
from 2003 to 2007. To stimulate further 
material growth for Xaar in this end market 
new	pr oduct	developments	ar e	r equir ed	to	
enhance the portfolio.
Where we operate Business segments
Our business at a glance
95% 3%
We export over 95% of our production to 
customers around the world.
To date, only 3% of the commercial and 
industrial print market has converted to digital 
printing.
Xaar regional locations
Authorised resellers
Xaar is a world leader in the development of inkjet technology 
and a manufacturer of piezoelectric drop-on-demand 
industrial inkjet printheads, the key component in a digital 
printing system. Unlike analogue printing, digital printing 
r equir es	no	physical	master	image	to	copy	fr om,	and	hence	
enables economic short run, variable data, printing. The 
printhead is the device which converts the electronic image 
data into the physical image on the substrate. To achieve this, 
Xaar technology is a combination of high speed mixed signal 
electr onics,	micr o-mechanics,	and	fluid	dynamics.	
Our	flagship	printhead	is	the	Xaar	1002,	but	our	full	range	includes	
numerous other printheads. A typical industrial inkjet machine could 
be	firing	up	to	300	million	dr ops	of	ink	per	second	–	that’ s	over	
1 trillion drops per hour, all controlled within the picolitre range of 
volume and the micron range of placement accuracy (a picolitre is a 
millionth of a millionth of a litre, and a micron is a millionth of a metre).
Xaar sells its technology in component form (the printhead) to 
Original	Equipment	Manufactur ers	(OEMs)	who	pr oduce	and	sell	the	
complete digital printing solution to the end market. In addition to  
our close engagement with OEMs we also actively partner and  
co-develop 	 with 	 fluid 	 suppliers, 	 har dwar e 	 and 	 softwar e 	 integrators, 	
and substrate suppliers to deliver a robust and attractive total solution 
to the end user. 
Our technology is used all over the world in a wide range of 
manufacturing applications.
We design and manufacture our printheads in the UK and Sweden, 
exporting over 95% of our production to customers around the 
world.	W e	also	develop	and	sell	ink	systems,	electr onics,	and	fluid	
optimisation services to accelerate inkjet system development  
and adoption.
About Xaar
£78.0m
Industrial revenue
(2013: £98.2m)
Packaging revenue
£13.4m (2013: £15.7m)
Graphic Arts revenue
£11.4m (2013: £13.3m)
Royalties revenue
£6.4m (2013:	£6.9m)
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 3 2 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc I	r eport	on	a	year	of	some	significant	
challenges for the Company following 
our exceptional results for 2013. Despite 
anticipating	a	r elatively	flat	year	in	terms	 
of revenues we were unable to achieve 
the targets that we had set ourselves.  
For	the	first	half	of	the	year	r esults	wer e	 
as expected, however, we did not foresee  
the	significant	step	down	in	or ders	during	
the second half of 2014.
Following very strong growth from the ceramics 
decoration market over the last four years, our 
reliance on this segment was highlighted by 
the 2014 slow-down in the Chinese property 
and construction industries (approaching half of 
the world’s ceramic tiles are manufactured and 
sold in China). This is a volatile market, serviced 
by a small number of OEMs, that has proved 
extr emely 	 difficult 	 to 	 pr edict 	 and 	 consequently 	
forward visibility continues to be limited.
We have managed to retain global market 
leadership, in this competitive market segment. 
Nevertheless competitor activity brought pricing 
pressure that inevitably affected margins. Slower 
than expected progress in the development  
of other applications heightened the impact  
of our exposure to the slow-down in the  
ceramics market.
Once it became clear that the demand would 
not 	 r ecover 	 quickly , 	 we 	 took 	 decisive 	 action	
to match our costs, and reduce our output, in 
line with projected revenue. Unfortunately this 
r esulted 	 in 	 160 	 r edundancies 	 which 	 equated	
to 20% of the global work force. All of the cost 
saving measures were implemented prior to  
the end of 2014. 
We remain cautious about the short term and 
believe we have restructured appropriately to 
achieve 	 r easonable 	 pr ofitability , 	 thr ough 	 r educed 	
manufacturing and operating costs, even at the 
current lower level of business. The increases 
in our manufacturing capacity over the last 
few years provide us with the infrastructure 
to accommodate future growth. However 
this capacity will be under-utilised in the short 
term with a corresponding negative effect on 
operating margins.
Despite the workforce reduction we have been 
careful to maintain our recently expanded R&D 
capability so that our longer term product 
development strategy is unaffected. In this 
regard, progress on our future Platform 4 (P4) 
technology continues to meet the milestones as 
planned. Gross R&D spend represented 18%  
of revenue in 2014, and is expected to represent 
around 20% of revenue in 2015, underlining 
our commitment to maximise the potential 
of the Company via technology and product 
development.
Total revenue for the year was down 19% 
versus the exceptional results of 2013, but sales 
wer e 	 26% 	 higher 	 than 	 2012. 	 In 	 2014 	 sales 	 into	
Asia fell heavily (by 29%) due to the reasons 
already stated, with Europe affected but to a 
lesser extent (11%). European ceramic OEM 
partners tend to have more regionally diverse 
businesses, 	 although 	 China 	 is 	 also 	 a 	 significant 	
market for them.
 
We continue to deploy our disruptive technology 
into other markets, and generating material 
revenues from a wider and more balanced 
set of markets remains a key objective of the 
Company. I look forward to reporting on our 
progress against this objective in the future.
Whilst the downturn in the second half of the 
year is clearly disappointing, the Company 
still achieved an adjusted operating margin 
of 22% for 2014, and generated adjusted 
diluted 	 ear nings 	 per 	 shar e 	 of 	 26.4 	 pence.	
The Company continues to manage its cash 
resources prudently with net cash (cash, cash 
equivalents 	 and 	 tr easury 	 deposits) 	 at 	 the 	 end	 
of the year of £47.0 million.
As announced in 2014 the Company has 
formally implemented a progressive and 
sustainable dividend policy, and I am pleased  
to 	 confirm 	 that 	 the 	 Boar d 	 is 	 r ecommending 	
a 	 final 	 dividend 	 of 	 6 	 pence 	 per 	 shar e. 	 This 	
together with the 3 pence interim dividend paid 
during 	 the 	 year 	 equals 	 9 	 pence 	 for 	 the 	 full 	 year ,	
a 12.5% increase over 2013 (2013: 8 pence).
In March 2014 our long serving CEO Ian 
Dinwoodie announced his decision to retire in 
2015 and we began an international search for 
his successor. That search was successful and 
Dr. Doug Edwards joined us at the beginning 
of January 2015. Doug joined Xaar from Kodak 
(Eastman Kodak Company) where most recently 
he was President, Digital Printing and Enterprise 
and has been a member of the Executive Board 
since 	 2006.	
On behalf of the Board I want to thank Ian 
for his tireless devotion to Xaar over his 14 
years with the Company including 12 years as 
CEO. His leadership has helped transform the 
Company to its current market leading position.
Additionally, as noted in February 2015, David 
Cheesman, one of our Non-Executive Directors, 
has indicated his intention to retire from the 
Board, and he has therefore decided not to 
stand for re-election at the Company AGM on 
13 May 2015. A search is underway for David’s 
replacement. I would like to thank David for his 
contribution over the last four years.
Finally, on 2 March 2015 Jim Brault joined 
the Xaar Board in the role of Chief Human 
Resour ces 	 Officer . 	 Jim 	 joined 	 Xaar 	 fr om 	 Kodak 	
(Eastman Kodak Company) and has held a 
variety of global HR roles in the graphics and 
digital print industry. I am pleased to welcome 
Jim to the Board, who brings a wealth of 
invaluable experience to Xaar in this new  
Board position.
The Group continues to follow the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Board meetings 
are supported by detailed papers and timely 
minutes. Attendance by all members remains 
excellent and I take this opportunity to thank 
them for their continuing commitment and 
professionalism. The Board continues to 
take dedicated days to consider and review 
the Group’s strategy. Detailed market and 
competitive analysis is undertaken in advance 
and the future direction and capabilities of the 
Group are debated in detail. All members of  
the Board are evaluated annually against 
specific 	 and 	 r elevant 	 performance 	 criteria.
2014 has been a challenging period for 
the Company, but our ambition remains 
undiminished. We are focussed on re-starting 
growth following this sharp step down in 
the Chinese market. The importance of 
diversification 	 by 	 market, 	 pr oduct 	 and 	 
geography has been underlined by the  
events of 2014.
A challenging year
Chairman’s statement
The importance of 
diversification	by	market,	
product and geography 
has been underlined by 
the events of 2014.
During printhead manufacture, which is a highly 
complex process, thousands of measurements 
ar e	taken	to	ensur e	specification	is	met	very	
precisely.
The Xaar 1002 is the market-leading printhead 
in the ceramics sector.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
19 March 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 5 4 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Most things we come into contact with 
on a daily basis are patterned, decorated, 
printed	or	finished	in	some	way .	In	fact,	
even after excluding printing in the 
office	or	the	home,	over	3	trillion	m²	of	
material is printed, patterned, decorated 
or	finished	each	year	–	that’ s	a	monthly	
output	equivalent	to	the	surface	ar ea	 
of the United Kingdom.
These items can be broadly split into four 
areas: products, packaging, promotion 
and publishing. Products include things like 
ceramic	tiles	and	laminate	flooring.	Packaging	
includes labels on bottles and bar codes on 
boxes. Promotion includes advertising banners 
and posters. Publishing includes books and 
newspapers. 
Perhaps surprisingly around 97% of production 
processes used in the manufacture of these 
items still use traditional analogue technology. 
Analogue	(sometimes	r eferr ed	to	as	‘fixed	
image’) solutions can be very effective when 
the same image is replicated many, many 
times.	However ,	wher e	fr equent	changes	ar e	
r equir ed	or	run	lengths	ar e	shorter ,	then	digital	
(also known as ‘variable image’) processes 
can	pr ovide	significant	cost	and	inventory	
reductions whilst improving time-to-market 
versus	analogue	techniques.	
Over the last 20 years digital imaging 
technologies, including digital inkjet, have 
emerged for applying images, patterns or 
finishes	in	mor e	efficient,	flexible	and	cost-
effective ways. Because of its ability to work 
with	a	variety	of	jetting	fluids	and	substrates,	
and	in	difficult	envir onments,	inkjet	has	the	
unique	ability	to	potentially	r eplace	all	curr ent	
printing	techniques.
The pace of inkjet’s adoption and the rate it 
displaces existing technologies is driven by 
some key factors, including cost, speed and 
image	quality ,	which	must	be	met	in	or der	
for the adoption to take place. Because of 
these characteristics the adoption of inkjet 
has typically occurred through ‘waves of 
conversion’ in distinct market segments,  
as the developing technology meets the 
individual	conversion	r equir ements	of	 
particular applications.
Xaar, a world leader in industrial inkjet, has 
successfully developed digital technology 
and manufactured and sold inkjet products, 
predominantly printheads, into a number of 
sectors. The printhead is the heart of the digital 
pr ocess,	depositing	fluids,	including	inks	and	
coatings,	in	pr ecisely	the	right	quantity	and	in	
the right place on the substrate, without even 
touching the surface.
T o	date	Xaar	has	driven,	and	benefited	
from, ‘waves of conversion’ in two particular 
applications: outdoor advertising (including 
billboards, posters and banners) and ceramic 
tile decoration, which have both adopted digital 
inkjet technology. These two applications 
presently use inkjet to annually produce over  
7 billion m², but represent only 0.2% of the  
3 trillion m² entire global print production.
Xaar’s challenge is to expand its existing digital 
inkjet printhead technology into new markets 
and to develop new technology to maximise 
the opportunity that exists from the conversion 
of much larger applications to digital inkjet.
Looking forward, the opportunities for digital 
print continue to accelerate. Industry forecasts 
project the digital print market to double over 
the next ten years.
The Xaar 1002, with market-
leading patented technology, 
has transformed the ceramics 
market.
The digital inkjet opportunity
Market overview
Industry forecasts project that the conversion  
to digital over the next 10 years is expected  
to be twice that seen over the last 20 years.
2x
97%
97% of industrial and 
commercial printing still 
uses traditional analogue 
processes. 
3tr m
2
Over 3 trillion m² of material is printed, 
patter ned,	decorated	or	finished	
each year – that’s a monthly output 
equivalent	to	the	surface	ar ea	of	the	
United Kingdom.
20yrs
Over the last 20 years digital imaging 
technologies, including digital inkjet, 
have emerged for applying images, 
patter ns	or	finishes	in	mor e	efficient,	 
flexible	and	cost-ef fective	ways.	
Xaar, a world leader in inkjet, has successfully developed 
digital technology and manufactured and sold inkjet 
products, predominantly printheads, into a number of 
sectors. To date, only 3% of the commercial and industrial 
print market has converted to digital printing, including 1% 
to digital inkjet.
The printhead is the heart of the digital print process.
Xaar’ s challenge is to expand its existing digital inkjet printhead 
technology into new markets and to develop new technology 
to maximise the opportunity that exists from the conversion of 
much larger applications to digital inkjet.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 7 6 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Following four years of substantial 
progress, including an exceptional year 
of	gr owth	and	pr ofitability	in	2013,	the	
Company experienced a step down in 
demand	in	the	thir d	quarter	of	2014	 
which	led	to	a	disappointing	final	six	
months of the year, with second half 
revenues being 19% lower than those 
r ecor ded	in	the	first	half.	
This step change occurred in our largest 
application, ceramic tile decoration, and in the 
largest geographic market for this application, 
China, which produces almost half of the 
world’ s	ceramic	tiles.	A	significant	slowdown	
in construction activity in China has led directly 
to reduced capital investments in ceramic 
tile production plants compared to 2013 and 
hence	a	significantly	lower	level	of	demand	for	
Xaar’s products. The scale of the conversion 
opportunity over the long term remains 
unchanged as does Xaar’s strong market share. 
European based demand in this application has 
fared better. 
The events in China, coupled with slower 
progress than anticipated in other applications, 
have resulted in a full year result below where 
we expected it to be at the start of the year. 
In	the	short	term	we	have	quickly	cut	costs	
to bring our cost base in line with the new 
lower level of sales, whilst protecting our key 
investments in both product and technology 
development which are focussed on generating 
substantial future growth primarily through 
market	and	application	diversification.	Following	
a period of substantial growth that has seen 
revenue more than treble between 2009 and 
2013, the performance in 2014 is clearly 
disappointing, but we believe should be  
seen as a step change correction against  
an overshoot in 2013.
Strategy
Our strategy is to drive the development of Xaar 
technology into selected multiple applications 
and	industries,	delivering	sustainable	pr ofitable	
growth. Our tactics are to become the primary 
enabler of change in our target markets, 
leading the initial wave of conversion, and then 
to protect our position through replacement 
product sales enabled by continuous product 
development. The size of the conversion 
opportunity, the rate of change, and the key 
characteristics enabling that change will vary 
from market to market. OEMs are mostly 
market	specific	which	means	we	work	with	a	
number of OEM customers in developing their 
inkjet solutions for a discrete market.
Our substantial investments, in both 
manufacturing capacity and R&D capacity, 
position the Company well to execute 
its strategic objectives and these remain 
unaffected by this downturn in demand.  
In fact the events of 2014 highlight the need  
for Xaar to become a more diverse business,  
by product, by application, and by geography. 
To achieve this objective the Company 
continues to invest in technology and  
product development. 
Further detail on our strategy and progress 
made in 2014 is set out in the ‘Our strategy’ 
section.
Market segments
Revenues from Industrial applications fell 
21% versus 2013, packaging and graphics 
applications each fell 15%. Within Industrial 
applications, the ceramic tile business fell due 
to the reasons noted above with non-ceramic 
industrial applications registering a modest 3% 
growth over 2013.
Within the Packaging market, sales into the 
primary label application were lower than 2013 
as a number of OEM customers took the 
opportunity to re-engineer and enhance their 
offerings in an attempt to accelerate market 
conversion. The resulting improvements in 
image	quality	bode	well	for	a	r etur n	to	gr owth	
for Xaar in this application. Our mature coding 
and marking application revenues were again 
stable. Further technical progress was made in 
the ‘Direct-to-Shape’ application with positive 
feedback being received from the on-going  
field	trials.	
In the Graphics segment, sales declined 
mainly due to the planned end-of-life of some 
older generation products. The Company is 
proposing to close its Swedish manufacturing 
facility	in	2016	as	the	lower	sales	volumes	 
of products which are manufactured in this 
plant no longer justify the cost of a  
standalone operation.
Product and technology development
During 2014 the Xaar 1002 was very 
successfully introduced and has fully replaced 
the Xaar 1001 as the world’s market-leading 
printhead in a number of applications. The  
Xaar 1002 is now shipping in four variants: 
GS6,	GS12,	GS40,	and	AMp,	of fering	 
industry-leading performance based on  
TF Technology™ across a drop size range  
from below 1pL to above 100pL. 
Our gigabit ethernet based electronics sub-
system, XPM, commenced shipments in 2014, 
and has been well received by customers, 
offering substantially faster data transfer rates 
and larger memory capability for very large 
image applications. 
Following	field	trials	in	2014	of	the	Xaar	501	we	
identified	technical	impr ovement	opportunities	
to optimise the performance of the printhead. 
We are engineering those improvements now  
in	or der	to	finalise	the	pr oduct	design	and	move	
to commercial shipments. 
The Xaar 001 (which is based on third party 
technology brought into Xaar during 2013 
and 2014), has proven to be less developed 
than originally anticipated, hence an extended 
period of debugging and optimisation has been 
r equir ed	befor e	the	scheduled	market	test	of	
this technology can progress. 
Work on the Xaar 1002 SBX is on-going within 
Xaar, and at our partners, to develop both 
the printhead and the ink system parameters 
r equir ed	for	r eliable	printing	and	low	printer	
maintenance. 
All of these products are aimed at broadening 
our offering to existing markets.
Further substantial progress has been achieved 
on our Thin Film technology (P4) development 
during the year, and we are now entering the 
phase of early product demonstrations with 
potential partners. The architecture of the 
first	pr oduct,	the	Xaar	5400	is	now	defined.	
W e	anticipate	starting	to	sample	this	first	
product to partners at the end of 2015 with 
first	commer cial	r evenues	still	planned	for	late	
2016.	The	Thin	Film	pr ogramme	is	aimed	at	
Substantial growth opportunities
Chief Executive’s statement
converting new markets and accelerating the 
conversion of others through a portfolio of  
new products.
Whilst	2014	has	been	a	difficult	year	for	the	
Company, I would like to thank all of our staff 
for their efforts during the period, and would 
r eflect	that	despite	the	short	term	r eduction	in	
r evenue	our	ambitions	r emain	undiminished;	
Xaar has great people, products and 
technology ,	r emains	str ongly	pr ofitable,	r etains	
a robust balance sheet and has substantial 
growth opportunities ahead.
Xaar has great people, 
products and technology.
Xaar technology is used in range of packaging 
applications, including for producing labels and 
printing Direct-to-Shape.
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive
19 March 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 9 8 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Enhancing  
our capability
Developing new products  
and new technology
Delivering transformational solutions To drive the development of Xaar technology into selected 
multiple applications and industries, delivering sustainable 
pr ofitable	gr owth
Business model Our strategy
Xaar is the world’s leading supplier of industrial printheads.  
Our core business is the design, manufacture, marketing and 
sale of printheads and associated products. Xaar also  
receives licensee royalty income from  
its legacy licensing model.
Xaar invests a substantial proportion of sales 
(17% in 2014) in Research and Development 
(R&D) to remain a world leader in inkjet 
technology.
Xaar’s innovative products are used in a range 
of print applications including wide-format 
graphics, ceramics, labels, packaging, coding 
and marking, and decorative laminates.
Xaar has more than 250 patents and patent 
applications and continues to add to its 
Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio.
Our	headquarters	and	R&D	activities	ar e	based	
on the prestigious Cambridge Science Park, 
Cambridge, UK. At 31 December 2014 R&D 
staff totalled 152, representing 24% of the  
total workforce.
Xaar manufactures its printheads in Huntingdon, 
UK and Järfälla, Sweden. The Huntingdon plant 
produces the Xaar 1002 product range whilst 
the plant in Sweden produces the popular Xaar 
128 printhead for the wide-format graphics 
market. The Sweden plant is proposed to  
be 	 closed 	 in 	 2016.
Xaar’s manufacturing is relatively capital 
intensive;	the	Gr oup	has	invested	£60	million	 
in assets and production facilities in Huntingdon 
since the plant opened in 2007.
Xaar sells direct to OEMs around the world 
through its global sales team. Xaar’s highly 
skilled application engineers offer the highest 
level of technical support to assist OEMs in 
the successful design, build, commissioning, 
and ongoing maintenance of printing systems. 
Europe and Asia are currently the primary 
location of our OEM partners.
Xaar offers a wide range of industrial inkjet 
printheads which are designed and produced 
to	meet	the	customer -driven	r equir ements	of	a	
range of manufacturing applications. Primary 
markets include graphics, labels, packaging, 
outer case coding, ceramics, and décor.
Xaar designs Xaar manufactures
Xaar markets Xaar sells
Building  
the eco-system
We manage our product development 
programmes across three horizons: short 
term	by	delivering	updates	and	impr ovements;	
medium term by developing new products or 
derivatives	using	existing	technologies;	and	
longer term through research and development 
of novel technologies.
To penetrate any market successfully, an 
eco-system of technical and commercial 
partnerships must be formed to drive and 
support market conversion.
In order to develop new products and new 
technology successfully, and to sustain or 
grow sales into multiple end markets, we must 
constantly develop our capability in terms of 
our	human	and	other	r esour ces,	specifically	
both our R&D and manufacturing capacity and 
capability, and the structure of our organisation.
See page 12 See page 13
See page 15
Converting  
multiple markets
The markets and applications that use Xaar’s 
printheads can be diverse but can be grouped 
to have similar characteristics and general 
imaging	r equir ements.
See page 14
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 11 10 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Developing new products and new technology Building the eco-system
Our strategy
We manage our product development programmes across 
three horizons: short term by delivering updates and 
impr ovements;	medium	term	by	developing	new	pr oducts	
or	derivatives	using	existing	technologies;	and	longer	term	
through research and development of novel technologies.
To create and maintain competitive advantage over the short to 
medium term, it is critical that we continue to improve existing 
products as well as developing new products. Over the medium to 
long term, in order to access a greater proportion of the enormous 
industrial print market we must continue to develop new technology 
which can open up opportunities for the application of digital inkjet  
in established analogue markets. 
We develop and maintain the different sets of skills and processes 
needed to execute the programmes in each of the three horizons 
successfully, and we balance our portfolio to achieve our short, 
medium and long term objectives targeted at achieving sustained 
pr ofitable	gr owth.
Products developed to date use our patented Xaar bulk piezo 
technology. Our Thin Film piezo technology programme will enable us 
to target an even wider range of applications in the future, which will 
significantly	incr ease	Xaar’ s	addr essable	market.
Inkjet is a heavily patented area and managing our intellectual property 
(IP) is critical to our success, both in terms of protecting our position 
and avoiding infringing other parties’ IP . Our technology is protected 
by over 250 patents to date.
W e	allocate	significant	r esour ces	to	r esear ch	and	development	 
to enable the successful completion of programmes which will 
generate future sales. 
To penetrate any market successfully, an eco-system of 
technical and commercial partnerships must be formed to 
drive and support market conversion.
Xaar’ s 	 dir ect 	 customers 	 ar e 	 OEMs, 	 who 	 manufactur e 	 equipment 	 for	
patter ning, 	 decorating, 	 finishing 	 or 	 printing 	 pr oducts 	 in 	 a 	 number 	 
of different market sectors. We provide our OEM partners with the  
know-how and ability to incorporate our innovative range of printheads, 
systems 	 components, 	 and 	 electr onics 	 into 	 their 	 equipment 	 to 	 incr ease	
the value and functionality of their own products, and minimise the time 
r equir ed 	 to 	 bring 	 pr oducts 	 to 	 market.
In addition to our close engagement with OEMs we also actively 
partner	and	co-develop	with	fluid	suppliers,	har dwar e	and	softwar e	
integrators, and substrate suppliers to deliver a robust and attractive 
total solution to the end user. We operate an open ink policy so that 
our customers can choose the ink supplier that best suits them and 
their application. In addition, we work in partnership with the world’s 
leading ink manufacturers to develop and approve a wide range of 
inks which are optimised for our printheads and the end application.
Given	the	complexity	of	the	final	integrated	solution,	it	is	typical	that	
our partners’ development cycles are measured in years rather 
than	months,	with	successful	solutions	then	benefiting	fr om	long	
commercial lifecycles. To support these developments we deploy 
sales and technical support staff globally ensuring a local presence  
in each of the key geographical regions.
2014 Update 2014 Update
In March 2014 the Group announced the launch of 
the Xaar 1002 building on the success of the world 
leading Xaar 1001 through improvements in image 
quality	and	ease	of	use.	The	Xaar	1002	ships	into	
multiple applications and has replaced the Xaar 1001 
as market-leader. 
In May 2014 three new printheads were announced: 
the	Xaar	1002	GS40;	the	Xaar	1002	SBX;	and	the	 
Xaar 001, targeting ceramic tile decoration and  
glaze processes.
The Xaar 1002 GS40 is now shipping worldwide into 
ceramic tile factories through our OEM partners. The 
main application for the product is the manufacture 
of tiles with higher levels of colour intensity achieved 
through the larger drop size delivered by the printhead 
compared to the GS12. A number of OEMs are also 
exploring the potential to use this product for particular 
var nish,	glaze	and	finishing	pr ocesses.	The	Xaar	1002	
SBX aims to produce even greater laydown than the 
Xaar 1002 GS40. We expect the SBX will jet the same 
special	ef fect	fluids	in	development	for	the	GS40,	plus	
some	new	fluids	specifically	developed	for	the	SBX.	
The	Xaar	001	aims	to	bring	the	benefits	of	digital	inkjet	
to the glaze, special effects and structure processes 
within ceramic tile manufacture. The product is 
integrated into printers that are at a prototype stage 
and we are working with key OEMs on market testing 
through the middle of 2015. Target markets for the 
Xaar 001 remain an exciting opportunity that Xaar and 
our partner OEMs anticipate will progress to digital 
solutions.
The Xaar 501 aims to provide higher levels of 
performance in graphics and packaging. Following 
field	trials	in	2014	we	identified	technical	impr ovement	
opportunities to optimise printhead performance which 
we	ar e	engineering	now	to	finalise	pr oduct	design	and	
move to commercial shipments.
Our Thin Film programme aims to open up more of 
the analogue market to Xaar through a solution which 
offers a generational shift in performance. Successful 
print testing was achieved during 2014 using early 
prototypes. Discussions with OEM partners are on-
going. Although there is a long way to go, progress  
is encouraging and remains on track. 
We continue to work with the leading OEMs in our 
target	sectors	as	well	as	the	appr opriate	fluid	suppliers,	
hardware and software integrators, and substrate 
suppliers in order to deliver a robust and attractive total 
solution to the end user.
The on-going developments by multiple OEMs in 
Direct-to-Shape packaging using Xaar technology is 
a strong indication of our position as market leader in 
new applications.
We are working with multiple OEM partners through 
the Thin Film technology programme.
Across all markets and applications Xaar now has 
approaching 250 active eco-system partners.
Our Thin Film programme aims 
to open up more of the analogue 
market to Xaar through the 
development of a solution which 
offers a generational shift in 
performance.
We continue to work closely 
with multiple OEM partners to 
deliver robust and innovative 
inkjet solutions, transforming new 
markets and applications.
Edmund Creutzmann
Chief	T echnical	Officer
Richard Barham
Sales and Marketing Director
Printheads are the key technology in the total digital solution, 
which	also	r equir es	electr onics,	softwar e,	fluids	and	fluid	systems.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 13 12 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Production related roles accounted for 120 
of the reduction. Our substantial investment 
in people over the last few years, in terms 
of both capacity and capability across the 
business, position the Company well to 
execute its strategic objectives.
On 2 March 2015 Jim Brault joined the Xaar 
Board in the role of Chief Human Resources 
Officer .	Jim	brings	a	wealth	of	invaluable	
HR experience to Xaar in this new Board 
position.	The	cr eation	of	this	r ole	r eflects	
the strategic importance of the talent and 
skill of our people in the next phase of the 
Company’s development.
Ted Wiggans
Operations and Quality Director
Jim Brault
Chief	Human	Resour ces	Officer
Richard Barham
Sales and Marketing Director
Converting multiple markets
Our strategy
Enhancing our capability
2014 Update 2014 Update
68%
Ceramics continues to provide a substantial share  
of total sales.
Our overall progress in the conversion of multiple 
markets was disappointing in 2014.
During 2013, following the success of the product 
in European ceramic tile manufacturing from 2010 
onwards, the Xaar 1001 was rapidly adopted as the 
solution of choice for ceramic tile decoration in China, 
the largest producer and consumer of ceramic tiles 
with around half of the world’s volume. In the third 
quarter	of	2014	the	challenges	in	the	construction	
industry in China resulted in a step-down in demand 
from ceramic tile production. The ceramic tile sector 
r emains	the	most	significant	in	terms	of	curr ent	and	
short term revenue. Xaar‘s market leading position 
has been achieved through the success of Xaar 
1001/2 product family. Xaar’s current product portfolio, 
future roadmap and sector expertise provide a strong 
position for continuing leadership in the sector, 
including the development of inkjet into processes 
beyond the current decoration step such as glaze, 
structur e,	and	finishing	ef fects.	
In markets outside ceramics progress was generally 
disappointing in 2014. Future success is expected, but 
the sectors remain challenging in terms of technical 
r equir ements	and	end	user	acceptance.
Progress in Direct-to-Shape remains encouraging but 
revenue contribution in 2014 was relatively modest.
In order to develop new products and new technology 
successfully, and to sustain or grow sales into multiple end 
markets, we must constantly develop our capability in terms  
of	our	human	and	other	r esour ces,	specifically	both	our	R&D	
and manufacturing capacity and capability, and the structure 
of our organisation.
The success of our business depends on our people so we recruit 
only	the	best.	W e	of fer	competitive	salary	and	benefits	packages	
as	well	as	shar e	incentive	plans	and	our	employees	benefit	fr om	
extensive training and development opportunities. We aim to build 
long term relationships with all our employees by helping them grow 
and develop and by making Xaar a great place to work and a great 
Company to be involved with. 
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities are located in Huntingdon, 
UK (5,000 m²) and Järfälla, Sweden (7,000 m²). Manufacturing 
is cleanroom based with 24/7 demands for complex facilities 
r equir ements	including	climate	contr ol,	gases	and	chemicals.	 
The cleanrooms contain islands of processing automation, with 
custom-made	or	specially	modified	pr ocessing	and	test	equipment.	
Operation is multi-shift and runs with small processing windows and 
micron scale tolerances. Production involves multiple non-reworkable 
pr ocessing	steps,	r esulting	in	a	highly	sensitive	cumulative	yield;	 
unit cost and throughput are in turn highly dependent upon yield.
In 2014 we completed the latest capacity expansion 
programme at our Huntingdon site. Xaar has now 
invested	£60	million	in	assets	and	pr oduction	facilities	
in Huntingdon since the plant opened in 2007.
In October 2014, following the step-down in demand 
from the ceramics sector, action was taken to 
reduce the cost base of the Company in order to 
pr otect	financial	performance	in	2015	and	beyond.	
Unfortunately	this	r esulted	in	160	r oles	acr oss	the	
business being made redundant, around 20% of  
the total workforce. 
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing 
facility in Huntingdon positions 
the Company well to execute its 
strategic objectives.
We continue to invest in our 
people, focussing on developing 
their talent and skills in order to 
fulfill	the	potential	of	the	Company .
Future success is expected 
in multiple markets outside of 
ceramics, but the challenge is 
always to meet the application 
r equir ements	and	win	wide	
customer acceptance.
The success of our business depends on  
our highly skilled workforce.
The markets and applications that use Xaar’s printheads can 
be diverse but can be grouped to have similar characteristics 
and	general	imaging	r equir ements.
Xaar’ s	pr oducts	ar e	designed	to	pr ovide	benefits	acr oss	multiple	
applications. This strategy means we can offer solutions across 
multiple	applications	thr ough	efficiency	in	development	and	
implementation. We also continuously enhance product performance 
which allows our OEMs to take advantage of upgrades with minimal 
changes at the system level.
The Xaar 1002, with its high resolution greyscale (variable drop size) 
and	TF	T echnology™	(fluid	r ecir culation),	ensur es	an	exceptional	
quality	of	print	in	one	single	pass	of	the	substrate	under	the	printhead,	
which	maximises	pr oductivity	and	delivers	significant	quality	and	cost	
advantages over traditional analogue methods in ceramics and other 
industrial applications. Although the Xaar 1002 is the market-leading 
printhead in the ceramics sector, it is also used for printing primary 
labels, decorative laminates and packaging. 
To date we have focussed on three main sectors: Industrial, which 
covers ceramics, decorative laminates and advanced/additive 
manufacturing;	Packaging,	which	includes	pr oduct	labelling,	Dir ect-
to-Shape (printing directly onto bottles and containers) and coding 
and	marking	(printing	bar	codes	and	data);	and	Graphic	Arts,	which	
includes wide-format graphics (typically outdoor advertising, posters 
and banners), commercial print, and varnishing. The wide-format 
graphics	sector	was	the	first	to	adopt	industrial	inkjet	and	is,	ther efor e,	
the most mature. The ceramics market has been moving into digital 
inkjet decoration over the last ten years. However, the pace of change 
accelerated	significantly	in	2009	following	the	launch	of	the	Xaar	1001	
in 2007.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 15 14 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Measuring our performance
Key performance indicators
19.2
R&D investment
£m
16.4
8.0
6.5
5.0
2013
2014 17.5
R&D investment
% of adjusted revenue
12.2
9.3
9.5
9.1
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010
Adjusted operating margin
%
Adjusted profit before tax
£m
Net cash balance
£m
Despite	a	difficult	year ,	our	operating	margin	
was still over 20%.
Adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax	r educed	40%	versus	
the exceptional result in 2013.
The increase in R&D investment is key to our 
development strategy.
Investment in R&D increased despite the 
reduction in sales.
We have consistently maintained a strong cash 
position.
A step-down in Chinese demand for ceramic tiles in 2014 reduced sales 
to both Asian and European OEMs.
Adjusted revenue by segment
£m
Adjusted revenue by region
£m
 Industrial     Graphic Arts     Packaging     Royalties
 EMEA     Asia     Americas
Measures  
not published:
• Manufacturing costs 
per unit by product 
family
• Sales order book
• Production output
• Quality performance
• Health and safety 
incidents 
• Headcount by 
department
98.2 13.3 15.7 6.9
78.0 11.4 13.4 6.4
We measure our performance through 
key performance indicators (KPIs) that are 
closely aligned to our strategy.
2013
2013
2011
2011
2012
2012
2010
2010
2014
2014
24.9 22.3 7.5
42.0 19.3 7.4
50.0 30.0 6.3
67.4 59.8 6.9
60.1 42.6 6.5
55.0 13.1 12.0 6.2
31.7 18.1 11.7 7.2
14.5 21.4 11.8 7.0
22.2
30.4
21.1
15.3
10.3
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010
24.6
41.1
18.4
10.6
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010 5.6
47.0
53.5
28.9
17.4
22.0
2013
2014
2012
2011
2010
2012
2011
2010
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 17 16 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Protecting future value
Risk management
Our risks are set out in more detail in a table on 
page	19	but	the	key	risk	ar eas	can	be	identified	
as being associated with the following:
•	 opportunity	identification	–	selection	and	
identification,	and	selection	of	the	appr opriate	
end	applications	for	conversion	and	defining	
corr ectly	the	market	r equir ements,	including	
time scales
• development – successfully developing a 
product with the characteristics that meet the 
target	market’ s	r equir ements
• adoption – working with OEMs and 
other partners to achieve adoption of the 
technology in the target application
• competition – maximising returns over the 
long term in the target application through 
early adoption to achieve a market-leading 
position and then retention of that position
• operations – having the appropriate 
manufacturing arrangements and other 
operational structures in place. 
The	first	appr oach	to	managing	these	risks	
is	to	have	high	quality	individuals	within	the	
necessary functions that these risks tend to fall 
into. Other examples of the effective day to day 
management of these risks include operating 
multi-functional teams to share knowledge 
across the business, having regular stage 
gates in the management of development 
programmes, and the regular assessment of 
manufacturing capacity against future potential 
needs. In addition to day to day processes 
the Group’s risk register is formally reviewed 
twice per year at senior management and 
Board level, including the assessment of the 
performance of risk management during the 
preceding period. 
The Board has applied principle C.2 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code by establishing a 
continuous process for identifying, evaluating, 
and	managing	the	significant	risks	the	Gr oup	
faces which has operated throughout the 
year and up to the date of this report. Such 
a system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance with respect to 
the	pr eparation	of	financial	information	and	the	
safeguarding of assets and against material 
misstatement or loss.
In compliance with provision C.2.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Board regularly reviews the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal control. 
The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, 
including	financial,	operational	and	compliance	
controls and risk management systems. It is 
based principally on reviewing reports from 
management	to	consider	whether	significant	
risks	ar e	identified,	evaluated,	managed	
and	contr olled	and	whether	any	significant	
weaknesses are promptly remedied and 
indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. 
The	Boar d	has	also	performed	a	specific	
assessment for the purpose of this Annual 
Report. This assessment considers all 
significant	aspects	of	inter nal	contr ol	arising	
during the period covered by the report. 
The Audit Committee assists the Board in 
discharging its review responsibilities.
During the course of its review of the risk 
management and internal control systems, 
the Board raised concerns regarding sales 
forecasting, following the rapid and unexpected 
reduction in sales into the Chinese ceramic 
tile	market	experienced	in	the	thir d	quarter	of	
the year. Actions have been taken to improve 
the monitoring of macro-economic indicators 
and data, and the collection, consolidation 
and review of information from customers, 
partners, market reports and other sources. 
Despite these actions the Board anticipates 
that forecasting sales into ceramics will remain 
challenging, and notes that the impact of 
the risks around this area for the Group are 
exacerbated by the high proportion of revenue 
generated by the ceramics sector.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Principal risk and uncertainty Impact Mitigation
Product sales into established 
applications fail to deliver sustained 
revenue growth due to competitor 
activity (market share loss and/or price 
reductions), macro-economic factors, 
market maturity or other changes.
Lower than anticipated revenues are 
achieved resulting in excess production 
capacity	and	lower	levels	of	pr ofit.
Competitive pricing policies are employed.
The product portfolios and pricing of competitors are constantly 
monitored.
Manufacturing cost reduction programmes are established to ensure 
that products remain competitive.
Close customer relationships are maintained with supply agreements in 
place where appropriate.
New product variants are developed to constantly improve the product 
portfolio on offer.
Macro-economic indicators and data is regularly reviewed to improve 
forecasting.
Information from customers, partners, market reports and other 
sources is collected, consolidated and reviewed to improve forecasting.
Product sales into new applications fail 
to achieve their targets.
Lower than anticipated revenues are 
achieved resulting in excess production 
capacity	and	lower	levels	of	pr ofit.
Regular reviews of OEM partners are held to ensure that appropriate 
and extensive market coverage is achieved together with a focus on 
new	equipment	manufactur e.
New products and product variants are developed to meet market 
r equir ements.
Competitive pricing policies are employed.
Manufacturing cost reduction programmes are established to ensure 
that products remain competitive.
Information from customers, partners, market reports and other 
sources is collected, consolidated and reviewed to improve forecasting.
New products fail to achieve their 
targets through either a failure to identify 
the appropriate products to meet future 
market 	 r equir ements, 	 or 	 the 	 pr oducts	
ar e 	 identified 	 but 	 ar e 	 not 	 successfully 	
developed 	 in 	 time 	 or 	 to 	 the 	 r equir ed	
specification.
Longer	term	r evenue	and	pr ofit	 
is impacted.
Regular ,	specific	and	detailed	r eviews	ar e	held	to	assess	curr ent	
and	anticipated	market	r equir ements.	These	r eviews	include	input	
from customers and other external sources. Product developments 
are selected on appropriate criteria. Product development activity is 
properly managed with regular reviews of progress against project 
plans, and gated milestone reviews. Appropriate resource is applied  
to product development activity.
Manufacturing output fails to meet 
demand due to supplier issues, an 
event at one of the manufacturing 
facilities, delays or problems associated 
with	pr oduction	equipment,	a	lack	of	
manufacturing capacity, or for other 
reasons.
Demand	is	not	satisfied	r esulting	in	
lower	levels	of	r evenue	and	pr ofit.
Customers may start purchasing  
(or increase their level of purchasing) 
with Xaar’s competitors, leading to a 
longer term reduction in market share, 
r evenue	and	pr ofit.
Detailed sales forecasts are prepared and reviewed regularly to 
minimise unexpected changes in short term demand. Suppliers are 
managed carefully. Appropriate sourcing, inspection and inventory 
holding policies are applied to ensure continuity and consistency 
of product supply. Appropriate contingency factors are applied 
to	capacity	planning.	Manufacturing	facilities	ar e	fitted	with	the	
appropriate safety and security systems. Staff are properly trained. 
Significant	and	sustained	quality	
pr oblems	ar e	identified	with	pr oducts	
which have been sold or which are held 
in inventory.
Lower levels of revenue in the short 
term whilst the issues are resolved. 
Unexpected costs associated with 
resolving the issues, which may include 
product scrap, warranty costs and/or 
customer compensation. Potentially 
longer term revenue loss if customers 
start purchasing (or increase their level 
of purchasing) from Xaar’s competitors.
Standard operating procedures are in place for all products. Staff are 
pr operly	trained.	The	quality	of	supplies	is	constantly	monitor ed.	Quality	
performance is regularly reviewed by senior management who apply 
appropriate resources to systematically address recurrent problems. 
New products are thoroughly tested before launch. Xaar’s Swedish  
and UK manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 accredited. Customer 
r etur ns	ar e	r eviewed	quickly	using	a	consistent	and	thor ough	
investigation process.
Effective risk management is key to 
our success against the dynamics of 
the industry that we operate in and the 
characteristics of our chosen business 
model. The printing industry in which 
we operate, is, in general, declining in 
terms of total output, tends to be capital 
intensive, is slow to react to change 
and is resistant to the adoption of new 
technology. Product lifecycles tend to be 
long. Our business model is reliant on 
us	first	driving	the	conversion	of	well-
established processes to our technology, 
then maintaining our market position to 
maximise sales through both the initial 
conversion and replacement cycles in 
or der	to	generate	pr ofits	to	enable	us	to	
invest in new technology and open up 
new applications.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 19 18 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Revenue
The majority of Xaar’s revenue is generated 
by product sales, commissions and fees 
(£102.8 million or 94% of total sales in 2014), 
with	6%	of	r evenue	in	2014	derived	fr om	
licensee royalty income. 
Following the exceptional 55% annual sales 
growth achieved in 2013, revenue for 2014 
reduced by 19% to £109.2 million (2013: 
£134.1 million). A step-down in demand from 
the	ceramics	sector	in	the	thir d	quarter	of	the	
year resulted in a 19% reduction in total Group 
sales in the second half of 2014 compared to 
the	first	six	months	of	the	year .	
Industrial markets (i.e. associated with the 
production of physical end products) continue 
to be the largest end application for Xaar’s 
technology, despite the step-down in demand 
from the ceramics sector. Sales into industrial 
markets represented 71% of Group revenue in 
2014 at £78.0 million (2013: £98.2 million).
The conversion of ceramic tile decoration from 
analogue to digital processes continued in 
the	first	half	of	2014	at	rates	similar	to	those	
experienced	in	2013.	Equipment	sales	for	
OEMs, and therefore sales of Xaar’s printheads, 
continued to be driven by China, which remains 
the world’s largest market for the production 
and consumption of ceramic tiles. The slow-
down in the property market in China during 
2014 resulted in a reduction in demand for 
ceramic tiles, which in turn resulted in lower 
levels of tile production and decreases in capital 
investment by ceramic tile manufacturers, 
including investment in digital decoration 
equipment.	This	slow-down	in	tile	demand	in	
China resulted in a step-down in demand for 
Xaar’ s	printheads	during	the	thir d	quarter	of	the	
year. Sales rates into ceramics stabilised in the 
final	quarter	of	2014.
Despite increasing competition in ceramic tile 
decoration from well-established competitors, 
including some of Xaar’s licensees, the Group’s 
market leadership was maintained in 2014. 
In March 2014 we launched the Xaar 1002, 
a re-design of the world-beating Xaar 1001 
pr oduct,	which	pr ovides	benefits	to	OEMs	and	
end	users	in	terms	of	image	quality	and	ease	
of use. In May 2014 three new printheads were 
announced to target applications beyond the 
current digital decoration process, including 
digital secondary glaze and special effects, and 
digital deposition for base glaze and structure.
Ceramics accounted for 95% of sales in the 
Industrial sector in 2014. Progress in other 
industrial applications, including advanced 
manufacturing and decorative laminates 
(artificial	wood),	continues	to	be	encouraging,	
with annual growth of 3% being recorded in 
2014 for these other applications in total.
Sales into the packaging market accounted for 
12% of revenue in 2014 at £13.4 million (2013: 
£15.7 million). The well-established coding 
and marking application, serviced by Xaar’s 
original product portfolio, represented around 
60%	of	sales	in	the	total	packaging	segment.	
Other packaging applications, including primary 
labels and ‘Direct-to-Shape’, continue to show 
potential, but their overall revenue contribution 
reduced in 2014 from 2013.
Sales into Xaar’s initial end market application, 
Graphic Arts, reduced to £11.4 million for 
the year (2013: £13.3 million), representing 
10% of total sales. The reduction year on 
year	r eflected	the	planned	end-of-life	of	some	
older generation products, and the slower 
than planned contribution from the Xaar 501 
product. 
As a supplier of technology to OEM partners, 
our	geographic	sales	split	r eflects	wher e	our	
products are integrated into the manufacturing 
equipment,	which	is	not	necessarily	the	end-
user location.
In 2014, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 
remained the Company’s largest sales region at 
£60.1	million	(2013:	£67.5	million),	r epr esenting	
55% of Group sales. The reduction in year 
on year revenue is mainly the result of falling 
European OEM sales into the Chinese ceramic 
market. We continue to see European OEMs 
innovate with digital inkjet technology in a wide 
range of applications.
The slow-down of the conversion in the 
Chinese ceramic tile market resulted in a 
significant	r eduction	in	Xaar’ s	annual	sales	into	
Asia in 2014. Sales into Asia reduced 29% to 
£42.6	million	(2013:	£59.8	million)	r epr esenting	
39% of total revenues.
Total sales to the Americas remained the lowest 
sector, driven by the low number and size of 
Xaar’s OEMs in that region. Sales in 2014 were 
£6.5	million	(2013:	£6.8	million).	
Profitability
The sales contraction from the ceramics sector 
in	the	second	half	of	2014	had	a	significant	
impact	on	Gr oup	pr ofitability .	Xaar’ s	operating	
costs are largely independent of sales levels 
and manufacturing is relatively capital intensive. 
These two factors resulted in reductions in 
gross margin and operating margin as sales 
decreased. Adjusted gross margin reduced 
fr om	47.2%	in	the	first	half	of	the	year	to	41.2%	
in the second half. Adjusted operating margin 
decr eased	fr om	26.1%	to	17.3%	in	the	same	
time period.
Optimising our position
Finance Director’s report
During	the	final	quarter	of	2014	the	Gr oup	took	
swift action to reduce costs in anticipation 
of total Group revenue for 2015 being below 
£100 million. Direct production costs, factory 
overheads and operating costs were all 
reduced in order to achieve a reasonable 
level	of	financial	performance	in	2015,	whilst	
ensuring	that	Xaar	can	fulfil	its	key	strategic	
objectives. The cost reduction programme 
included	a	r eduction	in	headcount	of	160	 
(20% of the global workforce of 800). The 
programme achieved a total reduction in  
annual cost base of around £9 million. 
Headcount related restructuring costs of  
£0.9 million were incurred.
The proposed closure of the Swedish 
manufacturing	facility	in	2016	is	the	r esult	
of lower sales volumes of older generation 
products which are manufactured in this plant, 
which no longer justify the cost of a standalone 
operation. Total costs associated with the 
proposed closure are projected to be around 
£5 million, with half of this cost being non-cash 
charges related to tangible assets and goodwill.
Gr oss	pr ofit	margin	for	2014	r educed	to	44.5%	
(2013: 52.9%). Adjusted operating margin fell 
to 22.2% (2013: 30.4%). As reported in March 
2014, the performance margins recorded in 
2013	wer e	exceptional,	r eflecting	the	rapid	
growth of sales in 2013 and unsustainably  
high asset utilisation.
Adjusted 	 pr ofit 	 befor e 	 tax 	 of 	 £24.6 	 million 	 was 	
recorded for 2014, following the exceptional 
performance of the previous year (2013: £41.1 
million). 	 Pr ofit 	 befor e 	 tax 	 as 	 r eported 	 under 	 
IFRS was £23.1 million (2013: £40.1 million).  
In 2014 the main reconciling item between the 
adjusted and IFRS measures was £0.9 million  
of restructuring charges related to the headcount 
r eduction 	 in 	 the 	 final 	 quarter 	 of 	 the 	 year .
Gross expenditure on research and 
development	incr eased	fr om	£16.4	million	
in	2013	to	£19.2	million	in	2014,	r eflecting	
investment in headcount, facilities and 
engineering costs. Development expenditure 
on the Thin Film programme of £7.4 million 
was	capitalised	in	2014	as	r equir ed	under	
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(specifically	IAS	38).	Sales,	marketing	and	
general administrative costs reduced from 
£13.9	million	in	2013	to	£12.6	million	in	2014	
on an adjusted basis.
Alex Bevis
Finance Director and  
Company Secretary
19 March 2015
The	tax	charge	on	adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	
tax was £4.4 million (2013: £8.0 million), 
representing an effective tax rate of 17.8% 
(2013: 19.5%). This tax charge is the product 
of the UK and Sweden corporation tax rates 
(21.5% and 22.0% respectively) reduced by the 
impact of the patent box scheme and R&D tax 
credits.
The	tax	charge	on	IFRS	pr ofit	befor e	tax	was	
£4.4 million (2013: £8.2 million) representing an 
effective tax rate of 19.1% (2013: 20.5%). 
Adjusted	pr ofit	after	tax	for	2014	was	£20.2	
million (2013: £33.1 million).
Adjusted	diluted	ear nings	per	shar e	was	26.4	
pence in 2014 (2013: 43.2 pence).
Financial position
The Group maintains a strong balance sheet, 
with £47.0 million of cash and treasury deposits 
at 31 December 2014. Net cash reduced by 
£6.5	million	in	2014,	as	outflows	fr om	capital	
expenditures, an increase in working capital 
and dividend and tax payments exceeded cash 
inflows	fr om	operating	pr ofits.	The	operating	
cash	inflow ,	befor e	working	capital	movements,	
was £33.3 million. The cash impact of the 
increase in working capital represented a 
cash	outflow	of	£9.3	million	during	2014,	with	
inventory increasing £4.7 million, receivables 
decreasing £2.0 million and payables 
r educing	£6.6	million	(excluding	the	impact	
of	asset	r elated	items).	T otal	cash	outflow	
relating to intangible and tangible assets was 
£20.1 million in the year, including the £7.4 
million of capitalised development expenditure.  
Dividends	accounted	for	£6.4	million	and	tax	
payments	in	the	year	totalled	£5.6	million.
Dividend
The	Boar d	will	r ecommend	a	final	dividend	of	
6	pence	for	2014	at	the	forthcoming	Annual	
General Meeting (AGM), giving a total dividend 
for the year of 9 pence (2013: 8 pence). An 
interim dividend of 3 pence was paid during the 
year (2013: 2.5 pence). Subject to approval by 
shar eholders	at	the	AGM	the	final	dividend	will	
be paid on 19 June 2015, with an ex-dividend 
date of 21 May 2015, to shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 22 May 2015.
Summary of adjusted financials
 2014 2013 2012
Adjusted revenue £m £109.2m £134.1m £86.3m
Adjusted gross margin % 44.5% 52.9% 47.4%
Research and development expenses £m £19.2m £16.4m £8.0m
Research and development % of adjusted revenue 17.5% 12.2% 9.3%
Adjusted	operating	pr ofit	£m £24.2m £40.7m £18.2m
Adjusted operating margin % 22.2% 30.4% 21.1%
Adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax	£m £24.6m £41.1m £18.4m
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 26.4p 43.2p 20.1p
Net cash balance £m £47.0m £53.5m £28.9m
Net	cash	flow	£m (£6.5m) £24.6m £11.5m
Adjusted measures exclude items from the IFRS results, such as share-based payment charges, exchange differences relating to 
Swedish	operations,	unr ealised	gains/losses	on	derivative	financial	instruments,	non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income,	R&D	expenditur e	
credit, impairment on trade investments, commercial agreement costs, and restructuring costs, per the reconciliation of adjusted 
financial	measur es	on	page	82.	Net	cash	includes	cash	and	cash	equivalents,	tr easury	deposits,	less	obligations	under	loan	and	
finance	lease	liabilities.
Solid	financial	
performance despite the 
reduction in sales.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 21 20 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Developing a sustainable business
Corporate social responsibility
The Group strongly believes that 
corporate responsibility is integral to 
business success. The Group is compliant 
with all relevant regulation and legislation 
whilst enhancing the working environment 
for our employees and minimising 
the environmental impact of our 
manufacturing processes. There is internal 
reporting of key metrics throughout the 
business, and each member of staff is 
expected to take individual responsibility 
for their performance and to work together 
to achieve shared goals.
Social responsibility
• Xaar employees raised money during the 
year for various charities, including Macmillan 
Cancer Support by hosting a coffee morning, 
for the Royal British Legion Poppy Appeal and 
for the East Anglian Children’s Hospice.
• Xaar has sponsored a number of employees 
and their families engaging in events 
throughout the year, including a charity 
golf day, the London Marathon and an 
international swimming meet. In total, the 
Group made charitable contributions to 
local and national charities during the year 
totalling	£1,677	(2013:	£20,204).	No	political	
donations were made in the year (2013: £nil).
• The social club, which is aimed at 
encouraging staff to have fun and getting to 
know each other socially, held several events 
throughout the year including theatre trips, 
comedy	nights,	a	fir eworks	punting	excursion,	
sporting events including trips to watch rugby 
and touring car racing, sky diving, gliding 
evenings, theme parks, wine tasting, meals 
and nights at the races.
• Xaar continues to sponsor an Imagineering 
Foundation club at a Huntingdon primary 
school.	The	Foundation	intr oduces	8-16	year	
olds to the fascinating world of engineering 
and technology through fun, hands-on 
activities. During 2014 pupils’ drawings were 
transformed into printed ceramic tile coasters 
and the pupils watched a video which 
demonstrated how the images progressed 
fr om	designs	to	finished	pr oducts.
• In 2014 Xaar sponsored PrintIT! which is a 
major initiative to encourage young people to 
embark on careers in the UK printing industry. 
• In 2013 Xaar invested £1 million in bonds 
to support the Future Business Centre in 
Cambridge. The centre provides affordable 
workspace with support and shared services 
to new social and environmental enterprises.
Human rights
The Group respects all human rights and in 
conducting its business the Group regards 
those rights relating to non-discrimination, 
fair treatment and respect for privacy to be 
the most relevant and to have the greatest 
potential impact on its key stakeholder groups 
of customers, employees and suppliers.
The Board has overall responsibility for 
ensuring that the Group upholds and promotes 
respect for human rights. The Group seeks to 
anticipate, prevent and mitigate any potential 
negative human rights impacts as well as 
enhance positive impacts through its policies 
and procedures and, in particular, through 
its	policies	r egar ding	employment,	equality	
and diversity, treating customers fairly and 
information security. Group policies seek both 
to ensure that employees comply with the 
relevant legislation and regulations in place in 
the UK and other operating locations and to 
promote good practice. The Group’s policies 
are formulated and kept up to date by the 
relevant business area, authorised by the  
Board and communicated to all employees.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring of 
the implementation of all of its policies and has 
not been made aware of any incident in which 
the organisation’s activities have resulted in an 
abuse of human rights.
Equality and diversity
The Group is committed to providing a working 
environment in which employees feel valued 
and respected and are able to contribute to 
the success of the business. Employees are 
r equested 	 to 	 co-operate 	 with 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 ef forts	
to ensure that the policy is fully implemented.
The Group’s aim is that its employees should 
be able to work in an environment free from 
discrimination, harassment and bullying, and 
that employees, job applicants, customers, 
retailers, business introducers and suppliers 
should be treated fairly regardless of:
• race, colour, nationality (including citizenship), 
ethnic or national origins
• gender, gender reassignment, sexual 
orientation, marital or civil partnership status
•	 r eligious	or	political	beliefs	or	affiliations
• disability, impairment or age
• real or suspected infection with HIV/AIDS
• membership of a trade union
• pregnancy and maternity
and that they should not be disadvantaged by 
unjust	or	unfair	conditions	or	r equir ements.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for 
employment from people with disabilities, and 
other under-represented groups, are given full 
and fair consideration and that such people  
are given the same training, development and 
job opportunities as other employees. Every 
effort is also made to retrain and support 
employees who suffer from disabilities during 
their employment, including the provision  
of	flexible	working	to	assist	their	r e-entry	 
into the workplace.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly 
to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and 
pr omote 	 equality 	 of 	 opportunity . 	 In 	 particular ,	
recruitment, selection, promotion, training 
and development policies and practices are 
monitored to ensure that all employees have  
the opportunity to train and develop according  
to their abilities.
The Group places considerable value on 
the involvement of its employees and has 
continued to keep them informed of the 
various factors affecting the performance of 
the Group. This is achieved through written 
communications shared through the Company 
intranet and email, and formal and informal 
meetings. All employees participate in a bonus 
scheme based on individual performance and 
Group business targets and, in the UK, have 
the opportunity to participate in an HMRC 
approved Share Save Scheme and Share 
Incentive Plan.
Formal directives and certification 
The Group undertakes R&D and manufactures 
products in both UK and Sweden. The Group 
complies with all local and European legislation 
relevant to the respective territories. The 
Group’s manufacturing facilities in Huntingdon 
Imagineering Foundation club visits the Xaar 
manufacturing facility at Huntingdon, UK.
and Järfälla are both ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 
certified.	It	is	the	Gr oup’ s	policy	to	maintain	
this	level	of	certification	for	its	manufacturing	
facilities and to comply at all times with all 
relevant environmental and other legislation in 
the territories in which the Group operates. The 
Group is compliant with REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of 
Chemicals), WEEE (Waste Electrical and 
Electr onic	Equipment)	and	RoHS	(Restriction	
of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances) 
dir ectives,	as	r equir ed	under	Eur opean	
legislation. 
The Group has a proactive Health and Safety 
System modelled on OHSAS 18001 in 
Cambridge, Huntingdon and Sweden.
Health, safety and environment
Xaar has manufacturing sites in Huntingdon, 
UK and Järfälla, Sweden, along with R&D and 
head	office	functions	in	Cambridge,	UK,	plus	
sales	offices	worldwide.
It is always Xaar’s intention to conduct 
business in a manner that protects the 
public, the environment, and employee 
safety. Xaar’s Environmental and Health 
& Safety policies provide a framework for 
setting and reviewing of Occupational Health, 
Safety and Environmental Objectives. This 
demonstrates Xaar’s commitment to the 
prevention of injury and ill health and also the 
continual improvement in Environmental and 
Occupational Health & Safety Performance. 
Xaar recognises that the combination of a safe 
place of work and safe working practices, 
together with a productive and innovative 
environment, are critical to the continued 
success of the Company.
The management of Xaar is committed to 
achieving and maintaining full compliance with 
environmental, health and safety legislation. 
Although certain responsibilities under this 
policy	can	be	attributed	to	specific	r oles	
within the organisation, and in particular with 
different levels of management, each and every 
Xaar employee shares the core basic duty to 
understand their responsibilities to observe 
instructions put in place and, where necessary, 
to draw these to the attention of others.
To achieve our Environmental and Health 
& Safety policy, Xaar will ensure that the 
organisation 	 is 	 led 	 by 	 example; 	 systems 	 ar e 	 in	
place to engage, train, develop and maintain 
competent, 	 informed 	 personnel; 	 r esour ces	
are allocated to enable safety standards to be 
maintained; 	 employee 	 involvement 	 and 	 open	
communication 	 ar e 	 actively 	 encouraged; 	 plant,	
equipment 	 and 	 facilities 	 ar e 	 safe 	 and 	 without	
risk to the health and welfare of all persons who 
could 	 be 	 af fected 	 by 	 their 	 use 	 or 	 maintenance;	
substances 	 r equir ed 	 and 	 used 	 in 	 the 	 workplace	
ar e 	 handled 	 and 	 disposed 	 of 	 safely; 	 a	
comprehensive risk assessment programme is  
maintained covering all activities and processes,  
with control measures implemented to minimise 
risk 	 wher e 	 applicable; 	 adequate 	 welfar e 	 facilities	
ar e 	 pr ovided; 	 wher e 	 accidents 	 or 	 ‘near 	 misses’	
occur, they are reported, investigated and 
treated as the source of learning for on-going 
working 	 practices; 	 and 	 that 	 best 	 practice 	 is	
shared across the Group.
The Group is committed to minimising its impact  
on the environment through the reduction and 
recycling of waste and by operating its facilities 
as 	 efficiently 	 as 	 is 	 practicable. 	 Our 	 printhead 	
technology 	 impr oves 	 pr ocess 	 efficiency 	 and 	
reduces wastage in our end user markets.
Based on the closing headcount at 31 December the split of staff by gender was as follows:
31 December 2014 
male/female
31 December 2013 
male/female
All employees 509/134 625/170
Directors 8/0 8/0
Senior Managers 78/20 59/14
Employees excluding Directors and Senior Managers 423/114 558/156
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 23 22 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Greenhouse gas emissions statement
Corporate social responsibility Board approval of the Strategic and Annual Reports
Xaar plc has calculated its global 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
statement using an operational control 
consolidation approach as described 
in the Greenhouse Gas: Protocol: A 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (Revised Edition, 2004), which 
r eflects	the	Defra	Envir onmental	Reporting	
Guidelines (Revised October 2013). 
The	Strategic	Report,	Annual	Report	and	financial	statements,	
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess  
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Assessment parameters
 
Baseline year 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013
Consolidation approach Operational control
Boundary summary 
 
All entities and all facilities under operational
control included subject to the materiality
threshold applied
Consistency	with	the	financial	statements 
 
The only variation is that leased properties
deemed to be under operational control have
been included in scope 1 and 2 emissions
Materiality threshold Materiality has been set at Group level at 5%*
Assessment methodology Gr eenhouse	Gas	Pr otocol	and	ISO	14064-1
(2006)
Intensity ratio Emissions per £m turnover excluding royalties
* The total of any excluded emission sources are estimated to be less than 5% of Xaar plc’s total reported emissions.
2014 2013
GHG emission source (tCO
2
e) (tCO
2
e/£m) (tCO
2
e) (tCO
2
e/£m)
Scope 1 162 2 97 1
Scope 2 6,263 61 5,882 46
Statutory total (scope 1 and 2) 6,425 63 5,979 47
The GHG emissions statement includes 
emissions data from leased assets that are  
not included in the rest of the consolidated 
financial	statements,	other	than	in	note	32	
Operating lease arrangements.
Scope 1 emissions
Scope 1 emissions occur from sources that 
are owned or where Xaar plc has operational 
control. This includes direct emissions from gas 
combustion in our buildings and fuel used in 
leased company vehicles. Actual and estimated 
gas consumption data has been collected from 
each of the leased properties under the control 
of the Xaar Group, from data sources including 
direct meter readings, meter readings from 
suppliers included on invoices and estimations 
wher e	r equir ed	based	on	available	information	
from property management suppliers and other 
sources. Actual and estimated mileage data 
has been collected from the leased company 
vehicle	fleet.
Scope 2 emissions
Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions from 
the consumption of purchased electricity 
(also including any purchased heat, steam 
or cooling) from facilities owned or under the 
operational control of Xaar plc. Actual and 
estimated data has been collected from each 
of the leased properties under the control of the 
Xaar Group, from data sources including direct 
meter readings, meter readings from suppliers 
included on invoices and estimations where 
r equir ed	based	on	available	information	fr om	
property management suppliers and  
other sources. 
Phil Lawler
Chairman
Alex Bevis
Finance Director  
and Company Secretary
Edmund Creutzmann
Chief	T echnical	Officer
Richard Barham
Sales and Marketing Director
Ted Wiggans
Operations and Quality Director
Robin Williams
Senior Independent Director
Jim Brault
Chief	Human	Resour ces	Officer
David Cheesman
Non-Executive Director
Ian Dinwoodie
Retiring Chief Executive
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive
Board approval
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 25 24 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Edmund Creutzmann
Chief Technical Officer
Age	60
Edmund joined Xaar 
in April 2014. He has 
over 30 years’ digital 
printing R&D experience 
spanning laser, LED,  
electrophotographic and 
inkjet imaging technologies. 
He received his degree in 
physics and engineering 
from the University of 
Applied Sciences, Munich, 
and started 1979 in the 
laser printing business of 
the Siemens AG. Since 
1989 he has held various 
R&D management roles 
at Siemens, Siemens-
Nixdorf and Océ. He 
was responsible for the 
development of digital 
components and industrial 
print systems including 
basic technology, print 
processes, engineering 
and product development. 
Since	2006	he	r ealised	
market leading solutions 
in the arena of high 
performance inkjet printing. 
Most recently he was 
Vice President, Printer 
Technology at Océ Printing 
Systems GmbH (Canon 
Group) in Germany.
Ted Wiggans
Operations and  
Quality Director 
Age 59
Ted joined Xaar in January 
2011, with over 30 
years’ experience in high 
technology operations. 
Immediately prior to 
joining Xaar he was Chief 
Operating	Officer	at	
Cambridge Semiconductor 
Ltd (CamSemi). Before 
joining	CamSemi	in	2006,	
he was Operations Director 
at Zetex Semiconductors 
with overall responsibility 
for its multi-site, multi-
national manufacturing 
activities and a global 
team of 500. In addition, 
he has held senior-level 
manufacturing, engineering 
and	quality	r oles	with	
Motorola and Philips.  
He is a Chartered Engineer 
and is Chair of the 
Manufacturing Industries 
Division Board of the 
IMechE.
Jim Brault
Chief Human  
Resources Officer 
Age 52
Jim joined Xaar on 2 March 
2015 from Kodak (Eastman 
Kodak Company) where 
most recently he was Chief 
Human	Resour ces	Officer .	
He started his career 
in Human Resources 
with Analog Devices 
Semiconductor and has 
held a variety of global HR 
r oles	since	1996.	He	has	
worked in the graphics and 
digital print industry since 
2003 when he was with 
NexPress (a joint venture 
between Heidelberg and 
Kodak). Jim holds a BA 
in Psychology from SUNY 
Binghamton and a Masters 
in Industrial and Labor 
Relations from Cornell 
University.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
Age	66
Phil has extensive 
experience of high 
technology industries.  
He started with co-
founding a software 
business	and	subsequently	
spent 18 years until 2002 
at Hewlett Packard in 
various senior positions, 
most recently as Chairman 
and Managing Director 
of Hewlett Packard, UK 
and Ireland. Since leaving 
Hewlett Packard, he 
has held non-executive 
Chairman roles in a number 
of IT companies including 
listed,	private	equity	and	
venture capital backed. He 
is currently Non-Executive 
Chairman of Kalibrate plc, 
is a Chartered Director and 
a Fellow of the Institute  
of Directors.
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive 
Age 54
Doug joined the Company 
as Chief Executive in 
January 2015 from Kodak 
(Eastman Kodak Company) 
where most recently he 
was President, Digital 
Printing and Enterprise 
and had been a member 
of the Executive Board 
since	2006.	He	started	
his career in the UK in a 
variety of technical roles 
with Ilford Limited, ICI, 
Zeneca and International 
Paper before moving 
to the US 14 years ago 
with Kodak Polychrome 
Graphics (a joint venture 
company between Sun 
Chemical Corporation and 
Kodak). Doug holds a BSc 
in Chemistry and a PhD 
in Conducting Organic 
Materials from London 
University.
Ian Dinwoodie
Chief Executive  
(retiring 2015) 
Age 54
Ian joined Xaar in 
September 2001 as 
Group Operations Director 
and was appointed 
Chief Executive in July 
2003. With over 30 
years’ experience in high 
technology industries, he 
has held a variety of roles 
in	engineering,	quality	
assurance and operations 
within the semiconductor, 
electronics and electronic 
imaging sectors. Previous 
companies include 
Ferranti Electronics, Digital 
Equipment	Corporation,	
and	Cr osfield	Electr onics.	
Immediately prior to joining 
Xaar, he held the position of 
Director of Manufacturing 
for	Fujifilm	Electr onic	
Imaging Ltd. As announced 
in March 2014, Ian is 
retiring in 2015 following 12 
years as Chief Executive.
Alex Bevis
Finance Director and 
Company Secretary 
Age 39
Alex joined Xaar in February 
2011 after ten years at 
CSR plc (Cambridge Silicon 
Radio). He held a variety of 
key	finance	r oles	at	CSR,	
supporting the growth of 
the business including the 
IPO in 2004 and multiple 
acquisitions.	He	was	most	
recently employed as Vice 
President of Finance. He 
qualified	as	a	Charter ed	
Accountant with Deloitte 
prior to joining CSR in 
2000. 
Focussing our strengths
Board of Directors
Richard Barham
Sales and  
Marketing Director 
Age 53
Richard joined Xaar in 
March 2012, and was 
previously Vice President 
of Inkjet at Agfa Graphics 
N.V. He brings over 25 
years of international sales 
and marketing expertise 
across many sectors of 
the imaging and printing 
industries and has held 
senior management 
positions at Agfa, 
including VP Research & 
Development, VP Global 
Marketing and Product 
Development and VP 
Commercial Printing.
David Cheesman
Non-Executive Director 
(retiring 2015) 
Age 72
David joined Xaar in July 
2011. He obtained an 
electrical engineering 
degree from City University 
befor e	qualifying	as	a	
Chartered Engineer with 
UKAEA. He was a senior 
engineer with Honeywell, 
Chief Engineer at CASE 
Ltd, Technical Operations 
Director at Univac, Vice 
President International 
with Prime Computer 
Inc. and CEO of Dowty 
Information Systems Ltd. 
He then joined the venture 
capital industry in 1989 
and was head of the High 
Technology Investment 
Unit at 3i, a Partner in 
TriTech Investments, and 
then spent 12 years as 
a General Partner with 
Advent Ventures. He has 
held many directorships 
on investee companies 
in the electronics, 
telecommunications 
and advanced materials 
sectors. He was recently a 
Non-Executive Director of 
LSI Lasers Ltd, Celoxica 
plc, Inca Digital Ltd, and K2 
Optronics Inc. In February 
2015 David announced 
his intention to retire and 
he will therefore not seek 
re-election at the AGM in 
May 2015.
Robin Williams
Senior Independent 
Director 
Age 57
Robin joined Xaar in 
March 2010. He obtained 
an Engineering Science 
degree from Oxford before 
qualifying	as	a	Charter ed	
Accountant with Peat 
Marwick Mitchell. He spent 
ten years as a corporate 
advisor before co-founding 
Britton Group plc in 1992. 
As CEO of Britton, he 
grew the business to 
£250 million revenues 
within six years, before 
selling to a competitor. 
He was then an Executive 
Director of Hepworth 
plc, with a leading role 
in the rationalisation 
and	subsequent	sale	
of the group. He has 
subsequently	held	various	
public and private company 
directorships across 
a range of industries 
including business services, 
healthcare, outsourcing, 
contracting, and 
manufacturing. Robin is 
currently Chairman of NHS 
Professionals Ltd and NHS 
Property Services Ltd, and 
a Non-Executive Director 
of Nanoco Group plc, and 
Baronsmead VCT 4 plc.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 27 26 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Directors’ report
Report on the affairs of the Group
Capital structure
Details of the issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s 
issued share capital during the year, are shown 
in	note	26.	The	Company	has	one	class	of	
or dinary	shar es	which	carries	no	right	to	fixed	
income. Each share carries the right to one vote 
at general meetings of the Company. 
Ther e	ar e	no	specific	r estrictions	on	the	size	of	
a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which 
are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The Directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out 
in note 33. 
No person has any special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and all issued 
shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and 
replacement of Directors, the Company  
is governed by its Articles of Association, 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Companies Act and related legislation.  
The Articles themselves may be amended  
by Special Resolution of the shareholders.  
The powers of Directors are described in the 
Main Board terms of reference, copies of which 
ar e	available	on	r equest,	and	the	Corporate	
governance statement on page 37.
Treasury
The	Gr oup’ s	policy	enables	it	to	use	financial	
instruments to hedge foreign currency 
exposures. The main trading currency of the 
Group is UK pounds. The Group’s use of 
financial	instruments	and	the	r elated	risks	ar e	
discussed further in notes 20, 21 and 24.
At the 2014 AGM held on 14 May 2014, the 
Company’s shareholders granted the Company 
authority to make one or more market 
pur chases	(within	the	meaning	of	section	693(4)	
of	the	Companies	Act	2006)	of	or dinary	shar es	
of 10p each in the capital of the Company. 
The Company did not purchase any shares for 
cancellation or to be held as treasury in 2014 
or 2013.
Directors and their interests 
The Directors who served during the year, and 
subsequent	to	the	year -end,	unless	otherwise	
stated, were as follows:
Ian Dinwoodie – Chief Executive  
(retiring 27 March 2015)
Doug Edwards – Chief Executive  
(appointed 5 January 2015)
Alex Bevis – Finance Director  
and Company Secretary 
Richard Barham – Sales and Marketing Director 
Ted Wiggans – Operations and Quality Director 
Ramon Borrell – Research and Development 
Director (resigned from the Board 1 April 2014)
Edmund Creutzmann 	 – 	 Chief 	 T echnical 	 Officer 	
(appointed 1 April 2014)
Jim Brault 	 – 	 Chief 	 Human 	 Resour ces 	 Officer 	
(appointed 2 March 2015)
Phil Lawler – Chairman
Robin Williams – Senior Independent Director
David Cheesman – Non-Executive Director 
(retiring 13 May 2015)
Brief biographical descriptions of the Directors 
ar e	set	out	on	pages	26	and	27.	Full	details	 
of their interests in shares of the Company  
and its subsidiary undertakings are included  
in the Directors’ Remuneration report on  
pages	39	to	64.
The Directors present their Annual Report 
on the affairs of the Group together with 
the	financial	statements	and	auditor’ s	
report for the year ended 31 December 
2014. The Corporate governance 
statement set out on pages 32 to 38 
forms part of this report.
An indication of likely future developments 
in the business of the Company and details 
of research and development activities are 
included in the Strategic Report. The Group’s 
policies	r elating	to	equality ,	diversity	and	
employee consultation can be found in the 
‘Corporate social responsibility’ section of the 
Strategic Report on pages 22 and 23.
The Greenhouse gas emissions statement can 
be found on page 24.
Shareholdings in the Company
The	inter ests	of	the	Dir ectors	in	the	shar es	of	the	Company	and	its	subsidiaries	(all	of	which	ar e	beneficial)	as	at	31	December	2014	ar e	as	follows:
Number of 
ordinary shares 
of 10p each 
31 December 
2014
Number of 
ordinary shares 
of 10p each 
31 December 
2013
Ian Dinwoodie 77,449 57,449
Alex Bevis 53,577 41,661
Richard Barham 6,980 6,634
Ted Wiggans 9,680 4,634
Edmund Creutzmann – –
Phil Lawler 99,930 101,430
Robin Williams 1,500 –
David Cheesman – –
There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests in shares of the Company between 31 December 2014 and 19 March 2015. Directors’ 
interests in options over shares in the Company are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration report.
Directors’ liabilities
The Company has granted an indemnity to all of its Directors against liability in respect of any potential proceedings that may be brought by third 
parties,	subject	to	the	conditions	set	out	in	the	Companies	Act	2006.	Such	qualifying	thir d	party	indemnity	pr ovision	r emains	in	for ce	as	at	the	date	 
of approving the Directors’ Report.
Share capital
As	at	31	December	2014	the	Company	had	been	notified	in	accor dance	with	Chapter	5	of	the	Financial	Conduct	Authority’ s	(FCA ’ s)	Disclosur e	and	
Transparency Rules of the following material interests in its share capital:
 Number 
of ordinary 
shares held
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital
AXA Framlington Investment Managers 9,124,238 11.9%
M&G Investment Management 7,549,431 9.9%
Legal & General Investment Management 7,165,290 9.4%
Schroder Investment Management 6,471,230 8.4%
BlackRock 5,361,095 7.0%
Baillie Gifford 3,542,815 4.6%
Jupiter Asset Management 2,580,000 3.4%
During	the	period	31	December	2014	and	19	Mar ch	2015,	the	Company	did	not	r eceive	any	notifications	pursuant	to	chapter	five	of	the	FCA ’ s	
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 29 28 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Directors’ report
Report on the affairs of the Group continued
Accounting standards
Resolution 14
Following changes to accounting standards in 
the UK, the Company is seeking the approval 
of shareholders to prepare the Company’s 
individual	financial	statements	in	accor dance	
with FRS 101. FRS 101 will allow the Company 
to apply the same accounting principles in the 
pr eparation	of	its	individual	financial	statements	
as	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements	 
of	the	Xaar	Gr oup,	but	will	r equir e	 
fewer disclosures.
Authority to purchase own shares
Resolution 15
It is proposed by Resolution 15, by Special 
Resolution, to authorise the Company generally 
and unconditionally to purchase its own shares 
at a price of not less than the par value of  
the shares and not more than the higher of:
(i) 5% above the average of the middle 
market	quotations	of	the	shar es	as	
derived from the London Stock Exchange 
Daily	Official	List	for	the	five	dealing	days	
immediately preceding the day on which 
the	pur chase	is	made;	and	
(ii) the amount stipulated by article 5(1) of 
the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 
2003 (in each case exclusive of any 
expenses payable by the Company).
The authority will be for a maximum of 14.9% 
of the Company’s issued share capital and 
will expire at the earlier of the next Annual 
General Meeting of the Company or within 15 
months from the date of the passing of this 
resolution. The Directors currently have no 
intention to exercise the authority and will only 
purchase shares if it is in the best interests of 
shareholders as a whole.
The total number of options to subscribe for 
ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 
2014 (including options awarded under LTIP 
which	may	be	satisfied	by	subscription	of	new	
shar es)	was	3,136,455.	This	r epr esents	4%	of	
the issued ordinary share capital at that date. 
If Xaar plc was to buy back the maximum 
number of ordinary shares permitted pursuant 
to the passing of this resolution, then the total 
number of options to subscribe for ordinary 
shares outstanding at 31 December 2014 
would represent 5% of the reduced issued 
ordinary share capital.
Power to issue securities
Resolution 16
Under	the	Companies	Act	2006	the	Dir ectors	
of the Company may only allot shares (whether 
for cash or otherwise) with the authority of 
shareholders given at a general meeting of 
the Company. In accordance with institutional 
guidelines,	under	Resolution	16,	to	be	
proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, authority 
is sought to allot shares:
(i) in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue 
only, up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £5,110,391.50, which represented two 
thirds of the Company’s ordinary share 
capital	as	at	19	Mar ch	2015;	and
(ii) in any other case, up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £2,555,195.80, which 
represented one third of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital as at  
19 March 2015.
The Directors do not currently have an intention 
to exercise the authority.
Resolution 17
This resolution, to be proposed as a Special 
Resolution, will give the Directors power to allot 
shares:
(i) up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £5,110,391.50 (representing 
appr oximately	66%	of	the	Company’ s	
issued share capital) on an offer to existing 
shareholders on a pre-emptive basis 
(subject to any adjustments, such as 
for fractional entitlements and overseas 
shar eholders,	as	the	Dir ectors	see	fit);	and
(ii) for cash up to a maximum aggregate 
nominal value of £383,279.30, 
representing 5% of the ordinary share 
capital of the Company as at 19 March 
2015, otherwise than in connection with 
an offer to existing shareholders.
The Directors do not currently have an 
intention to exercise any power given to them 
by shareholders to allot shares for cash on a 
non pre-emptive basis and, in any event, the 
Directors do not intend to allot any shares 
for cash on a non pre-emptive basis if such 
allotment would exceed the limits established 
by the guidance published by the investment 
committees of the ABI and the NAPF.
The	authorities	contained	in	Resolutions	16	and	
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the Annual General 
Meeting is set out on pages 113 to 115. 
Resolutions 1 to 13 set out in the notice of the 
meeting deal with the ordinary business to be 
transacted at the meeting. The special business 
to be transacted at the meeting is set out in 
Resolutions 14 to 17.
Re-election of Directors
Resolutions 5 to 12
The	Company’ s	Articles	of	Association	r equir e	
the Directors to retire by rotation at least once 
every three years, with the number to retire by 
rotation at each Annual General Meeting being 
the number nearest to but not exceeding one 
third of the Board. However, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code provides that all Directors 
of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to 
re-election by their shareholders every year.  
In accordance with this provision of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and in keeping 
with the Board’s aim of following best corporate 
governance practice, the Board has decided 
that, as at the previous Annual General Meeting 
of the Company in 2014, all Directors should 
retire at each Annual General Meeting and, 
with the exception of Ian Dinwoodie and David 
Cheesman, offer themselves for re-election. 
Directors’ Remuneration report
Resolution 13
This Resolution seeks shareholder approval 
for the Directors’ Remuneration report. The 
Directors’ Remuneration report can be found 
on	pages	39	to	64	(inclusive)	of	the	Annual	
Report and Accounts. 
As at the previous Annual General Meeting 
of the Company in 2014, in accordance with 
regulations which came into force on 1 October 
2013 in this area, the Company is offering 
shareholders an annual advisory vote on the 
implementation of the Company’s existing 
remuneration policy, which is set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report. 
Resolution 13 contains the advisory resolution 
relating to the Directors’ Remuneration report.
The Company’s Articles of Association may 
only be amended by a Special Resolution at a 
general meeting of the shareholders. Directors 
are reappointed by Ordinary Resolution at a 
general meeting of the shareholders. 
Appointment of Directors
The Board can appoint a Director but anyone 
so appointed must be elected by an Ordinary 
Resolution at the next general meeting. All 
Dir ectors	ar e	r equir ed	to	submit	themselves	 
for reappointment every year at the AGM. 
Significant interests
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the 
Company are shown in the table on page 29. 
Major interests (i.e. those greater than 3%) 
of	which	the	Company	has	been	notified	ar e	
shown on page 29.
Company share schemes
The Xaar plc ESOP Trust holds 1.8% of the 
issued share capital of the Company in trust for 
the	benefit	of	employees	of	the	Gr oup	and	their	
dependants. The voting rights in relation  
to these shares are exercised by the Trustees.
Change of control
The Company is not party to any agreements 
which take effect, alter or terminate upon a 
change of control of the Company following a 
takeover bid. There are no agreements between 
the Company and its Directors or employees 
pr oviding	for	compensation	for	loss	of	office	
or employment (whether through resignation, 
purported redundancy or otherwise) that 
occurs because of a takeover bid. Depending 
on the achievement of performance conditions, 
share-based payment arrangements may vest 
on change of control but this is subject to the 
approval and exercise of the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are set 
out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 15. 
Notes 20, 21 and 24 include a description of 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for	managing	its	capital;	its	financial	risk	
management	objectives;	details	of	its	financial	
instruments	and	hedging	activities;	and	its	
exposur e	to	cr edit	risk	and	liquidity	risk.
The	Gr oup	has	considerable	financial	r esour ces	
and through a diverse customer base is 
exposed not only to the Western economies 
but also to China, India and Latin America. As 
a	consequence,	the	Dir ectors	believe	that	the	
Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully.
After	making	enquiries,	the	Dir ectors	have	a	
reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate	r esour ces	to	continue	in	operational	
existence for the foreseeable future, based on 
the Group’s forecasts and projections for the 
next four years, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance. 
For this reason, we continue to adopt the 
going	concer n	basis	in	pr eparing	the	financial	
statements.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness 
to	continue	in	office	as	auditor	and	a	r esolution	
to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure  
of information to auditor
The Directors who were members of the Board 
at the time of approving the Directors’ Report 
are listed on page 28. 
Having	made	enquiries	of	fellow	Dir ectors,	each	
of	these	Dir ectors	confirm	that:
• to the best of each Director’s knowledge 
and belief, there is no information relevant to 
the preparation of their report of which the 
Group’s auditor is unaware, and
• each Director has taken all the steps a 
Director might reasonably be expected to 
have taken to be aware of relevant audit  
information and to establish that the Group’s  
auditor is aware of that information.
This	confirmation	is	given	and	should	be	
interpreted in accordance with the provisions  
of	section	418	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.
17 will expire no later than 15 months after the 
passing of those resolutions.
Additional information for shareholders
The following provides the additional 
information	r equir ed	for	shar eholders	as	a	r esult	
of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive 
into UK law.
The structure of the Company’s issued share 
capital	is	shown	in	note	26.
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or 
voting rights.
The Directors are authorised to issue and allot 
shares and to undertake purchases of the 
Company’s shares. Appropriate resolutions  
to renew these authorities are proposed to  
be passed at the AGM as detailed above  
and notice of which is on pages 113 to 115.
Ordinary shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of 
the Company every holder of ordinary shares 
present in person and entitled to vote shall have 
one vote for every ordinary share held and, 
on a poll, every member present in person or 
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one 
vote for every ordinary share held. The notice 
of	the	AGM	on	pages	113	to	115	specifies	
deadlines for exercising voting rights either by 
proxy notice or present in person or by proxy 
in relation to resolutions to be passed at the 
AGM. All proxy votes are counted and the 
numbers for, against or withheld in relation to 
each resolution are made available at the AGM 
and are published on the Company’s website 
after the meeting. No person holds securities 
carrying special rights with regard to control of 
the Company.
Restrictions
There are no restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares in the Company other than:
• certain restrictions may from time to time 
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws and market 
r equir ements 	 r elating 	 to 	 close 	 periods), 	 and
• pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA 
whereby all employees of the Company 
r equir e	the	appr oval	of	the	Company	to	
deal in the Company’s securities.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 31 30 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Corporate governance statement
Statement of compliance with the Code 
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 
the Company has followed the provisions set 
out in the Code.
The Company does not comply with provision 
B.1.2 of the Code relating to the composition 
of the Board. Following the recruitment of a 
replacement for Dave Cheesman, and the 
retirement of Ian Dinwoodie, the Board will be 
comprised of six executive roles and three non-
executive roles, including the Chairman. The 
weighting	towar ds	executive	r oles	r eflects	the	
need for operational focus at the most senior 
level in the Company to achieve success in 
Xaar’s highly demanding end markets.
The	Boar d	confirms	that	the	2014	Annual	
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the performance, strategy, and business 
model of the Company, in accordance with 
C.1.1 of the Code.
Statement about applying the principles  
of the Code
The Company has applied the principles of the 
Code, including both the Main Principles and 
the supporting principles, by complying with the 
Code as reported above. Further explanation of 
how the Main Principles have been applied is 
set out below and, in connection with Directors’ 
remuneration, in the Directors’ Remuneration 
report. 
Board of Directors
Following the retirement of Ian Dinwoodie  
on 27 March 2015, the Board of Directors 
comprises the Chairman, six Executive 
Directors and two Non-Executive Directors. 
Brief biographical details of all members of  
the	Boar d	ar e	set	out	on	pages	26	and	27.	
The Board considers Robin Williams and 
David Cheesman to be independent within 
the meaning of the Code, in compliance with 
Code provision B.1.1. To be considered as 
independent each Non-Executive Director is 
sufficiently	separate	to	management	and	fr ee	
from any business or other relationships which 
could affect their judgement, impartiality or 
objectivity.
The Board is responsible for the formulation 
of	strategy;	the	monitoring	of	financial	and	
non-financial	performance	and	the	appr oval	of	
major	transactions;	financial	statements;	other	
formal	communications	with	shar eholders;	and	
operating and capital expenditure budgets. 
Comprehensive Board papers, dealing with 
all aspects of the business, are distributed by 
the Company Secretary typically one week in 
advance of each Board meeting. The Board 
met ten times during 2014.
The Non-Executive Directors attend the Board 
meetings, and form the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees. They are 
responsible for scrutinising the performance 
of management and determining appropriate 
levels of remuneration of Executive Directors, 
and have a key role in appointing and, where 
r equir ed,	r emoving	Executive	Dir ectors.
There exists a clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. 
The Chairman’s primary role includes ensuring 
that the Board functions properly, that it meets 
its obligations and responsibilities, and that its 
organisation and mechanisms are in place and 
are working effectively. The Chief Executive’s 
primary role is to provide overall leadership 
and vision in developing, with the Board, the 
strategic direction of the Company. Additionally, 
the Chief Executive is responsible for the 
management of the overall business to ensure 
that strategic and business plans are effectively 
implemented, the results are monitored and 
r eported	to	the	Boar d,	and	financial	and	
operational objectives are attained. 
The Board delegates management of the 
business to the Executive Committee, 
headed by the Chief Executive. The Executive 
Committee meets weekly and is responsible 
for implementing Group strategy, monitoring 
business performance, preparing the 
operating and capital expenditure budgets for 
recommendation to the Board, and ensuring 
efficient	management	of	the	Gr oup.
The	committee	has	formally	identified	T ed	
Wiggans as Director responsible for health and 
safety and Alex Bevis as Director responsible 
for risk assessment.
The Company is committed to the 
principles of corporate governance 
contained in the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code which was issued in 
2010 by the Financial Reporting Council 
(‘the Code’) for which the Board is 
accountable to shareholders. 
Summary of Board meeting attendance in 2014
Ten Board meetings were held in 2014.
Name Meetings attended
Phil Lawler 10 (10)
Robin Williams 10 (10)
David Cheesman 9 (10)
Ian Dinwoodie 9 (10)
Alex Bevis 10 (10)
Richard Barham 9 (10)
Ted Wiggans 10 (10)
Edmund Creutzmann 8 (8)
Ramon Borrell 2 (2)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. 
Board committees
Summary of committee membership:
 
Name
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
 Committee
Phil Lawler Yes Yes Chairman 
Robin Williams Chairman Yes Yes
David Cheesman Yes Chairman Yes
Ian Dinwoodie No No Yes
Summary of committee meeting attendance in 2014:
 
Name
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
 Committee
Number of meetings held 4 8 4
Phil Lawler 4 (4) 8 (8) 4 (4)
Robin Williams 4 (4) 8 (8) 4 (4)
David Cheesman 4 (4) 7 (8) 3 (4)
Ian Dinwoodie N/A N/A 4 (4)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. 
Conflicts of interest
Following	the	changes	made	to	the	Company’ s	Articles	of	Association	to	incorporate	the	pr ovisions	of	section	175	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	
which	gave	Boar ds	the	statutory	power	to	authorise	conflicts	of	inter est,	any	potential	conflict	of	inter est	is	appr oved	by	the	Boar d	in	advance	of	any	
action	or	appointment	that	could	r esult	in	a	conflict	of	inter est	arising.	Each	member	of	the	Boar d	is	familiar	with	the	pr ocedur e	to	follow	in	r elation	to	
conflicts	of	inter est	and	the	pr ocess	is	operated	efficiently .
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 33 32 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
Group structure
The Group has three main locations. The head 
office	functions,	R&D,	W ester n	sales,	marketing	
function and business support functions are 
based in Cambridge, UK. The Group also has 
two manufacturing facilities: one in Huntingdon, 
UK and the other in Järfälla, Sweden. The 
Group also has representatives in other global 
locations including India, Hong Kong and  
the USA.
Refer to page 10 for the Xaar business model.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual 
understanding of objectives between the 
Group and its institutional shareholders by 
meeting at least twice per year, following interim 
and annual results, to provide an update on 
trading and obtain feedback. Additionally, the 
Group has hosted institutional investors at its 
Huntingdon facility during the year.
The	Gr oup’ s	financial	public	r elations	advisors	
give all investors and potential investors, who 
have met with the Group’s investor relations 
team, the opportunity to provide feedback on 
the meetings. The feedback is coordinated by 
the	financial	PR	advisors	into	a	single	document	
which is circulated to all members of the Board. 
Additionally, the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director provide feedback to the Board at 
the meeting following shareholder meetings 
to ensure that the Board, and in particular 
the Non-Executive Directors, possess an 
understanding of the views of the Company’s 
major shareholders. Both the Chairman and  
the Senior Independent Director are available  
to	meet	with	shar eholders	as	r equir ed.
Shareholders can access up-to-date Company 
information from the Investor Relations section 
of the Xaar website at www.xaar.com.
Constructive use of the Annual General 
Meeting
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with 
investors and to encourage their participation. 
Risk management and internal control 
The Group’s policies relating to risk 
management and internal control can be 
found in the ‘Risk management’ section of the 
Strategic Report on pages 18 and 19.
Whistle-blowing, and anti-bribery and 
corruption policies
The Company conducts its business with the 
highest standards of integrity and honesty  
at all times and expects its employees to 
maintain the same standards in everything 
they	do.	Employees	ar e	ther efor e	r equir ed	to	
report any wrongdoing by Xaar or its members 
of staff that falls short of these principles. The 
whistle-blowing, and anti-bribery and corruption 
policies are available and communicated to all 
employees via the Company intranet, and all 
employees	confirm	in	writing	that	they	have	
read and comply with the whistle-blowing and 
anti-bribery and corruption policies. All reported 
incidences of actual or suspected bribery or 
corruption will be promptly and thoroughly 
investigated and dealt with appropriately. The 
purpose of the anti-bribery and corruption 
policy is to protect Xaar and its employees from 
breaches of anti-bribery and corruption laws. 
Xaar does not tolerate any employee or third 
party being involved in any level of bribery or 
corruption. Xaar is committed to complying with 
applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws in all 
countries in which it conducts business.
Performance evaluation
The Board’s policy for individual Executive 
Director performance reviews is for a formal 
and rigorous appraisal process based on 
performance by the individual Director against 
specific	targets.	Individual	Dir ector	performance	
is reviewed at least annually. The Senior 
Independent Director, in consultation with 
the other Non-Executive Directors and taking 
into account the views of the other Directors, 
appraises the performance of the Chairman. 
The Executive Directors, in consultation with 
the Chairman, appraise the performance of the 
Non-Executive Directors.
When new Directors are appointed, they 
r eceive	a	complete	and	specifically	bespoke	
induction and training, aimed at introducing and 
familiarising them to the management team, 
the Group’s activities and processes, and to 
give	them	the	knowledge	r equir ed	to	ef fectively	
execute their role.
The Board reviewed both its own performance 
and the performance of the Board committees 
once	during	the	year	thr ough	a	questionnair e	
issued to all members of the Board. The results 
were reviewed by the Board as a whole and it 
was concluded that individual Board members 
ar e	satisfied	that	the	Boar d	works	well	and	
operates effectively in an environment where 
there is constructive challenge from the Non-
Executive	Dir ectors.	They	ar e	also	satisfied	with	
the contribution made by their colleagues and 
that Board committees operate properly and 
effectively. It is the Board’s intention to review its 
own performance, and that of its committees, 
at least once a year.
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee’s primary responsibilities 
are:
•	 to	monitor	the	integrity	of	the	financial	
statements and announcements and 
r eview	significant	financial	r eporting	
judgements contained therein, as well  
as	financial	and	accounting	policies	 
and practices
•	 to	keep	under	r eview	the	adequacy	and	
effectiveness of internal controls 
• to review procedures, systems and 
controls for whistle blowing, fraud 
detection and bribery prevention
• to review, approve and monitor internal 
audit activities
• to monitor and review the Group’s external 
auditor’s independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness, and
• to make recommendations to the Board 
on the appointment, remuneration and 
terms of engagement of the external 
auditor.
The Audit Committee is not responsible for 
the 	 identification 	 of 	 key 	 risks 	 and 	 r eview 	 the 	
adequacy 	 of 	 arrangements 	 to 	 mitigate 	 those	
risks, which remains the responsibility of the 
main 	 Boar d. 	 The 	 Audit 	 Committee 	 is 	 r equir ed 	 to	
r eport 	 its 	 findings 	 to 	 the 	 Boar d 	 at 	 least 	 annually , 	
identifying any matters on which it considers 
that action or improvement is needed, to make 
recommendations on the steps to be taken, and 
to 	 ensur e 	 that 	 the 	 r equir ed 	 actions 	 ar e 	 taken.
Significant issues
The Audit Committee has a set agenda for 
each of its regular meetings, which is then 
augmented	by	specific	matters	concer ning	the	
Company and in assessing the appropriateness 
of	the	financial	statements.	Key	ar eas	of	focus	
during the year included:
Royalty audits
The results of completed royalty audits in the 
year were discussed by the Audit Committee. 
The actions relating to the outcomes of 
completed audits and the on-going royalty 
audits were agreed.
Cost reduction programme
The Audit Committee oversaw the cost 
reduction programme which was initiated and 
completed in Q4 2014, including reviewing the 
restructuring costs.
Process and system audits 
KPMG were engaged to perform process 
reviews and internal audit procedures over a 
number	of	specifically	targeted	ar eas.	The	Audit	
Committee reviewed potential and actual issues 
encountered, and the results of the completed 
audits in the year. Planned procedures to be 
undertaken going forward were proposed and 
agreed by the Audit Committee.
Accounting framework changes
The Audit Committee considered the impact of 
the changing UK accounting framework on the 
UK subsidiaries and the plan to adopt FRS 101 
effective 1 January 2015. 
Tax areas
The Audit Committee considered the tax 
related areas and projects that impact the 
Group, including capital allowances, transfer 
pricing, patent box and R&D expenditure 
credit. Updates and progress in these areas 
were discussed by the Audit Committee. The 
r equir ements	of	each	ar ea	wer e	r eviewed,	
planned and actions agreed and taken.
Significant issues considered
Significant	issues	that	have	been	consider ed	
by the Audit Committee include revenue 
recognition, provisions, inventory valuation, 
in particular since the step down in demand 
experienced in H2 2014, and capitalisation of 
development costs following the substantial 
progress achieved on Thin Film technology 
development,	and	ther efor e	the	r equir ements	
of IAS 38. These are also areas of focus for the 
external auditor, who report on these matters to 
the Audit Committee.
Robin Williams
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee 
Governance
The Audit Committee is appointed by the 
Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company. The Chairman of the committee, 
Robin Williams, is deemed by the Board to 
have	r ecent	and	r elevant	financial	experience	
as	he	is	a	qualified	Charter ed	Accountant,	and	
has ten years’ experience of advising public 
companies followed by a further ten years as 
CEO or Executive Director at the centre of 
substantial public companies either overseeing 
or working closely with CFOs and Financial 
Controllers.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference 
include all matters indicated by Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The written terms of 
reference of the committee are available on 
r equest	fr om	the	Company	Secr etary .	
Please see the tables on page 33 for details 
of the Audit Committee members in the year 
and the number of Audit Committee meetings 
attended. The committee meetings are also 
attended, by invitation, by the Group CEO, 
the	Finance	Dir ector	and	other	senior	financial	
management as appropriate, as well as by 
the	exter nal	auditor	for	specific	parts	of	the	
meeting.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 35 34 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc • Reviewed audit work performed on 
significant	risk	ar eas,	including	those	ar eas	
identified	and	discussed	by	the	exter nal	
auditor in their report, and ensured the 
independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor and was introduced  
to the new Audit Engagement Partner.
External auditor
Deloitte LLP have been the Company’s 
auditor since 2009 and there has been no 
tender held for audit services during that 
time. The committee considers that the 
auditor’s knowledge of the Group’s business 
and systems gained through experience has 
contributed to the effectiveness of the audit 
process. The committee intends the Company 
to continue to comply fully with the FRC Audit 
Committees	Guidance	r egar ding	the	fr equency	
of audit tender. Under the standard rotation 
process, a new audit engagement partner was 
appointed for 2014.
The Audit Committee has noted that there 
are no contractual obligations to restrict the 
choice of external auditor and has considered 
the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor 
from the market. The committee meets with 
the Company’s auditor at least twice a year. 
The Chief Executive and Finance Director, and 
other	r elevant	managers	as	r equir ed,	attend	by	
invitation, except for a period of each meeting 
where the committee members may meet with 
the auditor without any member of the Group 
management present. 
The	committee	is	r equir ed	to	assess	the	
qualifications,	expertise,	r esour ces,	and	
independence of the external auditor, and 
the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit 
process. The committee reviews the type 
of work, effectiveness of, and level of fees 
charged by the auditor on an annual basis and 
recommends to the Board the appointment, 
reappointment, term, remuneration, and terms 
of engagement of the external auditor. Auditor 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded 
by the committee monitoring fees paid to the 
auditor in respect of both audit and non-
audit work, and approving all additional work 
performed by the external auditor. Non-audit 
services include remuneration services, tax and 
audit advisory.
Note	7	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	
includes disclosures of the auditor’s 
remuneration for the year, including an analysis 
of audit services, audit related services, and 
other non-audit services under those headings 
prescribed by law. The committee monitors 
the level of non-audit fees in relation to the 
audit fee for its bearing on external auditor 
independence.
The independence and objectivity of the auditor 
is regularly considered by the committee taking 
into consideration relevant UK professional 
and	r egulatory	r equir ements.	The	committee	
receives an annual statement from the auditor 
detailing their independence policies and 
safeguar ds	and	confirming	their	independence,	
taking into account relevant ethical guidance 
regarding the provision of non-audit services 
by the external auditor. Under the standard 
rotation process, a new audit engagement 
partner was appointed for 2014. 
The committee considers the effectiveness of 
the external audit and the Group’s relationship 
with the external auditor, Deloitte LLP , on an 
on-going basis, and have conducted a review 
of the effectiveness of the annual audit. This 
review consisted of considering a number of 
key	points	together	with	the	senior	financial	
management of the Group, without the external 
auditor present, and then discussing the 
evaluation with the auditor. The committee was 
able to conclude, on the basis of this exercise 
and its experience over the year, that the 
external audit process remained effective.  
A further review will be carried out following  
the completion of audit procedures on all  
Group companies and reported on in next 
year’s Annual Report.
Key activities
As a result of its work during the year,  
the Audit Committee has concluded that 
it has acted in accordance with its terms 
of reference. The Audit Committee terms 
of reference were last updated in 2013. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will 
be available at the AGM to answer any 
questions	about	the	work	of	the	committee.	
The Audit Committee has performed actions 
to discharge its responsibilities during 2014, 
and its effectiveness was reviewed as part of 
the overall annual Board effectiveness review. 
The committee has carried out the activities 
described as follows:
Financial statements and reports
•	 Reviewed	the	Annual	Report	and	financial	
statements,	the	half-yearly	financial	 
report and as part of this review the  
Audit Committee received a report from 
the external auditor on their audit and 
review performed
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls and disclosures made in 
the 	 Annual 	 Report 	 and 	 financial 	 statements.
Internal controls and compliance
• Reviewed fraud detection and the systems 
and controls for the prevention of bribery.
Internal audit
• Agreed a schedule of the internally 
and externally resourced internal audit 
activities, and reviewed the results of 
internal audit activities performed by 
external resource
•	 Reviewed	the	inter nal	financial	contr ols	
and risk management systems
• Reviewed the results of system processes 
reviews completed in the year.
External audit
• Reviewed and agreed the scope of the 
audit work to be undertaken by the 
auditor, and reviewed non-audit services 
provided and the level of this compared 
with the audit services provided
• Engaged the auditor to complete an Audit 
Quality Review and a Benchmarking 
Review of the Xaar Annual Report, and 
r eviewed	the	findings	of	these	r eports
• Agreed the fees to be paid to the external 
auditor in respect of their services 
rendered for the annual audit and  
interim review
Phil Lawler
Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee 
Governance
The Nomination Committee is appointed by  
the Board from the Non-Executive Directors  
of the Company and the Chief Executive.  
The Chairman of the committee is Phil Lawler. 
The 	 committee 	 meets 	 as 	 r equir ed. 	 The 	 written	
terms of reference of the committee are available 
on 	 r equest 	 fr om 	 the 	 Company 	 Secr etary .
Responsibilities
The Nomination Committee’s primary 
responsibilities are:
• reviewing the size, structure, skills, 
knowledge and composition of the Board
• formulating plans for succession for both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
and
• making recommendations to the Board 
on the appointment of new Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors and their 
reappointment following retirement by 
rotation.
Key issues and activities
The process adopted by the committee to 
identify	a	candidate	for	a	specific	vacancy	is,	
in	the	first	instance,	to	determine	whether	any	
individuals known to the committee would be 
suitable for the role. If no candidates can be 
identified	thr ough	this	pr ocess	then	an	exter nal	
search consultancy will be approached. 
Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by 
members of the committee and other Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors as the committee 
deems appropriate. Once a suitable candidate 
has	been	identified,	the	Chairman	of	the	
committee will recommend to the Board 
that the Company make a formal offer of 
employment to the candidate. 
During the year, the Nominations Committee 
has been engaged in planning the succession 
of the Chief Executive following the announced 
retirement of Ian Dinwoodie, resulting in the 
appointment of the new Chief Executive in 
January 2015, Doug Edwards.
All	Dir ectors	ar e	r equir ed	to	submit	themselves	
for reappointment every year and Directors 
appointed	during	the	year	ar e	r equir ed	to	seek	
r eappointment	at	the	first	AGM	following	their	
appointment. 
Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 37 36 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
Remuneration Committee
Governance
The Remuneration Committee is appointed by 
the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of 
the Company. The Chairman of the committee 
is David Cheesman. The Chief Executive and 
Finance Director attend meetings by invitation, 
except when their own remuneration package 
is being discussed. The written terms of 
reference of the committee are available  
on	r equest	fr om	the	Company	Secr etary .
Responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee’s primary 
responsibilities are:
• to make recommendations to the Board 
on the Group’s policy for executive 
remuneration, and review the on-going 
appropriateness and relevance of the 
policy
• to review the design of all share incentive 
plans and oversee any major changes in 
employee	benefit	structur es
• to monitor the level and structure of 
remuneration for Senior Managers, and
• to determine the individual remuneration 
packages on behalf of the Board for the 
Executive Directors of the Group. 
Key issues and activities
The committee has access to professional 
advice, both inside and outside the Company, 
in the furtherance of its duties. The committee 
has received guidance on best practice for 
Directors’ remuneration from Deloitte LLP and 
PwC LLP during the year, and has reviewed 
and	appr oved	executive	r emuneration,	equity	
budgets, share incentive schemes and grants, 
and bonus schemes.
In 2014 the Remuneration Committee 
undertook a review of the operation of the 
current performance targets for the Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The main principle 
applied by the Committee in its review was 
that the LTIP should be aligned with Company 
strategy, and that the incentive targets should 
be challenging but achievable.
As a result of the review the Committee 
has proposed changes to the LTIP which 
are intended to apply to awards from 2015 
onwards. The changes are summarised in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report. The proposed 
changes will not affect the outstanding LTIP 
grants	which	ar e	due	to	vest	in	2015,	2016	 
and 2017. 
The Directors’ Remuneration report sets out 
in more detail the committee’s policies and 
practices on executive remuneration. 
David Cheesman
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Remuneration report 
This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the regulations on Directors’ remuneration 
disclosure. The report also meets the relevant 
r equir ements	of	the	Listing	Rules	of	the	
Financial Conduct Authority and describes how 
the Board has applied the Principles relating to 
Directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
This report is presented in two sections: 
the annual report on remuneration and the 
Directors’ remuneration policy. The annual 
report on remuneration provides details of the 
amounts earned in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2014 and how the Directors’ 
remuneration policy, which sets out the 
forward-looking remuneration policy, will be 
operated for the year commencing 1 January 
2015. The annual report on remuneration 
is subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 
AGM. The Directors’ remuneration policy 
was approved in May 2014 and in the normal 
course of events will not be subject to a further 
shareholder approval until May 2017. 
Statement from the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the 2014  
Remuneration report. This covers our policy  
on	pay ,	benefits	and	incentives	for	the	Dir ectors	
and the amounts earned for the year ended  
31 December 2014. 
The Committee’s goal is to attract and retain 
management of the highest capability and to 
achieve this we offer competitive packages 
comparable to those offered by companies 
similar to Xaar in terms of size and complexity. 
We aim to provide incentives that reward near 
and longer term performance, are considerate 
to the current climate for salary restraint and 
take into account the views of our shareholders.
Remuneration for 2014
For the 2013 Annual Report, in line with the 
new reporting regulations, the committee 
approved a number of changes to the Group’s 
remuneration policies. The changes included 
the introduction of malus provisions in our Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the introduction 
of	minimum	shar eholding	r equir ement	for	all	
executives of 1 X salary and a three-year plan 
to incrementally increase the salary scales for 
senior executives to bring them into line with 
equivalent	businesses.
The Committee are aware that 2014 has 
been a very challenging year for Xaar with the 
step-down in demand in the Chinese ceramics 
market. The result of this, as highlighted 
elsewhere in this Annual Report, has been 
significant	r eduction	in	r evenue	and	pr ofit	
compared to the exceptional performance of 
2013. This has meant that for 2014 no awards 
were earned in terms of annual bonuses or 
opportunities to invest in bonus matching LTIP 
shares. No salary increases have been paid 
to any of the Directors for 2015. Annualised 
compounded EPS growth above RPI growth 
over the three year performance period ending 
31 December 2014 was 32% and as a result 
100% of the LTIPs awarded on 2 April 2012 
and 1 May 2012, will vest on 2 April 2015  
and 1 May 2015 respectively.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 39 38 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Leading remuneration decisions for 2015
The previous plan to incrementally increase salary scales over a three-year period has been deferred and will be reviewed by the committee for 
2016	based	on	2015	performance.	
The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of the operation of the current performance targets for the LTIP , in light of concerns that 
these	ar e	not	achieving	the	policy	objective;	of	pr oviding	r etentive	arrangements	for	Executive	Dir ectors	which	drive	and	r ewar d	the	achievement	 
of longer term objectives, and are closely aligned to shareholder interests.
The main principle applied by the Committee in its review was that the LTIP should be aligned with Company strategy, and that the incentive targets 
should be challenging but achievable.
As	noted	earlier ,	Xaar	has	suf fer ed	a	step-down	in	sales	and	pr ofitability	in	2014,	which	has	r esulted	in	a	material	change	in	outlook	for	the	
Company .	Based	on	curr ent	outlook	the	pr obability	of	L TIPs	vesting	in	2016	and	2017	is	very	low .	The	Committee,	ther efor e,	felt	that	in	or der	to	
motivate	and	r etain	the	Executive	Dir ectors	to	deliver	the	Company’ s	strategy	over	the	next	period,	changes	would	be	r equir ed	to	the	way	the	L TIP	
performance measures are structured.
The proposed changes to the LTIP which are intended to apply to awards from 2015 onwards are summarised below. The proposed changes will 
not	af fect	the	outstanding	L TIP	grants	which	ar e	due	to	vest	in	2015,	2016	and	2017.
Feature Proposal
LTIP – Maximum Award Level • Unchanged at 100% of base salary p.a.
LTIP – Performance Measures • Retain the existing EPS measure
• Introduce a relative TSR measure
LTIP – Weighting of Performance Measures • Two thirds cumulative adjusted EPS
• One third TSR relative to FTSE TechMARK All Share Index
LTIP – EPS Performance Period 
 
• Unchanged three-year performance period
• Absolute cumulative EPS performance over the performance period rather than average 
annual growth rates derived from performance in year 3 versus the base year
LTIP – EPS Targets for 2015 Award • Maximum 74 pence
• Threshold 38 pence
LTIP – EPS Vesting 
 
• Maximum – 100%
• Threshold – reduce current level of vesting from 35% to 25%
• Straight line vesting between threshold and maximum
LTIP – EPS Calculation • Adjust to exclude the capitalisation or amortisation of development costs under IAS 38
LTIP - Relative TSR Vesting 
 
 
•	 Upper	quartile	–	100%
• Median – 25%
• Below Median – 0%
•	 Straight	line	vesting	between	median	and	upper	quartile
Cumulative EPS
The Company’s historic EPS has been relatively 
volatile year on year, which produces potentially 
unintended results when using an annual 
average growth measure. Vesting can be 
dependent on timing and volatility rather than 
consistent performance. By measuring EPS as 
a cumulative amount delivered over the three- 
year performance period, the Committee is able 
to reward consistent sustainable performance 
by measuring the absolute EPS delivered over 
this period, rather than rewarding the change 
of EPS in year 3 versus the base year, which 
may	 not	 r eflect	 consistent	 performance	 but	 may	
reward volatility in earnings.
This issue is evidenced when the Company’s 
historic LTIP vesting is analysed with only one 
year in the past ten years, resulting in vesting at 
a level other than 0% or 100%. The introduction 
of a cumulative target for EPS will smooth the 
vesting outcomes, and ensure that only strong 
cumulative performance over the period is 
rewarded. 
The calculation of EPS will exclude amounts 
accounted for under International Accounting 
Standar d	38,	specifically	capitalisation	or	
amortisation of development expenditure. It is 
considered that excluding these costs results in 
a	fair er	measur e	of	the	Company’ s	pr ofitability .
The Introduction of TSR
The LTIP performance metrics proposed are 
a blend of EPS and relative TSR (weighted 
two thirds and one third respectively). The 
reintroduction of the relative TSR measure 
ensures that the Company’s performance  
is in part measured by performance relative  
to the market.
• The TSR condition will be measured 
against the constituents of the FTSE 
TechMARK All Share Index at the end of 
three years
• 25% of the award will vest for performance 
equal	to	median	position	against	the	index,	
rising	to	100%	vesting	for	upper	quartile	
position against the index, with straight-
line vesting between these points
• While the FTSE TechMARK All Share 
index is a wide ranging index, the lack of 
available direct comparators to Xaar, and 
the simplicity of using this index outweigh 
any disadvantages of using such a broad 
index.
 
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Committee has also considered the latest 
guidance in relation to the introduction of malus 
and clawback into incentive arrangements, 
minimum 	 shar eholding 	 r equir ements, 	 and	
holding periods in light of the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Malus provisions are already 
in place, and clawback will be introduced for the 
2015 grants onwards. The Committee is happy 
that 	 the 	 minimum 	 shar eholding 	 r equir ements 	 ar e	
appropriate for a company of the size of Xaar. 
In addition, the Committee had decided that 
additional holding periods post vesting would 
not be appropriate given the current issues set 
out 	 above 	 with 	 the 	 L TIP; 	 but 	 will 	 r eview 	 this 	 at	
the point of determining each grant.
The Remuneration Committee has consulted 
with the Company’s major shareholders 
regarding these changes.
David Cheesman
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
 
19 March 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 41 40 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration
This part of the report sets out the actual payments made by the Company to its Directors with respect to the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Remuneration Committee’s policy is to attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre by offering remuneration competitive with comparable 
publicly listed companies, and to drive Company performance by providing arrangements which fairly and responsibly reward individuals for their 
contribution	to	the	success	of	the	Gr oup.	Performance	r elated	bonuses	and	equity-based	r emuneration	r epr esent	a	substantial	pr oportion	of	
Executive Directors’ potential remuneration.
Single figure table
The aggregate remuneration provided to Directors who have served as Directors in the year ended 31 December 2014 is set out below, along with 
the	aggr egate	r emuneration	pr ovided	to	such	Dir ectors	for	the	financial	year	ended	31	December	2013.
Director
Salary/fees
(a)
 £’000
Benefits
(b)
£’000
Bonus
(c)
 £’000
Long term
 incentives
(d)
£’000
Pension
(e)
£’000
Total 
remuneration
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2014
Executive
Ian Dinwoodie 260 34 – 239 29 562
Alex Bevis 169 20 – 296 17 502
Ted Wiggans 183 21 – 181 18 403
Richard Barham 183 21 – 186 18 408
Edmund Creutzmann
1
131 15 – – 13 159
Ramon Borrell
2
37 5 – n/a
2
4 46
Non-Executive
Phil Lawler (Chairman) 90 – – – – 90
David Cheesman 39 – – – – 39
Robin Williams 42 – – – – 42
Year ended 31 December 2013
Executive
Ian Dinwoodie 232 38 255 829 25 1,379
Alex Bevis 151 20 151 408 15 745
Ted Wiggans 162 20 178 408 16 784
Richard Barham 166 21 166 1 17 371
Ramon Borrell
2
145 20 123 942 15 1,245
Non-Executive
Phil Lawler (Chairman) 80 – – – – 80
David Cheesman 35 – – – – 35
Robin Williams 38 – – – – 38
1 Edmund Creutzmann joined the Board on 1 April 2014.
2 Ramon Borrell stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2014.
The	figur es	in	the	single	figur e	table	on	the	left	ar e	derived	fr om	the	following:
 
(a) Salary/fees The amount of base salary/fees received in the year.
(b)	Benefits This	is	the	taxable	value	of	benefits	and	the	flexible	benefits	allowance	r eceived	in	the	year .	
(c) Bonus 
 
The value of the bonus earned in respect of the year, including any part of the bonus invested 
into bonus investment shares for a period of three years. Performance against the targets which 
applied	for	the	financial	year	is	pr ovided	on	page	45.	
(d) Long term incentives  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The	value	of	performance	r elated	incentives	vesting	in	r espect	of	the	financial	year	(including	any	
Matching Share Awards granted under the LTIP) and the value of SAYE options and Matching 
Shares under the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP) granted based on the fair value of 
the options/shares at grant.
The performance condition for the Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards 
granted under the LTIP on 2 April 2012 was EPS growth against RPI over the three-year 
performance period ending 31 December 2014.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company’s annualised, compounded EPS growth 
above RPI growth over the three year performance period commencing 1 January 2012 and 
ending	31	December	2014	was	32%	which	exceeded	the	10%	thr eshold	r equir ed	for	full	
vesting, and therefore 100% of the Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards in 
respect of the year ending 31 December 2014 will vest. The estimated face value of the vested 
shares is based on a share price of 277p being the average market value of Xaar’s shares for 
the	last	quarter	of	year	ended	31	December	2014	(932p	for	comparative	calculation	in	2013	
analysis).
For	the	year	ended	31	December	2013	comparative	figur es,	100%	of	the	Performance	Shar e	
plan Awards and Matching Share Awards in respect of the performance period commencing  
1 January 2011 and ending 31 December 2013 vested.
Also	included	in	the	long	term	incentives	figur e	ar e:
SAYE options granted in the year, valued at the accounting value on date of grant. Matching 
Share Awards granted under the SIP scheme during the year, again valued at the accounting 
value on date of grant.
(e) Pension The	value	of	the	employer	contribution	to	the	defined	contribution	pension	plan	(or	the	value	of	a	
salary supplement paid in lieu of a contribution to this pension plan).
Individual elements of remuneration
Base salary and fees
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee prior to the beginning of each year and when an individual 
changes position or responsibility. In deciding appropriate levels, the Remuneration Committee considers the role, responsibility, and experience  
of the individual, corporate and individual performance, market conditions, and the range of salary increases awarded across the Group.
Base salary increases for Executive Directors were in the range 10%-13% from 1 January 2014 for Ian Dinwoodie, Alex Bevis, Ted Wiggans, and 
Richard Barham. 
The remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed periodically. The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were increased during 
2014, in the range 11%-13% from 1 January 2014.
For the reasons stated in the Annual Statement of the Chairman there will be no base salary rise for the Directors for 2015.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 43 42 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Performance against targets
 
Annualised compounded EPS growth above RPI growth over the three year performance period commencing  
1 January 2012 and ending 31 December 2014 32%
% of 2012 LTIP award due to vest in April and May 2015 100%
Long term incentives awarded during the financial year
The table below outlines awards made under the LTIP to Executive Directors in 2014:
Award basis
Number of 
shares
Face value of  
the award 
£’000
Vesting at
threshold
Performance 
period
Vesting 
date
2 April 2014 Ian Dinwoodie
Performance 
Share plan 
Awards: 100%
of base salary
28,921 261 2 April 2017
2 April 2014 Alex Bevis 18,798 169 2 April 2017
2 April 2014 Ted Wiggans 20,355 184 35% of award 1 January 2014 to 2 April 2017
2 April 2014 Richard Barham 20,355 184 31	December	2016 2 April 2017
2 April 2014 Edmund Creutzmann 19,466 175 2 April 2017
12 May 2014 Alex Bevis Bonus Matching 
Share plan Award
8,698 66
35% of award
1 January 2014 to 12 May 2017
12 May 2014 Ted Wiggans 8,800 67 31	December	2016 12 May 2017
The	shar e	price	used	to	calculate	the	face	value	of	the	awar d	was	£9.02	for	the	2	April	2014	awar d	and	£7.65	for	the	12	May	2014	awar d,	being	
the mid-market price on the day prior to award date.
The performance conditions for these LTIP awards are the same as those applying to the 2013 LTIP awards and are described in full on page 104.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Individual elements of remuneration 
continued
Benefits
Benefits	principally	comprise	a	company	car	
or car allowance, private medical insurance 
and basic levels of other insurances (such as 
critical illness cover). In addition, Executive 
Directors are provided with an allowance of 
5% of base salary which they can apply to a 
range	of	benefits	such	as	life	insurance,	critical	
illness insurance etc.
Pension 
The Company operates a self-administered, 
defined	contribution,	HMRC	appr oved	pension	
scheme. All current Executive Directors 
participate in this scheme. In appropriate 
circumstances, Executive Directors may take 
a salary supplement instead of contributions 
into a pension plan. This salary supplement 
does not form part of salary for the purposes 
of calculating any other entitlement under the 
policy. Non-Executive Directors do not receive 
pension contributions.
Annual bonus
For the year ended 31 December 2014 there 
was no annual bonus, as this was based on 
performance	against	a	Gr oup	pr ofit	target,	
which was not achieved for 2014.
Gr oup	 pr ofit	 is	 defined	 as	 Gr oup	 adjusted	 pr ofit	
befor e	tax,	which	for	2014	was	£24.6	million.
The	Boar d	considers	the	Gr oup	pr ofit	target	
to be a matter that is commercially sensitive 
and	should	ther efor e	r emain	confidential	to	the	
Company. The Board believes that disclosure 
of this commercially sensitive information could 
negatively impact the Company’s competitive 
position by providing our competitors with 
insight into our business plans, expectations 
and, in the case of individual performance,  
our	strategic	actions	r esulting	in	significant	 
risk	to	futur e	pr ofitability	and	shar eholder	value.	
However, the Remuneration Committee will 
review this annually, and may disclose some 
details on a retrospective basis where  
it considers it appropriate to do so.
Value earned from long term incentive 
awards
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 
April 2007 and comprises two elements: 
Matching Share Awards and Performance 
Share Awards.
• Performance Share Awards: subject to the 
achievement of performance conditions
• Matching Share Awards: as described 
above, Executive Directors may choose 
to invest the bonus earned (on a post-
tax basis) in bonus investment shares. 
Matching Share Awards are granted 
subject to the achievement of performance 
conditions on a one for one basis (based 
on the pre-tax) value of the bonus used to 
acquir ed	bonus	investment	shar es	(subject	
to an overall maximum of 50% of salary). 
Performance Share Awards and Matching 
Share Awards granted to Executive Directors 
on 2 April 2012 and 1 May 2012 were based 
on growth in EPS against RPI as shown below:
Annualised, 
compounded growth in EPS:
% of LTIP 
awards vesting
RPI + 4% p.a. 35% vests
RPI + 10% p.a. 100% vests
Straight-line vesting applies for performance 
between these levels.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 45 44 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Shareholding guidelines and total shareholdings of Directors
With effect from 14 May 2014, the date of the AGM, the Remuneration Committee have introduced a shareholding guideline of 1 x salary. Executive 
Dir ectors	will	have	until	the	later	of	the	fifth	anniversary	of	appointment	or	the	fifth	anniversary	of	intr oduction	of	the	policy	to	build	this	level	of	
shareholding. The extent to which each Executive Director has met the shareholding guideline is shown in the table below:
Unvested
Shareholding 
guidelines
Current 
shareholdings
 (% of salary) Type
Owned 
outright
Subject to 
performance 
conditions
Not subject to 
performance
conditions
Total as at 
31 December 
2014
Executive Directors
Ian Dinwoodie 100% of salary 77,449 (115%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
77,449 – – 77,449
– 169,759 – 169,759
– – – –
– – – –
Alex Bevis 100% of salary 53,087 (121%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
53,087 – – 53,087
– 198,499 – 198,499
– – 9,570 9,570
– – 490 490
Ted Wiggans 100% of salary 9,190 (19%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
9,190 – – 9,190
– 179,185 – 179,185
– – 9,570 9,570
– – 490 490
Richard Barham 100% of salary 6,490	(14%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
6,490 – – 6,490
– 126,081 – 126,081
– – 2,662 2,662
– – 490 490
Edmund Creutzmann 100% of salary – (0%) Shares 
LTIP options 
SAYE options
Matching SIP
– – – –
– 19,466 – 19,466
– – 5,325 5,325
– – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Phil Lawler (Chairman) – – Shares 99,930
–
– 99,930
David Cheesman – – Shares –
–
– –
Robin Williams – – Shares 1,500
–
– 1,500
There have been no changes in the Directors’ holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 31 December 
2014 and 19 March 2015.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Outstanding Directors’ share awards
The awards held by Executive Directors of the Company under the LTIP are shown below:
LTIP
The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director of the Company under the Xaar plc 2007 LTIP are as follows. All options under the LTIP 
are nil-cost options such that no exercise price is payable. The performance conditions for these LTIP awards are the same as those applying to the 
2013 LTIP awards and are described in full in note 33.
Name
As at 
1 January
 2014
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during
 the year
As at 
31 December
 2014 Grant date
Share price 
at date 
of grant
Earliest 
date of 
exercise Expiry date
Ian Dinwoodie 88,889 – (88,889) – 11 April 2011 £2.29 11 April 2014 11 April 2021
86,250 – – 86,250 2 April 2012 £2.36 2 April 2015 2 April 2022
54,588 – – 54,588 2 April 2013 £4.20 2	April	2016 2 April 2023
– 28,921 – 28,921 2 April 2014 £8.96 2 April 2017 2 April 2024
229,727 28,921 (88,889) 169,759 
Alex Bevis 43,556 – (30,000) 13,556 11 April 2011 £2.29 11 April 2014 11 April 2021
60,417 – – 60,417 2 April 2012 £2.36 2 April 2015 2 April 2022
45,860 – – 45,860* 1 May 2012 £2.28 1 May 2015 1 May 2022
35,529 – – 35,529 2 April 2013 £4.20 2	April	2016 2 April 2023
15,641 – – 15,641* 15 May 2013 £6.14 15	May	2016 15 May 2023
– 18,798 – 18,798 2 April 2014 £8.96 2 April 2017 2 April 2024
– 8,698 – 8,698* 12 May 2014 £7.52 12 May 2017 12 May 2024
201,003 27,496 (30,000) 198,499 
Ted Wiggans 43,556 – – 43,556 11 April 2011 £2.29 11 April 2014 11 April 2021
64,583 – – 64,583 2 April 2012 £2.36 2 April 2015 2 April 2022
38,118 – – 38,118 2 April 2013 £4.20 2	April	2016 2 April 2023
3,773 – – 3,773* 15 May 2013 £6.14 15	May	2016 15 May 2023
– 20,355 – 20,355 2 April 2014 £8.96 2 April 2017 2 April 2024
– 8,800 – 8,800* 12 May 2014 £7.52 12 May 2017 12 May 2024
150,030 29,155 – 179,185 
Richard Barham 66,667 – – 66,667 2 April 2012 £2.36 2 April 2015 2 April 2022
39,059 – – 39,059 2 April 2013 £4.20 2	April	2016 2 April 2023
– 20,355 – 20,355 2 April 2014 £8.96 2 April 2017 2 April 2024
105,726 20,355 – 126,081 
Edmund Creutzmann – 19,466 – 19,466 2 April 2014 £8.96 2 April 2017 2 April 2024
– 19,466 – 19,466 
* LTIPs granted as part of the bonus matching scheme.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 47 46 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc All employee share plans
The Executive Directors may participate in the Company’s all employee share plans, the Xaar plc 2007 SAYE Scheme (SAYE Scheme) and the Xaar 
SIP , on the same basis as other employees. 
The SAYE Scheme provides an opportunity to save a set monthly amount (up to £500) over three years towards the exercise of a discounted share 
option, which is granted at the start of the three years. 
The SIP provides an opportunity for employees to buy shares from their pre-tax remuneration up to the limit permitted by the relevant tax legislation 
(curr ently	£1,800	per	year)	and	ar e	awar ded	additional	shar es	for	fr ee	on	a	matching	basis;	the	Company	curr ently	operates	the	plan	on	the	basis	of	
a 1:1 match but may award Matching Shares up to the maximum ratio permitted by the relevant tax legislation (currently a 2:1 ratio). 
Options and awards under these plans are not subject to performance conditions.
The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director under the SAYE Scheme are as follows:
Name
As at 
1 January
 2014
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during
 the year
As at 
31 December
 2014 Grant date
 
Exercise 
price
Earliest 
date of 
exercise Expiry date
Alex Bevis 4,245 – – 4,245 1 November 2011 £2.12 1 November 2014 1 May 2015
– 5,325 – 5,325 1 November 2014 £3.38 1 November 2017 1 May 2018
Ted Wiggans 4,245 – – 4,245 1 November 2011 £2.12 1 November 2014 1 May 2015
– 5,325 – 5,325 1 November 2014 £3.38 1 November 2017 1 May 2018
Richard Barham – 2,662 – 2,662 1 November 2014 £3.38 1 November 2017 1 May 2018
Edmund Creutzmann – 5,325 – 5,325 1 November 2014 £3.38 1 November 2017 1 May 2018
The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director under the SIP are as follows:
Name
Total number 
of matching
 shares as at
 1 January 2014
Total number 
of partnership
 shares awarded
 in the year
Total number
 of matching
 shares as at 
31 December 
2014
Alex Bevis 317 173 490
Ted Wiggans 317 173 490
Richard Barham 317 173 490
Payments made to former Directors during the year
Phil Eaves resigned from the Board in March 2012 and ceased employment with the Company in June 2012. In respect of Mr Eaves’ unvested long 
term incentive awards under the LTIP granted on 11 April 2011, the Remuneration Committee exercised discretion and determined that he would 
be treated as a ‘good leaver’ under the terms of the plan. The number of shares which vested on 11 April 2014 was determined by applying the 
original	performance	conditions	and	r educing	the	number	granted	on	11	April	2011	to	r eflect	his	length	of	service	during	the	performance	period.	
Payments for loss of office made during the year
No	payments	for	loss	of	office	have	been	made	to	Dir ectors	during	the	year	ended	31	December	2014.
Performance graph and table
The graph on page 49 shows the Company’s performance measured by total shareholder return (TSR), compared with the performance of the 
FTSE TechMARK All Share Index, which the Remuneration Committee considers to be the most appropriate index for comparison because they 
illustrate	the	Company’ s	TSR	performance	against	a	br oad	equity	market	index	of	similar	UK	companies.	
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2014, of £100 invested in Xaar plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE TechMARK All Share Index. 
The table below shows details of the total remuneration, annual bonus (as a percentage of salary) and LTIP vesting percentage for Ian Dinwoodie 
over	the	last	six	financial	years.
Total 
remuneration
Annual bonus 
as a % of 
maximum 
opportunity
LTIP as a % 
of maximum 
opportunity
Year ended 31 December 2014 562 0% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2013 1,379 83% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2012 649 53% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2011 1,244 100% 100%
Year ended 31 December 2010 504 80% 32%
Year ended 31 December 2009 229 0% 0%
0 
500 
1,000 
1,500 
2,000 
2,500 
3,000 
31-Dec-08 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-14
Total shareholder return 
£ 
 
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) Xaar 
FTSE TechMARK All Share 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 49 48 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc CEO pay increase in relation to all employees
The	table	below	sets	out	in	r elation	to	salary ,	taxable	benefits	and	annual	bonus	the	incr ease	between	the	pay	for	the	year	ended	31	December	
2013 and the pay for the year ended 31 December 2014 for Ian Dinwoodie compared with the average increase between the same periods for the 
wider	workfor ce.	For	the	purposes	of	the	table	below ,	the	wider	workfor ce	has	been	defined	as	the	UK	employees	of	the	Gr oup.	This	comparator	
group was chosen because it is the most relevant sub-set of employees and can be used consistently.
Element of remuneration
Ian Dinwoodie/
 % change
Wider 
workforce 
average/ 
% change
Salary 12% 3%
Benefits (11%) 3%
Annual bonus (100%) (100%)
Overall (44%) (14%)
Spend on pay
The table below sets out the Group’s distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees 
(including	employer	social	security ,	pension	contributions	and	shar e-based	payments),	as	r eported	in	the	audited	financial	statements	for	the	
financial	year	ended	31	December	2014.	
2014
£,000
2013
£’000
Change
%
Dividends paid to shareholders 6,377 4,059 57
Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees 34,618 35,770 (3)
Implementation of Directors’ remuneration policy for the financial year commencing 1 January 2015
Information	on	how	the	Company	intends	to	implement	the	policy	for	the	financial	year	commencing	1	January	2015	is	set	out	below .
The fundamental structure of the package remains unchanged and we are not changing the annual bonus opportunity, deferred bonus matching 
and	long	term	incentive	opportunity	or	defined	contribution	rate	for	pensions.
Basic salary and fees
Our	appr oach	on	base	salary	continues	to	be	to	pr ovide	a	fixed	r emuneration	component	which	r eflects	the	experience	and	capabilities	of	the	
individual in the role, the demonstrated performance of the individual in the role, and which is competitive in the markets in which we operate.
Although the Remuneration Committee resolved to move base salaries progressively over a three-year period, this has been delayed for one year. 
Therefore there is no base salary increases for the Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2015. The Remuneration Committee will reassess 
the	intended	incr eases	in	2016	and	2017	and	consider	whether	it	r emains	appr opriate	at	that	time.
The plan to move the Non-Executive Directors’ fees towards the lower end of the market competitive range over the next three years has also been 
delayed by one year, therefore there are no Non-Executive Directors fee increases for 2015. 
Doug	Edwar ds	joined	the	Boar d	as	Chief	Executive	fr om	5	January	2015,	and	Jim	Brault	joined	the	Boar d	as	Chief	Human	Resour ces	Officer	fr om	 
2 March 2015. The base salary for the newly appointed Executive Directors is as follows:
 
Doug Edwards £300,000 per annum
Jim Brault £169,000	per	annum
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Annual bonus
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed 
the performance metrics and targets for the 
annual bonus to ensure that they remain 
appropriately stretching in the current 
environment and continue to be aligned 
with the business strategy. No changes to 
the	quantum,	performance	conditions	or	
performance targets are proposed.
The	Boar d	considers	the	Gr oup	pr ofit	target	
for 2015 to be a matter that is commercially 
sensitive and should therefore remain 
confidential	to	the	Company .	It	pr ovides	our	
competitors with insight into our business 
plans, expectations and, in the case of 
individual performance, our strategic actions. 
However, the Remuneration Committee may 
disclose on a retrospective basis how the 
Company’s performance relates to any annual 
bonus payments made.
Long term incentives
Changes to the performance conditions and 
performance targets are proposed for LTIP 
awards granted from 2015, as described 
on pages 40 and 41. The ability to grant 
awards under the current LTIP rules (which 
also include the provisions which govern 
the Matching Share Awards) expires in April 
2017. The Remuneration Committee intends 
to review the structure of the package and 
operation of the incentive arrangements and 
will seek shareholder approval for any new 
plans prior to this date.
In the meantime, in line with best practice, 
the Remuneration Committee introduced 
a 1 x salary shareholding guideline for 
Executive Directors and a malus provision 
in relation to LTIP awards, in 2014. In 2015, 
the Remuneration Committee will introduce 
a clawback provision for future awards 
under the long term incentive plan, to allow 
the committee to recover cash or shares 
which have been paid or transferred, if an 
act or omission contributes to a material 
misstatement	of	the	Gr oup’ s	financial	
statements or results in material loss or 
reputational damage for the Company, for a 
period up to two years following determination 
of the vesting outcome.
Consideration by the Directors of matters 
relating to Directors’ remuneration
Membership
The Company has established a Remuneration 
Committee which is constituted in accordance 
with the recommendations of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The terms of reference of 
the Remuneration Committee can be obtained 
by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by 
David Cheesman and its other members 
during the year ended 31 December 2014 
were Phil Lawler and Robin Williams. All 
members of the Remuneration Committee are 
considered independent within the meaning of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The principal function of the Remuneration 
Committee is to determine, on behalf of the 
Boar d,	the	specific	r emuneration	and	other	
benefits	of	Executive	Dir ectors,	including	
pension contributions, bonus arrangements, 
long term incentives and service contracts. 
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors 
are determined by the Chief Executive 
Officer	and	the	Chairman.	The	fees	paid	to	
the Chairman are determined by the Chief 
Executive	Officer	and	the	Non-Executive	
Directors.
Additionally, the Remuneration Committee 
makes recommendations to the Board  
on the framework of Executive Director 
remuneration as well as principal Company-
wide compensation programmes.
The members of the Remuneration Committee 
have	no	personal	financial	inter est,	other	
than as shareholders, in the matters to be 
decided,	no	actual	or	potential	conflicts	of	
interest arising from other directorships and 
no day to day operational responsibility within 
the Company. Executive Directors are entitled 
to accept appointments outside the Group 
providing that the Chairman’s permission  
is sought.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 51 50 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration continued
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is assisted in its work by Xaar’s human resources department including, from 2 March 2015, the Chief Human 
Resour ces	Officer .	In	2014	the	Committee	was	also	assisted	by	Ian	Dinwoodie,	Retiring	Chief	Executive,	and	Alex	Bevis,	Finance	Dir ector .	The	Chief	
Executive	Officer	is	consulted	on	the	r emuneration	of	those	who	r eport	dir ectly	to	him	and	also	of	other	senior	executives.	No	Executive	Dir ector	or	
employee is present or takes part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration. 
During the year, the Remuneration Committee was assisted in its work by the following external consultants:
Advisor Details of appointment Services provided by the advisor
Fees paid by the Company 
for advice to the Remuneration 
Committee and basis of charge
Other services provided 
to the Company in the year 
ended 31 December 2014
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC) 
Appointed by the Board 
in 2013
Advice regarding changes 
to the LTIP for 2015 
onwards
n/a Corporate tax advice
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) 
 
 
 
 
Appointed by 
the Remuneration 
Committee in 2013 
following a competitive 
tender process
General remuneration 
advice, including advice 
on the new reporting 
regulations in connection 
with the disclosure of 
Directors’ remuneration
£16,800
Charged on a time/
cost	basis	or	fixed	fee	
dependent on nature 
of project
External auditor and 
certain other services  
(see	page	86	
of the Annual Report)
The Remuneration Committee took into account the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct when reviewing Deloitte’s role as external 
auditor. As Deloitte are external auditor to the Company, Deloitte’s advice to the Remuneration Committee is governed by certain guidelines and 
safeguards. 
The	Remuneration	Committee	is	satisfied	that	the	r emuneration	advice	pr ovided	by	both	PwC	and	Deloitte	is	objective	and	independent.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Shareholder voting
The Company remains committed to on-going shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. The following table sets out 
actual voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2013 and in respect of the 
resolution to approve the Directors’ remuneration policy to take effect immediately after the AGM on 14 May 2014.
Number of votes
For (including 
discretion) Against
 
Withheld
Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 
31 December 2013
56,993,056 85,639 44,774
(99.85%) (0.15%) 
Directors’ remuneration policy 54,548,407 1,096,092 1,478,970
(98.03%) (1.97%) 
Directors’ remuneration policy
This part of the report sets out the Company’s Directors’ remuneration policy, which, following shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, took binding 
effect from 14 May 2014. 
The Directors’ remuneration policy is not audited.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 53 52 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Policy table for Executive Directors
The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors:
Alignment with strategy/purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base salary
Cor e	element	of	fixed	r emuneration	that	pr ovides	the	
basis to recruit and retain talent necessary to deliver 
the business strategy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally reviewed annually, any increases generally apply from 1 January (but may be 
r eviewed	mor e	fr equently	if	r equir ed).
When determining base salary levels, consideration is given to the following:
• role, responsibility and experience of the individual
• corporate and individual performance
• market conditions including typical pay levels for comparable roles in companies  
of a similar size and complexity
• the range of salary increases awarded across the Group.
No maximum salary opportunity has been set out in this policy report 
to avoid setting expectations for Executive Directors and employees. 
The base salaries effective as at 1 January 2014, which remain 
unchanged as at 1 January 2015, are shown on page 42. The 
Remuneration Committee has resolved to move base salaries 
progressively to a level which is market competitive (in general, 
positioned towards the lower end of the market range) taking  
account of individual factors such as:
• increase in scope and responsibility
• a new Executive Director being moved to market positioning  
over time
• alignment to market level.
Not applicable.
Benefits 
Pr ovide	a	market-competitive	benefits	package	to	
r ecruit	and	r etain	Dir ectors	of	the	calibr e	r equir ed	for	
the business.
Participation in the Company’s Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP) and Share Save Scheme (SAYE) encourages 
share ownership and alignment with the wider 
workforce. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive	Dir ectors	r eceive	base	benefits	including	car	allowance	(or	company	car),	
private medical insurance, and basic levels of other insurances (such as critical illness 
cover).
All	UK	staf f,	including	Executive	Dir ectors,	ar e	also	pr ovided	with	a	benefit	allowance	
which	they	can	apply	to	a	range	of	benefits,	including	pension	contributions.	In	some	
circumstances, and subject to Remuneration Committee approval, the allowance may  
be	paid	in	cash	rather	than	utilised	to	pur chase	benefits.
The SIP and SAYE are HMRC approved share plans for all employees facilitating the 
acquisition	of	shar es	in	the	Company	at	a	discount.
Other	benefits	may	be	pr ovided	based	on	individual	cir cumstances,	such	as,	but	not	
limited	to:	housing	or	r elocation	allowances,	travel	allowance	or	other	expatriate	benefits.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee has not set an absolute maximum 
on	the	level	of	benefits	Executive	Dir ectors	r eceive,	the	value	of	
benefits	is	set	at	a	level	which	the	Remuneration	Committee	considers	
to be appropriately positioned taking into account relevant market 
levels based on the nature and location of the role and individual 
circumstances.
The	flexible	benefits	allowance	is	curr ently	up	to	5%	of	base	salary .	
The Remuneration Committee has the authority to review and amend 
this rate as appropriate. Individuals have the choice to invest all or 
part	of	this	amount	in	their	pension	scheme,	in	addition	to	the	benefits	
outlined	in	the	‘Retir ement	benefits’	section	of	this	table.
SAYE and SIP limits as permitted in accordance with the relevant tax 
legislation.
Not applicable.
Retirement benefits
Pr ovide	market	competitive	post-employment	benefits	
to	r ecruit	and	r etain	Dir ectors	of	the	calibr e	r equir ed	for	
the business. 
Executive	Dir ectors	ar e	eligible	to	participate	in	the	defined	contribution	pension	scheme	
(or such other pension plan as may be deemed appropriate).
In appropriate circumstances, Executive Directors may take a salary supplement instead 
of contributions into a pension plan.
10% of base salary for the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has the authority to review and amend 
this rate as appropriate.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus 
Rewards performance against annual targets which 
support the strategic direction of the Company.  
The majority of staff participate in the same scheme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Targets are set annually and any pay-out is determined by the Remuneration Committee 
after the period-end, based on performance against those targets. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to vary the bonus pay-out should any formulaic output not 
produce a fair result for either the Executive Director or the Company, taking account of 
the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of overall business performance.
The annual bonus is delivered in cash. Executive Directors may choose to invest the 
bonus earned (on a post-tax basis) in bonus investment shares, in return for participation 
in	the	bonus	matching	element	of	the	L TIP	–	see	pages	56	and	57	for	further	details.
Bonus	investment	shar es	ar e	beneficially	owned	by	the	individual	and	ar e	not	subject	 
to forfeiture.
Additionally Directors may opt to invest in the Company SIP (refer to note 33 for details).
Overall maximum annual bonus 133% of salary.
Financial performance:
The	Company	pr ofit	performance	element	has	a	linear	r elationship	with	
adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax.	The	pay-out	has	the	following	parameters:
Below threshold performance: 0% of salary.
On-target performance: 50% of salary.
Maximum: 100% of salary.
The bonus is then subject to a multiplier in the range of 0-1.33 which  
is	applied	to	r eflect	individual	performance,	wher e	1.0	is	used	for	 
‘on-target’ individual performance.
Str etching	performance	targets	ar e	set	each	year	r eflecting	the	
business priorities that underpin Group strategy.
100% of salary can be earned based on achieving these performance 
targets.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 55 54 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
Alignment with strategy/purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Long Term Incentive Plan
Drive and reward the achievement of longer term 
objectives aligned closely to shareholders’ interests.
Retain key executives over a longer term 
measurement period.
Provide alignment with shareholders’ interests.
Supports retention and promotes share ownership.
Malus applies to enable the Company to mitigate risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in April 2007 and comprises two elements: 
Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards.
Performance Share Awards: are usually made on an annual basis and will vest subject 
to the achievement of performance conditions.
Matching Share Awards: as described above, Executive Directors may choose to invest 
the bonus earned (on a post-tax basis) in bonus investment shares, in return for the 
opportunity to earn a Matching Share Award subject to the achievement of  
performance conditions. 
For both elements of the LTIP , awards of conditional shares, restricted stock or nil cost 
options can be made with vesting dependent on the achievement of performance 
conditions, normally over a three year performance period. Vested LTIP options must 
be exercised within ten years of the date of grant. Under the rules of the LTIP , the 
Remuneration Committee has discretion to satisfy vested LTIP awards in cash.
On the vesting/exercise of an LTIP award, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion 
to	decide	that	executives	can	r eceive	an	amount	(in	cash	or	shar es)	equal	to	the	dividends	
paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of an award on the number of 
shares which have vested.
Awards may vest early on a change of control (or other relevant event) subject to 
the satisfaction of the performance conditions (as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee) and pro-rating for the LTIP was approved by shareholders in April 2007  
and comprises two elements: Matching Share Awards and Performance Share Awards.
In ‘good leaver’ circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to allow 
all or part of unvested awards to be retained by the individual.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2014, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to reduce any LTIP awards which have not yet vested (i.e. a malus provision) if an act 
or	omission	contributes	to	a	material	misstatement	of	the	Gr oup’ s	financial	statements	or	
results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company.
For awards granted on or after 1 January 2015, the Remuneration Committee has the 
right to recover cash or shares which have been paid or transferred (i.e. a clawback 
provision) if an act or omission contributes to a material misstatement of the Group’s 
financial	statements	or	r esults	in	material	loss	or	r eputational	damage	for	the	Company ,	
for a period up to two years following determination of the vesting outcome.
The Remuneration Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Long 
Term Incentive Plan (‘ALTIP’) awards. ALTIP awards enable the participant and Company 
to	benefit	fr om	HMRC	appr oved	option	tax	tr eatment	in	r espect	of	part	of	the	awar d,	
without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants. ALTIP awards may be 
structured either as an approved option for the part of the award up to the HMRC limit 
(currently £30,000) with an unapproved option for the balance and a ‘linked award’ to 
fund the exercise price of the approved option, or as an approved option and an LTIP 
award, with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made 
on the exercise of the approved option. Other than to enable the grant of ALTIP awards, 
the Company will not grant awards to Executive Directors under the Executive Share 
Option Plan.
Maximum Performance Share Award: 100% of salary. 
Maximum Matching Share Award: 1 for 1 match on the (pre-tax) value 
of	the	bonus	used	to	acquir e	bonus	investment	shar es	(subject	to	an	
overall maximum of 100% of salary).
For both elements of the LTIP , for threshold performance, 35%  
of salary will be payable (25% for awards from 2015 onwards).  
Straight-line vesting applies between threshold and maximum vesting.
These limits do not include the value of shares subject to any approved 
option granted as part of an ALTIP award.
Str etching	performance	targets	ar e	set	each	year	r eflecting	the	
business priorities that underpin longer term Group strategy. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 57 56 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out an overview of the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
Alignment with strategy/purpose Approach of the Company
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Provide an appropriate reward to attract and 
r etain	Dir ectors	of	the	calibr e	r equir ed	for	the	
business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board is set by the Remuneration Committee and 
the	Chief	Executive	Officer .	Fees	ar e	set	at	a	level	which	r eflects	the	skills,	knowledge,	and	
experience of the individual, whilst taking into account appropriate market data.
The	fee	is	set	as	a	fixed	annual	fee	and	may	be	paid	wholly	or	partly	in	cash	or	Company	
shares.
The 	 Chairman 	 and 	 the 	 Chief 	 Executive 	 Officer 	 ar e 	 r esponsible 	 for 	 deciding 	 Non-Executive 	
Directors’ fees. Fees are set taking into account several factors, including the size and complexity 
of the business, fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of UK listed companies of a similar size and 
complexity, and the expected time commitment and contribution for the role.
The	fees	ar e	set	as	a	fixed	annual	fee	and	may	be	paid	wholly	or	partly	in	cash	or	Company	
shares.
Overall fees paid to Directors will remain within the limit stated in our Articles of Association, 
currently £200,000.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive scheme.
Dir ectors	may	be	eligible	to	benefits	such	as	the	use	of	secr etarial	support,	travel	costs	 
or	other	benefits	that	may	be	appr opriate.
Explanation of performance metrics chosen
The annual bonus is assessed against 
financial	targets	which	ar e	determined	by	the	
Remuneration Committee, typically Group 
adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax.	This	incentivises	
Executive Directors to focus on delivering  
the	key	financial	goals	of	the	Company .	 
The	annual	bonus	multiplier	r eflects	individual	
performance which is aligned to delivering  
the overall business strategy and to encourage 
behaviours	which	facilitate	pr ofitable	gr owth	
and the future development of the business. 
These targets therefore ensure that the 
interests of the Executive Directors are  
aligned with those of the shareholders.
For the LTIP , long term performance measures 
are chosen by the Remuneration Committee 
to provide a robust and transparent basis on 
which to measure Xaar’s performance over 
the longer term and to provide alignment with 
Xaar’s business strategy. Currently EPS growth 
is deemed to be the key measure of success 
of the execution of our long term strategy.
The Remuneration Committee retains the 
discretion to adjust the performance targets 
and measures where it considers it appropriate 
to	do	so	(for	example,	to	r eflect	changes	in	
the structure of the business and to assess 
performance on a fair and consistent basis 
from year to year), and has exercised its 
discretion in this area as described on pages 
40 and 41. The changes described in relation 
to performance targets and measures will 
relate to LTIP grants made from 2015.
Awards may be adjusted in the event of a 
variation of capital in accordance with the 
scheme rules.
Pay policy for other employees
The Company values its wider workforce 
and aims to provide a remuneration package 
that is market competitive, complies with any 
statutory	r equir ements,	and	is	applied	fairly	
and	equitably	acr oss	the	wider	employee	
population. Where remuneration is not 
determined by statutory regulation,  
the key principles of the compensation 
philosophy are as follows:
• we remunerate people in a manner that 
allows for stability of the business and  
the opportunity for sustainable long  
term growth
• we seek to remunerate fairly and 
consistently for each role with due regard 
to the marketplace, internal consistency 
and the Company’s ability to pay
• the Company operates HMRC approved 
SIP and SAYE and invites all employees to 
participate, therefore encouraging wider 
workforce share ownership.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
The charts below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy, as approved at the 2014 AGM, in line with the policy above and include base 
salary ,	pension,	benefits	and	incentives.	The	charts	pr ovide	an	illustration	of	the	pr oportion	of	total	r emuneration	made	up	of	each	component	 
of the policy and the value of each component.
For	these	purposes	base	salary	is	the	latest	known	salary	fr om	1	January	2015	and	benefits	is	as	disclosed	in	the	single	figur e	table	on	page	42	 
for the year ended 31 December 2014. Pension is based on the policy set out in the policy table and base salary effective at 1 January 2015.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director. 
 
Minimum performance • No bonus pay-out
• No vesting under the LTIP
Performance in line with expectations 
 
 
 
 
• 50% of salary pay-out under the annual bonus
•	 Assume	bonus	ear ned	invested	in	bonus	investment	shar es	and	shar es	equivalent	to	
12.5% of salary vesting under the Matching Share Award element of the LTIP (i.e. 50%  
of	salary	equal	to	gr oss	bonus	invested	x	25%	Matching	Shar e	A war d	vesting)
•	 Shar es	equivalent	to	25%	of	salary	vesting	under	the	L TIP
Maximum performance 
 
 
 
 
 
• 133% of salary pay-out under the annual bonus
•	 Assume	maximum	investment	in	bonus	investment	shar es	and	shar es	equivalent	to	100%	
of salary vesting under the Matching Share Award element of the LTIP (i.e. 100% of salary 
equal	to	gr oss	bonus	invested	x	100%	Matching	Shar e	A war d	vesting)	
•	 Shar es	equivalent	to	100%	of	salary	vesting	under	the	Performance	Shar e	A war d	element	
of the LTIP
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 59 58 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When appointing a new Executive Director, 
whether with an internal or external candidate, 
the Remuneration Committee will typically seek 
to use the policy detailed in the table on pages 
54 to 57 to determine the Executive Director’s 
on-going remuneration package.
To facilitate the appointment of candidates of 
the	appr opriate	calibr e	r equir ed	to	implement	
the Group’s strategy, the Remuneration 
Committee also retains the discretion to 
include any other remuneration component 
or award which is outside the policy. The 
Remuneration Committee does not intend to 
use this discretion to make a non-performance 
related incentive payment (for example, a 
‘golden hello’). In determining appropriate 
remuneration, the Remuneration Committee 
will take into consideration all relevant 
factors	(including	the	quantum	and	natur e	of	
remuneration) to ensure that the arrangements 
are in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders. This may, for example, 
include (but is not limited to) the following 
circumstances:
•	 an	interim	appointment	being	made	to	fill	
an Executive Director role on a short term 
basis
•	 exceptional	cir cumstances	r equir e	that	
the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director 
takes on an executive function on a short 
term basis
• an Executive Director is recruited at 
a time in the year when it would be 
inappropriate to provide a bonus or long 
term incentive award for that year as there 
would	not	be	sufficient	time	to	assess	
performance.	The	quantum	in	r espect	of	
the months employed during the year may 
be	transferr ed	to	the	subsequent	year	
so that reward is provided on a fair and 
appropriate basis
•	 the	executive	r eceived	benefits	at	
his previous employer which the 
Remuneration Committee considers it 
appropriate to offer.
The Remuneration Committee may also alter 
the performance measures, performance 
period and vesting period of the annual bonus 
or long term incentive, subject to the rules of 
the scheme, if the Remuneration Committee 
determines that the circumstances of the 
recruitment merit such alteration. The rationale 
will be clearly explained.
In determining appropriate remuneration 
arrangements on hiring a new Executive 
Director, the Remuneration Committee will 
take into account relevant factors such as the 
calibre of the individual, local market practice, 
the existing remuneration arrangements 
for other executives and the business 
circumstances. It will seek to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of both 
the Company and its shareholders and seek 
not to pay more than is appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee may make an 
award or payment to ‘buy-out’ remuneration 
arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. In doing so the Remuneration 
Committee will take account of relevant 
factors regarding the forfeited arrangements 
which may include the form of any forfeited 
awards (e.g. cash or shares), any performance 
conditions attached to these awards (and 
the likelihood of meeting those conditions), 
and the time over which they would have 
vested. It will generally seek to structure buy-
out awards and payments on a comparable 
basis to remuneration arrangements forfeited. 
These awards or payments are excluded 
from the maximum level of variable pay 
r eferr ed	to	below;	however ,	the	Remuneration	
Committee’s intention is that the value 
awarded or paid would be no higher than the 
expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
Appropriate costs and support will be covered 
if	the	r ecruitment	r equir es	the	r elocation	of	the	
individual. All buy-out awards and payments 
will normally be liable to forfeiture or ‘clawback’ 
on early departure. For Executive Directors, 
early	departur e	is	typically	defined	as	being	
within	the	first	two	years	of	employment	
although the Remuneration Committee  
has	the	ability	to	amend	this	definition	in	
appropriate circumstances.
The maximum level of variable pay which 
may be awarded to new Executive Directors, 
excluding buy-out arrangements, would 
normally be in line with the maximum level of 
variable pay that may be awarded under the 
annual bonus plan and LTIP , but in any event 
the Remuneration Committee would not make 
an award of annual variable pay above 283% 
of salary. The Remuneration Committee may 
determine that such awards will be forfeited 
if performance or continued employment 
conditions are not met and it is deemed 
appropriate to do so.
Any share awards referred to in this section 
will be granted as far as possible under the 
Company’s existing share plans. If necessary, 
and subject to the limits referred to above, 
in order to facilitate the awards mentioned 
above, the committee may rely on exemption 
9.4.2. of the Listing Rules which allows for 
the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional 
circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Wher e 	 a 	 position 	 is 	 fulfilled 	 internally , 	 any 	 
on-going remuneration obligations or outstanding 
variable pay elements shall be allowed to 
continue according to the original terms.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman 
or Non-Executive Director will be in line  
with the fee policy in place at the time  
of appointment.
■ Annual bonus ■ LTIP and Matching Share Award ■ Base salary, beneﬁts and pension
Chief Executive – Doug Edwards, total remuneration £’000 
Performance in 
line with expectations
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
£366k
£629k
£1,365k
1,400
100% 58%
24%
18%
27%
29%
44%
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Finance Director – Alex Bevis, total remuneration £’000
Performance in 
line with expectations
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
100%
£206k
£354k
27%
29%
44%
£769k
1,400
58%
24%
18%
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Performance in 
line with expectations
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
£214k
£367k
£796k
Chief Technical Officer – Edmund Creutzmann, total remuneration £’000 
1,400
27%
29%
44%
58%
24%
18%
100%
Performance in 
line with expectations
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
£206k
£354k
£769k
Chief Human Resources Officer –  Jim Brault, total remuneration £’000
1,400
27%
29%
44%
58%
24%
18%
100%
Operations & Quality Director – Ted Wiggans, total remuneration £’000 
Performance in 
line with expectations
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
£222k
£382k
£832k
1,400
100% 58%
24%
18%
27%
29%
44%
Performance in 
line with expectations
1,200
800
1,000
200
400
600
0
Minimum
performance
Maximum 
performance
100%
£222k
£382k
27%
29%
44%
£832k
Sales and Marketing Director – Richard Barham, total remuneration £’000
1,400
58%
24%
18%
As	r equir ed	by	the	r egulations,	the	scenarios	do	not	include	any	shar e	price	gr owth	assumptions	or	take	into	account	any	dividends	that	may	be	
paid.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 61 60 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Service contracts 
Executive Directors
It	is	the	Gr oup’ s	policy	that	Executive	Dir ectors	should	have	contracts	with	an	indefinite	term,	pr oviding	for	one	year’ s	notice.
 Date of contract
1
Date of appointment Notice from the Company Notice from Director
Ian Dinwoodie 5 December 2013 13 November 2001 12 months 12 months
Alex Bevis 12 December 2013 14 February 2011 12 months 12 months
Ted Wiggans 4 December 2013 10 January 2011 12 months 12 months
Richard Barham 12 December 2013 5 March 2012 12 months 12 months
Edmund Creutzmann 4 March 2014 1 April 2014 12 months 12 months
Doug Edwards 5 January 2015 5 January 2015 12 months 12 months
Jim Brault 2 March 2015 2 March 2015 12 months 12 months
1 The dates of contract above refer to the dates of the latest service agreements for each of the Directors.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term with provision for two further three-year terms, subject to satisfactory 
performance.
 
 Date of letter of appointment Date of appointment
Unexpired term of contract 
on 31 December 2014
Phil Lawler (Chairman) 17 May 2007 1 June 2007 1 year and 5 months
David Cheesman
1
18 May 2011 4 July 2011 2	years	and	6	months
Robin Williams 3 March 2010 1 March 2010 1 year and 2 months
1 David Cheesman will not stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM, following his notice of retirement.
All Directors offer themselves for annual re-election at each AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. Letters of appointment 
ar e	available	for	inspection	at	the	r egister ed	office	addr ess	of	the	Company .
Payments for loss of office 
The	principles	on	which	the	determination	of	payments	for	loss	of	office	will	be	appr oached	is	set	out	on	page	63.	Wher e	the	Remuneration	
Committee	r etains	discr etion,	as	outlined	below ,	it	will	be	used	to	pr ovide	flexibility	in	certain	situations,	taking	into	account	the	particular	
circumstance of the Director’s departure and recent performance of the Company.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Executive Directors
 Policy
Notice period on termination by employing 
company 
12 months. The committee has the discretion to determine what proportion of the notice 
period will be utilised in active service.
Termination payment 
 
 
 
 
Severance	payments	ar e	limited	to	no	mor e	than	one	year’ s	salary	plus	benefits	in	kind	
(including company car or car allowance and private health insurance) and pension 
contributions (which may include salary supplements). 
Benefits	pr ovided	in	connection	with	termination	of	employment	may	also	include,	but	ar e	not	
limited to, outplacement and legal fees.
Vesting of incentives for leavers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts 
taking into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves. Typically for  
‘good leavers’ bonus amounts will be determined by reference to the applicable performance 
targets, pro-rated for time in service to termination and paid at the usual time. The Remuneration 
Committee may decide to pay a good leaver’s bonus earlier than the usual time in appropriate 
circumstances. ‘Good leavers’ typically include leavers due to death, illness, injury, disability, 
redundancy, retirement with the consent of the Company, or any other reason as determined  
by the Remuneration Committee.
The vesting of share-based awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan,  
as approved by shareholders.
Under the LTIP , the provisions for good leavers provide that awards will vest at the end of the 
normal vesting period, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions. However, 
the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to accelerate vesting to the date of cessation 
of employment. If accelerated to the date of cessation of employment, the Remuneration 
Committee will determine the extent to which the performance conditions are considered 
satisfied.	In	either	case,	the	extent	to	which	an	awar d	vests	will	be	subject	to	pr o-rating	for	
time (although the Remuneration Committee has discretion not to apply time pro-rating).  
In circumstances other than good leavers, awards will lapse. 
Were a buy-out award is to be made under Listing Rule 9.4.2 then the leaver provisions would 
be determined at the time of the award.
Payments may be made under the Company’s SAYE and SIP which are governed by HMRC 
approved plan rules and which cover certain leaver provisions. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 63 62 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Approval
This Report was approved by the Board on  
19 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
David Cheesman
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
19 March 2015
Existing contractual arrangements
The Remuneration Committee reserves the 
right to make any remuneration payments and 
payments	for	loss	of	office	notwithstanding	
that they are not in line with the policy set out 
below where the terms of the payment were 
agreed: 
(i) before the policy came into effect, or 
(ii) at a time when the relevant individual was 
not a Director of the Company and, in the 
opinion of the Remuneration Committee, 
the payment was not in consideration for 
the individual becoming a Director of the 
Company.
For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the 
Remuneration Committee satisfying awards 
of variable remuneration and, in relation to an 
award over shares, the terms of the payment 
are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
The Remuneration Committee may make 
minor changes to this policy, which do not 
have a material advantage to Directors, to 
aid in its operation or implementation without 
seeking shareholder approval but taking into 
account the interests of shareholders.
Statement of consideration of shareholder 
views
In the interests of ensuring on-going and 
transparent dialogue with shareholders, 
the Remuneration Committee consulted 
major shareholders on changes to the LTIP 
performance targets and vesting conditions for 
2015.	Ther e	wer e	no	other	significant	changes	
to the Directors’ remuneration policy proposed 
for 2015. 
Non-Executive Directors
Under the terms of their engagement, the 
notice period to be given by the Non-Executive 
Directors on the Company is six months and 
the Company is obliged to give the same 
length of notice. Discretion is retained to 
terminate with or without due notice or paying 
any payment in lieu of notice dependent 
on what is considered to be in the best 
interests of the Company in the particular 
circumstances.
Statement of consideration of employment 
conditions elsewhere in the Company
Salary ,	benefits	and	performance	r elated	
reward provided to employees is taken into 
account when setting policy for Executive 
Directors’ remuneration (although employees 
are not formally consulted in relation to 
the setting of the policy). This includes 
consideration of:
• salary increases for the general employee 
population
•	 Company-wide	benefit	(including	pension)	
offerings
• overall spend and participation levels in the 
annual bonus and LTIP , and
• relevant ad-hoc information.
Directors’ Responsibilities statement
In	pr eparing	the	par ent	Company	financial	
statements,	the	Dir ectors	ar e	r equir ed	to:
• select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently
• make judgments and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent
• state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and 
explained	in	the	financial	statements,	and
•	 pr epar e	the	financial	statements	on	
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
In	pr eparing	the	Gr oup	financial	statements,	
Inter national	Accounting	Standar d	1	r equir es	
that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting 
policies
• present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides 
relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
• provide additional disclosures when 
compliance	with	the	specific	r equir ements	
in	IFRSs	ar e	insufficient	to	enable	users	
to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on	the	entity’ s	financial	position	and	
financial	performance,	and
• make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate	accounting	r ecor ds	that	ar e	
sufficient	to	show	and	explain	the	Company’ s	
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy	at	any	time	the	financial	position	
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that	the	financial	statements	comply	with	the	
Companies	 Act	 2006.	 They	 ar e	 also	 r esponsible	
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial	information	included	on	the	Company’ s	
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial	statements	may	dif fer	fr om	legislation	
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
W e	confirm	that	to	the	best	of	our	knowledge:
•	 the	financial	statements,	pr epar ed	in	
accor dance	with	the	r elevant	financial	
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view	of	the	assets,	liabilities,	financial	
position	and	pr ofit	or	loss	of	the	Company	
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole
• the Strategic Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face, and
•	 the	Annual	Report	and	financial	
statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved 
by the Board of Directors and is signed on its 
behalf by:
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive
Alex Bevis
Finance Director and Company Secretary
19 March 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the	Annual	Report	and	the	financial	
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company	law	r equir es	the	Dir ectors	to	pr epar e	
financial	statements	for	each	financial	year .	
Under	that	law	the	Dir ectors	ar e	r equir ed	
to	pr epar e	the	Gr oup	financial	statements	
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted 
by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare 
the	par ent	Company	financial	statements	in	
accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under Company law the Directors must not 
appr ove	the	accounts	unless	they	ar e	satisfied	
that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
af fairs	of	the	Company	and	of	the	pr ofit	or	loss	
of the Company for that period. 
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 65 64 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Independent auditor’s report to the members of Xaar plc
Opinion on financial 
statements of Xaar plc
In our opinion:
• 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	 view 	 of 	 the 	 state 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	
and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the 
Gr oup’ s 	 pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 then 	 ended
• 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 pr operly 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	
with 	 Inter national 	 Financial 	 Reporting 	 Standar ds 	 (IFRSs) 	 as 	 adopted 	 by 	 the	
European Union
• 	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 pr operly 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	
accor dance 	 with 	 United 	 Kingdom 	 Generally 	 Accepted 	 Accounting 	 Practice;	
and
• 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 the 	
r equir ements 	 of 	 the 	 Companies 	 Act 	 2006 	 and, 	 as 	 r egar ds 	 the 	 Gr oup	
financial 	 statements, 	 Article 	 4 	 of 	 the 	 IAS 	 Regulation.
The 	 financial 	 statements 	 comprise 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Income 	 Statement, 	
the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Compr ehensive 	 Income, 	 the 	 Consolidated	
Statement 	 of 	 Financial 	 Position, 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Changes 	 in	
Equity , 	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Cash 	 Flow 	 Statement 	 and 	 the 	 r elated 	 notes 	 1 	 to 	 36,	
and 	 the 	 Par ent 	 Company 	 Balance 	 Sheet 	 and 	 the 	 r elated 	 notes 	 1 	 to 	 10. 	 The	
financial 	 r eporting 	 framework 	 that 	 has 	 been 	 applied 	 in 	 the 	 pr eparation 	 of 	 the 	
Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements 	 is 	 applicable 	 law 	 and 	 IFRSs 	 as 	 adopted 	 by 	 the 	
Eur opean 	 Union. 	 The 	 financial 	 r eporting 	 framework 	 that 	 has 	 been 	 applied 	 in 	 the 	
pr eparation 	 of 	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 financial 	 statements 	 is 	 applicable 	 law 	 and 	
United 	 Kingdom 	 Accounting 	 Standar ds 	 (United 	 Kingdom 	 Generally 	 Accepted	
Accounting 	 Practice).
Going concern As 	 r equir ed 	 by 	 the 	 Listing 	 Rules 	 we 	 have 	 r eviewed 	 the 	 Dir ectors’ 	 statement 	 in 	 the	
Dir ectors’ 	 r eport 	 that 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 is 	 a 	 going 	 concer n. 	 W e 	 confirm 	 that:
• 	 we 	 have 	 concluded 	 that 	 the 	 Dir ectors’ 	 use 	 of 	 the 	 going 	 concer n 	 basis 	 of	
accounting 	 in 	 the 	 pr eparation 	 of 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 is 	 appr opriate; 	 and
• 	 we 	 have 	 not 	 identified 	 any 	 material 	 uncertainties 	 that 	 may 	 cast 	 significant 	
doubt 	 on 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 ability 	 to 	 continue 	 as 	 a 	 going 	 concer n.
However , 	 because 	 not 	 all 	 futur e 	 events 	 or 	 conditions 	 can 	 be 	 pr edicted, 	 this	
statement 	 is 	 not 	 a 	 guarantee 	 as 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 ability 	 to 	 continue 	 as 	 a 	 going	
concer n.	
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The	assessed	risks	of	material	misstatement	described	below	ar e	those	that	had	the	gr eatest	ef fect	on	our	audit	strategy ,	the	allocation	of	r esour ces	
in	the	audit	and	dir ecting	the	ef forts	of	the	engagement	team.
As	part	of	the	audit	of	the	Gr oup,	in	addition	to	substantive	tests,	we	also	test	the	design	and	implementation	of	inter nal	contr ols	over	financial	
r eporting	in	each	of	the	risk	ar eas.
Risk Our response and findings
Inventory valuation
Management	perform	a	detailed	r eview	of	the	standar d	
costing	of	the	raw	materials,	work-in-pr ogr ess	and	finished	
goods	r ecor ded	in	inventory	by	r efer ence	to	variance	r eports	
pr oduced	as	part	of	the	month	end	contr ol	pr ocess,	in	or der	
to	ensur e	that	the	absorption	of	costs	accurately	r eflects	the	
activity	of	the	Gr oup	at	a	normal	level	of	pr oduction.
Our response	Our	audit	pr ocedur es	included,	amongst	others,	critically	
assessing	whether	the	Gr oup’ s	standar d	costing	valuation	methodology	is	
determined	in	accor dance	with	Inter national	Accounting	Standar d	2	(IAS	2).	
This	has	included	testing	the	contr ols	designed	and	implemented	in	r elation	to	
the	inventory	standar d	costing	system,	such	as	the	r eview	of	variance	r eports,	
and	the	data	generated	by	that	system.
Risk Our response and findings
Inventory valuation continued
W e	consider	ther e	to	be	a	significant	risk	with	r espect	to	the	
valuation	of	raw	materials,	work-in-pr ogr ess	and	finished	
goods	at	all	stages	of	the	assembly	pr ocess	owing	to	the	
judgemental	natur e	of	determining	the	costs	used	in	the	
inventory	standar d	costing	model.
The	accounting	policy	is	disclosed	in	note	3	to	the	financial	
statements,	and	the	values	of	inventories	ar e	disclosed	in	note	
19	to	the	financial	statements.
Our response	W e	challenged	the	assumptions	used	in	the	derivation	of	the	
cost	absorption	rates	thr ough	performing	independent	checks	against	actual	
costs	for	the	year	and	comparing	cost	absorption	rates	with	prior	years	for	
consistency .	Our	testing	assessed	the	r easonableness	of	the	amendments	to	
inventory	valuation	for	changes	in	actual	costs	of	pr oduction.
W e	tested	the	completeness	and	accuracy	of	the	year -end	inventory	valuation,	
assessing	whether	standar d	costs	have	been	applied	appr opriately	to	items	of	
raw	materials,	work-in-pr ogr ess	and	finished	goods.	
Our findings	W e	found	that	the	management	assumptions	and	estimates	wer e	
appr opriate	and	applied	consistently .	Our	testing	has	not	identified	any	material	
issues	 with	 r egar ds	 to	 the	 standar d	 costing	 methodology	 or	 inventory	 valuation,	
monitoring	and	r ecor ding	pr ocesses.
Revenue recognition
The	Gr oup	accounts	for	r evenue	on	printheads	and	system	
components at the point of despatch as this is the point at 
which	the	risks	and	r ewar ds	of	the	pr oducts	held	as	stock	
ar e	transferr ed	to	the	customer .	The	Gr oup	has	no	significant	
distribution/consignment	agr eements	in	place	with	thir d	
parties.
W e	consider	ther e	to	be	a	significant	risk	with	r espect	to	the	
accounting	for	customer	contract	pricing	with	Xaar’ s	significant	
customers	owing	to	the	degr ee	of	estimation	involved	in	
accounting	for	contract	pricing	and	the	associated	r evenue	in	
line	with	IFRSs	and	the	Gr oup’ s	accounting	policy .
The	accounting	policy	is	disclosed	in	note	3	to	the	financial	
statements.
Our response	When	auditing	r evenue	str eams	we	consider ed	the	Gr oup’ s	
r evenue	r ecognition	policy ,	per	Inter national	Accounting	Standar d	18	‘Revenue’	
(IAS	18),	to	assess	whether	the	r evenue	r ecognition	policy	is	compiled	and	
whether	the	policy	has	been	applied	consistently	thr ough	the	year .
W e	performed	testing	over	customer	contract	pricing	agr eements	that	Xaar	
has	with	all	its	major	customers	by	r eviewing	the	terms	and	conditions	of	sale	
and	agr eeing	the	accounting	tr eatment	and	r evenue	r ecognition	applied;	also	
assessing	compliance	with	IAS	18.	For	the	most	significant	customers	we	
obtained	the	customer	contract	pricing	agr eement	and	r econciled	this	to	the	
accounting	tr eatment	per	the	financial	statements.	
W e	r eviewed	and	tested	the	volume	price	agr eements	and	tested	a	sample	of	
jour nals	to	establish	whether	ther e	wer e	any	unusual	items.
Our findings	W e	noted	no	material	instances	of	inappr opriate	r evenue	
r ecognition	arising	in	our	testing.
Capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets
The	Gr oup	incurr ed	£19.2m	on	r esear ch	and	development	
costs 	 in 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2014 	 (2013: 	 £16.4m),	
r epr esenting	an	incr ease	of	14%	fr om	2013.	Xaar	
management	has	concluded	that	the	only	development	
pr oject	meeting	the	IAS	38	capitalisation	criteria	is	the	work	in	
r elation	to	the	P4	platform	and	ther efor e	£7.4m	development	
costs	have	been	capitalised	during	the	year	(2013:	£nil).	
Because	of	the	judgements	and	the	complexity	of	the	criteria	
applied,	we	consider	ther e	to	be	a	significant	risk	in	r elation	to	
development	costs	being	incorr ectly	capitalised.	
The	accounting	policy	is	disclosed	in	note	3	to	the	
financial	statements.	The	carrying	values	of	the	capitalised	
development	costs	ar e	disclosed	in	note	15	to	the	financial	
statements.
Our response	W e	challenged	management’ s	accounting	tr eatment	of	
development	costs	by	r eviewing	r esear ch	and	development	pr oject	costs	and	
discussing	those	pr ojects	with	significant	expenditur e	with	the	Resear ch	and	
Development	Dir ectors	and	Chief	T echnical	Officer ,	in	or der	for	us	to	assess	
whether	pr ojects	have	r eached	the	development	phase	and	ther efor e	r equir e	
capitalisation.	For	each	pr oject	we	made	an	assessment	of	the	technical	
feasibility	and	likelihood	of	futur e	economic	benefit	by	r efer ence	to	pr oduct	
test	stage	classifications	and	agr eements	enter ed	into	with	partners.	W e	also	
audited	the	r esear ch	and	development	costs	incurr ed	by	test	of	detail.
Our findings	Based	on	the	audit	pr ocedur es	performed,	we	believe	that	
management	has	appr opriately	applied	the	principles	of	IAS	38.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 67 66 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Risk Our response and findings
Warranty provision
Ther e	 ar e	 two	 components	 to	 the	 warranty	 pr ovision,	 a	 general	
pr ovision	(based	on	the	historic	pr oduct	r etur n	rate	over	a	
twelve	month	period)	and	a	specific	pr ovision.
W e	consider	ther e	to	be	a	significant	risk	with	r espect	to	the	
completeness	and	valuation	of	the	specific	warranty	pr ovision	
owing	to	the	judgemental	natur e	of	the	pr ovision	calculations	
which	ar e	estimated	with	r efer ence	to	known	pr oduct	issues	
which	have	arisen	during	the	year .
The	accounting	policy	is	disclosed	in	note	3	to	the	financial	
statements.	The	warranty	pr ovisions	ar e	disclosed	in	note	25	
to	the	financial	statements.
Our response	W e	performed	a	r eview	of	sales	r etur ns	to	identify	any	specific	
warranty	issues	that	have	arisen	over	the	course	of	the	year .	W e	discussed	
warranty	issues	with	staf f	exter nal	to	finance	and	challenged	estimates	and	
assumptions	when	our	wider	audit	pr ocedur es	indicated	to	us	that	pr oduct	
issues	may	exist	that	have	yet	to	be	updated	for	in	the	warranty	pr ovision	
calculation.	In	addition,	we	assessed	the	curr ent	year	warranty	pr ovision	by	
reference to historic product return reports and the accuracy of the prior year 
pr ovision.	W e	also	agr eed	all	known	issues	back	to	the	specific	warranty	
calculation.
Our findings	The	evidence	that	we	obtained	fr om	our	audit	pr ocedur es	
supported	the	completeness	and	valuation	of	the	warranty	pr ovision,	and	the	
assumptions	used	in	these	calculations.	
Recoverability of fixed assets
Due	to	the	downtur n	in	the	performance	of	the	Gr oup,	and	
the	pr oposed	futur e	closur e	of	the	manufacturing	facility	in	
Sweden	we	consider ed	ther e	to	be	an	indication	of	impairment	
of	the	gr oup	fixed	assets,	in	particular	the	assets	held	by	
the	Swedish	subsidiary	XaarJet	AB.	W e	ther efor e	identified	
ther e	to	be	a	significant	risk	that	the	carrying	value	of	the	
gr oup	fixed	assets	may	not	be	r ecoverable,	and	that	any	
possible impairment may not be accounted for or disclosed 
appr opriately	in	the	financial	statements.
The	accounting	policy	is	disclosed	in	note	3	to	the	financial	
statements.	The	carrying	values	of	fixed	assets	ar e	disclosed	
in	note	16	to	the	financial	statements.	
Our response	Our	audit	pr ocedur es	included,	amongst	others,	critically	
assessing	the	Gr oup’ s	method	for	determining	carrying	value	of	the	fixed	
assets	and	whether	it	appr opriately	r eflected	curr ent	and	futur e	pr oduction	
(asset	utilisation)	and	financial	for ecasts,	the	past	experience	of	the	Gr oup	
and	other	specific	cir cumstances	associated	with	the	tangible	fixed	assets.	
W e	performed	independent	physical	inspection	of	a	sample	of	tangible	fixed	
assets	to	identify	underutilised,	inactive	and	damaged	plant	and	machinery .	
W e	held	discussions	with	staf f	in	pr oduction	and	engineering	departments	
to	understand	the	curr ent	and	pr ojected	futur e	utilisation,	useful	life	and	
alter native	uses	of	these	fixed	assets	r elating	to	various	pr oduction	lines.	W e	
tested	the	value	in	use	calculation	pr epar ed	by	management	in	r elation	to	fixed	
assets	in	Sweden.
Our findings	The	evidence	we	examined	supported	the	Dir ectors’	conclusion	
that	ther e	ar e	no	indicators	suggesting	that	the	carrying	value	of	the	tangible	
fixed	assets	is	impair ed.	Additionally	the	value	in	use	of	calculation	supported	
the	carrying	value	of	the	fixed	assets	held	by	XaarJet	AB.
Restructuring provision
The	Boar d	have	pr oposed	the	possible	closur e	of	the	Gr oup’ s	
manufacturing	facility	in	Sweden	during	2016.	XaarJet	AB	
manufactur es	some	of	Xaar’ s	legacy	printheads.	
W e	consider	ther e	to	be	a	risk	in	r elation	to	completeness	
of	pr ovisions	associated	with	r estructuring	and	discontinued	
operations	(e.g.	r edundancies	and	impairment	of	assets).
The	accounting	policy	is	disclosed	in	note	3	to	the	
financial	statements.	The	pr oposed	closur e	of	the	Swedish	
manufacturing	facility	is	disclosed	as	an	event	after	the	
balance	sheet	date	in	note	36	to	the	financial	statements.	
Our response	Fr om	our	discussions	with	management	and	Dir ectors,	we	
noted	that	the	Boar d	is	curr ently	exploring	various	options	with	r espect	to	the	
Gr oup’ s	operations	in	Sweden.	
W e	r eviewed	the	minutes	of	the	Boar d	meetings	and	held	discussions	with	key	
management	personnel	in	this	r egar d.
Our findings	W e	found	no	evidence	to	indicate	that	the	Boar d	had	committed	
to	the	closur e	of	the	manufacturing	facility	in	Sweden	at	the	year -end	date.	
W e	concur	with	management’ s	conclusion	that	no	pr ovisions	ar e	r equir ed	
in	accor dance	with	IAS	37	‘Pr ovisions,	contingent	liabilities	and	contingent	
assets’.	The	Boar d’ s	pr oposed	closur e	of	the	manufacturing	facility	is	
appr opriately	disclosed	as	a	post	balance	sheet	event	in	note	36	of	the	 
Annual	Report.	
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Xaar plc 
continued
In	2013	our	r eport	included	depr eciation	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	(PPE)	as	a	risk	due	to	the	significant	PPE	additions	in	the	year	
(£19.4m).	This	risk	is	not	included	in	our	2014	r eport	due	to	additions	being	significantly	r educed	to	£10.5m.
The	description	of	risks	above	should	be	r ead	in	conjunction	with	the	significant	issues	consider ed	by	the	Audit	Committee	discussed	 
on	page	35.	
Our	audit	pr ocedur es	r elating	to	these	matters	wer e	designed	in	the	context	of	our	audit	of	the	financial	statements	as	a	whole,	and	not	to	
expr ess	an	opinion	on	individual	accounts	or	disclosur es.	Our	opinion	on	the	financial	statements	is	not	modified	with	r espect	to	any	of	the	risks	
described	above,	and	we	do	not	expr ess	an	opinion	on	these	individual	matters.
Our application 
of materiality
W e 	 define 	 materiality 	 as 	 the 	 magnitude 	 of 	 misstatement 	 in 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 that 	 makes 	 it 	 pr obable 	 that 	 the 	 economic 	
decisions 	 of 	 a 	 r easonably 	 knowledgeable 	 person 	 would 	 be 	 changed 	 or 	 influenced. 	 W e 	 use 	 materiality 	 both 	 in 	 planning 	 the 	 scope 	
of 	 our 	 audit 	 work 	 and 	 in 	 evaluating 	 the 	 r esults 	 of 	 our 	 work.
W e 	 determined 	 materiality 	 for 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 to 	 be 	 £1.6m 	 (2013: 	 £1.9m), 	 which 	 is 	 below 	 5% 	 (2013: 	 5%) 	 of 	 pr ofit 	 befor e 	 tax.
W e 	 agr eed 	 with 	 the 	 Audit 	 Committee 	 that 	 we 	 would 	 r eport 	 to 	 the 	 committee 	 all 	 audit 	 dif fer ences 	 in 	 excess 	 of 	 £23,000	 
(2013: 	 £40,000), 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 dif fer ences 	 below 	 that 	 thr eshold 	 that, 	 in 	 our 	 view , 	 warranted 	 r eporting 	 on 	 qualitative 	 gr ounds.	 
W e 	 also 	 r eport 	 to 	 the 	 Audit 	 Committee 	 on 	 disclosur e 	 matters 	 that 	 we 	 identified 	 when 	 assessing 	 the 	 overall 	 pr esentation 	 
of 	 the 	 financial 	 statements.
An overview  
of the scope  
of our audit
Our 	 Gr oup 	 audit 	 was 	 scoped 	 by 	 obtaining 	 an 	 understanding 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 its 	 envir onment, 	 including 	 Gr oup-wide 	 contr ols,	
and 	 assessing 	 the 	 risks 	 of 	 material 	 misstatement 	 at 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 level. 	 Based 	 on 	 that 	 assessment, 	 we 	 focused 	 our 	 Gr oup 	 audit	
scope 	 primarily 	 on 	 the 	 audit 	 work 	 at 	 the 	 UK 	 headquarters 	 in 	 Cambridge. 	 Five 	 entities 	 wer e 	 subject 	 to 	 a 	 full 	 audit 	 (Xaar 	 plc,	
XaarJet 	 Ltd, 	 Xaar 	 T echnology 	 Ltd, 	 XaarJet 	 (Overseas) 	 Ltd 	 and 	 Xaar 	 Digital 	 Ltd) 	 performed 	 dir ectly 	 by 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 audit 	 team.	
Thr ee 	 entities 	 (XaarJet 	 AB, 	 Xaar 	 Gr oup 	 AB 	 and 	 Xaar 	 America 	 Inc.) 	 wer e 	 subject 	 to 	 specified 	audit 	 pr ocedur es 	 wher e 	 the 	 extent 	 of	
our 	 testing 	 was 	 based 	 on 	 our 	 assessment 	 of 	 the 	 risks 	 of 	 material 	 misstatement 	 and 	 of 	 the 	 materiality 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 operations	
at 	 those 	 locations. 	 They 	 wer e 	 also 	 selected 	 to 	 pr ovide 	 an 	 appr opriate 	 basis 	 for 	 undertaking 	 audit 	 work 	 to 	 addr ess 	 the 	 risks 	 of	
material 	 misstatement 	 identified 	 above. 	 Our 	 audit 	 work 	 for 	 each 	 entity 	 was 	 executed 	 at 	 levels 	 of 	 materiality 	 applicable 	 to 	 each 	
individual 	 entity 	 which 	 wer e 	 lower 	 than 	 Gr oup 	 materiality . 	 The 	 component 	 materialities 	 range 	 between 	 £60,000 	 to 	 £1,060,000.
At 	 the 	 par ent 	 entity 	 level 	 we 	 also 	 tested 	 the 	 consolidation 	 pr ocess 	 and 	 carried 	 out 	 analytical 	 pr ocedur es 	 to 	 confirm 	 our 	
conclusion 	 that 	 ther e 	 wer e 	 no 	 significant 	 risks 	 of 	 material 	 misstatement 	 of 	 the 	 aggr egated 	 financial 	 information 	 of 	 the 	 r emaining 	
components 	 not 	 subject 	 to 	 audit 	 or 	 audit 	 of 	 specified 	 account 	 balances. 	 As 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 auditor 	 the 	 partner 	 and 	 the 	 senior 	
member 	 of 	 Gr oup 	 audit 	 team 	 visited 	 the 	 component 	 auditors 	 in 	 Sweden, 	 we 	 planned 	 the 	 work 	 conducted 	 by 	 the 	 component	
auditor , 	 r eviewed 	 their 	 work 	 and 	 attended 	 an 	 audit 	 planning 	 confer ence 	 call, 	 status 	 update 	 and 	 close 	 meetings.
Opinion on 
other matters 
prescribed by 
the Companies 
Act 2006
In 	 our 	 opinion:
• 	 the 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Dir ectors’ 	 Remuneration 	 r eport 	 to 	 be 	 audited 	 has 	 been 	 pr operly 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with 	 the 	 Companies	
Act 	 2006; 	 and
• 	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Strategic 	 Report 	 and 	 the 	 Dir ectors’ 	 r eport 	 for 	 the 	 financial 	 year 	 for 	 which 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	
ar e 	 pr epar ed 	 is 	 consistent 	 with 	 the 	 financial 	 statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of 
explanations 
received and 
accounting 
records
Under 	 the 	 Companies 	 Act 	 2006 	 we 	 ar e 	 r equir ed 	 to 	 r eport 	 to 	 you 	 if, 	 in 	 our 	 opinion:
• 	 we 	 have 	 not 	 r eceived 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and 	 explanations 	 we 	 r equir e 	 for 	 our 	 audit; 	 or
• 	 adequate 	 accounting 	 r ecor ds 	 have 	 not 	 been 	 kept 	 by 	 the 	 par ent 	 company , 	 or 	 r etur ns 	 adequate 	 for 	 our 	 audit 	 have 	 not 	 been	
r eceived 	 fr om 	 branches 	 not 	 visited 	 by 	 us; 	 or
• 	 the 	 par ent 	 company 	 financial 	 statements 	 ar e 	 not 	 in 	 agr eement 	 with 	 the 	 accounting 	 r ecor ds 	 and 	 r etur ns.
W e 	 have 	 nothing 	 to 	 r eport 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 these 	 matters.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 69 68 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued
Directors’ 
remuneration
Under	the	Companies	Act	2006	we	ar e	also	r equir ed	to	r eport	if	in	our	opinion	certain	disclosur es	of	Dir ectors’	r emuneration	
have	not	been	made	or	the	part	of	the	Dir ectors’	Remuneration	r eport	to	be	audited	is	not	in	agr eement	with	the	accounting	
r ecor ds	and	r etur ns.	W e	have	nothing	to	r eport	arising	fr om	these	matters.
Corporate 
governance 
statement
Under	the	Listing	Rules	we	ar e	also	r equir ed	to	r eview	the	part	of	the	Corporate	gover nance	statement	r elating	to	the	
Company’ s	compliance	with	ten	pr ovisions	of	the	UK	Corporate	Gover nance	Code.	W e	have	nothing	to	r eport	arising	fr om	
our	r eview .
Our duty to 
read other 
information 
in the Annual 
Report
Under	Inter national	Standar ds	on	Auditing	(UK	and	Ir eland),	we	ar e	r equir ed	to	r eport	to	you	if,	in	our	opinion,	information	in	
the	Annual	Report	is:
•	 materially	inconsistent	with	the	information	in	the	audited	financial	statements;	or
•	 appar ently	materially	incorr ect	based	on,	or	materially	inconsistent	with,	our	knowledge	of	the	Gr oup	acquir ed	in	the	
course	of	performing	our	audit;	or
•	 otherwise	misleading.
In	particular ,	we	ar e	r equir ed	to	consider	whether	we	have	identified	any	inconsistencies	between	our	knowledge	acquir ed	
during	the	audit	and	the	Dir ectors’	statement	that	they	consider	the	Annual	Report	is	fair ,	balanced	and	understandable	and	
whether	the	Annual	Report	appr opriately	discloses	those	matters	that	we	communicated	to	the	Audit	Committee	which	
we	consider	should	have	been	disclosed.	W e	confirm	that	we	have	not	identified	any	such	inconsistencies	or	misleading	
statements.
Respective 
responsibilities 
of Directors 
and auditor
As	explained	mor e	fully	in	the	Dir ectors’	r esponsibilities	statement,	the	Dir ectors	ar e	r esponsible	for	the	pr eparation	of	the	
financial	statements	and	for	being	satisfied	that	they	give	a	true	and	fair	view .	Our	r esponsibility	is	to	audit	and	expr ess	an	
opinion	on	the	financial	statements	in	accor dance	with	applicable	law	and	Inter national	Standar ds	on	Auditing	(UK	and	
Ir eland).	Those	standar ds	r equir e	us	to	comply	with	the	Auditing	Practices	Boar d’ s	Ethical	Standar ds	for	Auditors.	W e	also	
comply	with	Inter national	Standar d	on	Quality	Contr ol	1	(UK	and	Ir eland).	Our	audit	methodology	and	tools	aim	to	ensur e	that	
our	quality	contr ol	pr ocedur es	ar e	ef fective,	understood	and	applied.	Our	quality	contr ols	and	systems	include	our	dedicated	
pr ofessional	standar ds	r eview	team,	and	independent	partner	r eviews.
This	r eport	is	made	solely	to	the	Company’ s	members,	as	a	body ,	in	accor dance	with	Chapter	3	of	Part	16	of	the	Companies	
Act	2006.	Our	audit	work	has	been	undertaken	so	that	we	might	state	to	the	Company’ s	members	those	matters	we	ar e	
r equir ed	to	state	to	them	in	an	auditor’ s	r eport	and	for	no	other	purpose.	T o	the	fullest	extent	permitted	by	law ,	we	do	not	
accept	or	assume	r esponsibility	to	anyone	other	than	the	Company	and	the	Company’ s	members	as	a	body ,	for	our	audit	
work,	for	this	r eport,	or	for	the	opinions	we	have	formed.
Scope of 
the audit of 
the financial 
statements 
An	audit	involves	obtaining	evidence	about	the	amounts	and	disclosur es	in	the	financial	statements	sufficient	to	give	
r easonable	assurance	that	the	financial	statements	ar e	fr ee	fr om	material	misstatement,	whether	caused	by	fraud	or	err or .	
This	includes	an	assessment	of:	whether	the	accounting	policies	ar e	appr opriate	to	the	Gr oup’ s	and	the	par ent	company’ s	
cir cumstances	and	have	been	consistently	applied	and	adequately	disclosed;	the	r easonableness	of	significant	accounting	
estimates	made	by	the	Dir ectors;	and	the	overall	pr esentation	of	the	financial	statements.	In	addition,	we	r ead	all	the	financial	
and	non-financial	information	in	the	Annual	Report	to	identify	material	inconsistencies	with	the	audited	financial	statements	
and	to	identify	any	information	that	is	appar ently	materially	incorr ect	based	on,	or	materially	inconsistent	with,	the	knowledge	
acquir ed	by	us	in	the	course	of	performing	the	audit.	If	we	become	awar e	of	any	appar ent	material	misstatements	or	
inconsistencies	we	consider	the	implications	for	our	r eport.
Paul Schofield FCA 
(Senior	Statutory	Auditor)
19	Mar ch	2015
For	and	on	behalf	of	Deloitte	LLP
Charter ed	Accountants	and	Statutory	Auditor
Cambridge,	United	Kingdom
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Xaar plc 
continued
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Revenue 5 109,150 137,128
Cost of sales (60,548) (63,114)
Gross profit 48,602 74,014
Resear ch	and	development	expenses (11,797) (16,389)
Resear ch	and	development	expenditur e	cr edit 234 586
Sales	and	marketing	expenses (5,551) (6,114)
General	and	administrative	expenses (7,900) (12,398)
Restructuring	costs (872) –
Operating profit 22,716 39,699
Investment	income 5,	9 394 443
Finance	costs 10 – (55)
Profit before tax 23,110 40,087
Tax 11 (4,418) (8,226)
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 7 18,692 31,861
Earnings per share
Basic 13 25.0p 43.3p
Diluted 13 24.4p 41.6p
Dividends	paid	in	the	year	amounted	to	£6,377,000	(2013:	£4,059,000).	Further	disclosur es	ar e	given	in	note	12.
All	activities	r elate	to	continuing	operations.
Consolidated	statement	of	compr ehensive	income
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Pr ofit	for	the	year	attributable	to	shar eholders 18,692 31,861
Items	that	may	be	r eclassified	subsequently	to	pr ofit	or	loss:
Exchange	dif fer ences	on	r etranslation	of	net	investment 29 (224) (7)
T ax	benefit	on	shar e	option	gains 855 1,379
Other	compr ehensive	income	for	the	year 631 1,372
T otal	compr ehensive	income	for	the	year 19,323 33,233
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 71 70 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Notes
Shar e
capital
£’000
Shar e
premium
£’000
Own
shares
£’000
Other
r eserves
£’000
Translation
r eserve
£’000
Retained
ear nings
£’000
 
Total 
£’000
Balance	at	1	January	2013 7,474 24,406 (4,215) 6,507 357 39,590 74,119
Pr ofit	for	the	year – – – – – 31,861 31,861
Exchange	dif fer ences	on	r etranslation	
of	net	investment – – – – (7) – (7)
T ax	benefit	on	shar e	option	gains – – – – – 1,379 1,379
T otal	compr ehensive	income	for	
the period – – – – (7) 33,240 33,233
Issue of share capital 115 1,078 – – – (46) 1,147
Own	shar es	sold	in	the	period – – 149 – – (24) 125
Dividends 12 – – – – – (4,059) (4,059)
T ax	on	shar e	option	gains – – – – – 3,374 3,374
Cr edit	to	equity	for	equity-settled	
shar e-based	payments – – – 2,103 – – 2,103
Balance at 1 January 2014 7,589 25,484 (4,066) 8,610 350 72,075 110,042 
Pr ofit	for	the	year – – – – – 18,692 18,692
Exchange	dif fer ences	on	r etranslation	
of	net	investment – – – – (224) – (224)
T ax	benefit	on	shar e	option	gains – – – – – 855 855
Total comprehensive income for 
the period – – – – (224) 19,547 19,323
Issue of share capital 75 861 – – – (28) 908
Own	shar es	sold	in	the	period – – 270 – – (9) 261
Dividends 12 – – – – – (6,377) (6,377)
T ax	on	shar e	option	gains – – – – – (3,103) (3,103)
Cr edit	to	equity	for	equity-settled	
shar e-based	payments – – – 1,106 – – 1,106 
Balance at 31 December 2014 7,664 26,345 (3,796) 9,716 126 82,105 122,160 
Consolidated	statement	of	changes	in	equity
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 720 720
Other	intangible	assets 15 10,077 3,387
Pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment 16 38,539 38,452
Investments 18 1,000 1,000
Deferr ed	tax	asset 22 – 4,308
50,336 47,867
Current assets
Inventories 19 19,795 15,285
T rade	and	other	r eceivables 20 13,452 15,441
Curr ent	tax	asset 20 2,909 782
Treasury deposits 20 21,000 22,000
Cash	and	cash	equivalents 20 25,963 31,485
Derivative	financial	instruments – 6
83,119 84,999
Total assets 133,455 132,866
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (9,888) (19,225)
Other	financial	liabilities 24 (57) (57)
Curr ent	tax	liabilities – (1,848)
Pr ovisions 25 (425) (1,074)
(10,370) (22,204)
Net current assets 72,749 62,795
Non-current liabilities
Deferr ed	tax	liabilities 22 (617) (328)
Other	financial	liabilities 24 (308) (292)
Total non-current liabilities (925) (620)
Total liabilities (11,295) (22,824)
Net assets 122,160 110,042
Equity
Shar e	capital 26 7,664 7,589
Shar e	pr emium 27 26,345 25,484
Own	shar es 28 (3,796) (4,066)
Other	r eserves 30 9,716 8,610
T ranslation	r eserve 29 126 350
Retained	ear nings 30 82,105 72,075
Equity attributable to shareholders 122,160 110,042
Total equity 122,160 110,042
The	financial	statements	of	Xaar	plc,	r egister ed	number	3320972,	wer e	appr oved	by	the	Boar d	of	Dir ectors	and	authorised	for	issue	on	 
19	Mar ch	2015.
They	wer e	signed	on	its	behalf	by:
Doug Edwards
Chief	Executive
Alex Bevis
Finance	Dir ector	and	Company	Secr etary
Consolidated	statement	of	financial	position
as at 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 73 72 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	
for the year ended 31 December 2014
1. General information
Xaar	plc	(‘the	Company’)	is	incorporated	in	England	and	W ales	under	the	Companies	Act	2006.	The	addr ess	of	the	r egister ed	office	is	given	on	the	
inside	back	cover .	The	natur e	of	the	Gr oup’ s	operations	and	its	principal	activity	is	set	out	in	the	Strategic	Report	starting	on	page	2.
2. Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements
The	key	assumptions	concer ning	the	futur e	and	other	sour ces	of	estimation	uncertainty	at	the	balance	sheet	date	that	have	a	significant	risk	of	
causing	a	material	adjustment	to	the	carrying	amounts	of	assets	and	liabilities	within	the	next	financial	year	ar e	as	follows:
Asset valuations
Thr oughout	the	year ,	management	considers	the	carrying	value	of	both	r eceivables	and	inventory	balances.	Pr ovisions	against	both	balances	ar e	
made	on	the	basis	of	past	losses,	curr ent	trading	patter ns	and	anticipated	futur e	events.
Provisions
Management	r egularly	consider	the	potential	liabilities	which	may	arise	fr om	pr oduct	warranty	claims,	commer cial	disputes,	r estructuring	or	other	
activities	which	may	r esult	in	futur e	losses	or	charges.	Management	cr eate	and	maintain	appr opriate	financial	pr ovisions	based	on	specific	known	
issues	and	underlying	historical	experience.
Impairment of goodwill
The	Gr oup	determines	whether	goodwill	is	impair ed	at	least	on	an	annual	basis.	This	r equir es	an	estimation	of	the	‘value-in-use’	of	the	cash-
generating	units	to	which	the	goodwill	is	allocated.	Estimating	a	value-in-use	amount	r equir es	management	to	make	an	estimate	of	the	expected	
futur e	cash	flows	fr om	the	cash-generating	unit	and	also	to	choose	a	suitable	discount	rate	in	or der	to	calculate	the	pr esent	value	of	those	cash	
flows.	The	carrying	amount	of	goodwill	at	31	December	2014	was	£720,000	(2013:	£720,000).	Further	details	ar e	given	in	note	14.
Capitalisation of development costs
As	described	in	note	3,	the	Gr oup	capitalises	development	expenditur e	as	an	intangible	assets	wher e	the	criteria	under	IAS	38	‘Intangible	assets’	
is	met.	In	2014,	development	expenditur e	incurr ed	r elating	to	Platform	4	was	capitalised,	amounting	to	£7,357,000	(2013:	£nil).	The	development	
pr oject	is	on-going	and	ther efor e	amortisation	is	yet	to	commence.
3. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The	financial	statements	have	been	pr epar ed	in	accor dance	with	Inter national	Financial	Reporting	Standar ds	(‘IFRS’),	as	adopted	for	use	in	the	
Eur opean	Union.	Ther efor e	the	Gr oup	financial	statements	have	been	pr epar ed	in	accor dance	with	Article	4	of	the	EU	IAS	r egulation.
The	financial	information	has	been	pr epar ed	on	the	basis	of	all	applicable	IFRS,	including	all	Inter national	Accounting	Standar ds	(‘IAS’),	Standing	
Interpr etations	Committee	(‘SIC’)	interpr etations	and	Inter national	Financial	Reporting	Interpr etations	Committee	(‘IFRIC’)	interpr etations	issued	by	
the	Inter national	Accounting	Standar ds	Boar d	(‘IASB’)	that	ar e	applicable	to	the	financial	period,	as	adopted	by	the	Eur opean	Union.
The	financial	statements	have	been	pr epar ed	on	the	historical	cost	basis,	except	for	the	r evaluation	of	financial	instruments.	The	Gr oup	financial	
statements	ar e	pr esented	in	Sterling	and	all	values	ar e	r ounded	to	the	near est	thousand	pounds	(£’000)	except	when	otherwise	indicated.
The	principal	accounting	policies	adopted	ar e	set	out	below .
Basis of consolidation
The	consolidated	financial	statements	incorporate	the	financial	statements	of	the	Company	and	entities	contr olled	by	the	Company	(‘its	subsidiaries’)	
made	up	to	31	December	each	year .	Contr ol	is	achieved	wher e	the	Company	has	the	power	to	gover n	the	financial	and	operating	policies	of	an	
investee	entity	so	as	to	obtain	benefits	fr om	its	activities.
The	r esults	of	subsidiaries	acquir ed	or	disposed	of	during	the	year	ar e	included	in	the	consolidated	income	statement	fr om	the	ef fective	date	of	
acquisition	or	up	to	the	ef fective	date	of	disposal,	as	appr opriate.	Wher e	necessary ,	adjustments	ar e	made	to	the	financial	statements	of	subsidiaries	
to	bring	the	accounting	policies	used	in	line	with	those	used	by	the	Gr oup.	
All	intra-gr oup	transactions,	balances,	income	and	expenses	ar e	eliminated	on	consolidation.	For eign	exchange	gains	and	losses	arising	on	the	
r etranslation	of	trading	balances	with	subsidiaries	with	dif fer ent	functional	curr encies	ar e	r eported	in	the	income	statement.
Consolidated	cash	flow	statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Net	cash	fr om	operating	activities	 31 18,397 45,093
Investing activities
Investment	income 427 278
Acquisition	of	investment	bonds – (1,000)
Pur chases	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	 (12,483) (16,713)
Pr oceeds	on	disposal	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment 2 42
Expenditur e	on	softwar e (217) (245)
Expenditur e	on	capitalised	pr oduct	development (7,357) –
Net cash used in investing activities (19,628) (17,638)
Financing activities
Dividends	paid	 (6,377) (4,059)
Treasury deposits 1,000 (18,000)
Pr oceeds	fr om	the	sale	of	or dinary	shar e	capital 261 125
Pr oceeds	fr om	issue	of	or dinary	shar e	capital 908 1,147
Finance	costs – (55)
Repayments	of	borr owings – (594)
Net cash used in financing activities (4,208) (21,436)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (5,439) 6,019
Ef fect	of	for eign	exchange	rate	changes	on	cash	balances (83) 20
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 31,485 25,446
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 25,963 31,485
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	(which	ar e	pr esented	as	a	single	class	of	asset	on	the	face	of	the	balance	sheet)	comprise	cash	at	bank	and	other	short	
term	highly	liquid	investments	with	a	maturity	of	thr ee	months	or	less.	The	carrying	amount	of	these	assets	is	appr oximately	equal	to	their	fair	value.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 75 74 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Inter est	income	is	accrued	on	a	time	basis,	by	r efer ence	to	the	principal	outstanding	and	at	the	ef fective	inter est	rate	applicable,	which	is	the	rate	
that	discounts	estimated	futur e	cash	r eceipts	thr ough	the	expected	life	of	the	financial	asset	to	that	asset’ s	net	carrying	amount.
Leases
Rentals	payable	under	operating	leases	ar e	charged	to	income	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	term	of	the	r elevant	lease,	except	wher e	 
another	mor e	systematic	basis	is	mor e	r epr esentative	of	the	time	patter n	in	which	the	economic	benefits	fr om	the	lease	asset	ar e	consumed.	
Contingent	r entals	arising	under	operating	leases	ar e	r ecognised	as	an	expense	in	the	period	in	which	they	ar e	incurr ed.
In	the	event	that	lease	incentives	ar e	r eceived	to	enter	into	operating	leases,	such	incentives	ar e	r ecognised	as	a	liability .	The	aggr egate	benefit	of	
incentives	is	r ecognised	as	a	r eduction	of	r ental	expense	on	a	straight-line	basis,	except	wher e	another	systematic	basis	is	mor e	r epr esentative	of	
the	time	patter n	in	which	economic	benefits	fr om	the	leased	asset	ar e	consumed.
Foreign currencies
The	individual	financial	statements	of	each	Gr oup	company	ar e	pr esented	in	the	curr ency	of	the	primary	economic	envir onment	in	which	it	operates	
(its	functional	curr ency).	For	the	purpose	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements,	the	r esults	and	financial	position	of	each	Gr oup	company	ar e	
expr essed	in	Sterling,	which	is	the	functional	curr ency	of	the	Company	and	the	pr esentation	curr ency	for	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	
Exchange	dif fer ences	arising	on	the	settlement	of	monetary	assets	and	liabilities,	and	on	the	r etranslation	of	monetary	assets	and	liabilities,	ar e	
included	in	the	income	statement	for	the	period.	
In	or der	to	hedge	its	exposur e	to	certain	for eign	exchange	risks,	the	Gr oup	may	enter	into	forwar d	contracts	(see	page	80	for	details	of	the	Gr oup’ s	
accounting	policies	in	r espect	of	such	derivative	financial	instruments).
For	the	purposes	of	pr esenting	consolidated	financial	statements,	the	assets	and	liabilities	of	the	Gr oup’ s	for eign	operations	ar e	translated	at	the	
exchange	rates	pr evailing	on	the	balance	sheet	date.	Income	and	expense	items	ar e	translated	at	the	average	exchange	rates	for	the	period.	
Exchange	dif fer ences	arising	ar e	r ecognised	in	other	compr ehensive	income	and	taken	to	the	translation	r eserve.	Exchange	dif fer ences	on	the	
translation	of	net	investments	ar e	taken	to	the	translation	r eserve	of	the	applicable	entity .
Goodwill	and	fair	value	adjustments	arising	on	the	acquisition	of	a	for eign	entity	ar e	tr eated	as	assets	and	liabilities	of	the	for eign	entity	and	translated	
at	the	closing	rate.	The	Gr oup	has	elected	to	tr eat	goodwill	and	fair	value	adjustments	arising	on	acquisitions	befor e	the	date	of	transition	to	IFRS	as	
Sterling	denominated	assets	and	liabilities.
Government and EU grants
Gover nment	and	EU	grants	ar e	not	r ecognised	until	ther e	is	r easonable	assurance	that	the	Gr oup	will	comply	with	the	conditions	attached	to	them	
and	that	the	grant	will	be	r eceived.
Gover nment	and	EU	grants	r elating	to	r esear ch	and	development	ar e	tr eated	as	income	over	the	periods	necessary	to	match	them	with	the	 
r elated	costs.
Operating profit
Operating	pr ofit	is	stated	after	charging	r estructuring	costs	but	befor e	investment	income	and	finance	costs.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments	to	defined	contribution	r etir ement	benefit	schemes	ar e	charged	as	an	expense	as	they	fall	due.	Payments	made	to	state	managed	
r etir ement	benefit	schemes	ar e	dealt	with	as	payments	to	defined	contribution	schemes	wher e	the	Gr oup’ s	obligations	under	the	schemes	ar e	
equivalent	to	those	arising	in	a	defined	contribution	r etir ement	benefit	scheme.
Taxation
The	tax	expense	r epr esents	the	sum	of	the	tax	curr ently	payable	and	deferr ed	tax,	including	UK	corporation	tax	and	for eign	tax.
The	tax	curr ently	payable	is	based	on	taxable	pr ofit	for	the	year .	T axable	pr ofit	dif fers	fr om	net	pr ofit	as	r eported	in	the	income	statement	because	it	
excludes	items	of	income	or	expense	that	ar e	taxable	or	deductible	in	other	years	and	it	further	excludes	items	that	ar e	never	taxable	or	deductible.	
The	Gr oup’ s	liability	for	curr ent	tax	is	calculated	using	tax	rates	that	have	been	enacted	or	substantively	enacted	by	the	balance	sheet	date.
Deferr ed	tax	is	the	tax	expected	to	be	payable	or	r ecoverable	on	dif fer ences	between	the	carrying	amounts	of	assets	and	liabilities	in	the	financial	
statements	and	the	corr esponding	tax	bases	used	in	the	computation	of	taxable	pr ofit	and	is	accounted	for	using	the	balance	sheet	liability	
method.	Deferr ed	tax	liabilities	ar e	generally	r ecognised	for	all	taxable	temporary	dif fer ences	and	deferr ed	tax	assets	ar e	r ecognised	to	the	extent	
that	it	is	pr obable	that	taxable	pr ofits	will	be	available	against	which	deductible	temporary	dif fer ences	can	be	utilised.	Such	assets	and	liabilities	
ar e	not	r ecognised	if	the	temporary	dif fer ence	arises	fr om	the	initial	r ecognition	of	goodwill	or	fr om	the	initial	r ecognition	(other	than	in	a	business	
combination)	of	other	assets	and	liabilities	in	a	transaction	that	af fects	neither	the	tax	pr ofit	nor	the	accounting	pr ofit.	
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Going concern
The	Gr oup’ s	business	activities,	together	with	the	factors	likely	to	af fect	its	futur e	development,	performance	and	position,	ar e	set	out	in	the	Strategic	
Report	on	pages	8	to	11.	Notes	20,	21	and	24	include	a	description	of	the	Gr oup’ s	objectives;	policies	and	pr ocesses	for	managing	its	capital;	its	
financial	risk	management	objectives;	details	of	its	financial	instruments	and	hedging	activities;	and	its	exposur e	to	cr edit	risk	and	liquidity	risk.
The	Gr oup	has	considerable	financial	r esour ces	and	thr ough	a	diverse	customer	base	is	exposed	not	only	to	the	W ester n	economies	but	also	China,	
India	and	Latin	America.	As	a	consequence,	the	Dir ectors	believe	that	the	Gr oup	is	well	placed	to	manage	its	business	risks	successfully	despite	the	
curr ent	uncertain	economic	outlook.
After	making	enquiries,	the	Dir ectors	have	a	r easonable	expectation	that	the	Gr oup	has	adequate	r esour ces	to	continue	in	operational	existence	for	
the	for eseeable	futur e,	based	on	the	Gr oup’ s	for ecasts	and	pr ojections	for	the	next	four	years,	taking	account	of	r easonably	possible	changes	in	
trading	performance.	For	this	r eason,	we	continue	to	adopt	the	going	concer n	basis	in	pr eparing	the	financial	statements.
Business combinations
The	acquisition	of	subsidiaries	is	accounted	for	using	the	acquisition	method.
Goodwill	arising	on	acquisition	is	r ecognised	as	an	asset	and	initially	measur ed	at	cost,	being	the	excess	of	the	cost	of	the	business	combination	
over	the	Gr oup’ s	inter est	in	the	net	fair	value	of	the	identifiable	assets,	liabilities	and	contingent	liabilities	r ecognised.	If,	after	r eassessment,	the	
Gr oup’ s	inter est	in	the	net	fair	value	of	the	acquir ee’ s	identifiable	assets,	liabilities	and	contingent	liabilities	exceeds	the	cost	of	the	business	
combination,	the	excess	is	r ecognised	immediately	in	the	income	statement.
Goodwill
Goodwill	arising	on	consolidation	is	initially	r ecognised	as	an	asset	at	cost	and	is	subsequently	measur ed	at	cost	less	any	accumulated	impairment	
losses.	Goodwill	which	is	r ecognised	as	an	asset	is	r eviewed	for	impairment	at	least	annually .	Any	impairment	is	r ecognised	immediately	in	the	
income	statement	and	is	not	subsequently	r eversed.
For	the	purposes	of	impairment	testing,	goodwill	is	allocated	to	each	of	the	Gr oup’ s	cash-generating	units	expected	to	benefit	fr om	the	synergies	
of	the	combination.	Cash-generating	units	to	which	goodwill	has	been	allocated	ar e	tested	for	impairment	annually ,	or	mor e	fr equently	when	ther e	
is	an	indication	that	the	unit	may	be	impair ed.	If	the	r ecoverable	amount	of	the	cash-generating	unit	is	less	than	the	carrying	amount	of	the	unit,	the	
impairment	loss	is	allocated	first	to	r educe	the	carrying	amount	of	any	goodwill	allocated	to	the	unit	and	then	to	the	other	assets	of	the	unit	pr o	rata	
on	the	basis	of	the	carrying	amount	of	each	asset	in	the	unit.	An	impairment	loss	r ecognised	for	goodwill	is	not	r eversed	in	a	subsequent	period.
On	disposal	of	the	cash-generating	unit,	the	attributable	amount	of	goodwill	is	included	in	the	determination	of	the	pr ofit	or	loss	on	disposal.
Goodwill	arising	on	acquisitions	befor e	the	date	of	transition	to	IFRS	has	been	r etained	at	the	pr evious	UK	GAAP	amounts	subject	to	being	tested	
for	impairment	at	that	date.	Goodwill	written	of f	to	r eserves	under	UK	GAAP	prior	to	1998	has	not	been	r einstated	and	is	not	included	in	determining	
any	subsequent	pr ofit	or	loss	on	disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue	is	measur ed	at	the	fair	value	of	the	consideration	r eceived	or	r eceivable	and	r epr esents	amounts	r eceivable	for	goods	and	services	
pr ovided	in	the	normal	course	of	business,	net	of	discounts,	V A T	and	other	sales	r elated	taxes,	but	gr oss	of	any	tax	withheld.	
Sales	of	goods	ar e	r ecognised	when	all	of	the	following	conditions	ar e	satisfied:
•	 the	Company	has	transferr ed	to	the	buyer	the	significant	risks	and	r ewar ds	of	ownership	of	the	goods	
•	 the	Company	r etains	neither	a	continuing	managerial	involvement	to	the	degr ee	normally	associated	with	ownership,	nor	ef fective	contr ol	over	
goods	sold	
•	 the	amount	of	r evenue	can	be	measur ed	r eliably	
•	 it	is	pr obable	that	the	economic	benefits	associated	with	the	transaction	will	flow	to	the	entity;	and	
•	 the	costs	incurr ed,	or	to	be	incurr ed,	in	r espect	of	the	transaction	can	be	measur ed	r eliably .	
For	sales	of	goods	to	a	distributor	with	consignment	stock	arrangements,	r evenue	is	r ecognised	at	the	point	of	sale	by	the	distributor	which	is	when	
the	risks	and	r ewar ds	of	ownership	of	inventory	have	transferr ed.
Development	fees	gained	fr om	joint	development	agr eements	ar e	tr eated	as	income	over	the	periods	necessary	to	match	them	with	the	 
r elated	costs.
Funding	r eceived	for	inter nally	generated	intangible	assets	is	r ecognised	on	a	straight-line	basis	to	match	the	amortisation	period	of	the	r elated	
intangible	fixed	asset.	
Royalties	ar e	r ecognised	on	an	accruals	basis	in	accor dance	with	the	actual	r evenue	tr end	in	the	most	r ecent	quarterly	statements	r eceived	fr om	
each	licensee.
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 77 76 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At	each	balance	sheet	date,	the	Gr oup	r eviews	the	carrying	amounts	of	its	tangible	and	intangible	assets	to	determine	whether	ther e	is	any	 
indication	that	those	assets	have	suf fer ed	an	impairment	loss.	If	any	such	indication	exists,	the	r ecoverable	amount	of	the	asset	is	estimated	in	 
or der	to	determine	the	extent	of	the	impairment	loss	(if	any).	Wher e	the	asset	does	not	generate	cash	flows	that	ar e	independent	fr om	other	assets,	
the	Gr oup	estimates	the	r ecoverable	amount	of	the	cash-generating	unit	to	which	the	asset	belongs.	
Recoverable	amount	is	the	higher	of	fair	value	less	costs	to	sell	and	value-in-use.	In	assessing	value-in-use,	the	estimated	futur e	cash	flows	ar e	
discounted	to	their	pr esent	value	using	a	pr e-tax	discount	rate	that	r eflects	curr ent	market	assessments	of	the	time	value	of	money	and	the	risks	
specific	to	the	asset	for	which	the	estimates	of	futur e	cash	flows	have	not	been	adjusted.
If	the	r ecoverable	amount	of	an	asset	(or	cash-generating	unit)	is	estimated	to	be	less	than	its	carrying	amount,	the	carrying	amount	of	the	asset	
(cash-generating	unit)	is	r educed	to	its	r ecoverable	amount.	An	impairment	loss	is	r ecognised	as	an	expense	immediately .
Wher e	an	impairment	loss	is	subsequently	r eversed,	the	carrying	amount	of	the	asset	(or	cash-generating	unit)	is	incr eased	to	the	r evised	estimate	
of	its	r ecoverable	amount,	but	so	that	the	incr eased	carrying	amount	does	not	exceed	the	carrying	amount	that	would	have	been	determined	had	
no	impairment	loss	been	r ecognised	for	the	asset	(or	cash-generating	unit)	in	prior	years.	A	r eversal	of	an	impairment	loss	is	r ecognised	as	income	
immediately .
Inventories
Inventories	ar e	stated	at	the	lower	of	cost	and	net	r ealisable	value.	Cost	is	calculated	using	the	first	in,	first	out	(FIFO)	cost	formula,	by	applying	the	
standar d	cost	methodology ,	with	costs	including	dir ect	materials,	dir ect	labour	costs	and	an	attributable	pr oportion	of	manufacturing	overheads	
based	on	normal	levels	of	activity	that	have	been	incurr ed	in	bringing	the	inventories	to	their	pr esent	location	and	condition.	Net	r ealisable	value	
r epr esents	the	estimated	selling	price	less	all	estimated	costs	of	completion	and	costs	to	be	incurr ed	in	marketing,	selling	and	distribution.	Pr ovision	
is	made	for	obsolete,	slow-moving	or	defective	items	wher e	applicable.
Financial instruments
Financial	assets	and	financial	liabilities	ar e	r ecognised	on	the	Gr oup’ s	balance	sheet	when	the	Gr oup	becomes	a	party	to	the	contractual	pr ovisions	
of	the	instrument.
Trade receivables
T rade	r eceivables	ar e	measur ed	at	initial	r ecognition	at	fair	value.	Appr opriate	allowances	for	estimated	irr ecoverable	amounts	ar e	r ecognised	in	pr ofit	
or	loss	when	ther e	is	objective	evidence	that	the	asset	is	impair ed.	The	allowance	r ecognised	is	measur ed	as	the	dif fer ence	between	the	asset’ s	
carrying	amount	and	the	pr esent	value	of	estimated	futur e	cash	flows	discounted	at	the	ef fective	inter est	rate	computed	at	initial	r ecognition.	
Investments
Investments	ar e	r ecognised	and	der ecognised	on	a	trade	date	wher e	a	pur chase	or	sale	of	an	investment	is	under	a	contract	whose	terms	r equir e	
delivery	of	the	investment	within	the	time	frame	established	by	the	market	concer ned	and	ar e	initially	measur ed	at	fair	value,	equating	to	cost,	
including	transaction	costs.	Investments	ar e	classified	as	available	for	sale,	and	on	the	basis	that	the	investments	have	no	active	market	and	their	 
fair	values	cannot	be	r eliably	determined	using	valuation	techniques,	the	investments	ar e	carried	at	cost.
If	ther e	is	objective	evidence	that	an	impairment	loss	on	an	unquoted	equity	investment	that	is	not	carried	at	fair	value	because	its	fair	value	cannot	
be	r eliably	measur ed,	the	amount	of	the	loss	is	measur ed	as	the	dif fer ence	between	the	asset’ s	carrying	amount	and	the	pr esent	value	of	estimated	
futur e	cash	flows	discounted	at	the	curr ent	market	rate	of	r etur n	for	a	similar	financial	asset.
Bonds	with	fixed	or	determinable	payments	and	fixed	maturity	dates	that	the	Gr oup	has	the	positive	intent	and	ability	to	hold	to	maturity	ar e	
classified	as	held-to-maturity	investments.	Held-to-maturity	investments	ar e	measur ed	at	amortised	cost	using	ef fective	inter est	method	less	any	
impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	comprise	cash	on	hand	and	demand	deposits	and	other	short	term	highly	liquid	investments	that	ar e	r eadily	convertible	
to	a	known	amount	of	cash	within	a	period	of	up	to	thr ee	months	post	balance	sheet	and	ar e	subject	to	an	insignificant	risk	of	changes	in	value.
Treasury deposits
T r easury	deposits	comprise	demand	deposits	that	ar e	convertible	to	a	known	amount	of	cash	with	an	original	maturity	of	up	to	twelve	months,	 
which	ar e	due	to	matur e	mor e	than	thr ee	months	after	the	balance	sheet	date	and	ar e	subject	to	an	insignificant	risk	of	changes	in	value.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial	liabilities	and	equity	instruments	ar e	classified	accor ding	to	the	substance	of	the	contractual	arrangements	enter ed	into.	An	equity	
instrument	is	any	contract	that	evidences	a	r esidual	inter est	in	the	assets	of	the	Gr oup	after	deducting	all	of	its	liabilities.	The	accounting	policies	
adopted	for	specific	financial	liabilities	and	equity	instruments	ar e	set	out	within	the	policy	on	derivative	financial	instruments	and	hedge	accounting	
below .
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Taxation continued
Deferr ed	tax	liabilities	ar e	r ecognised	for	taxable	temporary	dif fer ences	arising	on	investments	in	subsidiaries,	except	wher e	the	Gr oup	is	able	 
to	contr ol	the	r eversal	of	the	temporary	dif fer ence	and	it	is	pr obable	that	the	temporary	dif fer ence	will	not	r everse	in	the	for eseeable	futur e.	
The	carrying	amount	of	deferr ed	tax	assets	is	r eviewed	at	each	balance	sheet	date	and	r educed	to	the	extent	that	it	is	no	longer	pr obable	that	
sufficient	taxable	pr ofits	will	be	available	to	allow	all	or	part	of	the	asset	to	be	r ecover ed.	
Deferr ed	tax	is	calculated	at	the	tax	rates	that	ar e	expected	to	apply	in	the	period	when	the	liability	is	settled	or	the	asset	is	r ealised.	Deferr ed	tax	 
is	charged	or	cr edited	in	the	income	statement,	except	when	it	r elates	to	items	charged	or	cr edited	dir ectly	to	equity ,	in	which	case	the	deferr ed	tax	
is	also	dealt	with	in	equity .	
T o	the	extent	that	the	Gr oup	r eceives	a	tax	deduction	r elating	to	shar e-based	payment	transactions,	deferr ed	tax	is	pr ovided	at	the	appr opriate	
tax	rate	on	the	dif fer ence	in	value	between	the	market	price	of	the	underlying	equity	as	at	the	date	of	the	financial	statements	and	the	exer cise	
price	of	the	outstanding	shar e	options.	As	a	r esult,	the	deferr ed	tax	impact	of	shar e	options	will	not	be	derived	dir ectly	fr om	the	expense	r eported	
in	the	consolidated	income	statement.	The	amount	by	which	the	deductible	dif fer ence	exceeds	the	cumulative	charge	to	the	consolidated	income	
statement	is	r ecor ded	in	the	consolidated	statement	of	compr ehensive	income.
Deferr ed	tax	assets	and	liabilities	ar e	measur ed	on	an	undiscounted	basis	and	ar e	of fset	when	ther e	is	a	legally	enfor ceable	right	to	set	of f	curr ent	 
tax	assets	against	curr ent	tax	liabilities	and	when	they	r elate	to	income	taxes	levied	by	the	same	taxation	authority	and	the	Gr oup	intends	to	settle	 
its	curr ent	tax	assets	and	liabilities	on	a	net	basis.
Property, plant and equipment
All	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	is	shown	at	original	historical	cost	less	accumulated	depr eciation	and	any	r ecognised	impairment	loss.	
Assets	in	the	course	of	construction	for	pr oduction	or	administrative	purposes	ar e	carried	at	cost,	less	any	r ecognised	impairment	loss.	Depr eciation	
of	these	assets,	on	the	same	basis	as	other	assets	in	the	same	class,	commences	when	the	assets	ar e	r eady	for	their	intended	use.
Depr eciation	is	charged	so	as	to	write	of f	the	cost	or	valuation	of	assets,	less	their	r esidual	values,	other	than	assets	in	the	course	of	construction,	
over	their	estimated	useful	lives,	using	the	straight-line	method,	on	the	following	bases:	
Leasehold	pr operty	impr ovements ten	years	or ,	wher e	shorter ,	over	the	term	of	the	r elevant	lease
Plant	and	machinery thr ee	to	eight	years
Fur nitur e,	fittings	and	equipment thr ee	to	five	years
Motor	vehicles three years
Assets	held	under	finance	leases	ar e	depr eciated	over	their	expected	useful	lives	on	the	same	basis	as	owned	assets	or ,	wher e	shorter ,	over	the	
term	of	the	r elevant	lease.
The	gain	or	loss	arising	on	the	disposal	of	an	asset	is	determined	as	the	dif fer ence	between	the	sales	pr oceeds	and	the	carrying	amount	of	the	asset	
and	is	r ecognised	in	income.	
Internally generated intangible assets – research and development expenditure
Expenditur e	on	r esear ch	activities	is	r ecognised	as	an	expense	in	the	period	in	which	it	is	incurr ed.
In	accor dance	with	IAS	38	‘Intangible	assets’	wher e	a	pr oject	has	enter ed	the	development	phase	and	is	sufficiently	self-contained	that	the	expected	
futur e	economic	benefits	can	be	traced	dir ectly	to	the	assets	developed	within	the	pr oject,	it	is	pr obable	that	the	expected	futur e	economic	benefits	
that	ar e	attributable	to	the	asset	will	flow	to	the	entity ,	and	the	cost	of	the	asset	can	be	measur ed	r eliably ,	the	development	costs	r elated	to	the	
pr oject	will	be	capitalised	as	an	intangible	asset.
Inter nally	generated	intangible	assets	ar e	amortised	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	their	useful	lives.	Wher e	no	inter nally	generated	intangible	asset	can	
be	r ecognised,	development	expenditur e	is	r ecognised	as	an	expense	in	the	period	in	which	it	is	incurr ed.
Other intangible assets
Costs	incurr ed	in	maintaining	the	patent	and	trademark	portfolio	ar e	written	of f	to	the	income	statement	as	incurr ed.	
Payments	 in	 r espect	 of	 softwar e,	 exter nal	 pr oduct	 development	 costs	 and	 licence	 rights	 acquir ed	 ar e	 capitalised	 at	 cost	 and	 amortised	 on	 a	 straight-
line	basis	over	their	estimated	useful	lives.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 79 78 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Provisions continued
Pr ovisions	for	the	expected	cost	of	warranty	obligations	under	local	sale	of	goods	legislation	ar e	r ecognised	in	the	month	of	sale	of	the	r elevant	
pr oducts,	at	the	Dir ectors’	best	estimate	of	the	expenditur e	r equir ed	to	settle	the	Gr oup’ s	obligation.
Share-based payments
The	Gr oup	has	applied	the	r equir ements	of	IFRS	2	‘Shar e-based	payment’.	In	accor dance	with	the	transitional	pr ovisions,	IFRS	2	has	been	applied	
to	all	grants	of	equity	instruments	after	7	November	2002	that	wer e	unvested	at	1	January	2005.
The	Gr oup	issues	equity-settled	shar e-based	payments	to	certain	employees.	These	payments	ar e	measur ed	at	fair	value	(excluding	the	ef fect	of	
non-market	based	vesting	conditions)	at	the	date	of	grant.	The	fair	value	determined	at	the	grant	date	of	the	equity-settled	shar e-based	payments	is	
expensed	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	vesting	period,	based	on	the	Gr oup’ s	estimate	of	the	shar es	that	will	eventually	vest	and	adjusted	for	the	
ef fect	of	non-market	based	vesting	conditions.
The	fair	value	of	options	issued	under	the	Gr oup’ s	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	is	measur ed	using	a	stochastic	(Monte	Carlo	binomial)	model	for	grants	
made	 between	 2007	 and	 2009	 inclusive.	 The	 fair	 value	 of	 all	 other	 equity-settled	 shar e-based	 payments	 is	 measur ed	 using	 the	 Black-Scholes	 pricing	
model.	The	expected	life	used	in	these	models	has	been	adjusted,	based	on	management’ s	best	estimate,	for	the	ef fects	of	non-transferability ,	
exer cise	r estrictions	and	behavioural	considerations.
SA YE	shar e	options	granted	to	employees	ar e	tr eated	as	cancelled	when	employees	cease	to	contribute	to	the	scheme.	This	r esults	in	accelerated	
r ecognition	of	the	expenses	that	would	have	arisen	over	the	r emainder	of	the	original	vesting	period.
Own shares
Own	shar es	ar e	deducted	fr om	equity .	No	gain	or	loss	is	r ecognised	in	the	income	statement	on	the	pur chase,	sale,	issue	or	cancellation	of	the	
Gr oup’ s	own	shar es.
New standards and interpretations
In	the	curr ent	year ,	the	following	new	and	r evised	Standar ds	and	Interpr etations	have	been	adopted:
•	 IFRS	10,	IFRS	12	and	IAS	27	(amended)	‘Investment	Entities’
•	 IAS	36	(amendments)	‘Recoverable	Amount	Disclosur es	of	Non-Financial	Assets’
•	 IAS	39	(amendments)	‘Novation	of	Derivatives	and	Continuation	of	Hedge	Accounting’
•	 IFRIC	Interpr etation	21	‘Levies’
•	 IAS	32	‘Of fsetting	financial	assets	and	financial	liabilities’
Their	adoption	has	not	had	any	material	impact	on	the	disclosur es	or	on	the	amounts	r eported	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements.
At	the	date	of	authorisation	of	these	financial	statements,	the	following	Standar ds	and	Interpr etations	which	have	not	been	applied	in	these	financial	
statements	wer e	in	issue	but	not	yet	ef fective	(and	in	some	cases	had	not	yet	been	adopted	by	the	EU):
IFRS	9 Financial	Instruments
IFRS	15 Revenue	fr om	Contracts	with	Customers
IFRS	11	(amendments) Accounting	for	Acquisitions	of	Inter ests	in	Joint	Operations
IAS	16	and	IAS	38	(amendments) Clarification	of	acceptable	Methods	of	Depr eciation	and	Amortisation
IAS	27	(amendments) Equity	Method	in	Separate	Financial	Statements
Annual	Impr ovements	to	IFRSs	(amendments)
The	Dir ectors	do	not	expect	that	the	adoption	of	the	standar ds	listed	above	will	have	a	material	impact	on	the	financial	statements	of	the	Gr oup	in	
futur e	periods.	
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Inter est-bearing	loans	and	bank	over drafts	ar e	measur ed	initially	at	fair	value,	net	of	dir ect	issue	costs.	Finance	charges,	including	pr emiums	payable	
on	settlement	or	r edemption	and	dir ect	issue	costs,	ar e	accounted	for	on	an	accrual	basis	in	the	income	statement	using	the	ef fective	inter est	rate	
method	and	ar e	added	to	the	carrying	amount	of	the	instrument	to	the	extent	that	they	ar e	not	settled	in	the	period	in	which	they	arise.
Trade payables
T rade	payables	ar e	measur ed	at	original	cost.	
Equity instruments
Equity	instruments	issued	by	the	Company	ar e	r ecor ded	as	the	pr oceeds	r eceived,	net	of	dir ect	issue	costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The	Gr oup’ s	activities	expose	it	primarily	to	the	financial	risks	of	changes	in	for eign	curr ency	exchange	rates	and	inter est	rates	and	liquidity	risk.	
The	Gr oup	uses	derivative	financial	instruments	(primarily	for eign	curr ency	forwar d	contracts)	to	hedge	its	risks	associated	with	for eign	curr ency	
fluctuations	r elating	to	certain	firm	commitments	and	for ecast	transactions.	
The	Gr oup’ s	inter est	rate	risk	arises	mainly	fr om	its	funds	invested	in	short	term	bank	deposits.	T o	mitigate	these	risks,	limits	have	been	set	by	the	
Boar d	in	r elation	to	maturity	period	and	maximum	deposits	with	any	one	institution.	
In	or der	to	mitigate	the	Gr oup’ s	liquidity	risks,	the	Gr oup	can	choose	to	fund	significant	fixed	asset	pur chases	by	finance	leases	r epayable	over	a	
period	of	thr ee	to	five	years	dependent	on	the	individual	asset	being	financed	and	inter est-bearing	loans.	
The	use	of	financial	derivatives	is	gover ned	by	the	Gr oup’ s	policies	appr oved	by	the	Boar d	of	Dir ectors,	which	pr ovides	written	principles	on	the	 
use	of	financial	derivatives	consistent	with	the	Gr oup’ s	risk	management	strategy .	The	Gr oup	does	not	use	derivative	financial	instruments	for	
speculative	purposes.	
Derivative	financial	instruments	ar e	initially	measur ed	at	fair	value	on	the	contract	date	and	ar e	r emeasur ed	to	fair	value	at	subsequent	r eporting	
dates.	
Changes	in	the	fair	value	of	derivative	financial	instruments	that	ar e	designated	as	hedges	of	futur e	cash	flows	and	deemed	to	be	ef fective	ar e	
r ecognised	dir ectly	in	equity	and	the	inef fective	portion	is	r ecognised	immediately	in	the	income	statement.	If	the	cash	flow	hedge	of	a	firm	
commitment	or	for ecast	transaction	r esults	in	the	r ecognition	of	an	asset	or	a	liability ,	then,	at	the	time	the	asset	or	liability	is	r ecognised,	the	
associated	gains	or	losses	on	the	derivative	that	had	pr eviously	been	r ecognised	in	equity	ar e	included	in	the	initial	measur ement	of	the	asset	or	
liability .	For	hedges	that	do	not	r esult	in	the	r ecognition	of	an	asset	or	a	liability ,	amounts	deferr ed	in	equity	ar e	r ecognised	in	the	income	statement	in	
the	same	period	in	which	the	hedged	item	af fects	net	pr ofit	or	loss.	However ,	when	the	for ecast	transaction	that	is	hedged	r esults	in	the	r ecognition	
of	a	non-financial	asset	or	non-financial	liability ,	the	gains	and	losses	pr eviously	accumulated	in	equity	ar e	transferr ed	fr om	equity	and	included	in	the	
initial	measur ement	of	the	cost	of	the	non-financial	asset	or	non-financial	liability .
Changes	in	fair	value	of	derivative	financial	instruments	that	do	not	qualify	for	hedge	accounting	ar e	r ecognised	in	the	income	statement	as	 
they	arise.
Hedge	accounting	is	discontinued	when	the	hedging	instrument	expir es	or	is	sold,	terminated,	exer cised,	or	no	longer	qualifies	for	hedge	
accounting.	 At	that	 time,	any	cumulative	gain	 or	loss	on	the	hedging	 instrument	 r ecognised	 in	equity	is	r etained	 in	equity	until	 the	for ecast	 transaction	
occurs.	If	a	hedged	transaction	is	no	longer	expected	to	occur ,	the	net	cumulative	gain	or	loss	r ecognised	in	equity	is	transferr ed	to	net	pr ofit	or	loss	
for	the	period.
Derivatives	embedded	in	other	financial	instruments	or	other	host	contracts	ar e	tr eated	as	separate	derivatives	when	their	risks	and	characteristics	
ar e	not	closely	r elated	to	those	of	host	contracts	and	the	host	contracts	ar e	not	carried	at	fair	value,	with	gains	or	losses	r eported	in	the	 
income	statement.
Provisions
Pr ovisions	ar e	r ecognised	when	the	Gr oup	has	a	pr esent	obligation	as	a	r esult	of	a	past	event	and	it	is	pr obable	that	the	Gr oup	will	be	r equir ed	to	
settle	that	obligation.	Pr ovisions	ar e	measur ed	at	the	Dir ectors’	best	estimate	of	the	expenditur e	r equir ed	to	settle	the	obligation	at	the	balance	sheet	
date	and	ar e	discounted	wher e	the	ef fect	of	the	time	value	of	money	is	material.
A	r estructuring	pr ovision	is	r ecognised	when	the	Gr oup	has	developed	a	detailed	formal	plan	for	the	r estructuring	and	has	raised	a	valid	expectation	
in	those	af fected	that	it	will	carry	out	the	r estructuring	by	starting	to	implement	the	plan	or	announcing	its	main	featur es	to	those	af fected	by	it,	and	
the	plan	has	r eached	a	stage	wher e	the	decision	is	unlikely	to	be	r eversed.	The	measur ement	of	a	r estructuring	pr ovision	includes	only	the	dir ect	
expenditur es	arising	fr om	the	r estructuring,	which	ar e	those	amounts	that	ar e	both	necessarily	entailed	by	the	r estructuring	and	not	associated	with	
the	ongoing	activities	of	the	entity .
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 81 80 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
6. Business and geographical segments
Pr oducts	and	services	fr om	which	r eportable	segments	derive	their	r evenues.
For	management	r eporting	purposes,	the	Gr oup’ s	operations	ar e	curr ently	analysed	accor ding	to	the	two	operating	segments	of	‘pr oduct	sales,	
commissions	and	fees’	and	‘r oyalties’.	These	two	operating	segments	ar e	the	basis	on	which	the	Gr oup	r eports	its	primary	segment	information	and	
on	which	decisions	ar e	made	by	the	Gr oup’ s	Chief	Executive	Officer	and	Boar d	of	Dir ectors,	and	r esour ces	allocated.	The	Gr oup’ s	chief	operating	
decision	maker	is	the	Chief	Executive	Officer .
Segment	information	is	pr esented	below:
Y ear	ended	31	December	2014
Product sales, 
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue 
T otal	segment	r evenue 102,804 6,346 – 109,150 
Result
Adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax 17,870 6,346 394 24,610
Shar e-based	payment	charges – – (242) (242)
Exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	Swedish	operations (614) – – (614)
Loss	on	derivative	financial	instruments – – (6) (6)
Restructuring	costs (872) – – (872)
Resear ch	and	development	expenditur e	cr edit 234 – – 234 
Pr ofit	befor e	tax 16,618 6,346 146 23,110 
Investment	income	and	finance	costs	ar e	not	allocated	to	r eportable	segments	for	the	purposes	of	r eporting	to	the	Gr oup’ s	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Boar d	of	Dir ectors.
Shar e-based	payment	charges	include	the	IFRS	2	charge	for	the	period	and	the	charge	r elating	to	National	Insurance	on	the	outstanding	potential	
shar e	option	gains.
Y ear	ended	31	December	2013
Pr oduct	sales,	
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue 
T otal	segment	adjusted	r evenue 127,210 6,924 – 134,134
Non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income – 2,994 – 2,994
Revenue 127,210 9,918 – 137,128
Result
Adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax 33,806 6,924 388 41,118
Non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income – 2,994 – 2,994
Shar e-based	payment	charges – – (4,204) (4,204)
Exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	Swedish	operations (416) – – (416)
Gain	on	derivative	financial	instruments – – 9 9
Resear ch	and	development	expenditur e	cr edit 586 – – 586
Pr ofit/(loss)	befor e	tax 33,976 9,918 (3,807) 40,087
4. Reconciliation of adjusted financial measures 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Revenue 109,150 137,128
Non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income – (2,994)
Adjusted	r evenue 109,150 134,134
 
Pr ofit	befor e	tax 23,110 40,087
Shar e-based	payment	charges 242 4,204
Exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	Swedish	operations 614 416
Loss/(gain)	on	derivative	financial	instruments 6 (9)
Restructuring	costs 872 –
Non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income – (2,994)
Resear ch	and	development	expenditur e	cr edit (234) (586)
Adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax 24,610 41,118
Shar e-based 	 payment 	 charges 	 include 	 the 	 IFRS 	 2 	 charge 	 for 	 the 	 period 	 of 	 £1,106,000, 	 per 	 note 	 33 	 (2013: 	 £2,103,000) 	 and 	 the 	 cr edit 	 r elating 	 to 	 National	
Insurance 	 on 	 the 	 outstanding 	 potential 	 shar e 	 option 	 gains 	 of 	 £864,000 	 (2013: 	 charge 	 of 	 £2,101,000).
Exchange 	 dif fer ences 	 r elating 	 to 	 the 	 Swedish 	 operations 	 r epr esent 	 exchange 	 gains 	 or 	 losses 	 r ecor ded 	 in 	 the 	 consolidated 	 income 	 statement 	 as 	 a 	 r esult 	 of	
operating 	 in 	 Sweden.
Loss/(gain) 	 on 	 derivative 	 financial 	 instruments 	 r elates 	 to 	 gains 	 and 	 losses 	 made 	 on 	 forwar d 	 contracts 	 in 	 2014 	 and 	 2013.
Restructuring 	 costs 	 of 	 £872,000 	 wer e 	 incurr ed 	 in 	 r elation 	 to 	 a 	 r eduction 	 made 	 to 	 the 	 global 	 work 	 for ce 	 in 	 2014.
Non-r ecurring 	 r oyalty 	 income 	 in 	 2013 	 r elates 	 to 	 the 	 settlement 	 of 	 under -r eported 	 r oyalties 	 payable 	 by 	 licensees 	 for 	 the 	 period 	 2006 	 to 	 2012.
The 	 r esear ch 	 and 	 development 	 expenditur e 	 cr edit 	 r elates 	 to 	 the 	 corporation 	 tax 	 r elief 	 r eceivable 	 r elating 	 to 	 qualifying 	 r esear ch 	 and 	 development 	 expenditur e.
 2014
Pence per share
2013
Pence	per	shar e
Diluted	ear nings	per	shar e 24.4p 41.6p
Shar e-based	payment	charges 0.3p 5.5p
Exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	Swedish	operations 0.8p 0.5p
Restructuring	costs 1.1p –
Non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income – (3.9p)
T ax	ef fect	of	adjusting	items (0.2p) (0.5p)
Adjusted	diluted	ear nings	per	shar e 26.4p 43.2p
This	r econciliation	is	pr ovided	to	enable	a	better	understanding	of	the	Gr oup’ s	r esults.
5. Revenue
An	analysis	of	the	Gr oup’ s	r evenue	is	as	follows:
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Pr oduct	sales,	commissions	and	fees 102,804 127,210
Royalties	 6,346 9,918
109,150 137,128
Investment	income 9 394 443
109,544 137,571
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 83 82 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
6. Business and geographical segments continued
Geographical information
The	Gr oup	operates	in	thr ee	principal	geographical	ar eas:	EMEA,	Asia	and	the	Americas.	The	Gr oup’ s	r evenue	fr om	exter nal	customers	and	
information	about	its	segments	(non-curr ent	assets	excluding	deferr ed	tax	assets	and	other	financial	assets)	by	geographical	location	is	detailed	
below:
Revenue	fr om	exter nal	customers
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
EMEA 60,088 67,494
Asia
– China 34,317 50,270
–	Japan 6,637 10,398
– Other 1,611 2,101
The	Americas	(including	USA) 6,497 6,865
109,150 137,128
Revenues	ar e	attributed	to	geographical	ar eas	on	the	basis	of	the	customers’	operating	location.
Non-curr ent	assets
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
EMEA 50,265 47,773
Asia 67 90
The	Americas	(including	USA) 4 7
50,336 47,870
Non-curr ent	assets,	being	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment,	goodwill,	other	intangible	assets,	investments	and	the	deferr ed	tax	asset,	ar e	attributed	 
to	the	location	wher e	they	ar e	situated.
Information about major customers
Included	in	r evenues	arising	fr om	pr oduct	sales,	commissions	and	fees	ar e	r evenues	of	appr oximately	£11.4	million	(10%	of	r evenues)	(2013:	£18.6	
million,	14%	of	r evenues)	which	ar ose	fr om	sales	to	the	Gr oup’ s	largest	customer .	In	the	year	ended	31	December	2014	r evenues	of	appr oximately	
£11.2	million	(10%	of	r evenues)	(2013:	£13.2	million,	10%	of	r evenues)	wer e	included	in	the	pr oduct	sales,	commissions	and	fees	which	ar ose	 
fr om	sales	to	the	Gr oup’ s	second	largest	customer .	In	2014,	the	largest	and	second	largest	customers	wer e	the	only	customers	to	exceed	10%	 
of	r evenue	in	the	period	(2013:	only	the	largest	customer	exceeded	10%	of	r evenue	in	the	period).	Revenue	fr om	the	top	five	customers	r epr esents	
47%	of	r evenues	(2013:	45%).
7. Profit for the year
Pr ofit	for	the	year	has	been	arrived	at	after	charging/(cr editing):	
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Net	for eign	exchange	losses	(including	exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	Swedish	operations) 1,052 262
Resear ch	and	development	expenses	(net	of	capitalised	development	costs) 11,797 16,389
Grants	towar ds	r esear ch	and	development	including	the	r esear ch	and	development	expenditur e	cr edit (349) (595)
Depr eciation	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment 9,836 7,410
Amortisation	of	intangible	assets	 885 889
Loss	on	disposal	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment 189 250
Cost	of	inventories	r ecognised	as	expense 60,548 63,114
Impairment	of	other	financial	assets (70) 215
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 182 250
6. Business and geographical segments continued
Segment assets
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Pr oduct	sales,	commissions	and	fees 83,719 76,812
Royalties	 1,773 1,563
T otal	segment	assets 85,492 78,375
Investments 1,000 1,000
Treasury deposits 21,000 22,000
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	 25,963 31,485
Derivative	financial	instruments – 6
Total assets 133,455 132,866
Assets	ar e	allocated	to	the	segment	which	has	r esponsibility	for	their	contr ol.	
No	information	is	pr ovided	for	segment	liabilities	as	this	measur e	is	not	pr ovided	to	the	chief	operating	decision	maker .
Other segment information
Y ear	ended	31	December	2014 Notes
Product sales, 
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Depreciation and amortisation 15,	16 10,721 – – 10,721
Shar e-based	payment	charges – – 242 242
Capital	expenditur e 15,	16 18,048 – – 18,048 
Y ear	ended	31	December	2013 Notes
Pr oduct	sales,	
commissions
and fees
£’000
Royalties
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Depreciation and amortisation 15,	16 8,299 – – 8,299
Shar e-based	payment	charges – – 4,204 4,204
Capital	expenditur e 15,	16 19,750 – – 19,750
Revenues from major products and services
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Pr oduct	sales,	commissions	and	fees 102,804 127,210
Royalties	 6,346 9,918
Consolidated	r evenue	(excluding	investment	income) 109,150 137,128
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 85 84 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
9. Investment income
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Inter est	r eceivable	on	cash	and	bank	balances,	and	tr easury	deposits 389 439
Inter est	r eceivable	on	held-to-maturity	investments 5 4
394 443
10. Finance costs
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Inter est	payable	on	bank	loans	and	over drafts – 55
11. Tax
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Curr ent	tax	–	UK 3,191 7,843
Curr ent	tax	–	overseas 278 263
3,469 8,106
Amounts	(over)/under	pr ovided	in	pr evious	years (545) 66
T otal	curr ent	income	tax 2,924 8,172
Deferr ed	tax	–	origination	and	r eversal 1,195 (270)
Adjustment	in	r espect	of	prior	years 299 324
T otal	deferr ed	tax	charge 22 1,494 54
T otal	tax	expense	for	the	year 4,418 8,226
The	blended	standar d	rate	of	tax	for	the	year ,	based	on	the	UK	standar d	rate	of	corporation	tax,	is	21.49%	(2013:	23.25%).	T axation	for	other	
jurisdictions	is	calculated	at	the	rates	pr evailing	in	the	r espective	jurisdictions.	
The	Finance	Act	2014,	which	pr ovides	for	a	r eduction	in	the	main	rate	of	corporation	tax	fr om	21%	to	20%	ef fective	fr om	1	April	2015,	was	
substantively	enacted	on	17	July	2014.	This	rate	r eduction	has	been	r eflected	in	the	calculation	of	deferr ed	tax	at	the	balance	sheet	date.
In	2013,	the	Company	benefited	fr om	the	enhanced	tax	deduction	for	r esear ch	and	development	expenditur e	for	thr ee	months	of	the	year	under	the	
large	company	scheme.	The	Company	has	opted	into	the	r esear ch	and	development	expenditur e	cr edit	scheme	fr om	1	April	2013,	which	is	not	a	
tax	deduction	and	is	taken	as	income	included	in	operating	pr ofit.
7. Profit for the year continued
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Fees	payable	to	the	Company’ s	auditor	for	the	audit	of	the	Company’ s	annual	accounts 22 22
Fees	payable	to	the	Company’ s	auditor	and	its	associates	for	other	services	to	the	Gr oup
  The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 106 111
Total audit fees 128 133
–	Interim	r eview 24 23
–	T ax	services 6 46
–	Recruitment	and	r emuneration	services 17 24
–	Audit	advisory 7 –
–	Other	services – 24
T otal	non-audit	fees 54 117
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates 182 250
The	Audit	Committee	has	consider ed	the	independence	of	the	auditor	in	r elation	to	non-audit	services	thr oughout	the	year .	A	description	of	the	
work	of	the	Audit	Committee	is	set	out	in	the	Corporate	gover nance	statement	on	pages	35	to	36	and	includes	an	explanation	of	how	the	auditor’ s	
objectivity	and	independence	is	safeguar ded	when	non-audit	services	ar e	pr ovided	by	the	auditor .
The	Gr oup	paid	£8,000	(2013:	£10,000)	to	Cambridge	Network	Limited,	an	associate	of	Deloitte	LLP .	Cambridge	Network	is	a	networking	
organisation	which	draws	its	members	fr om	companies	and	individuals	inter ested	in	the	Cambridge	technology	industry .	Neither	Deloitte	LLP	nor	 
any	of	its	partners	r eceive	any	financial	r etur n	fr om	Cambridge	Network.
8. Staff costs
The	average	monthly	number	of	persons	employed	by	the	Gr oup	including	Executive	Dir ectors	was	as	follows:
2014
Number
2013
Number
Resear ch	and	development	 168 105
Sales	and	marketing	 62 57
Manufacturing	and	engineering	 491 465
Business	support 64 65
785 692
Their	aggr egate	r emuneration	comprised:	
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
W ages	and	salaries	 28,981 26,949
Social	security	costs 3,753 3,521
Pension	costs 34 1,642 1,096
Shar e-based	payments 242 4,204
 34,618 35,770
Shar e-based	payment	charges	include	the	IFRS	2	charge	for	the	period	and	the	charge	r elating	to	National	Insurance	on	the	outstanding	potential	
shar e	option	gains.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 87 86 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
13. Earnings per ordinary share – basic and diluted continued
2014
Pence per share
2013
Pence	per	shar e
Basic 25.0p 43.3p
Diluted 24.4p 41.6p
The	weighted	average	number	of	or dinary	shar es	for	the	purposes	of	basic	ear nings	per	shar e	is	calculated	after	the	exclusion	of	or dinary	shar es	in	
Xaar	plc	held	by	Xaar	T rustee	Ltd	and	the	Xaar	plc	ESOP	trust.
For	2014,	ther e	wer e	shar e	options	granted	over	688,038	shar es	that	had	not	been	included	in	the	diluted	ear nings	per	shar e	calculation	because	
they	wer e	anti-dilutive	at	the	period	end.	For	2013,	ther e	wer e	no	anti-dilutive	shar e	options	at	the	period	end.	
Adjusted earnings per share
This	adjusted	ear nings	per	shar e	information	is	consider ed	to	pr ovide	a	fair er	r epr esentation	of	the	Gr oup’ s	trading	performance	year	on	year ,	as	it	
r emoves	items	which,	in	the	Boar d’ s	opinion,	do	not	r eflect	the	underlying	performance	of	the	Gr oup.
The	calculation	of	adjusted	EPS	excluding	shar e-based	payment	charges,	exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	Swedish	operations,	the	gain	or	loss	
on	derivative	financial	instruments,	r estructuring	costs,	and	non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income,	is	based	on	ear nings	of:	
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Ear nings	for	the	purposes	of	basic	ear nings	per	shar e	being	net	pr ofit	attributable	to	equity	holders	of	the	par ent 18,692 31,861
Shar e-based	payment	charges 242 4,204
Exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	Swedish	operations 614 416
Loss/(gain)	on	derivative	financial	instruments 6 (9)
Restructuring	costs 872 –
Non-r ecurring	r oyalty	income – (2,994)
T ax	ef fect	of	adjusting	items (197) (376)
Adjusted	pr ofit	after	tax 20,229 33,102
The	denominators	used	ar e	the	same	as	those	detailed	above	for	both	basic	and	diluted	ear nings	per	shar e.	
Shar e-based	payment	charges	include	the	IFRS	2	charge	for	the	period	of	£1,106,000,	per	note	33	(2013:	£2,103,000)	and	the	cr edit	r elating	to	
National	Insurance	on	the	outstanding	potential	shar e	option	gains	of	£864,000	(2013:	charge	of	£2,101,000).
Adjusted	ear nings	per	shar e	is	ear nings	per	shar e	excluding	the	items	adjusted	for	as	detailed	above:	
2014
Pence per share
2013
Pence	per	shar e
Adjusted	basic 27.0p 44.9p
Adjusted	diluted 26.4p 43.2p
11. Tax continued
The	charge	for	the	year	can	be	r econciled	to	the	pr ofit	per	the	income	statement	as	follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 23,110 40,087
T ax	on	or dinary	activities	at	a	blended	standar d	rate	of	21.49%	(2013:	23.25%) 4,967 9,319
Ef fect	of:	
Expenses	not	deductible	for	tax	purposes 486 254
Ef fect	of	dif fer ent	tax	rates	of	subsidiaries	operating	overseas 111 59
Enhanced	tax	deduction	for	patent	box (820) (1,805)
Enhanced	tax	deduction	for	r esear ch	and	development	expenditur e – (134)
Ef fect	of	change	in	UK	corporation	tax	rate (80) 143
Prior	period	adjustments (246) 390
Total tax expense for the year 4,418 8,226
The	ef fective	tax	rate	for	the	year	is	19%	(2013:	21%).	
12. Dividends
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amounts	r ecognised	as	distributions	to	equity	holders	in	the	year:
Final	dividend	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2013	of	5.5p	(2012:	3.0p)	per	shar e 4,124 2,211
Interim	dividend	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2014	of	3.0p	(2013:	2.5p)	per	shar e 2,253 1,848
Total distributions to equity holders in the year 6,377 4,059
Pr oposed	final	dividend	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2014	of	6.0p	(2013:	5.5p)	per	shar e 4,599 4,174
The	pr oposed	final	dividend	is	subject	to	appr oval	by	shar eholders	at	the	AGM	and	has	not	been	included	as	a	liability	in	these	financial	statements.
13. Earnings per ordinary share – basic and diluted
The	calculation	of	basic	and	diluted	ear nings	per	shar e	is	based	on	the	following	data:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Earnings 
Ear nings	for	the	purposes	of	basic	ear nings	per	shar e	being	net	pr ofit	attributable	to	equity	holders	of	the	par ent 18,962 31,861
Number of shares
W eighted	average	number	of	or dinary	shar es	for	the	purposes	of	basic	ear nings	per	shar e 74,863,310 73,652,808
Ef fect	of	dilutive	potential	or dinary	shar es:
Shar e	options 1,629,537 2,989,912
W eighted	average	number	of	or dinary	shar es	for	the	purposes	of	diluted	ear nings	per	shar e 76,492,847 76,642,720
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 89 88 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 15. Other intangible assets continued
Capitalised	development	costs	r elate	to	Platform	2,	Platform	3,	and	Platform	4	technology	development	and	other	associated	pr oduct	development.	
Wher e	these	assets	have	commenced	amortisation,	the	amortisation	periods	ar e	five	to	ten	years.
The 	 amortisation 	 period 	 for 	 softwar e 	 is 	 thr ee 	 to 	 five 	 years.
Licences	acquir ed	ar e	amortised	over	their	estimated	useful	lives	which	is	on	average	ten	years.	
At	31	December	2014	the	Gr oup	had	enter ed	into	contractual	commitments	for	the	acquisition	of	softwar e	amounting	to	£29,000	(2013:	£262,000).
16. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold
property
£’000
Plant	and
machinery
£’000
Fur nitur e,
fittings	and
equipment
£’000
Assets	in	the	
course of
construction
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At	1	January	2013 8,928 43,139 2,705 1,276 56,048
Additions 1,051 8,121 964 9,353 19,489
Transfers 720 504 5 (1,229) –
Exchange	movements (24) (140) (7) (15) (186)
Disposals (42) (1,040) (53) (122) (1,257)
At	1	January	2014 10,633 50,584 3,614 9,263 74,094
Additions 1,922 7,751 421 379 10,473
Transfers 1,277 5,942 151 (7,370) –
Exchange	movements (262) (1,115) (49) (2) (1,428)
Disposals – (411) (11) – (422)	
At 31 December 2014 13,570 62,751 4,126 2,270 82,717 
Depreciation
At	1	January	2013 3,694 23,961 1,689 – 29,344
Charge	for	the	year 904 5,911 595 – 7,410
Exchange	movements (23) (118) (6) – (147)
Disposals (60) (852) (53) – (965)
At	1	January	2014 4,515 28,902 2,225 – 35,642
Charge	for	the	year 1,555 7,535 746 – 9,836
Exchange	movements (175) (848) (46) – (1,069)
Disposals – (222) (9) – (231)	
At 31 December 2014 5,895 35,367 2,916 – 44,178 
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 7,675 27,384 1,210 2,270 38,539 
At	31	December	2013 6,118 21,682 1,389 9,263 38,452
As	at	31	December	2014	the	Gr oup	had	enter ed	into	contractual	commitments	for	the	acquisition	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	amounting	to	
£517,000	(2013:	£6,451,000).
17. Subsidiaries
A	list	of	the	investments	in	subsidiaries,	including	the	name,	country	of	incorporation	and	pr oportion	of	ownership	inter est,	is	given	in	note	10	to	the	
Company’ s	separate	financial	statements.
14. Goodwill
The	carrying	amount	of	goodwill	at	31	December	2014	was	£720,000	(2013:	£720,000).	Ther e	wer e	no	accumulated	impairment	losses	at	the	end	
of	the	year .
Goodwill	acquir ed	in	a	business	combination	is	allocated,	at	acquisition,	to	the	cash-generating	units	(CGUs)	that	ar e	expected	to	benefit	fr om	that	
business	combination.	The	carrying	amount	of	goodwill	had	been	allocated	as	follows:	
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Printheads	and	r elated	pr oducts	(a	single	CGU) 720 720
The	Gr oup	tests	goodwill	annually	for	impairment	or	mor e	fr equently	if	ther e	ar e	indications	that	goodwill	might	be	impair ed.
The	r ecoverable	amount	of	the	CGU	is	determined	fr om	a	value-in-use	calculation.	The	key	assumptions	to	which	the	value-in-use	calculation	 
is	most	sensitive	ar e	those	r egar ding	the	discount	rates,	gr owth	rates	and	expected	changes	to	selling	prices	and	dir ect	costs	during	the	period.
The	Gr oup	pr epar es	cash	flow	for ecasts	derived	fr om	the	most	r ecent	financial	for ecasts	r eviewed	by	management	for	the	next	four	years	and	these	
have	been	used	in	the	value-in-use	calculation.	The	discount	rate	applied	to	the	cash	flow	pr ojections	is	10%	(2013:	8%)	and	r eflects	management’ s	
estimate	of	r etur n	on	capital	employed.	
Sensitivity	analysis	has	been	completed	on	each	key	assumption	in	isolation	and	this	indicates	that	r easonable	changes	in	key	assumptions	 
on	which	we	have	based	our	determination	of	the	r ecoverable	amount	would	not	cause	the	carrying	amount	of	goodwill	to	exceed	its	 
r ecoverable	amount.
Having	performed	impairment	testing,	no	impairment	has	been	identified	and	ther efor e	no	impairment	loss	has	been	r ecognised	in	either	period.	
15. Other intangible assets
Capitalised
development
costs
£’000
Licences
acquired
£’000
Softwar e
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At	1	January	2013 9,491 533 2,462 12,486
Additions 2 – 259 261
At	1	January	2014 9,493 533 2,721 12,747
Additions 7,357 – 218 7,575
Disposals (2,321) – (2) (2,323)	
At 31 December 2014 14,529 533 2,937 17,999
Amortisation
At	1	January	2013 6,286 533 1,652 8,471
Charge	for	the	year 493 – 396 889
At	1	January	2014 6,779 533 2,048 9,360
Charge	for	the	year 492 – 393 885
Disposals (2,321) – (2) (2,323)	
At 31 December 2014 4,950 533 2,439 7,922
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2014 9,579 – 498 10,077 
At	31	December	2013 2,714 – 673 3,387
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 91 90 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 20. Other financial assets continued
Trade receivables
The	average	cr edit	period	taken	on	sales	of	goods	is	26	days	(2013:	24	days).	No	inter est	is	charged	on	the	r eceivables	for	the	period	agr eed	in	
the	Requir ements	Contract	or ,	if	not	specified	or	applicable,	the	first	30	days	fr om	the	date	of	the	invoice.	Ther eafter ,	the	Gr oup	r eserves	the	right	to	
charge	inter est	at	a	daily	rate	of	the	gr eater	of	either	3%	per	annum	above	the	base	rate	of	Bar clays	Bank	plc	fr om	time	to	time,	or	the	maximum	rate	
of	inter est	allowable	under	the	Late	Payment	of	Commer cial	Debts	(Inter est)	Act	1998,	on	all	sums	outstanding	until	payment	in	full	is	r eceived.	The	
Gr oup	has	pr ovided	fully	for	all	r eceivables	over	120	days	because	historical	experience	is	such	that	r eceivables	that	ar e	past	due	beyond	120	days	
ar e	generally	not	r ecoverable.	T rade	r eceivables	between	30	days	and	120	days	ar e	pr ovided	for	based	on	estimated	irr ecoverable	amounts	fr om	the	
sale	of	goods,	determined	by	r efer ence	to	past	default	experience.
The	maximum	exposur e	to	cr edit	risk	is	the	carrying	amount	of	the	financial	assets	as	disclosed	on	page	92.	Befor e	accepting	any	new	customer ,	
the	Gr oup	uses	an	exter nal	cr edit	scoring	system	to	assess	the	potential	customer’ s	cr edit	quality	and	defines	cr edit	limits	by	customer .	Cr edit	limits	
ar e	r eviewed	at	least	once	per	year .	Letters	of	cr edit	may	be	used.	Cr edit	insurance	has	typically	been	taken	out	over	the	most	significant	customers.	
Of	the	trade	r eceivables	balance	at	the	end	of	the	year ,	seven	customers	each	r epr esented	gr eater	than	5%	of	the	total	r eceivables	balance,	totalling	
£5.0	million	(2013:	£7.2	million).	The	total	due	fr om	these	customers	r epr esents	29%	(2013:	49%)	of	the	Gr oup’ s	r evenue;	ther e	ar e	no	other	
customers	who	r epr esent	mor e	than	5%	of	the	total	balance	of	trade	r eceivables.
Included	in	the	Gr oup’ s	trade	r eceivables	balance	ar e	debtors	with	a	carrying	amount	of	£1.4	million	(2013:	£1.7	million)	which	ar e	past	due	at	the	
r eporting	date	for	which	the	Gr oup	has	not	pr ovided	as	ther e	has	not	been	a	significant	change	in	cr edit	quality	and	the	amounts	ar e	still	consider ed	
r ecoverable.	Of	these	amounts,	the	Gr oup	is	in	possession	of	letters	of	cr edit	to	the	value	of	£1,565,000	(2013:	£1,667,000)	which	had	not	r eached	
maturity	as	at	the	r eporting	date.	The	Gr oup	does	not	hold	any	other	collateral	over	these	balances.	The	average	age	of	these	r eceivables	is	63	days	
(2013:	32	days).
Ageing	of	past	due	but	not	impair ed	r eceivables:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
1–30	days	over due 1,011 1,726
30–60	days	over due 230 66
60–90	days	over due 16 7
90–120	days	over due 19 –
Over	120	days	over due 76 85
Total 1,352 1,884
Movement	in	the	allowance	for	doubtful	debts:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Balance	at	the	beginning	of	the	year 502 287
Impairment	losses	(r eversed)/r ecognised (70) 215
Balance	at	the	end	of	the	year 432 502
In	determining	the	r ecoverability	of	a	trade	r eceivable,	the	Gr oup	considers	any	change	in	the	cr edit	quality	of	the	trade	r eceivable	fr om	the	date	
cr edit	was	initially	granted	up	to	the	r eporting	date.	The	concentration	of	cr edit	risk	is	limited	due	to	the	customer	base	being	large	and	unr elated.	
Accor dingly ,	the	Dir ectors	believe	that	ther e	is	no	further	cr edit	pr ovision	r equir ed	in	excess	of	the	allowance	for	doubtful	debts.
18. Investments
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Held-to-maturity investments
At	the	beginning	of	the	year 1,000 –
Additions	in	the	year – 1,000
At	the	end	of	the	year 1,000 1,000
Held-to-maturity	investments	r epr esent	investment	in	bonds	r etur ning	inter est	at	3%	per	annum,	which	matur e	on	22	November	2018.
T rading	investments	fully	impair ed	in	2012	wer e	disposed	of	in	2014.	No	trading	investments	r emain	as	at	31	December	2014.
19. Inventories
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Raw	materials	and	consumables 4,818 5,978
W ork	in	pr ogr ess 1,342 2,029
Finished	goods 13,635 7,278
19,795 15,285
20. Other financial assets
The	fair	value	of	all	financial	assets	and	financial	liabilities	appr oximates	their	carrying	value.
Trade and other receivables
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amount	r eceivable	for	the	sale	of	goods 8,092 9,461
Allowance	for	doubtful	debts (432) (502)
7,660 8,959
Other debtors 4,001 5,029
Pr epayments 1,791 1,453
13,452 15,441
 
Curr ent	tax	asset 2,909 782
No	amounts	ar e	expected	to	be	settled	in	mor e	than	12	months.
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 93 92 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 21. Financial instruments continued
Financial risk management objectives continued
Financial	instruments	give	rise	to	for eign	curr ency ,	inter est	rate,	cr edit	and	liquidity	risk.	The	Gr oup’ s	management	of	its	exposur e	to	cr edit	risk	is	
discussed	in	note	20	and	to	liquidity	risk	is	discussed	in	note	24.
Interest rate risk
The	Gr oup’ s	policy	is	to	manage	its	cost	of	borr owing	using	fixed	rate	debt.	Whilst	fixed	rate	inter est-bearing	debt	is	not	exposed	to	cash	flow	
inter est	rate	risk,	ther e	is	no	opportunity	for	the	Gr oup	to	enjoy	a	r eduction	in	borr owing	costs	in	markets	wher e	rates	ar e	falling.	In	addition,	the	fair	
value	risk	inher ent	in	fixed	rate	borr owing	means	that	the	Gr oup	is	exposed	to	unplanned	costs	should	debt	be	r estructur ed	or	r epaid	early	as	part	 
of	the	liquidity	management	pr ocess.
The	sensitivity	analysis	pr epar ed	below	r elates	to	cash	balances,	since	borr owings	ar e	at	fixed	rates	of	inter est.	The	closing	cash	and	cash	
equivalents,	and	tr easury	deposits	balance	at	the	year	end	have	been	used	as	the	basis	for	the	calculations.	A	2%	incr ease	or	decr ease	r epr esents	
management’ s	assessment	of	the	r easonably	possible	change	in	inter est	rates.
If 	 inter est 	 rates 	 had 	 been 	 2% 	 higher/lower 	 and 	 all 	 other 	 variables 	 wer e 	 held 	 constant, 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 pr ofit 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ended 	 31 	 December 	 2014 	 would 	
incr ease 	 by 	 £0.9 	 million 	 or 	 decr ease 	 by 	 £0.4 	 million 	 (2013: 	 incr ease 	 by 	 £1.1 	 million/decr ease 	 by 	 £0.4 	 million). 	 This 	 is 	 mainly 	 attributable 	 to 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s	
exposur e 	 to 	 inter est 	 rates 	 on 	 its 	 cash 	 balances. 	 Ther e 	 would 	 be 	 no 	 ef fect 	 on 	 equity 	 r eserves.
Foreign currency risk
The	Gr oup	r eceives	appr oximately	6%	of	its	r evenues	in	US	Dollars	and	27%	of	its	r evenue	in	Eur os,	which	ar e	partially	naturally	hedged	by	supplies	
in	these	curr encies,	but	the	r emainder	r equir es	conversion	into	Sterling	in	or der	to	fund	the	r emaining	costs	of	the	UK	offices.	The	Gr oup	has	a	
manufacturing	facility	in	Sweden	which	necessitates	the	need	for	the	Gr oup	to	convert	Sterling	into	Swedish	Kr onor	in	or der	to	fund	the	running	
costs	of	this	manufacturing	facility .	The	Gr oup	may	enter	into	a	variety	of	derivative	financial	instruments	to	manage	its	exposur e	to	for eign	curr ency	
risk,	including	forwar d	contracts.
The	Gr oup	is	mainly	exposed	to	for eign	curr ency	risk	r esulting	fr om	transactions	in	US	Dollars,	Eur os	and	Swedish	Kr onor .	The	following	table	
demonstrates	the	Gr oup’ s	sensitivity	to	a	10%	incr ease	and	decr ease	in	the	Sterling	exchange	rate	against	the	r elevant	for eign	curr encies	on	the	
Gr oup’ s	pr ofit	befor e	tax	and	equity	(due	to	changes	in	the	fair	value	of	monetary	assets,	liabilities	and	forwar d	curr ency	contracts).	10%	r epr esents	
management’ s	assessment	of	the	r easonably	possible	movement	in	exchange	rates.	The	sensitivity	analysis	includes	only	outstanding	for eign	
curr ency	denominated	monetary	items	and	adjusts	their	translation	at	the	period	end	for	a	10%	change	in	for eign	curr ency	rates.	The	sensitivity	
analysis	includes	inter	company	balances	within	the	Gr oup	wher e	the	denomination	of	the	balance	is	in	a	curr ency	other	than	the	functional	curr ency	
of	the	debtor	or	the	cr editor .	A	positive	number	below	indicates	an	incr ease	in	pr ofit	or	equity .
Euro
currency impact
US	Dollar
currency impact
Swedish	Kr onor
currency impact
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Ef fect	of	a	10%	incr ease	in	r elevant	exchange	rate	on:
Pr ofit	or	loss (725) (568) (410) (195) (35) (6)
Other equity – – 11 13 179 83
Ef fect	of	a	10%	decr ease	in	r elevant	exchange	rate	on:
Pr ofit	or	loss 886 694 501 238 43 7
Other equity – – (13) (16) (219) (102)
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The	Gr oup	utilises	curr ency	derivatives	to	hedge	significant	futur e	transactions	and	cash	flows.	The	Gr oup	does	not	curr ently	designate	its	for eign	
curr ency	denominated	debt	as	a	hedging	instrument	for	the	purpose	of	hedging	the	translation	of	its	for eign	operations.
At	31	December	2014,	the	Gr oup	had	no	open	curr ency	derivative	assets	or	liabilities	(2013:	liabilities	£6,000).
As	at	31	December	2014	the	Gr oup	held	no	outstanding	forwar d	contracts.
20. Other financial assets continued
Trade receivables continued
Ageing	of	impair ed	trade	r eceivables:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Current 94 111
1–30	days	over due 4 23
30–60	days	over due 2 –
60–90	days	over due – –
90–120	days	over due – 1
Over	120	days	over due 332 367
Total 432 502
The	Dir ectors	consider	that	the	carrying	amount	of	trade	and	other	r eceivables	appr oximates	their	fair	value.
Treasury deposits
T r easury	deposits	comprise	bank	deposits	with	an	original	maturity	of	twelve	months	or	less,	which	do	not	matur e	until	mor e	than	thr ee	months	after	
the	balance	sheet	date.	The	carrying	amount	of	these	assets	appr oximates	their	fair	value.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Treasury deposits 21,000 22,000
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	comprise	cash	held	by	the	Gr oup	and	short	term	bank	deposits	with	an	original	maturity	of	thr ee	months	or	less.	 
The	carrying	amount	of	these	assets	appr oximates	their	fair	value.	
The	analysis	of	cash	and	short	term	bank	deposits	is	as	follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cash 25,963 19,485
Short	term	deposits – 12,000
25,963 31,485
The	cr edit	risk	on	liquid	funds	and	derivative	financial	instruments	is	limited	because	the	counterparties	ar e	banks	with	high	cr edit	ratings	assigned	by	
inter national	cr edit	rating	agencies.
21. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
Financial	assets	of	£14,570,000	(2013:	£14,770,000)	ar e	categorised	as	loans	and	r eceivables.	Financial	liabilities	of	£10,679,000	 
(2013:	£22,496,000)	ar e	categorised	as	measur ed	at	amortised	cost.	Derivative	financial	assets	and	liabilities	ar e	derived	fr om	quoted	prices	
(unaudited)	in	active	markets	for	identical	assets	and	liabilities.
Financial risk management objectives
The	Gr oup’ s	policy	is	to	manage	the	Gr oup’ s	financial	risk,	secur e	cost	ef fective	funding	for	the	Gr oup’ s	operations	and	to	minimise	the	adverse	
ef fects	of	fluctuations	in	the	financial	markets	on	the	value	of	the	Gr oup’ s	financial	assets	and	liabilities,	on	r eported	pr ofitability	and	on	the	cash	flows	
of	the	Gr oup.	
The	Gr oup	finances	its	activities	with	a	combination	of	bank	loans,	finance	leases,	cash	and	fixed	term	deposits	and	forwar d	contracts	as	deemed	
appr opriate.	Other	financial	assets	and	liabilities,	such	as	trade	debtors	and	trade	cr editors,	arise	dir ectly	fr om	the	Gr oup’ s	operating	activities.	The	
Gr oup	also	enters	into	derivative	transactions	–	forwar d	curr ency	contracts.	The	purpose	is	to	manage	the	curr ency	risks	arising	fr om	the	Gr oup’ s	
operations.	It	is	Gr oup	policy	that	no	trading	in	derivatives	shall	be	undertaken.
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 95 94 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 22. Deferred tax continued
Certain	deferr ed	tax	assets	and	liabilities	have	been	of fset.	The	following	is	the	analysis	of	the	deferr ed	tax	balances	(after	of fset)	for	financial	
r eporting	purposes:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Deferr ed	tax	liabilities 617 328
Deferr ed	tax	assets – (4,308)
617 (3,980)
23. Trade and other payables
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Trade payables and accruals 9,888 19,225
T rade	payables	and	accruals	principally	comprise	amounts	outstanding	for	trade	pur chases	and	ongoing	costs.	The	average	cr edit	taken	for	trade	
pur chases	is	16	days	(2013:	18	days).
The	Dir ectors	consider	that	the	carrying	amount	of	trade	payables	appr oximates	to	their	fair	value.
24. Other financial liabilities
Other	financial	liabilities	consist	of	lease	incentives.	
The	borr owings	ar e	r epayable	as	follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
W ithin	one	year 57 57
In the second year 68 57
In	the	thir d	to	fifth	years	inclusive 151 125
Over	five	years 89 110
365 349
Less:	amount	due	for	settlement	within	twelve	months	(shown	under	curr ent	liabilities) (57) (57)
Amount	due	for	settlement	after	twelve	months 308 292
The	amounts	included	above	ar e	not	consider ed	to	be	materially	dif fer ent	fr om	the	pr esent	value	of	their	carrying	amounts.
Liquidity risk
The	Gr oup	aims	to	mitigate	liquidity	risk	by	managing	cash	generation	by	its	operations	and	applying	cash	collection	targets	thr oughout	the	Gr oup.	
Investment	is	car efully	contr olled,	with	authorisation	limits	operating	up	to	Gr oup	Boar d	level	and	cash	payback	periods	applied	as	part	of	the	
investment	appraisal	pr ocess.	In	this	way	the	Gr oup	aims	to	maintain	a	good	cr edit	rating	to	facilitate	fund	raising.
In	its	funding	strategy ,	the	Gr oup’ s	objective	is	to	maintain	a	balance	between	continuity	of	funding	and	flexibility	thr ough	the	use	of	over drafts,	bank	
loans,	finance	leases	and	hir e	pur chase	contracts.	The	Gr oup	manages	liquidity	risk	by	maintaining	adequate	r eserves	and	banking	facilities	by	
continually	monitoring	cash	flows	and	matching	the	maturity	pr ofiles	of	financial	assets	and	liabilities.
The	Gr oup	is	inher ently	a	net	generator	of	cash	at	the	operating	level.	Excess	cash	used	in	managing	liquidity	is	only	invested	in	financial	instruments	
exposed	to	insignificant	risk	of	changes	in	market	value,	being	placed	on	inter est-bearing	deposit	with	maturities	no	mor e	than	12	months	allowed	
per	the	policy .	Short	term	flexibility	is	achieved	by	over draft	facilities.
21. Financial instruments continued
Capital risk management
The	primary	objective	of	the	Gr oup’ s	capital	management	is	to	ensur e	that	it	maintains	a	str ong	cr edit	rating	and	healthy	capital	ratios	in	or der	to	
support	its	business,	maximise	shar eholder	value	and	pr ovide	flexibility	for	value	enhancing	investments.	The	Gr oup	manages	its	capital	structur e	
and	makes	adjustments	to	it	in	light	of	changes	in	economic	conditions	or	as	a	r esult	of	corporate	strategy .	T o	maintain	or	adjust	the	capital	
structur e,	the	Gr oup	may	adjust	the	dividend	payment	to	shar eholders,	r etur n	capital	to	shar eholders	or	issue	new	shar es.	In	addition,	any	potential	
value	enhancing	investments	may	be	funded	thr ough	additional	debt	instruments.	No	changes	wer e	made	in	the	objectives,	policies	or	pr ocesses	
during	the	curr ent	or	prior	year ,	except	for	the	pr oposed	incr ease	in	final	dividend	for	2013,	as	detailed	in	note	12	on	page	88.
The	Gr oup	monitors	capital	using	a	gearing	ratio,	which	is	determined	as	the	pr oportion	of	debt	to	equity .	Debt	is	defined	as	long	and	short	term	
borr owings.	Equity	includes	all	capital	and	r eserves	of	the	Gr oup	attributable	to	the	equity	holders	of	the	par ent.	The	Gr oup’ s	policy	for	its	existing	
business	is	to	use	debt	wher e	appr opriate,	whilst	maintaining	the	gearing	ratio	at	a	level	under	10%.	
The	gearing	ratio	at	the	year -end	is	as	follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Net debt – –
Equity 122,160 110,042
Gearing	ratio 0% 0%
The	Gr oup	is	not	subject	to	exter nally	imposed	capital	r equir ements.
Credit risk management
Cr edit	risk	r efers	to	the	risk	that	a	counterparty	will	default	on	its	contractual	obligations	r esulting	in	financial	loss	to	the	Gr oup.	The	Gr oup	has	
adopted	a	policy	of	only	dealing	with	cr editworthy	counterparties	and	obtaining	sufficient	collateral	wher e	appr opriate,	as	a	means	of	mitigating	 
the	risk	of	financial	loss	fr om	defaults.
T rade	r eceivables	consist	of	a	large	number	of	customers,	spr ead	acr oss	dif fer ent	industries	and	geographical	ar eas.	Ongoing	cr edit	evaluation	is	
performed	on	the	financial	condition	of	accounts	r eceivable.
The	cr edit	risk	on	liquid	funds	is	limited	because	the	counterparties	ar e	banks	with	high	cr edit	ratings	assigned	by	inter national	cr edit	rating	agencies.
22. Deferred tax
The	following	ar e	the	major	deferr ed	tax	liabilities	and	assets	r ecognised	by	the	Gr oup	and	movements	ther eon	during	the	curr ent	and	prior	r eporting	
periods:
Accelerated	tax
depreciation
£’000
Shar e-based
payment
£’000
Untaxed
r eserves
£’000
Other
temporary
difference
£’000
Total
£’000
At	1	January	2013 (85) (740) 280 (115) (660)
Charge/(cr edit)	to	income 65 130 (50) (91) 54
Credit to equity – (3,374) – – (3,374)
At	1	January	2014 (20) (3,984) 230 (206) (3,980)
Charge/(cr edit)	to	income 1,276 142 (16) 92 1,494
Charge	to	equity – 3,103 – – 3,103	
At 31 December 2014 1,256 (739) 214 (114) 617 
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 97 96 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 26. Share capital continued
Scheme Date	of	grant
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2014
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2013
Subscription
price per
share
Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan 13.04.05 5,000 5,000 208.5p
15.09.05 17,144 17,144 274.0p
21.08.08 1,000 3,500 108.25p
01.04.09 – 7,500 56.0p
22.11.10 39,175 44,175 211.0p
01.06.11 212,591 335,000 250.0p
27.10.11 20,000 25,000 243.0p
01.05.12 410,000 425,000 226.5p
18.10.12 15,000 17,500 249.75p
719,910 879,819 
Xaar plc Share Save Scheme 21.12.10 – 265,853 174.0p
01.11.11 39,935 123,242 212.0p
01.11.12 245,587 279,422 185.0p
01.11.13 45,618 220,449 616.0p
01.11.14 678,919 – 338.0p
1,010,059 888,966 
Xaar plc Share Incentive Plan 17.04.13 24,887 26,447 	0.0p
16.04.14 29,085 – 0.0p
53,972 26,447 
Total share options outstanding at 31 December 1,783,941 1,795,232 
Options	granted	under	the	Xaar	plc	2004	Shar e	Option	Plan	ar e	or dinarily	exer cisable	within	thr ee	to	ten	years	after	the	date	of	the	grant.	 
The	maximum	value	of	appr oved	options,	under	the	Xaar	plc	2004	Shar e	Option	Plan,	which	may	be	granted	to	individual	employees	is	£30,000.	
Options	under	the	Xaar	plc	Shar e	Save	Scheme	ar e	or dinarily	exer cisable	between	36	and	42	months	after	the	date	of	the	grant.
A war ds	under	the	Xaar	plc	Shar e	Incentive	Plan	ar e	or dinarily	exer cisable	between	thr ee	and	five	years	after	the	date	of	the	grant.
25. Provisions
The	following	ar e	the	major	deferr ed	tax	liabilities	and	assets	r ecognised	by	the	Gr oup	and	movements	ther eon	during	the	curr ent	and	prior	r eporting	
periods:
W arranty	and	
commercial 
agr eements
£’000
Restructuring
£’000
Total
£’000
At	1	January	2013 1,629 – 1,629
Additional	pr ovision	in	the	year 1,414 – 1,414
Utilisation	of	pr ovision (1,306) – (1,306)
Release	of	pr ovision (663) – (663)
At	1	January	2014 1,074 – 1,074
Additional	pr ovision	in	the	year 297 499 796
Utilisation	of	pr ovision (603) (492) (1,095)
Release	of	pr ovision (350) – (350)
At 31 December 2014 418 7 425 
The	warranty	and	commer cial	disputes	pr ovision	r epr esents	management’ s	best	estimate	of	the	Gr oup’ s	liability	r elated	to	claims	against	pr oduct	
warranties	or	commer cial	sales	agr eements.	The	timing	of	the	utilisation	of	this	pr ovision	is	uncertain.
The	r estructuring	pr ovision	r elates	to	costs	for	the	r eduction	made	to	the	global	work	for ce	in	2014.
26. Share capital
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Issued	and	fully	paid:
76,642,309	(2013:	75,894,829)	or dinary	shar es	of	10.0p	each 7,664 7,589
The	movement	during	the	year	on	the	Company’ s	issued	and	fully	paid	shar es	was	as	follows:
2014
Number
2013
Number
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
At	beginning	of	year 75,894,829 74,738,321 7,589 7,474
Exer cise	of	shar e	options 747,480 1,156,508 75 115
At	end	of	year 76,642,309 75,894,829 7,664 7,589
The	Company	has	one	class	of	or dinary	shar es	which	carry	no	right	to	fixed	income.
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 99 98 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 29. Translation reserve
£’000
Balance	at	1	January	2013 357
Exchange	dif fer ences	on	r etranslation	of	net	investment (7)
Balance	at	1	January	2014 350
Exchange	dif fer ences	on	r etranslation	of	net	investment (224)	
Balance at 31 December 2014 126 
Exchange	dif fer ences	r elating	to	the	translation	of	the	net	assets	of	the	Gr oup’ s	for eign	operations,	which	r elate	to	subsidiaries	only ,	fr om	their	
functional	curr ency	into	the	par ent’ s	functional	curr ency ,	being	Sterling,	ar e	r ecognised	dir ectly	in	the	translation	r eserve.
30. Retained earnings and other reserves
Notes
Merger
r eserve
£’000
Shar e-based
payments
£’000
Other
r eserves
£’000
Total other
r eserves
£’000
Retained
ear nings
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance	at	1	January	2013 1,105 4,917 485 6,507 39,590 46,097
Net	pr ofit	for	the	year – – – – 31,861 31,861
Shar e	issue	r elated	to	
L TIP	awar ds – – – – (46) (46)
Own	shar es	sold	in	the	period – – – – (24) (24)
Dividends	paid 12 – – – – (4,059) (4,059)
T ax	taken	dir ectly	to	equity – – – – 4,753 4,753
Movement	in	valuation	of	
share options – 2,103 – 2,103 – 2,103
Balance	at	1	January	2014 1,105 7,020 485 8,610 72,075 80,685
Net	pr ofit	for	the	year – – – – 18,692 18,692
Shar e	issue	r elated	to	
L TIP	awar ds – – – – (28) (28)
Own	shar es	sold	in	the	period – – – – (9) (9)
Dividends	paid 12 – – – – (6,377) (6,377)
T ax	taken	dir ectly	to	equity – – – – (2,248) (2,248)
Movement	in	valuation	of	
share options – 1,106 – 1,106 – 1,106	
Balance at 31 December 2014 1,105 8,126 485 9,716 82,105 91,821 
The	merger	r eserve	and	other	r eserves	ar e	not	distributable.	The	merger	r eserve	r epr esents	the	shar e	pr emium	account	in	Xaar	T echnology	Limited.	
The	shar e-based	payment	r eserve	r epr esents	the	cumulative	charge	made	under	IFRS	2	in	r elation	to	shar e	options	and	L TIP	awar ds.	Other	r eserves	
r epr esent	the	non-distributable	portion	of	the	dividend	r eceived	in	Xaar	plc	fr om	Xaar	Digital	Limited.
26. Share capital continued
Long Term Incentive Plan
Performance	Shar e	A war ds	outstanding	under	the	Xaar	plc	2007	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	ar e	as	follows:
Date	of	grant
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2014
Number of
shares under
option as at
31 December
2013
11.04.11 57,112 299,242
03.05.11 33,740 74,769
02.04.12 370,110 389,084
01.05.12 183,784 183,784
02.04.13 416,106 431,441
15.05.13 63,500 63,500
02.04.14 243,869 –
12.05.14 38,265 –
1,406,486 1,441,820
All	awar ds	under	this	scheme	ar e	exer cisable	within	thr ee	to	ten	years	after	the	date	of	grant.
27. Share premium account
£’000
Balance	at	1	January	2013 24,406
Pr emium	arising	on	issue	of	equity	shar es 1,078
Balance	at	1	January	2014 25,484
Pr emium	arising	on	issue	of	equity	shar es 861	
Balance at 31 December 2014 26,345 
28. Own shares
£’000
Balance	at	1	January	2014 (4,066)
T ransfer	to	shar e	incentive	plan 270	
Balance at 31 December 2014 (3,796) 
Of	this	balance,	£20,000	(2013:	£20,000)	r epr esents	91,250	or dinary	shar es	in	Xaar	plc	held	in	trust	by	Xaar	T rustee	Ltd.	Xaar	T rustee	Ltd	was	
formed	in	1995	to	act	as	T rustee	to	the	Employee	Benefit	T rust	established	in	1995	to	hold	shar es	for	the	benefit	of	the	employees	of	the	Company	
and	the	Gr oup.	Ther e	has	been	no	movement	in	the	number	of	shar es	held	in	trust	by	Xaar	T rustee	Ltd	during	the	year .
The	r emaining	balance	of	£3,776,000	(2013:	£4,046,000)	r epr esents	the	cost	of	1,373,703	(2013:	1,433,901)	shar es	in	Xaar	plc	pur chased	in	the	
market	at	market	value	and	held	by	the	Xaar	plc	ESOP	trust	to	satisfy	options	granted	under	the	Company’ s	shar e	option	schemes.	
The	market	value	of	own	shar es	as	at	31	December	2014	was	£5,647,000	(2013:	£17,082,000).
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 101 100 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 33. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The	Company’ s	shar e	option	schemes	ar e	open	to	all	employees	of	the	Gr oup.	Options	ar e	exer cisable	at	a	price	equal	to	the	average	quoted	
market	price	of	the	Company’ s	shar es	on	the	date	of	grant.	The	standar d	vesting	period	is	thr ee	years.	
An	option	granted	under	the	Xaar	plc	2004	Shar e	Option	Plan	befor e	2011	will	be	exer cisable	over	shar es	with	a	market	value	at	the	date	of	grant	
not	exceeding	a	person’ s	annual	salary	if	at	the	thir d	anniversary	of	grant	the	EPS	gr owth	of	the	Company	since	grant	has	exceeded	the	gr owth	in	
the	Retail	Prices	Index	(RPI)	over	the	same	period	by	at	least	12%.	T o	the	extent	that	an	option	r elates	to	shar es	with	a	market	value	as	at	the	date	 
of	 grant	 in	 excess	 of	 a	 person’ s	 annual	 salary ,	 the	 option	 will	 be	 exer cisable	 over	 all	 of	 the	 excess	 shar es	 if	 EPS	 gr owth	 over	 this	 period	 has	 exceeded	
RPI	gr owth	by	at	least	15%.	For	EPS	performance	between	these	two	points,	options	will	be	exer cisable	over	the	excess	shar es	on	a	sliding	scale.	
In	addition,	options	can	only	be	exer cised	if	EPS	is	at	least	5.5p	for	the	financial	year	pr eceding	the	thir d	anniversary	of	grant.	Performance	may	be	
r etested	once	only	fr om	the	date	of	grant	to	the	fourth	or	fifth	anniversary	of	grant	(at	the	discr etion	of	the	Remuneration	Committee),	but	the	original	
EPS	gr owth	targets	will	be	incr eased	fr om	12/15%	to	16/20%	and	20/25%	r espectively .	The	5.5p	target	will	apply	for	the	final	financial	year	in	the	
extended	period.
An	option	granted	under	the	Xaar	plc	2004	Shar e	Option	Plan	fr om	2011	onwar ds	will	be	exer cisable	over	shar es	with	a	market	value	at	the	date	of	
grant	not	exceeding	a	person’ s	annual	salary ,	if	at	the	thir d	anniversary	of	grant,	Xaar	plc	has	achieved	positive	adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax	as	shown	
in	the	consolidated	income	statement	in	the	Company’ s	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	for	any	of	the	thr ee	years	ending	during	the	vesting	period.	
One-thir d	of	the	shar es	subject	to	the	option	granted	r ounded	to	the	near est	whole	shar e,	will	vest	based	on	the	performance	condition	being	met	
per	year	for	each	of	the	thr ee	years	ending	in	the	vesting	period.	If	the	adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax	as	shown	in	the	consolidated	income	statement	in	
Xaar	plc’ s	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	for	any	r elevant	year	is	r estated	befor e	the	option	becomes	exer cisable,	the	r estated	figur e	shall,	unless	the	
Remuneration	Committee	determines	otherwise,	be	applied	in	determining	whether	the	above	targets	ar e	met.	In	addition,	options	shall	only	become	
exer cisable	in	r espect	of	any	shar es	if	the	committee	in	its	absolute	discr etion	determines	that	the	overall	financial	performance	of	Xaar	plc	over	the	
performance	period	is	satisfactory .
The	Xaar	2007	Shar e	Save	Scheme	pr ovides	an	opportunity	to	all	UK	employees	to	save	a	set	monthly	amount	(up	to	£250	pr e	2014,	up	to	£500	
fr om	2014)	over	thr ee	years	towar ds	the	exer cise	of	a	discounted	shar e	option,	which	is	granted	at	the	start	of	the	thr ee	years.	
The	Xaar	Shar e	Incentive	Plan	pr ovides	an	opportunity	for	all	UK	employees	to	buy	shar es	fr om	their	pr e-tax	r emuneration	up	to	the	limit	permitted	
by	the	r elevant	tax	legislation	(£1,500	per	year	for	the	awar ds	made	in	2013	and	2014)	and	ar e	awar ded	additional	shar es	for	fr ee	on	a	matching	
basis;	the	Company	curr ently	operates	the	plan	on	the	basis	of	a	1:1	match	but	may	awar d	matching	shar es	up	to	the	maximum	ratio	permitted	by	
the	r elevant	tax	legislation	(curr ently	a	2:1	ratio).	
Options	and	awar ds	under	the	Xaar	2007	Shar e	Save	Scheme	and	Xaar	Shar e	Incentive	Plan	ar e	not	subject	to	performance	conditions.
If	the	options	r emain	unexer cised	after	a	period	of	ten	years	fr om	the	date	of	grant,	or	42	months	in	the	case	of	the	Shar e	Save	Scheme,	or	five	
years	in	the	case	of	the	Shar e	Incentive	Plan	(being	the	contractual	lives),	the	options	expir e.	Save	as	permitted	in	the	shar e	option	scheme	rules,	
options	lapse	on	an	employee	leaving	the	Gr oup.
Details	of	the	shar e	options	outstanding	during	the	year	ar e	as	follows:
2014 2013
Number
of share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price (£)
Number
of share
options
W eighted
average
exer cise
price	(£)
Outstanding	at	beginning	of	year 1,795,232 2.60 2,275,956 1.99
Granted	during	the	year 787,522 3.25 252,928 5.43
Lapsed	during	the	year (333,537) 4.53 (39,848) 2.10
Exer cised	during	the	year (465,276) 1.95 (693,804) 1.65
Outstanding	at	the	end	of	the	year 1,783,941 2.70 1,795,232 2.60
Exer cisable	at	the	end	of	the	year 334,845 2.41 77,319 2.05
The	weighted	average	shar e	price	at	the	date	of	exer cise	for	shar e	options	exer cised	during	the	period	was	£7.77	(2013:	£6.42).	The	options	
outstanding	at	31	December	2014	had	a	weighted	average	r emaining	contractual	life	of	four	years	(2013:	eight	years).	In	2014,	options	wer e	granted	
on	16	April	and	1	November .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	the	options	granted	on	those	dates	is	£1.67	million.	In	2013,	options	wer e	
granted	on	17	April	and	1	November .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	the	options	granted	on	those	dates	is	£0.78	million.	
31. Notes to the cash flow statement
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Pr ofit	befor e	tax 23,110 40,087
Adjustments	for:
Shar e-based	payments 242 4,204
Depr eciation	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment 9,836 7,410
Amortisation	of	intangible	assets 885 889
Resear ch	and	development	expenditur e	cr edit (234) (586)
Investment	income (394) (443)
Finance	costs – 55
For eign	exchange	losses/(gains) 331 (26)
Losses/(gains)	on	forwar d	contracts 6 (9)
Loss	on	disposal	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment 189 250
Decr ease	in	pr ovisions (650) (555)
Operating	cash	flows	befor e	movements	in	working	capital 33,321 51,276
Incr ease	in	inventories (4,725) (2,121)
Decr ease/(incr ease)	in	r eceivables 2,002 (2,945)
(Decr ease)/incr ease	in	payables (6,556) 4,091
Cash	generated	by	operations 24,042 50,301
Income	taxes	paid (5,645) (5,208)
Net	cash	fr om	operating	activities 18,397 45,093
32. Operating lease arrangements
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Minimum	lease	payments	under	operating	leases	r ecognised	as	an	expense	in	the	year:
Fixtur es,	fittings	and	equipment 69 60
Land	and	buildings 2,194 1,844
2,263 1,904
At	the	balance	sheet	date,	the	Gr oup	had	outstanding	commitments	for	futur e	minimum	lease	payments	under	non-cancellable	operating	leases,	
which	fall	due	as	follows:
Fixtur es,	fittings	and	equipment Land	and	buildings
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
W ithin	one	year 53 47 1,807 2,148
In	the	second	to	fifth	years	inclusive 40 41 4,002 5,115
After	five	years – – 1,409 1,740
93 88 7,218 9,003
The	operating	leases	in	r espect	of	fixtur es,	fittings	and	equipment	extend	over	a	period	of	up	to	six	years.
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 103 102 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 33. Share-based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan continued
The	estimated	fair	values	for	2010	grants	onwar ds	wer e	calculated	using	the	Black-Scholes	model,	wher eas	the	estimated	fair	value	of	2009	grants	
wer e	calculated	using	a	stochastic	(Monte-Carlo	binomial)	model.	The	inputs	into	the	Black-Scholes	model	ar e	as	follows:
2014 2013
W eighted	average	exer cise	price £nil £nil
W eighted	average	expected	volatility 43% 42%
W eighted	average	expected	life 7 years 7	years
W eighted	average	expected	dividend	yield 0.26% 0.23%
The	Gr oup	r ecognised	total	expenses	of	£1,106,000	and	£2,103,000	r elated	to	all	equity-settled	shar e-based	payment	transactions	in	2014	and	
2013,	r espectively .
34. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The	UK-based	employees	of	the	Gr oup’ s	UK	companies	have	the	option	to	be	members	of	a	defined	contribution	pension	scheme	managed	by	a	
thir d	party	pension	pr ovider .	For	each	employee	who	is	a	member	of	the	scheme	the	Company	will	contribute	a	fixed	per centage	of	each	employee’ s	
salary	to	the	scheme.	The	only	obligation	of	the	Gr oup	with	r espect	to	this	scheme	is	to	make	the	specified	contributions.
The	employees	of	the	Gr oup’ s	subsidiaries	in	Sweden	ar e	members	of	a	state	managed	r etir ement	benefit	scheme	operated	by	the	Gover nment	 
of	Sweden.	The	subsidiaries	ar e	r equir ed	to	contribute	a	specified	per centage	of	payr oll	costs	to	the	r etir ement	benefit	scheme	to	fund	the	benefits.	
The	only	obligation	of	the	Gr oup	with	r espect	to	the	r etir ement	benefit	scheme	is	to	make	the	specified	contributions.
The	total	cost	charged	to	the	income	statement	in	r espect	of	these	schemes	during	2014	was	£1,642,000	(2013:	£1,096,000).	As	at	31	December	
2014	contributions	of	£140,000	(2013:	£191,000)	due	in	r espect	of	the	curr ent	r eporting	period	had	not	been	paid	over	to	the	schemes.
35. Related party transactions
T ransactions	between	the	Company	and	its	subsidiaries,	which	ar e	r elated	parties,	have	been	eliminated	on	consolidation	and	ar e	not	disclosed	 
in	this	note.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The	r emuneration	of	the	Dir ectors,	who	ar e	the	key	management	personnel	of	the	Gr oup,	is	set	out	below	in	aggr egate	for	each	of	the	categories	
specified	in	IAS	24	‘Related	Party	Disclosur es’.	Further	information	about	the	r emuneration	of	individual	Dir ectors	is	pr ovided	in	the	audited	part
of	the	Dir ectors’	Remuneration	r eport	on	page	42.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Short	term	employee	benefits 1,252 2,002
Post-employment	benefits 98 88
Shar e-based	payments 71 1,039
1,421 3,129
36. Events after the balance sheet date
On	19	Mar ch	2015,	the	Company	has	pr oposed	to	close	its	manufacturing	facility	in	Järfälla,	Sweden	during	2016.	The	sales	volume	of	older	
generation	pr oducts	which	ar e	pr oduced	in	this	plant	no	longer	justify	the	cost	of	a	standalone	operation.	The	total	costs	associated	with	the	
pr oposed	closur e	ar e	pr ojected	to	be	£5	million,	with	half	of	this	cost	being	non-cash	charges	r elated	to	tangible	assets	and	goodwill.
33. Share-based payments continued
Equity-settled share option scheme continued
The	inputs	into	the	Black-Scholes	model	ar e	as	follows:
2014 2013
W eighted	average	shar e	price £4.39 £7.38
W eighted	average	exer cise	price £3.25 £5.50
W eighted	average	expected	volatility 55% 42%
Expected	life 3 years 3 years
Risk-fr ee	rate 0.72% 0.94%
W eighted	average	expected	dividends 0.73% 0.10%
Expected	volatility	was	determined	by	calculating	the	historical	volatility	of	the	Gr oup’ s	shar e	price	over	periods	ranging	fr om	the	pr evious	one	to	
thr ee	years.	The	expected	life	used	in	the	model	has	been	adjusted,	based	on	management’ s	best	estimate,	for	the	ef fects	of	non-transferability ,	
exer cise	r estrictions	and	behavioural	considerations.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The	Company’ s	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	is	open	to	all	employees	of	the	Gr oup.	As	at	31	December	2014	all	unvested	L TIP	shar e	awar ds	ar e	
subject	to	the	achievement	of	EPS	performance	conditions,	as	follows:
The	number	of	shar es	that	vest	will	depend	on	the	EPS	gr owth	of	the	Company	for	the	thr ee	financial	years	of	the	Company	commencing	on	 
1	January	of	the	year	of	grant.
(1)	 None 	 of 	 the 	 A war ds 	 will 	 vest 	 if 	 the 	 Company’ s 	 EPS 	 gr owth 	 does 	 not 	 exceed 	 gr owth 	 in 	 the 	 Retail 	 Prices 	 Index 	 (RPI) 	 by 	 at 	 least 	 4% 	 compound 	 p.a.
(2)	 35%	of	the	A war ds	will	vest	if	the	Company’ s	EPS	gr owth	exceeds	gr owth	in	the	RPI	by	at	least	4%	compound	p.a.
(3)	 All	of	the	A war ds	will	vest	if	the	Company’ s	EPS	gr owth	exceeds	gr owth	in	the	RPI	by	at	least	10%	compound	p.a.
(4)	 A war ds	will	vest	on	a	straight-line	basis	for	EPS	gr owth	in	excess	of	gr owth	in	the	RPI	of	between	4%	and	10%	compound	p.a.
A war ds	that	will	vest	will	be	calculated	on	a	straight-line	basis.	
All	awar ds	made	under	this	scheme	ar e	exer cisable	within	thr ee	to	ten	years	after	the	date	of	grant.	Save	as	permitted	in	the	Long	T erm	Incentive	
Plan	rules,	awar ds	lapse	on	an	employee	leaving	the	Gr oup.
Key	individuals	ar e	invited	to	participate	in	a	bonus	matching	scheme	wher e	matching	L TIP	shar e	awar ds	ar e	granted	when	the	employee	invests	
their	bonus	in	Xaar	shar es	and	r etains	ownership	of	these	shar es	for	the	duration	of	the	L TIP	shar e	awar d	vesting	period.	The	matching	shar e	awar d	
is	a	1	for	1	match	on	the	pr e-tax	value	of	the	bonus	used	to	acquir e	bonus	investment	shar es.	Matching	L TIP	shar e	awar ds	ar e	subject	to	the	same	
performance	criteria	as	all	other	L TIP	awar ds.
Details	of	Performance	Shar e	A war ds	outstanding	during	the	year	ar e	as	follows:
2014 2013
A war ds	outstanding	at	start	of	year 1,441,820 1,409,583
Granted	during	the	year 282,134 496,441
Lapsed	during	the	year (34,309) (1,500)
Exer cised	during	the	year	 (283,159) (462,704)
A war ds	outstanding	at	end	of	year 1,406,486 1,441,820
Exer cisable	at	the	end	of	the	year 90,852 –
In	2014,	Performance	Shar e	A war ds	wer e	made	on	2	April	and	12	May .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	grants	made	on	those	dates	is	
£2.5	million.	In	2013,	Performance	Shar e	A war ds	wer e	made	on	2	April	and	15	May .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	grants	made	on	
those	dates	is	£2.1	million.
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 105 104 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Company	balance	sheet	(UK	GAAP)
as at 31 December 2014
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Fixed assets
Investments	in	subsidiaries 3 4,445 12,445
Held-to	maturity	investments 3 1,000 1,000
5,445 13,445
Current assets
Debtors	–	due	within	one	year 4 82,791 65,886
Debtors – due after one year 4 135 173
Cash	at	bank	and	in	hand 16,021 21,018
98,947 87,077
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (32,640) (35,653)
Net current assets 66,307 51,424
Total assets less current liabilities 71,752 64,869
Net assets 71,752 64,869
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 6 7,664 7,589
Shar e	pr emium	account 6 26,345 25,484
Other	r eserves 6 25,333 25,333
Own	shar es 6 (3,776) (4,046)
Shar e-based	payment	r eserve 6 2,173 2,047
Pr ofit	and	loss	account 6 14,013 8,462
Equity shareholders’ funds 8 71,752 64,869
The	financial	statements	of	Xaar	plc,	r egister ed	number	3320972,	wer e	appr oved	by	the	Boar d	of	Dir ectors	and	authorised	for	issue	on	 
19	Mar ch	2015.	They	wer e	and	signed	on	its	behalf	by:
Doug Edwards
Chief	Executive
Alex Bevis
Finance	Dir ector	and	Company	Secr etary
19	Mar ch	2015
The	accompanying	notes	ar e	an	integral	part	of	this	balance	sheet.
Notes	to	the	(UK	GAAP)	Company	balance	sheet
for the year ended 31 December 2014
1. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The	separate	financial	statements	of	the	Company	ar e	pr esented	as	r equir ed	by	the	Companies	Act	2006.	They	have	been	pr epar ed	under	the	
historical	cost	convention	and	in	accor dance	with	applicable	United	Kingdom	Accounting	Standar ds	and	law .
The	principal	accounting	policies	ar e	summarised	below .	They	have	all	been	applied	consistently	thr oughout	the	year	and	the	pr eceding	year .
The	Company	has	taken	advantage	of	the	exemption	of	FRS	8	‘Related	party	disclosur es’	not	to	show	transactions	with	other	companies	in	the	
Gr oup	headed	by	Xaar	plc.
The	Company	has	taken	advantage	of	the	exemption	in	paragraph	2D	of	FRS	29	‘Financial	Instruments:	Disclosur e’	and	not	disclosed	information	
r equir ed	by	that	standar d	as	the	Gr oup’ s	consolidated	financial	statements,	in	which	the	Company	is	included,	pr ovide	equivalent	disclosur es	for	the	
Gr oup	under	IFRS	7	‘Financial	Disclosur es’.
Own shares
Own	shar es	ar e	deducted	fr om	equity .	No	gain	or	loss	is	r ecognised	in	the	pr ofit	and	loss	account	on	the	pur chase,	sale,	issue	or	cancellation	of	the	
Company’ s	own	shar es.
Share-based payments
The	Company	has	applied	the	r equir ements	of	FRS	20	‘Shar e-based	payment’.	In	accor dance	with	the	transitional	pr ovisions,	FRS	20	has	been	
applied	to	all	grants	of	equity	instruments	after	7	November	2002	that	wer e	unvested	at	1	January	2005.
The	Company	issues	equity-settled	shar e-based	payments	to	certain	employees.	These	payments	ar e	measur ed	at	fair	value	(excluding	the	ef fect	of	
non-market	based	vesting	conditions)	at	the	date	of	grant.	The	fair	value	determined	at	the	grant	date	of	the	equity-settled	shar e-based	payments	is	
expensed	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	vesting	period,	based	on	the	Company’ s	estimate	of	the	shar es	that	will	eventually	vest	and	adjusted	for	
the	ef fect	of	non-market	based	vesting	conditions.
The	fair	value	of	options	issued	under	the	Company’ s	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	is	measur ed	using	a	stochastic	(Monte	Carlo	binominal)	model	for	
grants	made	between	2007	and	2009	inclusive.	The	fair	value	of	all	other	equity-settled	shar e-based	payments	is	measur ed	using	the	Black-Scholes	
pricing	model.
Taxation
Curr ent	tax,	including	UK	corporation	tax	and	for eign	tax,	is	pr ovided	at	amounts	expected	to	be	paid	(or	r ecover ed)	using	the	tax	rates	and	laws	
that	have	been	enacted	or	substantively	enacted	by	the	balance	sheet	date.	
Deferr ed	taxation	is	pr ovided	in	full	on	timing	dif fer ences	that	r esult	in	an	obligation	at	the	balance	sheet	date	to	pay	mor e	tax,	or	a	right	to	pay	less	
tax,	at	a	futur e	date,	at	rates	expected	to	apply	when	the	timing	dif fer ences	crystallise	based	on	curr ent	tax	rates	and	law .	T iming	dif fer ences	arise	
fr om	the	inclusion	of	items	of	income	and	expenditur e	in	taxation	computations	in	periods	dif fer ent	fr om	those	in	which	they	ar e	included	in	financial	
statements.	Deferr ed	tax	assets	and	liabilities	ar e	not	discounted.
Investments
Fixed	asset	investments	in	subsidiaries	ar e	shown	at	cost	less	pr ovision	for	impairment.	
For	investments	in	subsidiaries	acquir ed	for	consideration,	including	the	issue	of	shar es	qualifying	for	merger	r elief,	cost	is	measur ed	by	r efer ence	 
to	the	nominal	value	only	of	the	shar es	issued.	Any	pr emium	is	ignor ed.
Bonds	with	fixed	or	determinable	payments	and	fixed	maturity	dates	that	the	Gr oup	has	the	positive	intent	and	ability	to	hold	to	maturity	ar e	
classified	as	held-to-maturity	investments	and	ar e	measur ed	at	amortised	cost	using	ef fective	inter est	method	less	any	impairment.
2. Profit for the year
As	permitted	by	section	408	of	the	Companies	Act	2006,	the	Company	has	elected	not	to	pr esent	its	own	pr ofit	and	loss	account	for	the	year .	Xaar	
plc	r eported	a	pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	ended	31	December	2014	of	£11,965,000	(2013:	£9,411,000),	which	includes	a	dividend	r eceived	fr om	
XaarJet	Limited	of	£20,500,000	(2013:	fr om	Xaar	T echnology	Limited	of	£10,000,000).
The	average	number	of	employees	thr oughout	2014	was	35	(2013:	42).	Staf f	costs	amounted	to	£1.4	million	(2013:	£2.3	million).	Information	 
about	the	r emuneration	of	Dir ectors	is	pr ovided	in	the	audited	part	of	the	Dir ectors’	Remuneration	r eport	on	page	42	of	the	consolidated	 
financial	statements.
The	audit	fee	for	the	audit	of	the	Company’ s	annual	accounts	in	2014	was	£22,000	(2013:	£22,000).	
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 107 106 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 3. Fixed asset investments
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Subsidiary undertakings
At	beginning	of	the	year 12,445 12,445
Additions	in	the	year 936 –
Impairment loss in the year (8,936) –
At	end	of	the	year 4,445 12,445
Held-to-maturity investments
At	beginning	of	the	year 1,000 –
Additions	in	the	year – 1,000
At	end	of	the	year 1,000 1,000
T rading	investments	fully	impair ed	in	2012	wer e	disposed	of	in	2014.	No	trading	investments	r emain	as	at	31	December	2014.	
The	investment	held	in	Xaar	Gr oup	AB	was	fully	impair ed	in	2014.
4. Debtors
 2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amounts receivable within one year
Amounts	owed	by	Gr oup	undertakings 82,659 65,721
Pr epayments	and	accrued	income 132 165
82,791 65,886
Amounts receivable after more than one year
Deferr ed	tax	asset 135 173
 82,926 66,059
5. Creditors
 2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts	owed	to	Gr oup	undertakings 32,275 34,122
Accruals 365 1,531
 32,640 35,653
For	additional	disclosur es	r elating	to	financial	liabilities,	see	note	24	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements.
6. Capital and reserves
Notes
Called up 
share capital
£’000
Shar e	pr emium
account
£’000
Other
r eserves
£’000
Own
shares
£’000
Shar e-based
payments
£’000
Pr ofit	and
loss account
£’000
Total
£’000
At	1	January	2013 7,474 24,406 25,333 (4,195) 1,482 3,180 57,680
New	shar es	issued 115 1,078 – – – (46) 1,147
Own	shar es	sold	in	the	period – – – 149 – (24) 125
Dividends	paid 7 – – – – – (4,059) (4,059)
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year – – – – – 9,411 9,411
Cr edit	to	equity	for	shar e-based	
payments – – – – 565 – 565
At	1	January	2014 7,589 25,484 25,333 (4,046) 2,047 8,462 64,869
New	shar es	issued 75 861 – – – (28) 908
Own	shar es	sold	in	the	period – – – 270 – (9) 261
Dividends	paid 7 – – – – – (6,377) (6,377)
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year – – – – – 11,965 11,965
Cr edit	to	equity	for	shar e-based	
payments – – – – 126 – 126	
At 31 December 2014 7,664 26,345 25,333 (3,776) 2,173 14,013 71,752 
Full	details	of	movements	in	shar e	capital	and	the	shar e	option	schemes	ar e	given	in	note	26	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	The	shar e	
pr emium	account	and	other	r eserves	ar e	non-distributable.
7. Dividends
 2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amounts	r ecognised	as	distributions	to	equity	holders	in	the	period:
Final	dividend	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2013	of	5.5p	(2012:	3.0p)	per	shar e 4,124 2,211
Interim	dividend	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2014	of	3.0p	(2013:	2.5p)	per	shar e 2,253 1,848
Total distributions to equity holders in the period 6,377 4,059
Pr oposed	final	dividend	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2014	of	6.0p	(2013:	5.5p)	per	shar e 4,599 4,174
The	pr oposed	final	dividend	is	subject	to	appr oval	by	shar eholders	at	the	AGM	and	has	not	been	included	as	a	liability	in	these	financial	statements.
8. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
 2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year 11,965 9,411
Cr edit	to	equity	for	shar e-based	payments 126 565
Dividends	paid (6,377) (4,059)
Own	shar es	sold	in	the	period 261 125
Shar e	issue	of	L TIP	awar d (28) (46)
New	shar es	issued 936 1,193
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 6,883 7,189
Opening	shar eholders’	funds 64,869 57,680
Closing	shar eholders’	funds 71,752 64,869
Notes	to	the	(UK	GAAP)	Company	balance	sheet	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 109 108 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc 9. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The	Company’ s	shar e	option	schemes	ar e	open	to	all	employees	of	the	Company .	Options	ar e	exer cisable	at	a	price	equal	to	the	average	quoted	
market	price	of	the	Company’ s	shar es	on	the	date	of	grant.	The	vesting	period	is	thr ee	years.	The	vesting	criteria	of	these	options	ar e	disclosed	in	
note	33	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	If	the	options	r emain	unexer cised	after	a	period	of	ten	years	fr om	the	date	of	grant,	42	months	in	
the	case	of	the	Shar e	Save	Scheme,	or	five	years	in	the	case	of	the	Shar e	Incentive	Plan,	the	options	expir e.	Save	as	permitted	in	the	shar e	option	
scheme	rules,	options	lapse	on	an	employee	leaving	the	Company .
Details	of	the	shar e	options	outstanding	during	the	year	ar e	as	follows:
2014 2013
Number
of share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price (£)
Number
of share
options
W eighted
average
exer cise
price	(£)
Outstanding	at	beginning	of	year 197,852 2.37 378,372 1.66
Granted	during	the	year 51,067 3.19 14,067 4.54
Lapsed	during	the	year (19,090) 4.55 (5,054) 1.79
Exer cised	during	the	year (27,392) 1.76 (189,533) 1.12
Outstanding	at	the	end	of	the	year 202,437 2.45 197,852 2.37
Exer cisable	at	the	end	of	the	year 64,223 2.38 11,875 1.89
The	weighted	average	shar e	price	at	the	date	of	exer cise	for	shar e	options	exer cised	during	the	period	was	£8.20	(2013:	£5.81).	The	options	
outstanding	at	31	December	2014	had	a	weighted	average	r emaining	contractual	life	of	five	years	(2013:	six	years).	In	2014,	options	wer e	granted	
on	16	April	and	1	November .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	the	options	granted	on	those	dates	is	£114,000.	In	2013,	options	wer e	
granted	on	17	April	and	1	November .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	the	options	granted	on	those	dates	is	£48,000.
The	performance	conditions	r elating	to	the	above	shar e	options	and	the	exer cise	prices	of	options	outstanding	at	the	year -end	ar e	given	in	note	33	
to	the	consolidated	financial	statements.
The	inputs	into	the	Black-Scholes	model	ar e	as	follows:
 2014
£’000
2013
£’000
W eighted	average	shar e	price £4.47 £6.92
W eighted	average	exer cise	price £3.19 £4.54
Expected	volatility 55% 42%
Expected	life 3.35 years 3.71	years
Risk-fr ee	rate 0.7% 1.0%
Expected	dividends 0.7% 0.1%
Expected	volatility	was	determined	by	calculating	the	historical	volatility	of	the	Company’ s	shar e	price	over	periods	ranging	fr om	the	pr evious	one	
to	thr ee	years.	The	expected	life	used	in	the	model	has	been	adjusted,	based	on	management’ s	best	estimate,	for	the	ef fects	of	non-transferability ,	
exer cise	r estrictions	and	behavioural	considerations.
Notes	to	the	(UK	GAAP)	Company	balance	sheet	continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
9. Share-based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan
The	Company’ s	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	is	open	to	all	employees	of	the	Company .	V esting	of	Performance	Shar e	A war ds	made	under	this	scheme	
is	conditional	upon	the	achievement	of	performance	conditions.	Full	details	of	the	performance	conditions	ar e	shown	in	note	33	of	the	consolidated	
financial	statements.	All	awar ds	made	under	this	scheme	ar e	exer cisable	within	thr ee	to	ten	years	after	the	date	of	grant.	Save	as	permitted	in	the	
Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	rules,	awar ds	lapse	on	an	employee	leaving	the	Company .
Details	of	performance	shar e	awar ds	outstanding	during	the	year	ar e	as	follows:
2014 2013
A war ds	outstanding	at	start	of	year 492,916 444,676
Granted	during	the	year 73,113 137,813
Lapsed	during	the	year (750) –
Exer cised	during	the	year (118,889) (89,573)
A war ds	outstanding	at	end	of	year 446,390 492,916
Exer cisable	at	the	end	of	the	year 27,866 –
In	2014,	Performance	Shar e	A war ds	wer e	made	on	2	April	and	12	May .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	grants	made	on	those	dates	 
is	£0.6	million.
In	2013,	Performance	Shar e	A war ds	wer e	made	on	2	April	and	15	May .	The	aggr egate	of	the	estimated	fair	values	of	grants	made	on	those	dates	 
is	£0.6	million.
2014 2013
W eighted	average	exer cise	price £nil £nil
Expected	volatility 43% 42%
Expected	life 6.5 years 6.5	years
Expected	dividend	yield 0.2% 0.2%
The	Company	r ecognised	total	expenses	of	£0.1	million	(2013:	£0.6	million)	r elated	to	shar e-based	payment	transactions	in	the	year .
10. Subsidiary undertakings
The	following	entities	ar e	wholly	owned	subsidiary	undertakings	of	the	Company:
Name
Country of
incorporation Principal	activity Issued and fully paid up share capital
Pr oportion	of	
ordinary share 
capital held by 
the Company
Xaar	T echnology	Limited England Resear ch	and	development 4,445,322	or dinary	shar es	of	£1	each 100%
XaarJet	Limited England Manufacturing,	r esear ch	and	
development	and	sales	and	marketing
2	or dinary	shar es	of	£1	each 100%
XaarJet	(Overseas)	Limited England Sales	and	marketing 1	or dinary	£1	shar e 100%
Xaar	T rustee	Limited
1
England Trustee 2	or dinary	shar es	of	£1	each 100%
Xaar	Digital	Limited England Treasury 1	or dinary	£1	shar e 100%
Xaar	Gr oup	AB Sweden Holding	company 1,137,000	or dinary	shar es	of	
SEK	0.09	each
100%
XaarJet	AB
2
Sweden Manufacturing 1,000	or dinary	shar es	of	SEK	100	each 100%
Xaar	Americas	Inc. USA Sales	and	marketing 10,000	shar es	of	common	stock	
US$1	each
100%
 
1	 Xaar	T rustee	Limited	shar es	ar e	held	by	Xaar	T echnology	Limited.
2	 XaarJet	AB	shar es	ar e	held	by	Xaar	Gr oup	AB.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 111 110 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Five	year	r ecor d
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Summarised consolidated results
Results
Adjusted	r evenue 109,150 134,134 86,304 68,706 54,678
Adjusted	gr oss	pr ofit 48,602 71,020 40,948 30,379 22,864
Adjusted	pr ofit	befor e	tax 24,610 41,118 18,386 10,566 5,560
Adjusted	pr ofit	after	tax 20,229 33,102 14,964 7,922 4,082
Adjusted	diluted	ear nings	per	shar e 26.4p 43.2p 20.1p 10.7p 6.2p
Dividends	pence	per	shar e 9.0p 8.0p 4.0p 3.0p 2.5p
Assets employed
Net cash* 46,963 53,485 28,853 17,403 21,991
*	 Net	cash	is	made	up	of	cash	and	cash	equivalents,	tr easury	deposits	less	borr owings.
Notice	of	the	Annual	General	Meeting
Notice	is	her eby	given	that	the	eighteenth	Annual	General	Meeting	(‘AGM’)	of	Xaar	plc	(the	‘Company’)	will	be	held	at	316	Science	Park,	 
Cambridge,	CB4	0XR	on	W ednesday	13	May	2015	at	9:30	am	for	the	following	purposes:
Ordinary business
T o	consider	and,	if	thought	fit,	pass	the	following	r esolutions	which	will	be	pr oposed	as	Or dinary	Resolutions:
1.	 T o	r eceive	the	Company’ s	annual	financial	statements	for	the	financial	year	ended	31	December	2014.
2.	 T o	r eappoint	Deloitte	LLP	as	auditor	to	hold	office	fr om	the	conclusion	of	this	meeting	until	the	conclusion	of	the	next	general	meeting	of	the	
Company	at	which	financial	statements	ar e	laid.
3.	 T o	authorise	the	Dir ectors	to	determine	the	r emuneration	of	the	auditors.
4.	 T o	declar e	a	final	dividend	for	the	financial	year	ended	31	December	2014	of	6.0p	per	or dinary	shar e.
5.	 T o	r e-elect	Richar d	Barham	as	a	Dir ector .
6.	 T o	r e-elect	Alex	Bevis	as	a	Dir ector .
7.	 T o	r e-elect	Edmund	Cr eutzmann	as	a	Dir ector .
8.	 T o	r e-elect	Doug	Edwar ds	as	a	Dir ector .	
9.	 T o	r e-elect	Phil	Lawler	as	a	Dir ector .
10.	 T o	r e-elect	T ed	W iggans	as	a	Dir ector .
11.	 T o	r e-elect	Robin	W illiams	as	a	Dir ector .
12.	 T o	r e-elect	Jim	Brault	as	a	Dir ector .
13.	 T o	appr ove	the	Dir ectors’	Remuneration	r eport	(excluding	the	Dir ectors’	r emuneration	policy	set	out	on	pages	54	to	64	of	the	Annual	Report)	 
for	the	year	ended	31	December	2014.
Special business
T o	consider	and,	if	thought	fit,	pass	the	following	r esolutions	which	will	be	pr oposed	in	the	case	of	Resolutions	15	and	17	as	Special	Resolutions	 
and	in	the	case	of	Resolution	14	and	16	as	an	Or dinary	Resolution:
14.	 T o	authorise	the	futur e	pr eparation	of	the	Company’ s	individual	financial	statements	in	accor dance	with	FRS	101	accounting	standar ds,	
commencing	with	the	individual	financial	statements	with	the	financial	year	ended	31	December	2015.
15.	 That	the	Company	be	generally	and	unconditionally	authorised	for	the	purposes	of	section	701	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	(the	‘Act’)	to	make	
one	or	mor e	market	pur chases	(within	the	meaning	of	section	693(4)	of	the	Act)	of	or dinary	shar es	of	10p	in	the	capital	of	the	Company	(or dinary	
shar es)	pr ovided	that:
•	 the	maximum	aggr egate	number	of	or dinary	shar es	authorised	to	be	pur chased	is	11,421,725	(r epr esenting	14.9%	of	the	issued	or dinary	
shar e	capital);
• the	minimum	price	(excluding	expenses)	which	may	be	paid	for	an	or dinary	shar e	is	the	par	value	of	the	shar es;
•	 the	maximum	price	(excluding	expenses)	which	may	be	paid	for	an	or dinary	shar e	is	an	amount	equal	to	the	higher	of	(i)	105%	of	the	
average	of	the	middle	market	quotations	for	an	or dinary	shar e	as	derived	fr om	the	London	Stock	Exchange	Daily	Official	List	for	the	five	
business	days	immediately	pr eceding	the	day	on	which	that	or dinary	shar e	is	pur chased,	and	(ii)	the	amount	stipulated	by	article	5(1)	of	the	
Buy-back	and	Stabilisation	Regulation	2003;
•	 this	authority	shall	expir e	at	the	conclusion	of	the	next	Annual	General	Meeting	of	the	Company ,	or ,	if	earlier ,	at	the	close	of	business	on	 
13	August	2016	unless	r enewed	befor e	that	time;	and
•	 the	Company	may	make	a	contract	to	pur chase	or dinary	shar es	under	this	authority	befor e	the	expiry	of	the	authority	which	will	or	may	be	
executed	wholly	or	partly	after	the	expiry	of	the	authority ,	and	may	make	a	pur chase	of	or dinary	shar es	in	pursuance	of	any	such	contract.
16.	 That,	in	substitution	for	all	existing	authorities	including	the	authority	conferr ed	on	the	Dir ectors	by	Article	4	(B)	of	the	Company’ s	Articles	of	
Association,	in	accor dance	with	section	551	of	the	Act	the	Dir ectors	be	and	they	ar e	generally	and	unconditionally	authorised	to	exer cise	all	
powers	of	the	Company	to	allot	equity	securities	(within	the	meaning	of	section	560	of	the	Act),	or	grant	rights	to	subscribe	for ,	or	convert	any	
security	into,	shar es	in	the	Company:
(a)	 up	to	an	aggr egate	nominal	amount	of	£5,110,391.50	(such	amount	to	be	r educed	by	the	nominal	amount	of	any	equity	securities	allotted	
pursuant	to	the	authority	in	Resolution	16(b))	in	connection	with	a	rights	issue	(as	defined	in	the	Listing	Rules	issued	by	the	Financial	
Conduct	Authority	pursuant	to	Part	VI	of	the	Financial	Services	and	Markets	Act	2000),	to	holders	of	equity	securities,	in	pr oportion	to	
their	r espective	entitlements	to	such	equity	securities,	but	subject	to	such	exclusions	or	other	arrangements	as	the	Dir ectors	may	deem	
necessary	or	expedient	in	r elation	to	tr easury	shar es,	fractional	entitlements,	r ecor d	dates,	legal	or	practical	pr oblems	in	or	under	the	laws	of	
any	territory	or	the	r equir ements	of	any	r egulatory	body	or	stock	exchange;	and
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 113 112 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Special business continued
16.	 (b)	 otherwise 	 up 	 to 	 an 	 aggr egate 	 nominal 	 amount 	 of 	 £2,555,195.80 	 (such 	 amount 	 to 	 be 	 r educed 	 by 	 the 	 nominal 	 amount 	 of 	 any 	 equity 	 securities 	 	
	 allotted	pursuant	to	the	authority	in	Resolution	16(a)),
	 pr ovided	 that	 this	 authority	 shall	 expir e	 on	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 Company’ s	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 in	 2016,	 or ,	 if	 earlier ,	 at	 the	 close	 of	 business	
on	13	August	2016,	save	that	the	Company	may	befor e	such	expiry	make	an	of fer	or	agr eement	which	would	or	might	r equir e	equity	securities	
to	be	allotted	after	such	expiry	and	the	Dir ectors	may	allot	such	equity	securities	in	pursuance	of	such	an	of fer	or	agr eement	as	if	the	authority	
conferr ed	by	this	r esolution	had	not	expir ed.
17.	 Subject	to	the	passing	of	Resolution	16	of	the	notice	of	meeting,	that,	in	substitution	for	all	existing	authorities,	including	the	authority	conferr ed	
on	the	Dir ectors	by	Article	4(c)	of	the	Company’ s	Articles	of	Association:
(a)	 the	Dir ectors	be	and	they	ar e	empower ed	pursuant	to	section	570	of	the	Act	to	allot	equity	securities	pursuant	to	the	authority	conferr ed	by	
Resolution	16(a)	as	if	section	561	of	the	Act	did	not	apply	to	any	such	allotment,	pr ovided	that	this	authority	shall	be	limited	to	the	allotment	
of	equity	securities	in	connection	with	a	rights	issue	(as	defined	in	the	Listing	Rules	issued	by	the	Financial	Conduct	Authority	pursuant	to	
Part	VI	of	the	Financial	Services	and	Markets	Act	2000)	but	subject	to	such	exclusions	or	other	arrangements	as	the	Dir ectors	may	deem	
necessary	or	expedient	in	r elation	to	tr easury	shar es,	fractional	entitlements,	r ecor d	dates,	legal	or	practical	pr oblems	in	or	under	the	laws	 
of	any	territory	or	the	r equir ements	of	any	r egulatory	body	or	stock	exchange;	and
(b)	 the	Dir ectors	be	and	they	ar e	empower ed	pursuant	to	section	570	of	the	Act	to	allot	equity	securities	for	cash	pursuant	to	the	authority	
conferr ed	by	Resolution	16(b)	as	if	section	561	of	the	Act	did	not	apply	to	any	such	allotment,	pr ovided	that	this	authority	shall	be	limited	 
to	the	allotment	of	equity	securities	(otherwise	than	in	connection	with	any	rights	issue	(as	defined	in	the	Listing	Rules	issued	by	the	Financial	
Conduct	Authority	pursuant	to	Part	VI	of	the	Financial	Services	and	Markets	Act	2000))	having	an	aggr egate	nominal	value	of	up	 
to	£383,279.30,
	 pr ovided	 that	 this	 authority	 shall	 expir e	 on	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 Company’ s	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 in	 2016,	 or ,	 if	 earlier ,	 at	 the	 close	 of	 business	
on	13	August	2016,	save	that	the	Company	may	befor e	such	expiry	make	an	of fer	or	agr eement	which	would	or	might	r equir e	equity	securities	
to	be	allotted	after	such	expiry	and	the	Dir ectors	may	allot	equity	securities	in	pursuance	of	such	an	of fer	or	agr eement	as	if	the	authority	
conferr ed	by	this	r esolution	had	not	expir ed.
By	or der	of	the	Boar d
Alex Bevis 
Company	Secr etary
19	Mar ch	2015
Notes
1.	 A	member	entitled	to	attend	and	vote	at	the	meeting	is	also	entitled	to	appoint	one	or	mor e	pr oxies	to	attend	and,	on	a	show	of	hands	or	on	a	
poll,	vote	instead	of	him.	Wher e	mor e	than	one	pr oxy	is	appointed,	each	pr oxy	must	be	appointed	to	exer cise	the	rights	attached	to	a	dif fer ent	
shar e	or	shar es	held	by	the	appointing	shar eholder .	The	pr oxy	need	not	be	a	member	of	the	Company .
2.	 T o	be	ef fective,	the	instrument	appointing	a	pr oxy	and	any	authority	under	which	it	is	executed	(or	a	notarially	certified	copy	of	such	authority)	
must	be	deposited	at	the	office	of	the	Company’ s	r egistrars	not	less	than	48	hours	befor e	the	time	for	holding	the	meeting	or	adjour ned	meeting.	
A	form	of	pr oxy	is	enclosed	with	this	notice.	Completion	and	r etur n	of	the	form	of	pr oxy	will	not	pr eclude	or dinary	shar eholders	fr om	attending	
and	voting	in	person.
3.	 Any	person	to	whom	this	notice	is	sent	who	is	a	person	nominated	under	section	146	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	to	enjoy	information	rights	
(a	‘Nominated	Person’)	may ,	under	an	agr eement	between	him/her	and	the	shar eholder	by	whom	he/she	was	nominated,	have	a	right	to	
be	appointed	(or	to	have	someone	else	appointed)	as	a	pr oxy	for	the	Annual	General	Meeting.	If	a	Nominated	Person	has	no	such	pr oxy	
appointment	right	or	does	not	wish	to	exer cise	it,	he/she	may ,	under	any	such	agr eement,	have	a	right	to	give	instructions	to	the	shar eholder	 
as	to	the	exer cise	of	voting	rights.
4.	 The	statement	of	the	rights	of	shar eholders	in	r elation	to	the	appointment	of	pr oxies	in	paragraphs	1	and	2	above	does	not	apply	to	Nominated	
Persons.	The	rights	described	in	these	paragraphs	can	only	be	exer cised	by	shar eholders	of	the	Company .
5.	 In	accor dance	with	Regulation	41	of	the	Uncertified	Securities	Regulations	2001,	the	Company	specifies	that	only	those	members	enter ed	on	
the	r egister	of	members	of	the	Company	as	at	9:30	am	on	11	May	2015	(or	in	the	event	the	meeting	is	adjour ned,	on	the	r egister	of	members	
48	hours	befor e	the	time	of	any	adjour ned	meeting)	shall	be	entitled	to	attend	or	vote	at	the	meeting	in	r espect	of	the	number	of	shar es	
r egister ed	in	their	name	at	that	time.	Changes	to	entries	on	the	r egister	of	members	after	9:30	am	on	11	May	2015	(or	in	the	event	the	meeting	
is	adjour ned,	on	the	r egister	of	members	less	than	48	hours	befor e	the	time	of	any	adjour ned	meeting)	shall	be	disr egar ded	in	determining	the	
rights	of	any	person	to	attend	or	vote	at	the	meeting.
Notice	of	the	Annual	General	Meeting	continued
Notes continued
6.	 Copies	of	Dir ectors’	service	agr eements,	the	terms	of	appointment	of	Non-Executive	Dir ectors,	the	r egister	of	Dir ectors’	inter ests	kept	by	the	
Company	under	section	808	of	the	Companies	Act	2006,	the	Xaar	plc	2004	Shar e	Option	Plan,	the	Xaar	plc	2007	Shar e	Save	Plan	and	the	Xaar	
plc	2007	Long	T erm	Incentive	Plan	will	be	available	15	minutes	prior	to	the	commencement	of	the	meeting	and	will	r emain	open	and	accessible	
during	the	continuance	of	the	meeting	to	any	person	attending	the	meeting.
7.	 Biographical	details	of	all	Dir ectors	of fering	themselves	for	r e-appointment	ar e	set	out	on	pages	26	and	27	of	the	Annual	Report	and	Accounts.
8.	 Shar eholders	should	note	that	it	is	possible	that,	pursuant	to	r equests	made	by	shar eholders	of	the	Company	under	section	527	of	the	
Companies	Act	2006,	the	Company	may	be	r equir ed	to	publish	on	a	website	a	statement	setting	out	any	matter	r elating	to:	(i)	the	audit	of	the	
Company’ s	accounts	(including	the	auditor’ s	r eport	and	the	conduct	of	the	audit)	that	ar e	to	be	laid	befor e	the	Annual	General	Meeting;	or	
(ii)	any	cir cumstance	connected	with	an	auditor	of	the	Company	ceasing	to	hold	office	since	the	pr evious	meeting	at	which	annual	accounts	
and	r eports	wer e	laid	in	accor dance	with	section	437	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.	The	Company	may	not	r equir e	the	shar eholders	r equesting	
any	such	website	publication	to	pay	its	expenses	in	complying	with	sections	527	or	528	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.	Wher e	the	Company	is	
r equir ed	to	place	a	statement	on	a	website	under	section	527	of	the	Companies	Act	2006,	it	must	forwar d	the	statement	to	the	Company’ s	
auditor	not	later	than	the	time	when	it	makes	the	statement	available	on	the	website.	The	business	which	may	be	dealt	with	at	the	Annual	
General	Meeting	includes	any	statement	that	the	Company	has	been	r equir ed	under	section	527	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	to	publish	 
on	a	website.
9.	 In	or der	to	facilitate	voting	by	corporate	r epr esentatives	at	the	meeting,	arrangements	will	be	put	in	place	at	the	meeting	so	that:	(i)	if	a	corporate	
shar eholder	has	appointed	the	Chairman	of	the	meeting	as	its	corporate	r epr esentative	to	vote	on	a	poll	in	accor dance	with	the	dir ections	of	
all	of	the	other	corporate	r epr esentatives	for	that	shar eholder	at	the	meeting,	then	on	a	poll	those	corporate	r epr esentatives	will	give	voting	
dir ections	to	the	Chairman	and	the	Chairman	will	vote	(or	withhold	a	vote)	as	corporate	r epr esentative	in	accor dance	with	those	dir ections;	
and	(ii)	if	mor e	than	one	corporate	r epr esentative	for	the	same	corporate	shar eholder	attends	the	meeting	but	the	corporate	shar eholder	has	
not	appointed	the	Chairman	of	the	meeting	as	its	corporate	r epr esentative,	a	designated	corporate	r epr esentative	will	be	nominated,	fr om	
those	corporate	r epr esentatives	who	attend,	who	will	vote	on	a	poll	and	the	other	corporate	r epr esentatives	will	give	voting	dir ections	to	that	
designated	corporate	r epr esentative.	Corporate	shar eholders	ar e	r eferr ed	to	in	the	guidance	issued	by	the	Institute	of	Charter ed	Secr etaries	and	
Administrators	on	pr oxies	and	corporate	r epr esentatives	(www .icsa.org.uk)	for	further	details	of	this	pr ocedur e.	The	guidance	includes	a	sample	
form	of	appointment	letter	if	the	Chairman	is	being	appointed	as	described	in	(i)	above.
10.	 CREST	members	who	wish	to	appoint	a	pr oxy	or	pr oxies	thr ough	the	CREST	electr onic	pr oxy	appointment	service	may	do	so	by	using	the	
pr ocedur es	described	in	the	CREST	Manual.	CREST	Personal	Members	or	other	CREST	sponsor ed	members,	and	those	CREST	members	who	
have	appointed	a	service	pr ovider(s),	should	r efer	to	their	CREST	sponsor	or	voting	service	pr ovider(s),	who	will	be	able	to	take	the	appr opriate	
action	on	their	behalf.
11.	 In	or der	for	a	pr oxy	appointment	or	instruction	made	using	the	CREST	service	to	be	valid,	the	appr opriate	CREST	message	(a	‘CREST	Pr oxy	
Instruction’)	must	be	pr operly	authenticated	in	accor dance	with	CRESTCo’ s	specifications,	and	must	contain	the	information	r equir ed	for	
such	instruction,	as	described	in	the	CREST	Manual.	The	message,	r egar dless	of	whether	it	constitutes	the	appointment	of	a	pr oxy	or	is	an	
amendment	to	the	instruction	given	to	a	pr eviously	appointed	pr oxy	must,	in	or der	to	be	valid,	be	transmitted	so	as	to	be	r eceived	by	the	issuer’ s	
agent	(ID	RA10)	by	9:30	am	on	11	May	2015.	For	this	purpose,	the	time	of	r eceipt	will	be	taken	to	be	the	time	(as	determined	by	the	timestamp	
applied	to	the	message	by	the	CREST	Application	Host)	fr om	which	the	issuer’ s	agent	is	able	to	r etrieve	the	message	by	enquiry	to	CREST	in	
the	manner	pr escribed	by	CREST .	After	this	time	any	change	of	instructions	to	pr oxies	appointed	thr ough	CREST	should	be	communicated	to	
the	appointee	thr ough	other	means.
12.	 CREST	members	and,	wher e	applicable,	their	CREST	sponsors,	or	voting	service	pr oviders	should	note	that	CRESTCo	does	not	make	available	
special	pr ocedur es	in	CREST	for	any	particular	message.	Normal	system	timings	and	limitations	will,	ther efor e,	apply	in	r elation	to	the	input	
of	CREST	Pr oxy	Instructions.	It	is	the	r esponsibility	of	the	CREST	member	concer ned	to	take	(or ,	if	the	CREST	member	is	a	CREST	personal	
member ,	or	sponsor ed	member ,	or	has	appointed	a	voting	service	pr ovider ,	to	pr ocur e	that	his	CREST	sponsor	or	voting	service	pr ovider(s)	
take(s))	such	action	as	shall	be	necessary	to	ensur e	that	a	message	is	transmitted	by	means	of	the	CREST	system	by	any	particular	time.	 
In	this	connection,	CREST	members	and,	wher e	applicable,	their	CREST	sponsors	or	voting	system	pr oviders	ar e	r eferr ed,	in	particular ,	to	those	
sections	of	the	CREST	Manual	concer ning	practical	limitations	of	the	CREST	system	and	timings.
13.	 The	Company	may	tr eat	as	invalid	a	CREST	Pr oxy	Instruction	in	the	cir cumstances	set	out	in	Regulation	35(5)(a)	of	the	Uncertificated	Securities	
Regulations	2001.
14.	 As	at	7.00am	on	19	Mar ch	2015	(the	date	of	publication	of	this	Notice),	the	Company’ s	issued	shar e	capital	comprised	76,655,873	or dinary	
shar es	of	10p	each.	Each	or dinary	shar e	carries	the	right	to	one	vote	at	a	general	meeting	of	the	Company ,	except	for	the	shar es	held	in	trust	 
for	the	Xaar	Shar e	Incentive	Plan	totaling	94,940	shar es	and,	ther efor e,	the	total	number	of	voting	rights	in	the	Company	as	7.00am	on	 
19	Mar ch	2015	is	76,560,933.	
15.	 Any	member	attending	the	meeting	has	the	right	to	ask	questions.	The	Company	must	answer	any	such	question	r elating	to	the	business	being	
dealt	with	at	the	meeting	but	no	such	answer	need	be	given	if:	(a)	to	do	so	would	interfer e	unduly	with	the	pr eparation	for	the	meeting	or	involve	
the	disclosur e	of	confidential	information;	(b)	the	answer	has	alr eady	been	given	on	a	website	in	the	form	of	an	answer	to	a	question;	or	(c)	it	is	
undesirable	in	the	inter ests	of	the	Company	or	the	good	or der	of	the	meeting	that	the	question	be	answer ed.
16.	 A	copy	of	this	Notice,	and	other	information	r equir ed	by	section	311A	of	the	Companies	Act	2006,	can	be	found	at	www .xaar .com.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • 115 114 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Notes Advisors
Registered office
316	Science	Park 
Cambridge	CB4	0XR
Registered number
3320972
Company Secretary
Alex	Bevis
Brokers
Jefferies International Limited
V intners	Place 
68	Upper	Thames	Str eet 
London	EC4V	3BJ
N+1 Singer
One	Bartholomew	Lane 
London	EC2N	2AX
Registered auditor
Deloitte LLP
City House 
126–130	Hills	Road 
Cambridge	CB2	1R Y
Solicitors
Mills & Reeve LLP
Botanic	House 
100	Hills	Road 
Cambridge	CB2	1PH
Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
9–11	St	Andr ews	Str eet 
Cambridge	CB2	3AA
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The	Registry 
34	Beckenham	Road 
Beckenham 
Kent	BR3	4TU
Printed	by	Park	Communications	on	FSC
®
	certified	paper .
Park	is	an	EMAS	certified	company	and	its	Envir onmental	
Management	System	is	certified	to	ISO	14001.
100%	of	the	inks	used	ar e	vegetable	oil	based,	95%	of	pr ess	
chemicals	ar e	r ecycled	for	further	use	and,	on	average	99%	of	
any	waste	associated	with	this	pr oduction	will	be	r ecycled.	
This	document	is	printed	on	Hello	Gloss,	a	paper	containing	
100%	virgin	fibr e	sour ced	fr om	well	managed,	r esponsible,	
FSC
®
	certified	for ests.	Pulp	is	bleached	using	mainly	a	T otally	
Chlorine	Fr ee	(TCF)	pr ocess,	but	some	is	bleached	using	an	
Elemental	Chlorine	Fr ee	(ECF)	pr ocess.
116 •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014	 • Xaar plc Xaar plc •	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2014 Xaar plc
316 Science Park
Cambridge CB4 0XR
T +44 (0) 1223 423663
F +44 (0) 1223 423590
E info@xaar.com
www.xaar.com
