 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2014
 Making 
 innov a tion  
work
Enabling Users  
and their business Revenue (£m)
3,107.8
 +1.2%
*   Adjusted profit refers to adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share refers to adjusted diluted earnings per share. Both are stated prior to exceptional items  
and amortisation of acquired intangibles. Adjusted operating profit is also stated after charging interest on customer specific financing.
Adjusted* profit (£m)
85.9
 +5.1%
Adjusted* earnings per share (pence)
46.8
 +8.1%
Strategic report
 IFC Highlights 201 4
 2 What we do
 3  Letter from the Chairman
 4  Chief Executive’s review
 6 Our markets
 7 Resources and relationships
 8 Our strategy
 12 Case study Cloud
 14 Our business model
 16 Case study Security
 18 Our risk management approach
 22 Our key performance indicators
 24 Case study Service
 26 Performance review
 32 Case study Enterprise Mobility
 37  Group Finance Director’s review
 42 Corporate Sustainable Responsibility
 Governance
 46 Board of Directors
 48 Corporate Governance report
 54 Directors’ report
 58 Audit Committee report
 62 Nomination Committee report
 63 Remuneration Committee report
 75 Directors’ responsibilities
 Financial statements
 76  Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Computacenter plc
 79 Consolidated income statement
 80  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
 81 Consolidated balance sheet
 82  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
 83 Consolidated cash flow statement
 84  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
 118  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 119 Company balance sheet
 120  Notes to the Company financial 
statements
 123 Group five-year financial review
 123 Group summary balance sheet
 1 2 3 F i n a n c i a l c a le n d a r
 1 2 4 C or p or a t e i n f or m a t i on
 1 2 5 P r i nc i pal o f fi ce s
Contents
 O ur a m **   Statutory profit refers to the unadjusted profit before tax and statutory earnings per share refers to diluted earnings per share.
***   Please note that the dividend per share figure provided has not been adjusted for the share capital consolidation that took place on 20 February 2015.  
The figures, as adjusted for the share capital consolidation are provided within the section entitled ‘Dividend’ on page 28 of this Annual Report.
Statutory profit** (£m)
76.4
 +51.3%
Statutory earnings per share** (pence)
40.0
 +73.9%
Dividend per share*** (pence)
19.0
 +8.6%
is to be Europe’s 
preferred IT provider 
to enable users and 
their business.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
1
 O u r am bit i o n 2014 259.7
2013 242.1
2012 220.3
2011 216.9
2010 192.4
Revenue
Time
Revenue
Time
Revenue
Time
2014 2,122.3
2013 2,106.2 
2012 2,005.6 
2011 2,015.6 
2010 1,888.4 
2014 725.8
2013 723.8 
2012 688.4 
2011 619.8 
2010 595.7 
Consult & Change
What we do
Delivering a set of predictable, proven 
solutions that optimise customers’ 
technology, enabling effective change  
and achievement of business goals.
Revenue characteristics
Dependent on forward order book.
Source & Deploy
What we do
Determining and providing appropriate 
products and commercials to address 
customers’ technology requirements, 
providing a complete service and  
support throughout the lifecycle.
Revenue characteristics
Large contracts, low margins and low visibility.
Manage & Transform
What we do
Providing maintenance, support, 
transformation and management of 
customers’ IT infrastructures and operations 
improving quality and flexibility of service, 
while significantly reducing costs.
Revenue characteristics
High visibility, long-term and stable.
Professional Services revenue (£m)
259.7
 +7.3%
Supply Chain revenue (£m)
2,122.3 
 +0.8%
Contractual Services revenue (£m)
725.8
 +0.3%
2
What we do
Three complementary entry points for our customers and a balanced portfolio  
for Computacenter to achieve long-term growth.
 Ou r 
 bu s in e s s 2014 saw excellent progress in our UK 
business, where the Contractual Services 
contract base grew by 9.9 per cent, as  
we won a number of significant bids and 
expanded our customer base. In Germany, 
our focus on the long term and integrating 
processes into our Group model delivered 
encouraging progress, and in France we were 
uncompetitive and undertook a restructuring 
programme in the second half of the year  
to address this. Nevertheless, we delivered  
solid financial results at a Group level,  
whilst making appropriate investments in  
our services offerings and risk management.
We are here to enable users of IT and  
support Chief Information Officers (‘CIOs’)  
in their increasingly demanding tasks. To  
that end we have, and will continue to, invest 
in our service capability, mobile platform 
management, cloud and security capabilities.
We seek continued improvement in  
our financial performance in 2015, as  
we continue on our long haul journey.  
Our ambition is to become Europe’s  
preferred IT services provider. As with  
all great ambitions it should always be 
tantalisingly close, but we are determined 
never to declare victory in its pursuit.
Greg Lock
Chairman
After the year closed, we announced the  
sale of our recycling business R.D. Trading 
Limited, and an agreement to continue  
using its services under new ownership.  
The proceeds of that sale and our healthy 
cash generation in 2014 have allowed us to 
propose and deliver a return of £100 million 
to shareholders, just 18 months or so after 
returning £75 million. We will continue to 
manage this enterprise, which has no debt, 
with a relentless focus on working capital 
improvement and winning business. We  
owe you, our shareholders, customers  
and employees no less. I thank all three 
constituents for your faith, business,  
hard work and talent respectively. 
Greg Lock
Chairman
11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
3
Letter from the Chairman
A solid  
 p e rf o r ma n c e 4
Chief Executive’s review
 Co m p u tac e n t e r  
– 20 years on 2014 was my twentieth 
year as Chief Executive 
Officer of Computacenter.  
During that time the  
Group has changed 
beyond recognition, 
becoming a public 
company in 1998, and 
subsequently continuing  
to grow its revenues, 
operational locations  
and the services that it 
provides to its customers. 
Whilst the Group has 
continued to evolve and 
mature over that period, 
there are two of our 
stakeholders who  
have been, and continue  
to be, fundamental to  
our success: our people  
and our customers.
Computacenter has always recognised  
that people matter. I have been privileged  
to witness the talent and dedication of our 
employees at close proximity over a long 
period of time, and without their support the 
Group would not be where it is now. I would 
like to offer my thanks to all for their ongoing 
efforts. We also recognise that the growth 
and development of the business over recent 
years would not have been possible on our 
own, and the relationships we have with our 
vendors, sub-contractors and other external 
stakeholders have been, and remain crucial 
in any success that we have. 
We have always been clear about the need  
to put our customers first, which includes 
being straightforward and transparent in  
our dealings with them. Our relationships 
with our customers have been aided by the 
longevity and continued relevance of our 
client director management model, which 
allows our empowered and accountable  
client directors to respond flexibly, quickly 
and decisively to the needs and wants of  
our customers. 
Computacenter’s ideology has always  
been to grow with our customers, and  
whilst we are looking to build value for  
our stakeholders across all time horizons,  
we continue to consider the long term in  
all aspects and at all levels of our decision-
making. This allows us to recognise, take 
responsibility for and improve levels of 
service where we fall short of the high 
standards that our customers expect from  
us, and that we expect from ourselves.  
Our customers put their faith in us to  
deliver for them, and we understand the 
importance of keeping our promises to them. 
Moving forward as a Group
However, we realise that in some areas the 
Company cannot remain the same, and that 
there is an inherent need to keep developing. 
The competition in our markets remains 
fierce and unrelenting, technology is 
continuously developing and the end-users  
of our customers are becoming increasingly 
sophisticated and demanding. The significant 
strategy work undertaken by the Group’s 
Board and Management over the previous  
24 months has allowed us to bring further 
clarity to what we want to deliver, and who 
we want to do business with. Computacenter 
cannot be, and should not be, all things to  
all people. Through our clarity of strategic 
ambition and the operating stability that  
we have now achieved through the 
implementation of our Group Operating 
Model, we will focus relentlessly on our 
execution across all of our operating 
geographies, which will have access to the 
Group’s best people, processes and tools. 
When I look back over the last 20 years,  
I am pleased with the progress that the Group 
has made, and in dealing with our future 
challenges we should be confident and 
recognise that there is much to build on. 
Whilst I am pleased, I am not satisfied.  
There remains much to do and improve, 
many opportunities to exploit and our passion 
to deliver for our customers remains as 
strong as ever.
I would like to thank you, our shareholders  
for your consistent and unwavering support 
during the period. I look forward to seeing 
you, and hope to receive your support at our 
Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2015. 
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
11 March 2015
Our markets – p6
Digital transformation 
brings growth and 
innovation back on  
the CIO’s agenda.
Resources and relationships – p7
We focus on our best 
people, infrastructure and 
tools to deliver convincing 
results for our customers.
Our strategy – p8
Being the champion  
of the user builds on our 
heritage and provides 
differentiation.
Our business model – p14
The customer-centric 
model is designed  
to provide long-term 
shareholder returns.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements
5
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  The development of  
Social, Mobile, Analytics 
and Cloud technologies, 
together with the ‘Internet 
of Things’, is driving 
massive change in  
almost all industries  
and thus brings growth  
and innovation back  
on the CIO’s agenda.
Rise of mobility
The rise of mobility changes the way users 
work. In 2014, there were more than 7.7 
billion mobile devices in use worldwide, 
including both phones and tablets. This is  
a number higher than the world’s population. 
The time people spend on mobile applications 
(‘apps’) will soon match the time they spend 
watching television. Employees want to 
experience the same kind of engagement  
and empowerment in the workplace that  
they have as a consumer in their private lives.  
As a result, users are starting to mix business 
and private app-based services in the form  
of a personal cloud.
Engagement systems
Engagement systems are driving technology-led 
business innovation. The emergence of this  
new breed of systems will have an increasing 
impact on customers, partners and employees. 
Engagement systems are user-focused and 
take advantage of Social, Mobile, Analytics  
and Cloud technologies to deliver a more 
personalised experience for core business 
processes through the use of smart products 
and services. These include mobile devices,  
and collaborative as well as service apps. 
Many analysts are predicting that future IT 
spending will shift massively from legacy, 
systems of record (for example, Enterprise 
Resource Planning) to engagement systems  
in the next five years.
Internet of Things
The ‘Internet of Things’ is driving an 
explosion of data. The ‘things’ that could be 
connected range from car parts and wind 
turbines, to household and consumer devices 
such as heating thermostats and game 
consoles. The resulting upsurge in data from 
machines, as well as web-based and social 
media apps and enterprise content, needs  
to be managed. In order to deal with this 
issue, the German government has recently 
established a national initiative called 
‘Industrie 4.0’. This is designed to infuse 
digital innovation into traditional industries, 
such as automotive and manufacturing.
Cloud is reality
Organisations are using the cloud model to 
augment each of their infrastructure capacity 
and software and development resources. 
Customers typically begin by establishing a 
private cloud capability, before adding public 
cloud services, which results in a hybrid 
environment that needs to be appropriately 
managed. Hybrid cloud environments will need 
to be orchestrated on all levels, meaning that 
cloud services on the infrastructure, platform 
and software level, whether private or public, 
have to be provisioned and scaled up or down 
in a highly automated, secure, reliable and 
compliant way.
Security requirements
Security is an ever-increasing requirement,  
and not only within the cloud space. Due to 
increasing levels of connectivity within the 
business and the consumer world, the volume 
and impact of threats (such as organised crime, 
business espionage and nation states, amongst 
others) is also rising. Therefore, security needs 
to be embedded in every IT service or solution, 
whether this be on the device, across the 
network or in the datacenter, as well as  
at an application and information layer.
The technology market is experiencing change 
at an unprecedented rate. New entrants are 
challenging the traditional vendors, especially 
in the converged infrastructure space, and this 
is forcing those traditional vendors to adapt 
quickly. New software is helping to simplify 
management, accelerate provisioning and 
improve productivity, while also having the 
potential to significantly reduce cost. Users 
now expect more from their IT department, 
and are increasingly driving the IT agenda. 
Explore innovation
The rise of mobility and engagement systems, 
together with the cloud and ‘Internet of 
Things’, are strong technology forces that 
provide both challenges and opportunities for 
our customer stakeholders. This starts with 
the users, impacting how they do business, 
which in turn drives the agenda for the CIO 
and their IT department. In 2015 and beyond, 
a large proportion of IT investments will be 
directed towards the exploitation and 
exploration of technology-led innovation.
Renovate the core 
There will be quite a long period where 
legacy ‘old world’ IT infrastructure will 
co-exist with innovative ‘new world’ 
technologies. Thus, CIOs will increasingly 
invest to modernise the core IT infrastructure 
and transform large parts or all of their IT to 
deliver greater quality, performance, agility 
and security to the business and its users.
6
Our markets
 Dig i ta l  
 T r a ns f o r mat i o n Mark Slaven
Group Chief Information Officer
The certified Group  
ISMS assures high  
security standards for 
Computacenter services, 
alignment with international 
norms and industry best 
practice, as well as the 
authenticity, availability, 
integrity and confidentiality 
of information.
IT security and service continuity are core 
facets of service delivery to our customers. 
Therefore, we run and continuously develop  
our Information Security Management System. 
Computacenter’s ITSCM provides planning, 
coordination and development of security 
relevant scenarios for our customers.
Our datacenter facilities deliver to the highest 
standards of physical and technical security  
and availability, and are accredited against the 
relevant BSI standards. Our datacenter and 
service designs offer complete flexibility for our 
customers in the choice of their network provider.
In order to further strengthen our Managed 
Services business, we are continually enhancing 
our infrastructure operations capabilities. Today, 
Computacenter’s centres of excellence which 
run 24/7 for IT operations, for our managed 
service customers (our Operational Command 
Centres) are located in the UK, Germany,  
South Africa, Malaysia and India. 
Barry Hoffman
Group HR Director
Our continuing success  
is based on hiring and 
retaining high quality 
people. We strive to  
make Computacenter  
an exciting place to work. 
Our people
People, like our services and innovations,  
are a major source of competitive advantage.  
It is for this reason that we are always actively 
searching for new talent. As a recognised 
‘Investors in people’ employer we play an 
energetic role in developing our people to truly 
enable them to go from strength to strength.
We are proud of the fact that our people are  
at the heart of what we do and therefore value 
the skills and experience they bring to work  
with them each day. We have a clear mission  
to enable users and their business and we  
set great store by our values. We have a culture 
that embraces feedback and continuous 
improvement centred around our core 
behaviours, for the benefit of our customers.  
We foster an environment that allows people  
to grow, and continue to advance their abilities 
as well as executing our strategy.
Our relationships
As we grow our services business in line with 
our strategic objectives we continue to focus 
upon the need to balance acceptable risk,  
with the need to maintain our established 
reputation as a flexible, collaborative and 
customer-focused organisation.
Services contracts have become more 
complex as customers and their advisers seek 
to procure effectively and allocate risks much 
more comprehensively; particularly where 
these are perceived as being business critical. 
We have seen a move in larger IT outsourcing 
engagements towards tower-based multi-
sourcing arrangements where multiple 
suppliers are required to work collaboratively 
under a complex network of similar contracts. 
A number of recent engagements have  
allowed us to gain valuable knowledge and 
experience with our clients. We have invested 
considerable time and effort in ensuring 
sufficient levels of expert resource to keep 
pace with this evolving environment.
Fraser Phillips
Head of Group Legal & Contracting
We facilitate good long-
term relationships with 
customers and partners by 
contracting in a considered 
and open manner, setting 
clear expectations and 
managing against these.
Our infrastructure
Computacenter operates technology infrastructure 
for our own global workforce as well as for  
our customers, built to highly secured service 
standards. We deliver industry-leading services 
with an embedded shift-left philosophy using 
automated ITIL based processes. Synchronising 
individual customer needs with highly 
standardised, modular service models allows 
tailored, high service quality and additionally 
substantial cost efficiency – 24/7 , worldwide  
and using our customers’ native languages.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
7
Resources and relationships
 S t r en g t h enin g  
 o ur c ap ab i l i t i e s Michael Weiss
Head of Group Strategy  
& Marketing
To reflect the changing 
needs of our customers, 
we refined our long-term 
ambition statement to  
be Europe’s preferred IT 
provider to enable users 
and their business.
In order to achieve this goal, we embarked  
on a number of strategic initiatives. These 
initiatives will enable us to take greater 
advantage of Social, Mobile, Analytics and 
Cloud technologies as long-term driving 
forces, as well as meeting the changing 
needs and roles of our three stakeholders: 
the users, their business and the CIO.
Champion of the user
We are continuing our strong heritage by 
striving to become the champion of the user. 
The services that users expect are agile, 
automated, customised and allow them to 
engage and collaborate. We will enable users 
by enhancing their service desk experience 
through a step-change in self-service and 
knowledge-based automation. By increasing 
the proportion of digital interactions and 
accelerating the incident management 
process, we will maximise the productivity  
of our customers’ users and our own service 
desk agents.
We will also empower users by helping  
to drive greater Enterprise Mobility through 
the provisioning of the right devices for the 
right workplace environments and user 
workstyles. In particular, we will focus on 
delivering the right functionality across all 
devices, whether it means integrating public 
or personal apps or mobilising legacy apps.
Business enabler
For the business stakeholders within our 
customers, we want to be regarded as the 
business enabler through IT. More and more 
frequently, CIOs and their business partners 
are asking Computacenter to help change 
and improve the business processes of our 
customers. For example, the rise of mobile, 
the ‘Internet of Things’, and the pervasive, 
and sometimes disruptive, nature of cloud 
technology now make IT an integral element 
of business process optimisation and 
business transformation. We have already 
started talking to customers about how we 
can support the mobilisation of their sales 
force, enhance the security of their shop  
floor networks, or bring a modern, user-
centric experience to their end customers.
Friend of the CIO
Yet, the main route to our customers  
will continue to be the CIO and their IT 
organisation. We aspire to keep being the 
CIO’s friend and trusted long-term partner  
on their transformation journey, whether  
it involves mobilising the enterprise, 
modernising the service desk, embracing 
public and hybrid clouds or digitising  
the business. 
Evolution, not revolution
The investments we make, for example  
into the Next Generation Service Desk  
and Enterprise Mobility, are focused on 
continuously developing our go-to-market 
propositions and our sales and delivery 
capabilities to meet the changing 
requirements of our customers. To achieve 
this, our strategic investments combine  
our growth plays with enhanced Group 
capabilities and an improved way of working.
Our growth plays 
Growth plays are defined as the services and 
solutions where Computacenter can achieve 
above average market growth. They reflect 
long-term macro-trends (see ‘Our markets’, 
page 6 of this report), address our customers’ 
key requirements and have the potential  
to include all three pillars of our services 
portfolio: Consult & Change, Source & Deploy 
and Manage & Transform.
Enhanced Group capabilities 
Our capabilities build on the strengths and 
assets we already have in a country, or in  
a Group function, that we can transfer to 
other Computacenter countries, functions  
or market segments and that can be further 
developed or leveraged to support our  
growth plays or counter disruptive threats 
where necessary.
Improved way of working 
This is a concept where we design and 
implement a growth play solution using 
Computacenter as the first customer. The 
benefits are twofold: firstly, we experience 
the potential challenges of implementing  
an innovative offering ourselves, adding to 
the credibility we have with our customers. 
Secondly, our sales and service specialists 
can use our own success story to bring the 
solution to life during customer conversations 
and engagements.
  
Our focus  
on the user is 
both authentic 
and gives us  
a competitive 
edge.”
8
Our strategy
 C ha m p i o n  
 of the user 1.  To lead with and grow our 
services business
What we have achieved in 2014
We continue to see good growth within our 
Contractual Services base at around 6.9 per 
cent over 2014 along with 7.3 per cent revenue 
growth in our Professional Services business. 
Our highest overall growth market continues  
to be the UK where we have won significant 
end user computing tower deals, including  
the Royal Mail Group and the Post Office. Our 
German services business moves into 2015 in 
stronger shape than at the start of 2014, with 
some key renewals and wins secured both with 
existing and new customers providing a solid 
platform for growth during 2015. In France,  
we continue to be challenged by the market 
and our positioning. We remain committed  
to making the transition to becoming a more 
services-focused business in the medium term. 
Service contract base (£m)
655
 +6.9%
The implementation of our Group Operating 
Model is now well understood and is helping 
us to make more informed decisions on key 
aspects of opportunities. It also provides us 
with a greater choice of delivery locations.  
We have continued to share our ‘lessons 
learnt’ from the UK business with our other 
operating businesses. We also recognise  
the contract opportunities that are likely to 
lead to an increase in Professional Services  
and Supply Chain business, resulting in a 
potentially higher financial value of customers. 
Our target market is clearer and our 
qualification process has helped us focus  
the right people on the right opportunities.  
This has, in turn, increased our win rate.
What we intend to do in 2015
We enter 2015 with a good pipeline for  
growth in Germany and a more modest view  
for the UK, where there is a high focus on 
implementing and delivering against the wins 
achieved in 2014. Across all of our operating 
businesses there are key existing contracts 
which need to be renewed, or reductions 
minimised to enable similar growth levels  
to those seen in 2014. However, with  
a strong focus on lead qualification, clearer 
differentiation through our growth plays,  
and stronger bid teams, we are confident  
that we can continue to see our Contractual 
Services business growth provide a platform for 
cross-selling our other lines of business, such 
as Professional and Supply Chain Services. 
Our customers are recognising that we are 
passionate about enabling their users both in 
the way that we deliver and the investments 
that we make. 
We see an opportunity  
to continue the services 
growth rates across  
the Group and in some 
regions to accelerate  
the rate through high 
relevance to our customers.
Neil Hall
Director of Business Enablement  
& Contractual Services
  
Our approach  
to innovation  
is evolutionary 
– and that’s 
exactly what our 
customers like.”
2.  To improve our services 
productivity and enhance  
our competitiveness 
What we have achieved in 2014
We have a constant focus on our services 
productivity. This includes measuring and 
managing monthly availability, utilisation and 
efficiency of our service personnel across our 
teams of service desk agents, project managers, 
consultants and engineers, whether in the field  
or working at customers’ sites. Thanks to the 
introduction of our Group Operating Model in 
France in early 2014, we have now implemented 
the same services productivity methodology, 
systems and processes in each of our three 
principal countries, with Belgium planned  
for later in 2015.
We have almost been able to maintain our  
level of revenue generated per services head 
even with significant growth in the UK, which 
on-boarded around 1,000 new members of  
staff in the last three years. This growth is driven 
by many notable new business wins, which  
is a good indicator of our competitiveness. 
Germany’s services headcount has remained 
broadly flat in the same period, but its revenue 
generated per services head measure has 
increased for each of the last three years.  
France is now on a better grounding following  
its large Managed Services win with Sanofi, and, 
as a result, we are confident that its measure 
will improve in 2015.
Revenue generated per services 
head (£’000)
85
 -1.2%
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
9 What we intend to do in 2015 
Our Group Operating Model gives us  
the foundation to drive standards across  
the Group in areas such as best practice 
adoption, winning solutions designs and 
efficiency programmes. To build on this 
opportunity, we set up and launched a  
new Group industrialisation team. This 
central function will promote and govern  
the technology, tools and process standards 
underpinning our services business.
Another 2015 focus for the Group 
industrialisation team will be to assess how 
we can become more efficient at managing 
the many engineering engagements that we 
undertake for our customers, such as on-site 
work, moves and changes, and maintenance. 
Computacenter has existing investments in 
world-class automation tools, including SAP’s 
MRS and BMC’s ITSM, which can be brought 
together to provide a more streamlined work 
scheduling and management process to 
benefit both the customer experience, as  
well as Computacenter’s competitiveness.
Chris Webb
Group Chief Operating Officer
Our services offering  
is based on scalable  
and repeatable Group 
standards which allows us 
to be highly competitive  
in the marketplace.
3.  To retain and maximise the 
relationship with our customers 
over the long term
What we have achieved in 2014 
Our priority in 2014 was to increase the 
number of customers within our target 
markets that deliver more than £1 million 
profit contribution per year. We have achieved 
this by both adding new clients and increasing  
the range of services and solutions that  
we provide to existing customers. Specific 
areas of focus included:
Supply Chain – Traditionally at the vanguard 
of all customer relationships, Supply Chain  
is increasingly an ‘up-sell’ opportunity for 
new services-led customer engagements.  
In the UK we had an excellent year with  
good growth in all sectors. In Germany  
we recovered strongly in the second half of 
2014 after a disappointing first six months. 
And although we saw growth year-on-year in 
France, this was weak in comparison to 2013 
and dominated by lower margin workplace 
and volume software segments.
Professional Services – We experienced 
another year of strong growth underpinned  
by the continued migration of major customers 
to Microsoft Windows 7 (and in some cases, 
Windows 8). The pipeline at the year-end 
provided confidence that 2015 would continue 
this positive trend supported by the dynamic  
pace of change within our industry. 
Contractual Services – Recent wins, 
particularly in the UK and Germany, provide 
significant opportunity for our Supply Chain 
and Professional Services businesses in  
2015 and beyond (see Objective 1 on page 9).
Achieving year-on-year improvement in 
customer satisfaction is a vital component  
of our aspiration to increase the number of 
customers with more than £1 million profit 
contribution per year. We were therefore 
delighted to receive favourable outcomes 
from both KPMG and Whitelane in their  
2014 customer satisfaction surveys.
What we intend to do in 2015
Supply Chain – We will draw on our experience 
and extensive vendor relationships to simplify 
the transition to new technologies and ways  
of working. And within an evolving commercial 
environment we will proactively respond to 
disruptive forces – both from new entrants 
and industry stalwarts.
Professional Services – We will focus on 
maximising the opportunities presented by  
the end of support for Microsoft Server 2003 
in July 2015 and the continued workplace 
migration to Microsoft Windows 7, 8 and  
soon 10. 
Contractual Services – We will adopt new 
tools and ways of working to increase 
predictability and consistency while helping 
to reduce service delivery costs. In addition, 
we will enhance collaboration and increase 
the sharing of best practice following the 
introduction of our Group Operating Model.
Helping customers  
take advantage of the 
increasingly rapid change 
within our industry will  
be our priority.
Mike Rodwell
Group Chief Commercial Officer
Number of customer accounts with 
contribution of over £1 million
 +12.3%
10
Our strategy
continued 4.  To innovate our services 
offerings to build future  
growth opportunities
What we have achieved in 2014 
During the year, we made a significant step 
forward with the development and execution  
of the strategy that was defined in 2013. We 
designed and developed the Next Generation 
Service Desk (NGSD), which takes an 
innovative user-centric approach to IT support. 
The user experience is modern and intuitive, with 
a high degree of self-service and automated, 
knowledge-based processes. We implemented 
NGSD across all of Computacenter’s 12,600 
users. We have raised the rate of digital 
interactions from 9 per cent to well over 50 per 
cent in only four months, and have increased the 
rate of possible password resets made online  
to almost 90 per cent. 
We have also developed an Enterprise Mobile 
Management platform, which we call our  
Group Mobile Engine (GME). As part of this 
development, we have deployed around 700 
iPads and a similar number of iPhones to our 
UK, German and French sales forces, together 
with applications to improve user productivity, 
Our platform for growth and profitability
engagement and satisfaction. All of the 
applications are supported by an Enterprise 
AppStore, which is secure and compliant  
with data protection regulations.
Finally, we have extended our international 
service capabilities with the opening of a 
lower-cost service desk operation in Budapest, 
the leveraging of our Remote Infrastructure 
Management through our South Africa 
operation and a new partnership in  
Bangalore, India.
What we intend to do in 2015
The priority for 2015 is to successfully launch 
our NGSD and the GME to our customers.  
We have received an encouraging response 
to both solutions from our customers. In 
parallel, we are investing in the continual 
development of these solutions, adding more 
functionality and extending the platforms, 
along with our capabilities to implement  
and operate them.
To lead with  
and grow with 
our services 
business
To improve  
our services  
productivity and 
enhance our 
competitiveness
To retain and  
maximise the 
relationship with 
our customers 
over the long term
To innovate 
our services  
offerings to build 
future growth  
opportunities
Facilitating our  
business model
Our strategic  
objectives
  
Piloting strategic 
developments at 
Computacenter 
gives us more 
credibility when 
selling these to 
our customers.”
In 2015, we will be focusing on two other 
technology areas that we perceive as key to 
supporting both our enabling users mission, 
and helping transform the core IT of our 
customers. Firstly, we will align and extend 
our offering as a builder, integrator and 
provider of private and hybrid cloud services. 
Secondly, we will leverage our security 
consulting experience and expertise across 
our operating geographies and improve our 
security operations capabilities for our 
Contractual Services business.
Group total services revenue (£m) 
985.5
 +2.0%
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
11 The Hut Group is the UK’s leading, multi-
website online retailer with rapidly growing 
international operations. Over eight million visits 
per month and more than six million unique 
users are attracted to the different websites, 
which are based upon a unique end-to-end 
technology platform. 
As a completely web-based business, a 
disaster recovery (‘DR’) solution is imperative 
for its consumer-facing websites as any 
downtime could directly result in lost revenues. 
The existing DR solution provided limited 
flexibility, and was time consuming to invoke. 
A resilient DR solution was required to scale 
with business growth.
Computacenter worked with The Hut Group 
to leverage VMware’s disaster recovery cloud 
service – vCloud Air Disaster Recovery.  
The Hut Group had already virtualised the 
majority of their production systems. By 
integrating their on-premise deployment with 
the cloud service, virtual machines could be 
replicated and protected in hours.
Computacenter provided consultancy,  
delivered a proof of concept and a solution 
design, and additionally was responsible for  
the implementation and orchestration of the DR 
solution at The Hut Group. As early adopters of 
VMware’s vCloud Air service, Computacenter 
had the experience and technical capabilities to 
solve the challenge for the customer. In addition 
to this, Computacenter’s vendor relationships 
with supporting technologies delivered as part 
of the overall solution ensured the customer 
received the best possible support throughout 
the engagement.
With VMware vCloud Air Disaster Recovery, 
The Hut Group now has a resilient and 
cost-effective DR solution in place for  
all production workloads, delivered by 
Computacenter. Successful testing has 
demonstrated The Hut Group’s ability to 
recover their systems in vCloud Air and 
continue trading in the event of disaster. 
The Hut Group
Computacenter Customer, UK
Dr Christine Haupt
Director of Consulting Services,
Computacenter
Utilising cloud technologies 
is of strategic importance  
to our customers’ CIOs.  
IT departments can offer 
even better services, and 
speed up the deployment 
of new infrastructure and 
software. The business will 
continue to demand even 
more productive technology 
environments – and we  
can build, deliver and run 
them as a trusted partner  
for our customers. 
12
Case study Cloud
 Clo u d Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
13 Help the 
CIO
... to enable
USERS
Consult 
&
Change
Source 
&
Deploy
Core IT
Edge IT
Service
Management
We are the long-term partner on our customer’s
JOURNEY
We make innovation
WORK
Manage
&
Transform
... and their
BUSINESS
Our goal at Computacenter is to help the  
CIO to enable users and their business. We 
help our customers address IT complexity 
and change and exploit technology-driven 
opportunities for the benefit of their users 
and business stakeholders. We achieve this 
by blending best-of-breed technologies and 
solutions with our extensive services and 
robust engagement model.
Our technology & solutions model
As an IT infrastructure provider, our portfolio 
of services and solutions covers what is 
widely known in the market as Edge IT  
and Core IT. 
Edge IT encompasses all technologies that 
touch the user directly, either in the form of 
hardware or software. Thanks to our in-depth 
understanding of user workstyles and the 
changing workplace, we can deliver optimal 
solutions that improve user productivity and 
their IT experience. 
Core IT covers all the relevant back-end 
technologies that ensure users have reliable 
and secure access to computing power, data 
information and applications via wireless, 
local or wide area networks. Through our 
close relationships with both technology 
vendors and our customers’ IT departments, 
we help optimise IT infrastructures to  
deliver greater efficiency, reliability, security, 
accessibility and scalability.
One of Computacenter’s key strengths is its 
ability to design, source, implement, support 
and manage solutions that cut across both 
Edge and Core IT. For example, to mobilise 
their workforces, organisations don’t just 
need to deploy mobile devices and apps; they 
also need to consider how they will provision 
and update the apps, how they will store and 
secure the data, and how they deliver the 
connectivity. This might involve establishing 
dedicated wireless networks to ensure  
data remains protected – especially when 
personal apps are allowed to work alongside 
business apps – as well as implementing  
new interfaces with legacy systems. 
The mobility example demonstrates how 
delivering outstanding Edge IT solutions  
also requires extensive knowledge of the 
underlying Core IT. At Computacenter,  
we don’t just understand Edge and Core IT; 
we make sure they work in harmony  
to deliver the expected IT and business 
outcomes for our customers. 
Our services model
We enable our customers’ transformation 
through a long-term partnership. Our overall 
business is based on three pillars of services 
with distinct characteristics (see also ‘What 
we do’ on page 2 of this report) in terms  
of the value they deliver to our customers, 
responding to changing business needs.  
We help to optimise, refresh and transform 
our customers’ IT in our Professional  
Services business. We provide access  
to IT hardware and software through our 
extensive vendor and partner network to 
meet either short-term change or continuous 
demand. Through our Contractual Services 
offerings we take responsibility for 
maintaining and operating large parts  
of our customers’ IT infrastructures.
When a customer decides to engage 
Computacenter – whether it’s for a consulting 
project, a managed service or a sourcing 
contract – we work with them in partnership  
to ensure we deliver the improvements and 
value they want for their business in the  
long term. 
For example, a cloud computing initiative 
might start with the procurement of new 
hardware to underpin the implementation of  
a private, on-premise cloud (Source & Deploy). 
Putting our customers at the heart of our business
14
Our business model
 Ou r c u st o m e r - 
 c e nt r ic mod e l Consult 
&
Change
Source 
&
Deploy
Core IT
Edge IT
Service
Management
Manage
&
Transform
OPERATING 
PROFIT
CASH
FLOW
EMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
CUSTOMER 
SATISFACTION
Services 
growth
Customer 
relationship
Services 
productivity
Services 
innovation
Our business model
Our business 
results
Our strategic objectives
Invest
Generate
Achieve
Earnings per share
This environment would support the gradual 
migration of workloads and the integration  
of public infrastructure, platform or software 
cloud services (Consult & Change). The  
daily maintenance, control, operations and 
orchestration of this hybrid cloud infrastructure 
might then be outsourced to an external 
provider (Manage & Transform).
As the pace of IT and business change 
accelerates, our customers increasingly  
need a long-term partner who can 
accompany the CIO and their organisation  
on their transformation journey.
Our engagement model
We provide a customer-centric service  
with a personalised touch. To support and 
continually improve our long-term customer 
relationships, customers engage through  
our service management teams, which  
are primarily in support for our Contractual 
Services business (Manage & Transform).
To ensure these contracts deliver on 
expectations while remaining flexible should 
circumstances change, we have a highly 
skilled service management practice of  
more than 500 professionals.
For our international services contracts, we 
appoint a dedicated global governance and 
leadership team (supported by a regional 
governance structure, depending on the 
geographies covered) who are empowered  
to engage directly with all service functions 
and partners across all our territories.
Our service managers and their teams are 
the human face of our services business. 
They ensure we always put customers first 
and deliver on our promises. 
Long-term shareholder value
The combination of our three models provides 
a resilient foundation for attaining our strategic 
objectives. The technology and solutions 
model helps to increase pull-through business, 
thus maximising our customer relationships 
and driving innovation in our services 
offerings. The services model drives greater 
productivity and competitiveness across each 
service line. And, thanks to our engagement 
model, we are able to retain and grow our 
customer relationships especially supporting 
our Contractual Services business.
By sustainably working towards our strategic 
objectives, we are able to improve customer 
satisfaction and employee engagement.  
This, in turn, will support the generation of 
operating profit and cash flow across our core 
territories. The realisation of our financial and 
non-financial goals enables us to continue  
to invest in and refine our business model,  
i.e. our portfolio of services and solutions; our 
capabilities regarding processes, tools, assets 
and partner relations; as well as how we 
engage with our customers’ CIOs, users  
and business stakeholders.
The alignment of our business model with  
our strategic objectives and financial and 
non-financial performance goals will drive 
earnings per share growth for Computacenter 
in the medium and long term.
Designed to provide long-term shareholder returns
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
15 Employees of the BMW Group rely heavily on 
communication via email with their customers, 
suppliers and partners worldwide. The email 
inbox is core to office communication today. 
Yet it is open to the threat of hacking and 
spamming, and an increasing number of 
unwanted emails. The concept of the BMW 
Group therefore envisaged a two-step filter 
technology to detect damaging messages  
as early as possible and forward only  
those emails that were meant to reach the 
employees. The challenge being to seamlessly 
integrate the solutions needed in one technical 
entity – a requirement only Computacenter 
was able to deliver with their partners Cisco  
and Consol.
Computacenter implemented two similar 
solutions with distinct functionalities, one of 
which cloud-based and the other in the BMW 
Group datacenter, with the market leading Cisco 
cloud platform delivering best detection rates. 
Computacenter accounts for the operation of 
both solutions, migration and integration of  
the cloud platform as well as the consulting, 
implementation and transition of the 
on-premise technology. The operational 
concept carries Computacenter’s end-to-end 
point solutions including the technical concept, 
migration and management as well as the 
security strategy. Damaging emails are 
detected and filtered with up to 90 per cent 
already outside the BMW Group network. 
Email infrastructure supports latest protocol 
standards, this being critical to the automotive 
manufacturer with partners worldwide. 
Computacenter enables secure users at the 
BMW Group for essential email communication 
through a sustainable detection concept  
and its operation.
The BMW Group, headquartered in Munich,  
is a worldwide leading manufacturer of 
premium products and services for personal 
mobility with more than 110,000 employees  
in more than 150 countries.
The BMW Group
Computacenter Customer, Germany
Jan Müller
Solution Director of Security,
Computacenter
Securing the IT infrastructure  
is at the top of most  
CIOs’ agenda today. At 
Computacenter our security 
experts have more than  
15 years of experience  
in developing security 
offerings for our customers. 
We will be moving this 
forward through even more 
focus on customer end-point 
protection and becoming  
the one-stop-shop security 
provider to our customers.
16
Case study Security Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
17
Security Alert status down Alert status up Alert status holding
Likelihood
Impact
5
1
7
12
6
9
8
3
4
11
2
10
The Board of Directors is responsible for 
reviewing and monitoring the Group’s risk 
management process and internal control 
systems. The Board has considered the nature 
and extent of the risks it is willing to take in 
pursuit of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Our risk appetite
The Board has established and reviews 
periodically the Group’s risk appetite. Our  
risk appetite is set to balance opportunities  
for new business development in areas of 
potentially higher risk whilst maintaining 
long-term customer satisfaction and protecting 
our reputation. In practice this means we have  
a healthy risk appetite where we understand 
the risks based on our experience in, and 
knowledge of, our business. Conversely, we 
have a low appetite for risk where we have  
less knowledge, experience and understanding 
of the accompanying exposures. Our risk 
appetite is consistent with maintaining a strong 
framework of ethical behaviour and compliance 
with laws and regulation.
The Group balances risk appetite with 
opportunities for further business development, 
and long-term customer satisfaction. Risk 
appetite is managed through the Matters 
Reserved for the Board and related operational 
governance documents. This is an intrinsic  
part of our risk management approach. 
Strategic objectives 
guiding strategic risk 
governance to support 
operational risk 
management.
The annual risk identification and assessment 
process is integrated with the strategic 
planning process. The process starts with the 
Board setting the strategic objectives for the 
Group assisted by the Group Strategy function. 
The Board and the Group Executive Committee 
then consider the barriers to achieving the 
strategic objectives and, in turn, assess the 
level of risk in the context of our defined risk 
appetite. Risks include those generated by  
the strategic direction and external risks  
to execution of that strategic direction.
This top-down key risk assessment process  
is linked through the Group Risk Committee  
to a Group-wide, bottom-up business risk 
assessment process. There is clear linkage 
between the two approaches, with the 
bottom-up risks mapping to a risk appearing 
on the top-down Group Risk Log. The risk 
management framework is shown on the  
opposite page.
The principal risks are subject to robust 
challenge on the effectiveness of the mitigations 
and safeguards. This challenge is delivered  
at the highest level through the Group Risk 
Committee which is comprised of the Executive 
Directors, members of the Group Executive 
Committee and senior management. On a 
cyclical basis, a selection of principal risks  
is considered at each meeting of the Group  
Risk Committee to ensure complete coverage 
annually. For each principal risk under 
consideration, the risk owner presents on the 
risk, the internal impacts, the mitigations, what 
has changed and is changing, triggers, and key 
metrics. The Group Risk Committee challenges 
what has been presented and collectively 
agrees an assessment of the status of the risk 
and the mitigations. The composition of the 
Committee has been reviewed and refocused  
to include personnel with a direct influence  
on the Group’s ability to fully deliver against 
Contractual Service commitments for both 
Service levels and the Group’s ability to ensure 
technical availability of our customer-facing 
systems. Both of these risks, further detailed  
as risks 1-2 from the Group Risk Log, are now 
standing items on the Committee’s agenda  
to consider at each meeting and are further 
classified by the Group as ‘primary risks’ to 
reflect their importance to the Group’s strategy.
Our risk management approach
Chris Webb
Group Chief Operating Officer
We balance risk appetite 
with opportunities  
for further business 
development and 
long-term customer 
satisfaction.
Group Risk Log 2015 heat map
18
Our risk management approach The Board
Operational level
• Sets strategic 
objectives
• Defines risk appetite
• Has overall 
responsibility for  
the Group’s risk 
management  
process and internal 
control systems
• Monitors risk 
exposure in pursuit  
of our strategic 
objectives
• Group-wide risk 
identification and 
assessment
• Ongoing monitoring 
of mitigations 
performed across  
the Group through 
management,  
key performance 
indicators and review 
by the appropriate 
Risk Manager
• Internal controls 
embedded across  
the Group
Audit Committee
• Reviews the 
effectiveness of our 
risk identification and 
risk management 
process
• Reviews the 
effectiveness of 
internal control 
systems
• Supports the Board  
in monitoring risk 
exposure
Group Risk Committee
• Sets the risk 
management process
• Provides oversight 
and challenge on the 
effectiveness of risk 
mitigation for our 
principal risks
• Considers emerging 
risks and also 
high-impact/low- 
likelihood risks
Internal Audit
• Internal Audit  
plans are focused  
on providing 
assurance on our 
principal risks to 
assist the Audit 
Committee in  
its review of the 
effectiveness of  
the risk management 
process and  
of our internal  
control systems
Bottom-up
Identification,  
assessment and 
mitigation of risk for  
business and functional 
areas, delivered  
through our Group  
Operating Model
Top-down
Identification  
and assessment 
of risk by senior  
management
Risk management framework
The minutes from the Group Risk Committee, 
along with the current status of each principal 
risk, are reported to the Audit Committee and 
to the Board. The Board reviews key areas of 
risk as regular items on its agenda over the 
course of the year. In addition, during 2014, 
the Board asked the Audit Committee to 
review particular areas of risk. 
Our principal risks
This latest Group Risk Log is set out on pages 
20 and 21 of this report. Our principal risks 
continue to be concentrated around the 
availability and resilience of systems, our 
people, our cost base, technology change, 
and in the design, take-on, and running  
of large services contracts.
The likelihood and impact of our principal 
risks are shown on the heat map on page 18, 
with the highest likelihood and highest impact 
risks sitting in the upper right section, and 
the lowest likelihood and lowest impact risks 
sitting in the lower left section.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
19 Failure to deliver against 
contractual commitments for our 
services business. Either through 
poor transition and transformation 
activity or through the lack of 
delivery of committed service 
productivity improvements and 
service levels over the contract life. 
1
• Customer dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties 
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
• Reduced margin
• Reduced service and 
technical innovation
1, 2 and 4 • The Group Operating Model is in place  
in the UK and Germany, and is in the 
process of being deployed in France.  
This incorporates mandatory gateway 
governance products and processes,  
as well as the Group signing policy and 
service management best practice.
• We have an increasingly mature root 
cause analysis and lessons learnt process 
for complex transformations.
• We perform regular commercial and 
contract ‘deep dives’ to manage service 
productivity improvements.
Failure(s) leading to  
unacceptably long outages or 
regular short outages of our 
customer-facing systems.
2
• Customer dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties 
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
1 and 2 • All centrally-hosted systems are built and 
operated on High Availability infrastructure.
• Enhanced Group IS support models, with 
key Operations and Applications staff on 
call 24/7 to respond quickly in the event  
of failures or issues.
• Continued investment in tools and 
technologies with increased resilience  
and robustness.
Not recruiting and retaining the 
right calibre of staff across any  
of our customer-facing functions.
3
• Customer dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties 
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
1, 2, 3 and 4 • We perform regular remuneration 
benchmarking to ensure we remain 
competitive.
• We invest in management development 
programmes.
• There is an annual staff survey  
to understand employee views.
• We have implemented a series  
of staff retention initiatives.
Failure to implement appropriate 
designs and pricing structures  
for Managed Services or 
outcome-based project 
management contracts.
4
• Reduced margin 
• Loss-making contracts
• Customer dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties 
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
1 and 4 • The Group Operating Model is in place  
in the UK and Germany, and is in the 
process of being deployed in France.  
This incorporates mandatory gateway 
governance products and processes,  
as well as the Group signing policy.
• There is Board oversight of significant bids.
Inadequate succession planning 
and not enough management depth 
within key senior management 
areas of the business.
5
• Lack of leadership 1 and 4 • Board consideration of succession plans.
• Management development programmes  
to develop talent.
Letting our direct costs run  
out of control and not taking 
advantage of productivity and 
cost reduction opportunities.
6
• Reduced margin 1 and 2 • We employ a range of metrics on a 
monthly and quarterly basis to ensure  
that we properly manage our direct  
costs and monitor productivity.
• We have a programme of activities  
to deliver cost reduction opportunities, 
through the reduction of manual effort.
• Significant amount of direct cost managed 
centrally to retain control.
20
Our risk management approach
continued
Primary risks
Principal risks
Primary impacts
Principal impacts
Impacts 
strategic 
objectives
Impacts  
strategic  
objectives
Primary mitigations
Principal mitigations Technology change dramatically 
reduces customer need and 
demand for our service offerings. 
7
• Reduced margin
• Excess operational staff 
• Contracts not renewed
1, 3 and 4 • We mitigate this through a range of 
measures including win/loss reviews, 
senior management forums and strategy 
reviews where we consider our offerings 
alongside where the market is going.
Failure to deliver and effectively 
manage our international 
business strategies. By 
association the risk around 
take-on and management  
of our international partners.
8
• Reduced margin
• Customer dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties 
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
1 and 3 • Annual senior management review  
of our international business and team.
• In relation to our partner network we  
have upgraded our contracts and 
increased the level of monitoring activity.
• Take-on processes reviewed externally.
Failure to develop a Group culture.
9
• Loss of synergies
• Loss of brand identity
1 and 2 • Deployment of Group Operating Model 
resulting in consistent ways of working.
• Initiatives to reduce in-country barriers.
• Group Values & Behaviours defined  
and announced.
• Group Sales and Leadership forums 
established.
• Group job alignment project has  
been started. 
• Roll-out of a single performance 
management system and process  
planned for 2015.
• Management restructures undertaken  
to align country structures.
Letting our inventory and/or 
receivables get out of control.
10
• Financial impact through 
obsolete stock and/or  
bad debts
2 • We mitigate these risks through a  
range of measures including monthly  
and quarterly metrics, credit scoring and  
credit limits for customers, and utilisation 
of direct delivery where possible.
A security hacking or virus problem 
at a customer that is due to 
Computacenter’s negligence, 
mismanagement or employee 
rogue behaviour leading to a breach 
and/or loss of data.
11
• Customer dissatisfaction
• Financial penalties 
• Contract cancellations
• Reputational damage
1, 2 and 4 • We have well-communicated Group 
policies for information security and  
virus prevention.
• There is specific induction and training  
for staff working on customer sites/
systems, as well as specific policies  
and procedures for anyone working 
behind a customer firewall.
Not investing appropriately  
or over investing in the wrong 
automation, self-service and 
remote tools when compared  
to our competition.
 12
• Reduced margin
• Win less new business 
• Contracts not renewed
1, 2 and 4 • This is linked to Risk 7 – we mitigate  
this through a range of measures  
including win/loss reviews, senior 
management forums and strategy  
reviews where we consider our offerings 
alongside our competitors and where  
the market is going. 
The strategic objectives are detailed on pages 8 to 11.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
21
Principal risks Principal impacts Impacts  
strategic  
objectives
Principal mitigations 2014 3,107.8 
2013 3,072.1 
2012 2,914.2 
2011 2,852.3 
2010 2,676.5 
2014 85.9 
2013 81.7 
2012 79.3 
2011 74.2 
2010 66.1 
2014 46.8
2013 43.3
2012 40.8
2011 37.4
2010 33.0
2014 19.0
2013 17.5
2012 15.5
2011 15.0
2010 13.2
Revenue (£m) 
3,107.8 
 +1.2%
Adjusted* profit (£m) 
85.9
 +5.1%
Adjusted* earnings per share (pence) 
46.8
 +8.1%
Dividend per share (pence) 
19.0
 +8.6%
Financial objective 1: Financial objective 2:
Financial objective 3: Financial objective 4:
*   Adjusted profit refers to adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share refers to adjusted diluted earnings per share. Both are stated prior to exceptional items  
and amortisation of acquired intangibles. Adjusted operating profit is also stated after charging interest on customer specific financing.
22
Our key performance indicators
Measuring our performance is key to future growth and achieving our aims.  
It highlights progress made against our strategy and the delivery of financial  
value to shareholders.
Our aim is to always increase our revenue, adjusted* profit, adjusted* earnings 
per share and dividend per share, but to do so in a way which is sustainable and 
facilitates the delivery of long-term value for shareholders. We always consider 
the long-term financial impact of the decisions that we make. 
Our key performance indicators 2014 655.0
2013 612.5
2012 601.2
2011 540.8
2010 511.2
2014 91
2013 81
2012 78
2011 71
2010 61
2014 85
2013 86
2012 85
2011 88
2010 88
2014 985.5
2013 965.9
2012 908.6
2011 836.7
2010 788.1
Service contract base (£m) 
655.0
 +6.9%
Number of customer accounts with 
contribution of over £1 million
 +12.3%
Revenue generated per services 
head (£’000)
85
 -1.2%
Group total services revenue (£m) 
985.5
 +2.0%
Strategic objective 1:
To lead with and grow our services business
Strategic objective 3:
To retain and maximise the relationship with  
our customers over the long term
Strategic objective 2:
To improve our services productivity  
and enhance our competitiveness
Strategic objective 4:
To innovate our services offerings to build  
future growth opportunities
Ambition:
We want to grow the level of our services offerings that we  
provide to large and medium-sized enterprises which are 
headquartered in Western Europe, and where they require  
us to do so, to serve those customers on a global basis.
Ambition:
Whilst we will lead with our services offerings, we will develop  
the relationships we have with our vendor partners and the ability  
of our people to ensure that our customers are aware of, and have 
access to, the full range of capabilities that we can provide them with. 
We will also aim to develop our referenceability and repeat business 
through the achievement of high levels of customer satisfaction.
Ambition:
We will reduce our costs and increase the efficiency  
of our services operations through the industrialisation  
of our processes and the development of our tools to  
increase productivity.
Ambition:
We will continue to adapt our services offerings to meet  
the requirements of our customers as they are driven  
by changes in the deployment and use of technology.
The strategic development work undertaken by the Board of Directors and 
Group Executive Management team since 2012 has resulted in the Group’s 
strategic progress being transparently measured by the following four key 
performance indicators.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
23   
With the GUEST 
Programme, we want 
to harmonise services 
and reduce costs but 
also to gain agility 
and customer focus 
at a global scale.”
Alain Delpuech, Sanofi Chief Technology Officer
24
Case study Service Sanofi is a global integrated healthcare 
leader, focused on patients’ needs and 
engaged in the research, development, 
manufacturing and marketing of healthcare 
products in over 100 countries with over 
110,000 employees.
The Sanofi Global Unified End-User Support 
Transformation (GUEST) Programme is  
one pillar of a wider Sanofi infrastructure 
harmonisation initiative. It is designed to 
standardise global processes and improve 
the agility and flexibility with which Sanofi 
Global Infrastructure Services (GIS) can 
support the Sanofi business. The objectives 
are to improve and standardise user service 
levels, reduce cost and make it easier to 
introduce new, innovative services for users.
Steve Rayner
Group Service Innovation Director,
Computacenter
Our customers’ digital strategies 
require a consumer-like user 
experience. Our Next Generation 
Service Desk (NGSD) offers 
self-serve and automation  
via a portal and mobile app 
supported by live web chat.  
This user-enabling solution 
reduces disruption by providing 
‘push’ updates on major 
incidents, self-logging and 
updates on individual incidents. 
NGSD is improving retention  
of existing customers and 
enabling us to meet the  
needs of new customers.
Together with Computacenter, Sanofi will 
consolidate over 40 local service and access 
management desks into a single global virtual 
desk delivered from three principal physical 
locations. The desk will be integrated with 
Computacenter engineers providing local 
support to Sanofi users in over 150 sites  
across more than 40 countries. Computacenter 
were selected as the company with the best 
capability to support the complex GUEST 
Programme and to provide quality services, 
with a proven track record over many years  
in different parts of Sanofi.
Sanofi
Computacenter Customer, France
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
25
Service 2014 was a year of solid 
financial progress for  
the Group, in which it 
continued to focus on,  
and invest in, its strategy 
of delivering organic 
revenue and profit growth, 
primarily through its  
IT services business.
Turnover, adjusted* and statutory 
financial performance
Total revenue grew for the fifth successive 
year, increasing by 1.2 per cent on an as 
reported basis to £3.108 billion, and by  
4.2 per cent in constant currency. 
The Group’s adjusted* profit before tax 
increased on a reported basis by 5.1 per cent  
to £85.9 million, and by 6.8 per cent in constant 
currency. This increase in profitability resulted 
in the Group’s adjusted* diluted earnings per 
share increasing by 8.1 per cent to 46.8 pence 
in 2014. 
On a statutory basis, taking account of 
exceptional items and the amortisation of 
acquired intangibles, the Group made a profit 
before tax of £76.4 million, which represented 
an increase of 51.3 per cent against the 
comparative performance in 2013 on an as 
reported basis. This increase resulted in the 
Group’s diluted earnings per share increasing 
by 73.9 per cent to 40.0 pence in 2014.
Revenue and operating profit growth 
performance varied across our main operating 
geographies during the year. Adjusted* 
operating profit growth of approximately  
16.5 per cent in the UK more than offset the 
reduction in adjusted* operating profit of 8.0 
per cent in constant currency (reduction of 
12.4 per cent on an as reported basis) in the 
Group’s German business. In France, the level 
of adjusted* operating loss increased on a 
constant currency basis by 27.9 per cent to 
€11.0 million (2013: adjusted* operating loss 
of €8.6 million) and by 20.5 per cent on an  
as reported basis, as the completion of a 
restructuring exercise to reduce our cost base 
and make the business more competitive, and 
the ongoing rigorous implementation of our 
Group Operating Model has created short-term 
disruption and uncertainty throughout the year. 
During the year, the Group incurred £7.6 
million (2013: £28.8 million) of exceptional 
items. These included £9.1 million of 
exceptional costs relating to the estimated 
final costs of the restructuring that the Group 
undertook within its French business in the 
second half of the year. The actual final costs 
of the restructuring will not be known until the 
end of 2015 at the earliest. 
As announced by the Group in July 2014, its 
French business was uncompetitive due to the 
size of its cost base which impacted its cost and 
pricing models, and therefore its ability to win 
new business. As the main driver of growth 
across the Group has been its ability to win 
large international services contracts with 
customers headquartered in Western Europe, 
failure to address this issue would have 
impacted the competitiveness of the Group  
on such bids going forward. This exercise will 
enable a fundamental reshaping of the business 
which will provide a solid foundation for it  
to provide our core Group services offerings  
to our target customer market. It lowers our 
cost base and alters our organisational and 
reporting structure to support the primary aim 
of maintaining the competitiveness of the wider 
business in achieving our goals. 
Additionally, the Group’s three onerous 
contracts entered into by its German business 
have performed within the provision previously 
taken for the losses expected to be incurred  
on them from July 2013 to the end of the 
contracts. As a result of ongoing operational 
improvements on these contracts during 2014, 
and the conclusion of one of the contracts and 
settlement of an associated legal dispute 
during Q3 2014, we have released as an 
exceptional item £1.5 million of the provision 
taken. In line with our approach of developing 
and maintaining our customer relationships 
over the long-term, we are pleased that we 
have managed to improve materially the levels 
of customer satisfaction in respect of each  
of these contracts from that being achieved  
at the time the provision was taken. 
 
Group revenue by region (£m)
UK – £1,416.9m
Germany – £1,167.1m
France – £471.1m
Belgium – £52.7m
*  Adjusted profit before tax is stated prior to 
amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional 
items. Adjusted operating profit is also stated after 
charging interest on CSF. 26
Performance review
Group
Performance review Services performance
Group services revenue increased by 2.0 per 
cent on an as reported basis to £985.5 million, 
and by 4.8 per cent in constant currency. As  
a result, our services business now represents 
31.7 per cent of total Group revenue.
The Group continues to focus on leading  
with its services offerings, and increasing  
its capability to enable, and improve the IT 
experience of the users of large corporate 
organisations headquartered in Western 
Europe, wherever they operate globally and 
locally. We have continued to invest in our 
related tools and processes, especially in  
the areas of IT self-service automation and 
mobility. Our primary focus on end-users, 
and our plans for innovation and development 
in this area, have resonated well with existing 
and prospective customers. 
Our services business in the UK continued  
to flourish in 2014, benefiting from its  
growing reputation for delivering operational 
excellence to customers. The team has 
delivered a number of significant Managed 
Services wins during the year, which has 
resulted in associated transformational IT 
project and consulting work, and incremental 
Supply Chain business. The UK Professional 
Services forward order book will, for a second 
consecutive year, finish at a record high-level. 
Revenue within our services business in 
Germany was flat, largely as a result of the 
Group’s decision to selectively bid for Managed 
Services opportunities in Germany in 2013,  
so that appropriate focus and resource could 
be dedicated to the implementation of our 
Group Operating Model. We are particularly 
encouraged by the strengthening of the 
Managed Services pipeline throughout the 
year, which should underpin services growth 
in 2015. Our strong consulting capabilities in 
Germany allowed our Professional Services 
business there to grow by almost 10 per cent 
in constant currency, and 4.4 per cent on an 
as reported basis. 
Our service quality in France has improved 
during the year, assisted by the availability of 
Group Management input. However, general 
market conditions in France have remained 
difficult and we have continued to suffer from 
poor service quality delivered by the business 
in 2013, albeit that service quality has now 
improved. The loss of a number of small 
services contracts during the year has 
reduced utilisation of the Group’s central 
services delivery engines, and as a result,  
the services margins delivered by the French 
business have been, and remain, poor.  
Our priority in 2015 will be to rebuild our 
services pipeline in France.
 
Supply Chain performance
In 2014, Supply Chain revenue across the 
Group grew by 0.8 per cent on an as reported 
basis to £2,122.3 million, and by 4.0 per cent 
in constant currency. 
This was principally driven by a strong 
performance, particularly during the first  
half of the year, by the UK business, which 
benefited from Supply Chain demand 
associated directly with new Managed 
Services wins, and improving conditions  
for business generally in the UK. The  
Supply Chain performance of our German 
business was especially disappointing  
during the first half of 2014, but improved 
significantly in the fourth quarter of the year. 
Our Supply Chain performance is reliant on 
the short and medium-term buying behaviour 
of our customers. 
Whilst Supply Chain revenues grew in our 
French business during 2014, a significant 
proportion of this business remains in 
low-margin, working capital intensive deals. 
The performance is also flattered by a quiet 
second half of 2013. We have taken action  
to alter both the product and customer  
mix in this area, to build on the delivery  
of efficiencies generated as a result of 
implementing the Group Operating Model. 
Investments
We have continued to spend principally  
to achieve three outcomes. Firstly, to  
enable and improve the IT experience of  
our customers’ end-users, through the use  
of innovation and development of our tools 
such as our Next Generation Service Desk 
and mobile offerings. 
Secondly, we have invested in our global 
reach, and expanded our capacity, to serve our 
customers’ needs wherever they operate in the 
world. This has included the opening of new 
service desk locations in Montpellier (France), 
Budapest (Hungary) and Pittston (USA), as well 
  
Revenue and 
operating profit 
growth performance 
varied across our 
main operating 
geographies  
during the year.”
as increasing the capacity at existing locations 
in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) and Cape Town 
(South Africa). Thirdly, we have invested in the 
relentless standardisation of our processes 
and procedures across the Group, including 
the roll-out of our Group service desk platform 
across our businesses. 
Group revenue by business type (%)
Workplace – 24%
Datacenter & Networking – 24%
Software – 12%
Third Party Services – 8%
Professional Services – 9%
Contractual Services – 23%
  
We have 
invested in our 
global reach  
to serve our 
customers’ 
needs.”
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
27 Cash position
Cash flow was again strong during the period, 
but particularly over the second half of 2014. 
Group net funds increased during the year by 
over £47.8 million to £119.2 million. 
Post year-end events sale of  
R.D. Trading Limited
On 2 February 2015, the Company announced 
that its UK business had completed the disposal 
of the entire issued share capital of R.D.  
Trading Limited (‘RDC’) to Arrow Electronics  
UK Holding Limited for a total consideration  
of £56 million. This followed a year of good 
progress at RDC, with total adjusted* operating 
profit up during the reporting period by 29.8  
per cent to £4.8 million (2013: £3.7 million).
RDC’s business provides IT Disposal and  
Asset Recovery Services, which are focused 
on generating value from used information and 
communication technologies, and creating an 
environmentally sustainable disposal solution 
for anything unsuitable for reuse. These 
activities are non-core to the Group, and the 
disposal will allow the Company to focus its 
investment for growth on the delivery and 
implementation of its services-led strategy.
Return of Value to shareholders
The Group’s strong levels of cash generation 
during the reporting period, alongside the sale 
of RDC, has allowed the Company to announce 
its second significant one-off Return of Value  
to shareholders in two years. This Return of 
Value, totalling approximately £100 million, or 
71.9 pence for every share held as at the close 
of trading on 19 February 2015, has now been 
successfully completed. As part of the  
Return of Value, an associated share capital 
re-organisation took place on 20 February 
2015, whereby every 17 ordinary shares  
of 6
2
/ 3 pence each in the Company were 
effectively consolidated into 15 ordinary shares 
of 7
5
/ 9 pence each. The Board will continue  
to evaluate the requirement to maintain an 
efficient balance sheet, and endeavour to use 
our ability to generate free cash in order to 
deliver incremental value to our shareholders. 
Dividend
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 
13.1 pence per share. The interim dividend 
paid on 17 October 2014 was 5.9 pence  
per share (the ‘Interim Dividend Amount’). 
Adjusting this payment for the share 
consolidation on 20 February 2015 (the 
‘Share Consolidation’) increases the Interim 
Dividend Amount to 6.7 pence, resulting in  
a total dividend per share of 19.8 pence, for 
those shares in existence immediately after 
the Share Consolidation. The total dividend 
per share for 2013 was 17.5 pence per  
share or 19.6 pence per share on a pro  
forma basis, after taking account of the 
Share Consolidation. The Board has 
consistently applied the Group’s Dividend 
Policy, which states that the total dividend 
paid will result in a dividend cover of 2 to  
2.5 times. Subject to the approval of our 
shareholders at our Annual General Meeting 
on Tuesday 19 May 2015, the proposed 
dividend will be paid on Friday 19 June 2015. 
The dividend record date is set on Friday  
22 May 2015, and the shares will be marked 
ex-dividend on Thursday 21 May 2015.
Outlook
The ongoing strategic development of the 
Group, the associated investments it has 
made since the beginning of 2013 and our 
recent services wins, particularly in the UK 
and but also more latterly in Germany, gives 
us confidence for the future. 
The short-term will not be without its 
challenges. In the UK, there will be a 
significant number of our 2014 services wins 
taken on during this year, and these will take 
time to mature. Whilst we are encouraged  
by the 2014 fourth quarter performance in 
Germany, it is too early to tell whether this  
is a substantial move in the right direction,  
or simply represents a good quarter.
The Group has transitioned over the last  
few years to become a business with  
greater visibility of earnings due to increased 
services content. Our French business clearly 
remains in the early stages of making this 
transition, and whilst it has a small number  
of attractive existing contracts, it otherwise 
remains out of date and uncompetitive.  
Whilst we are confident of reducing the  
loss materially in France during 2015, a 
return to profitability is some distance off. 
However, our business remains highly  
cash generative, as evidenced by the  
recent Return of Value to shareholders,  
and notwithstanding the challenges outlined 
above, we are determined to make 2015  
a year of progress for the Group.
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
11 March 2015
  
The Group’s 
strong level of 
cash generation 
and the sale  
of RDC has 
allowed it to 
announce a 
second Return 
of Value to 
shareholders  
in two years.”
28
Performance review
continued Workplace – 23%
Datacenter & Networking – 22%
Software – 12%
Third Party Services – 8%
Professional Services – 9%
Contractual Services – 26%
Kevin James
Country Unit Director, UK
Computacenter in  
the United Kingdom 
performed strongly in 
2014, achieving significant 
levels of revenue and 
profit growth across  
its services and Supply 
Chain businesses.
Overall financial performance
As a result, total revenue for the year 
increased by 10.2 per cent to £1,416.9 million 
(2013: £1,286.1 million). Adjusted* operating 
profit in 2014 also grew by 16.5 per cent to 
£65.5 million (2013: £56.2 million). Statutory 
profit in the year increased by 10.6 per cent 
to £65.9 million (2013: £59.6 million). 
Services performance
Services revenue grew by 8.6 per cent  
during the reporting period to £497.6 million 
(2013: £458.0 million), which incorporated 
growth of 6.9 per cent within our Managed 
Services business and 14.0 per cent within 
Professional Services. 
This services growth has been primarily  
driven by ongoing customer requirements  
for technology transformation, and continued 
selective IT outsourcing to best-of-breed IT 
infrastructure companies to support, manage 
and transform their IT environments to  
enable their end-users and their businesses. 
Therefore, the delivery of high levels of 
customer satisfaction and the creation of 
advocacy and referencing from our existing 
customers remains fundamental to our future 
growth in services. Maximising the efficiency 
of our services delivery is also important in 
allowing the business to remain competitive, 
and the delivery of services volume growth  
in 2014 has allowed the preservation of  
gross margin rates through the high utilisation 
levels of the Group’s central services delivery 
engines. We also continue to strengthen and 
invest in our commercial bid governance 
procedures to ensure that the business is 
delivering highly refined and standardised  
core offerings to its target corporate and 
government customer base. 
Our continual focus on these areas has 
allowed the business to deliver a number  
of large new Managed Services contracts 
during the year. The Royal Mail Group signed a 
desktop services contract with Computacenter 
that will increase efficiency across its head 
office, sorting and distribution locations and 
improve the user experience for more than 
30,000 employees. Additionally, the Post 
Office has agreed a new IT Managed Services 
contract with Computacenter focused on the 
provision of IT services for its end-users, and 
this will cover 11,500 branch users and 4,000 
head office users. 
In addition to these new services wins,  
the business has also renewed a significant 
number of its existing contracts, particularly  
in the final quarter of 2014. As part of 
AstraZeneca’s global IT transformation 
programme, Computacenter will now be 
delivering on-site IT services to 51,500  
users in the UK, France, Germany, the US  
and Scandinavia, helping its business to 
improve productivity and drive down costs. 
There will be a headwind to Managed  
Services growth in 2015, due to the significant 
reduction of one particular contract as 
previously disclosed in our October 2014 Interim 
Management Statement. However our new  
wins and renewals will underpin the Managed 
Services revenue base during the coming year. 
Our Professional Services business has seen 
strong levels of activity during the year, driven 
by a number of one-off substantial projects 
from our existing customers, and a significant 
level of business related to transformational 
activity arising out of Managed Services wins 
in 2014. This has included key technology 
transformation activity for the Post Office.  
The significant growth within our Professional 
Services business continues to be dominated 
by projects focused on the modernisation of 
our customers’ users workplace. Whilst our 
Professional Services forward order book 
finished the year at a record high level, giving 
us confidence that current levels of growth 
can be sustained in 2015, we continue to 
invest in the long-term requirements of our 
customers, and remain committed to further 
accelerating our Professional Services activity 
through related datacenter and networking 
upgrade and transformation activity. 
Revenue (£m)
 1,4 1 6 . 9 
 +10.2%
Adjusted* operating profit (£m)
65.5 
 +16.5%
Contract base (£m)
334.0
 +9.9%
UK revenue by business type (%)
2014 1,416.9 
2013 1,286.1 
2012 1,195.6 
2011 1,102.2 
2010 1,265.4 
UK revenue (£m)
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
29
UK Reiner Louis
Country Unit Director, Germany 
We were disappointed to 
see total revenue decline 
in 2014. However, the 
performance of the 
business improved 
significantly towards the 
end of the year, with Q4 
2014 representing a 
record quarter, by 
revenue, for the German 
business. As a result, 
following a challenging 
year, the German business 
enters 2015 in a more 
positive position than  
it entered 2014.
Overall financial performance
Total revenue reduced by 3.3 per cent on a 
constant currency basis to €1,448.3 million 
(2013: €1,497.8 million), and by 8.2 per cent 
on an as reported basis. This was primarily 
as a result of a reduction in revenue 
generated by our Supply Chain business. 
Adjusted* operating profit for the German 
segment, which excludes the three onerous 
contracts, reduced by 8.0 per cent on a 
constant currency basis to €33.2 million 
(2013: €36.1 million), and by 12.4 per cent  
on an as reported basis. Statutory profit 
increased by 169.3 per cent in constant 
currency to €34.2 million (2013: €12.7 
million), and by 154.6 per cent on an as 
reported basis. 
Revenue (€m)
 1,448. 3
 -3.3%
Adjusted* operating profit (€m)
33.2
 -8.0%
Contract base (€m)
332.2
 +6.6%
Supply Chain performance
Supply Chain revenue in 2014 increased by  
11.0 per cent to £919.3 million (2013: £828.1 
million). This has been principally facilitated by 
the ongoing delivery of new Managed Services 
wins and renewals immediately prior to and 
during the year. This growth is the direct result 
of the strength of our services business which 
drives associated ‘pull-through’ Supply Chain 
business. It is additionally supported by the 
excellent relationships we have with our 
vendors’, due to the added value that we deliver 
through our Professional Services business,  
in which we deploy and maximise customer 
benefit from our vendors’ technologies.
As we have previously explained, sustaining 
our ongoing Supply Chain growth rates will be 
challenging and difficult to predict, due to the 
short and medium-term nature of associated 
customer demands. However, there is a strong 
correlation between our services and Supply 
Chain growth, whereby strong Professional 
and Managed Services growth results in 
increasing Supply Chain demand which,  
in turn, leads to greater predictability within 
our Supply Chain business. 
Kevin James
Country Unit Director, UK
11 March 2015
Services performance
Services revenue grew by 0.3 per cent during 
the year in constant currency, but fell by  
4.8 per cent on an as reported basis. We 
have been pleased with the performance  
of our Professional Services business, which 
grew by 9.9 per cent in constant currency, 
and by 4.4 per cent on an as reported basis 
building on the momentum it generated  
in 2013. It continues to benefit from our 
strong consulting capabilities and significant 
investment by the business in the cross-
selling of Professional Services to its existing 
Managed Services customers, particularly  
in the areas of Mobility, Cloud and Security. 
The business is now also reaping the benefit 
of implementing a number of recent internal 
initiatives to increase levels of collaboration 
between its sales force and Professional 
Services consulting unit, leading to a higher 
overall quality of bid proposals being 
submitted. The implementation of the Group 
Operating Model in 2013 has also resulted  
in appropriate governance procedures being 
in place to ensure service quality and the 
delivery of projects on time and to budget. 
30
Performance review
continued
Germany Workplace – 19%
Datacenter & Networking – 30%
Software – 8%
Third Party Services – 9%
Professional Services – 9%
Contractual Services – 25%
2014 1,448.3 
2013 1,497.8 
2012 1,473.1 
2011 1,415.3 
2010 1,176.7 
Our Professional Services business continued 
to benefit throughout 2014 from significant 
demand for our workplace offerings. We 
currently have a strong Professional Services 
forward order book in place, and anticipate 
further growth in 2015. In 2014, KVH 
renovated its IT infrastructure and introduced 
a Private Cloud environment for over 100 
applications used by the business, in order  
to provide a more cost-effective and faster 
solution for its customers. Computacenter 
planned, designed and installed the complete 
solution within 12 months of the initial 
instruction by the customer. 
Whilst revenue in our Managed Services 
business reduced by 3.0 per cent in constant 
currency and 7.9 per cent on an as reported 
basis, this performance was impacted by our 
prioritisation of governance procedures over 
investment in new Managed Services bids 
during 2013, and as previously explained,  
the loss of a significant customer contract  
in the fourth quarter of 2013. Our Managed 
Services pipeline has strengthened gradually 
through the year, which should underpin 
services growth in 2015. Managed Services 
margin levels have also improved as the 
efficiencies delivered by the implementation 
of our Group Operating Model continue to 
take effect. This has also been accompanied 
by a significant increase in the levels of 
customer satisfaction being generated by  
our services business. This improvement  
has been recognised externally within a 
survey by the Whitelane Research Group, 
which evaluated the top 100 IT spending 
organisations and over 300 IT outsourcing 
contracts. The survey listed Computacenter 
as the number one provider of end-user 
computing services in Germany. 
The Group’s strategy of focusing on the 
enablement of IT end users has been  
well received, both internally and by our 
customers, and we believe it is well suited  
to the ongoing move of German enterprise 
and corporate organisations towards the 
tower-based procuring of IT services, as has 
previously been seen in the UK. Our focus  
on end users has contributed to the business 
winning a number of Managed Services bids 
during the year, including what we believe is 
the biggest IT service help-desk contract put 
out to tender in Germany in 2014. We believe 
that current Managed Services market 
opportunities in Germany align well with  
our specific portfolio of offerings, and in 
order to support Managed Services growth  
in 2015, and drive further efficiency gains, 
the business will invest in areas such as  
field force automation, IT asset management  
and business take-on. 
Supply Chain performance
Our Supply Chain business had a challenging 
year in 2014. Notwithstanding a very strong 
performance in the fourth quarter which saw 
revenue growth of 16.0 per cent in constant 
currency, Supply Chain revenue for the year 
as a whole reduced by 5.0 per cent in 
constant currency, and by 9.8 per cent on  
an as reported basis. A disappointing product 
sales performance during the first half of  
the year was exaggerated by the loss of  
a single low-margin software licence of  
circa €30 million sold in the second quarter  
of 2013 and not repeated during the year,  
as previously disclosed in our 2014 Interim 
Results. The Supply Chain business was  
also materially impacted by the loss of one 
significant customer contract during the 
second quarter of 2013 and a weaker 
performance by our datacenter business  
in the first half of the year. 
Reiner Louis
Country Unit Director, Germany
11 March 2015
Germany revenue by business type 
(%)
Germany revenue (€m)
  
The Group’s 
strategy of 
focusing on the 
enablement of 
IT end-users 
has been well 
received.”
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
31 Axel Springer SE wants to become the leading 
digital publisher. With its headquarters in 
Berlin, Germany, Axel Springer is one of the 
largest media companies in Europe with nearly 
14,000 employees worldwide. With forceful 
internationalisation and digitisation, digital 
media activities contribute more than 50 per 
cent to Axel Springer’s revenues and more 
than 70 per cent to the EBITDA today. Axel 
Springer is present in more than 40 countries.
The requirements of modern users towards  
IT enablement through their companies are 
constantly increasing. Consumerisation of  
IT demands with regard to device variety, 
renewal cycles and application comfort, 
significantly increase complexity for IT device 
management and deployment. Driven through 
personal user trends and with the objective  
of Axel Springer to build growth through 
digitising its business, mobility moved to  
the top of the IT agenda. With the advent  
of mobile first, it was evolving to be deeply 
integrated into the modern workplace.
Together with Computacenter, Axel Springer 
introduced an innovative concept to place 
their users at the centre of a state-of-the art 
mobile workplace experience. The Genius Bar 
was launched as a central service point for 
new IT equipment, for example the latest 
Apple devices. Users can experience modern 
IT, test latest models, and also have a central 
service point for device roll-out, consulting 
and short training on their devices for both 
business and personal applications. Staff are 
modern and young; the user experience is 
service oriented and highly relevant.
Computacenter’s heritage in Supply Chain,  
as well as the breadth of vendor relationships, 
enable Axel Springer to deliver a modern IT 
image to their users. From staffing the service 
point to hardware testing, administration and 
roll-out, Computacenter is responsible for the 
end-to-end services in the operation of the 
Genius Bar. 
Axel Springer,
Computacenter Customer, Germany
Pierre Hall
Director of Solutions,
Computacenter
We have been developing 
skills, capabilities and 
processes to enable 
Computacenter to provide 
a complete portfolio of 
enterprise mobile services 
to our customers. We are 
also implementing internally 
at Computacenter so that 
we can not only ‘walk the 
talk’ but showcase it to our 
customers to understand 
how this solution can 
transform their business.
32
Case study Enterprise Mobility Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements
33
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Mobility Isabelle Roux-Buisson
Country Unit Director, France
General market conditions 
remained difficult in 
France throughout 2014, 
our business suffered 
from the poor service 
quality that it delivered  
in 2013, and has failed  
to manage its cost base 
appropriately in the past. 
During the year, the 
business has required 
sustained transformational 
and restructuring activity 
to attempt to increase its 
future competitiveness. 
This has inevitably led to 
disruption of the day-to-
day running of operations 
which, in turn, has 
impacted the 2014 
financial performance. 
Overall financial performance
2014 was a difficult year for our French 
business. Total revenue increased on a 
constant currency basis by 6.4 per cent to 
€584.7 million, and by 1.0 per cent on an  
as reported basis, but it should be noted  
that this growth was generated from 
low-margin areas of our Supply Chain 
business. In addition to reduced underlying 
services volumes, this has resulted in gross 
margins remaining challenging across the 
business. During the reporting period, the 
adjusted* operating loss incurred by the 
business increased by 27.9 per cent on  
Revenue (€m)
584.7
 +6.4%
Adjusted* operating profit (€m)
-11.0
 -27.9%
Contract base (€m)
61.9
 -7.5%
a constant currency basis to €11.0 million 
(2013: adjusted* operating loss of  
€8.6 million) and 20.5 per cent on an as 
reported basis. The statutory loss reduced  
by 7.5 per cent on a constant currency basis 
to €23.4 million (2013: €25.3 million) and  
by 12.1 per cent on an as reported basis. 
Services performance
Computacenter in France has continued  
its journey to becoming services-led, with  
a business model more aligned to that seen 
in the Group’s UK and German subsidiaries.
Total services revenue in 2014 increased  
on a constant currency basis by 6.5 per cent 
to €96.4 million, and by 1.2 per cent on an  
as reported basis. However, this performance 
reflects the benefit of the first year of taking 
on one very large Managed Services 
contract, and without this, services revenue 
would have been down by 9.6 per cent  
in constant currency against the 2013 
France revenue (€m)
2014 584.7 
2013 549.3 
2012 591.5 
2011 551.3 
2010 419.4 
  
Computacenter 
in France has 
continued its 
journey to 
becoming a 
services-led 
business.”
34
Performance review
continued
France France revenue by business type 
(%)
Workplace – 44%
Datacenter & Networking – 13%
Software – 22%
Third Party Services – 5%
Professional Services – 4%
Contractual Services – 12%
performance. This underlying reduction  
in volumes was principally caused by the  
loss of a small number of important services 
contracts at the end of 2013 as a result of 
poor service levels being delivered prior to 
that time. It has led to the under-utilisation  
of staff within Managed Services throughout 
2014 and a consequential dilution of gross 
services margins. 
Our Professional Services business has 
continued to perform well, driven by good 
levels of demand for our Projects business, 
particularly on transformational work around 
Windows 7 migrations. We anticipate that  
this demand will continue into 2015. We  
are also pleased with the progress made in 
taking on the Group’s largest ever Managed 
Services contract by revenue, referred to 
above, in accordance with processes and 
procedures implemented as part of the  
Group Operating Model. 
We continue to invest in our services 
business, including the recruitment of 
Managed Services sales staff and operational 
experience with a proven track-record in  
the industry. Our newly opened service desk 
location in Montpellier has been designed, 
and will function, in accordance with the 
Group Operating Model processes referred  
to above. 
Supply Chain performance
Total Supply Chain revenue over the  
period grew by 6.4 per cent on a constant 
currency basis to €488.2 million, and  
by 1.0 per cent on an as reported basis. 
Following the implementation of Group 
Operating Model processes and procedures, 
our Supply Chain business is now delivering 
improved levels of customer service and 
satisfaction. The growth in low-margin 
software revenue during the period has 
off-set the revenue impact of reduced  
spend from other customers. 
The business is currently too reliant on 
workplace product sales and software 
revenue from the public sector. These tend  
to be both low-margin and working capital 
intensive, and therefore a key focus for  
the business in 2015 will be improving  
our product mix to focus on higher-margin 
sales of datacenter and networking related 
products, and building our volume of sales 
deals with the private sector. Whilst we have 
taken significant action in the second half  
of 2014 to provide the foundation to achieve 
these objectives in the medium term, the 
performance of our Supply Chain business  
in 2015 will ultimately be dependent on the 
short and medium-term spending patterns  
of our customers. 
Restructuring and  
transformational activity
Significant restructuring and transformational 
activity has taken place throughout the 
course of 2014. This aims to develop, in  
the medium term, a business capable of 
industrialised design, sales and delivery of  
IT services, which is competitive in all areas 
in which it does business and generates 
appropriate financial returns given its level  
of capital investment.
This commenced with the implementation of 
the Group Operating Model at the beginning 
of the year, following which the business is 
now beginning to benefit from the expertise 
and experience of Group Management,  
and the industrialised processes and 
methodologies which are in place within  
the Group’s UK and German businesses. 
As a result, our customer service offering  
has improved during the course of the year 
and the operating costs of our warehouse  
at Gonesse have reduced. We have 
implemented Group tools and processes  
in the service delivery functions, and have 
improved our target customer focus to align 
more closely to the UK and Germany. This  
is being done with a particular focus on our 
services pipeline, which follows a full review 
by the business of its customer base. This 
was completed with a view to ensuring that  
it delivers IT value for the customers that  
it serves whilst delivering appropriate rates  
of return for the Group. This exercise has 
resulted in a renewed focus on certain areas, 
which includes ensuring that the business 
has a sufficient quality of sales resource to 
drive volumes and additional margins through 
increased utilisation of the Group’s central 
services delivery engines. 
During the first half of 2014, the business  
was uncompetitive due to the size of its cost 
base. In order to address this issue, the Group 
undertook a comprehensive restructuring,  
or Social Plan, during the second half of the 
year. This should help improve the financial 
performance in 2015 and enable the business 
to compete more effectively. 
Isabelle Roux-Buisson
Country Unit Director, France
11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
35 Lieven Bergmans
General Manager, Belgium
Our business in Belgium 
has performed well in 
2014, achieving growth 
across the business 
against the prior year 
performance.
Overall financial performance
Total revenue grew by 15.1 per cent on a 
constant currency basis to €65.4 million,  
and by 9.3 per cent on an as reported basis. 
Adjusted* operating profit increased on a 
constant currency basis by 18.2 per cent to 
€2.6 million, and by 16.7 per cent on an as 
reported basis. Statutory profit increased  
on a constant currency basis by 21.1 per cent  
to €2.3 million and by 18.8 per cent on an  
as reported basis.
Services performance
Total services revenue increased by  
0.4 per cent in constant currency but  
decreased by 4.7 per cent on an as reported 
basis. After the acquisition of Informatic 
Services, the business has successfully 
concluded the integration of its service 
management teams and Managed Services 
contracts, and as of 2015 is now operating 
under a fully integrated reporting structure. 
During the reporting period, there has been  
a strong focus on underpinning our future 
contract revenue base through the renewal  
of our existing Managed Services contracts. 
This has included the renewal of our Managed 
Services contract with SWIFT for a further 
five-year term, which was in no small part 
facilitated by the investment that the Group  
is making in its ability to support its customers 
on a global scale, and to improve their users’  
IT experience and productivity. The renewal 
includes the transfer of part of the existing 
Service Desk to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and 
the accompanying implementation of a contact 
desk specifically focused on providing 
end-users with effective diagnosis and 
troubleshooting support. There remain a 
number of significant Managed Services 
contract renewals ahead of us in 2015, and  
we will further explore and leverage the Group’s 
services offering, as we are confident that this 
will offer us a local competitive advantage. 
We have also made significant progress in 
developing our Professional Services and 
solutions portfolio during the year, although 
given ongoing rapid changes in technology,  
this remains a work-in-progress. Our increasing 
Supply Chain and consulting capabilities have 
enabled us to win a number of infrastructure 
projects. These included the installation of a 
‘connected lounge’ project in Brussels Airport 
for our customer, Brussels Airlines, which 
required our Supply Chain, software licensing 
and Professional Services teams to work in 
collaboration to deliver consulting expertise, 
hardware and software licences which  
allow Brussels Airlines customers to borrow  
a Microsoft Surface tablet whilst in the 
customer waiting lounge at Brussels Airport. 
Supply Chain performance
Our total Supply Chain revenue grew on a 
constant currency basis by 24.7 per cent to 
€42.9 million, and by 18.5 per cent on an as 
reported basis. In contrast to the significant 
Supply Chain growth achieved by the business 
in 2012 which was based on a small number 
of significant one-off large deals, Supply Chain 
growth in 2014 has been based on winning a 
significantly larger number of smaller projects 
with a variety of international customers, 
which we believe will make our Supply Chain 
business less prone to a repeat of the sharp 
decline in revenue seen during 2013. The 
Supply Chain mix within the business remains 
unchanged and is broadly in line with that seen 
at a Group level. 
Lieven Bergmans
General Manager, Belgium
11 March 2015
Revenue (€m)
65.4
 +15.1%
Adjusted* operating profit (€m)
2.6
 +18.2%
Contract base (€m)
19.7
 +2.1%
Belgium revenue by business type 
(%)
Workplace – 30%
Datacenter & Networking – 19%
Software – 11%
Third Party Services – 6%
Professional Services – 4%
Contractual Services – 30%
Belgium revenue (€m)
2014 65.4 
2013 56.8 
2012 56.1 
2011 49.5 
2010 49.6 
36
Belgium
Performance review
continued In 2014, Computacenter 
Group delivered the  
fifth successive year  
of turnover growth and 
improved both statutory 
and adjusted profitability 
in the face of variable 
Supply Chain demand 
within our German 
business and ongoing 
strategic refocusing  
of our French business. 
Turnover and profit
Group turnover grew by 1.2 per cent to  
reach £3,107.8 million. On a constant 
currency basis turnover growth was 4.2 per 
cent. Adjusted* profit before tax increased  
by 5.1 per cent from £81.7 million to £85.9 
million, or 6.8 per cent in constant currency.
After taking account of exceptional items 
relating to the restructuring programme in 
France (‘Social Plan’) and the improving 
outlook for the German onerous contracts, 
statutory profit before tax improved by 51.3 
per cent from £50.5 million to £76.4 million.
Adjusted* operating profit
Management measure the Group’s  
segmental operating performance using 
adjusted* operating profit, which is stated  
prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
exceptional items, and after charging  
finance costs on customer specific  
financing (‘CSF’) for which the Group receives 
regular rental income. Gross profit is also 
adjusted to take account of CSF costs. The 
reconciliation of statutory to adjusted results  
is further explained in the segmental reporting 
note (note 3 to the financial statements). For 
the purposes of this statement, all subsequent 
references are to adjusted measures.
Group profitability continues to be led by  
the UK segment which increased adjusted* 
operating profit by 16.5 per cent. German 
performance slipped with an 12.4 per cent 
decrease in adjusted* operating profit whilst 
the French segment declined a further 20.5 
per cent in adjusted* operating profit, both  
on an as reported basis.
United Kingdom
The UK segment saw 10.2 per cent revenue 
growth in 2014, increasing to £1,416.9 
million. Supply Chain revenues increased  
by 11.0 per cent, driven by continuing 
demand from a growing Contractual Services 
customer base, which resulted in incremental 
opportunities for the Supply Chain business. 
Growth also came from more sustained 
purchasing from existing customers driven  
by the continued economic improvement 
within the UK economy. Services revenues 
increased the rate of growth from 6.2 per 
cent in 2013 to 8.6 per cent growth in 2014. 
Within this, Contractual Services revenue 
grew 6.9 per cent as the wins recorded in 
2013 had a full year of delivery. Professional 
Services, in turn, generated 14.0 per cent 
growth in revenues with utilisation rates  
at near-maximum.
Margin rate in the Supply Chain business  
built on the stability seen in 2013 with a 
small improvement throughout 2014 due  
to an improving product mix. The improved 
mix was partially attributable to the effect  
of order ‘pull-through’ from the services 
business and also due to the focus placed  
on enhancing vendor relationships and 
opportunities. Services margin reduced 
slightly from last year mainly due to the 
expected impact of new business in 
Contractual Services. This was a great 
performance largely maintaining, throughout 
2014, the gains achieved from improved 
execution and high utilisation that were 
consolidated in 2013. This resulted in UK 
total adjusted gross profit reducing slightly 
from 15.6 per cent to 15.5 per cent of sales. 
Adjusted operating expenses (‘SG&A’) rose 
by 7.2 per cent, slowing from the 9.3 per  
cent increase across 2013. The UK segment 
absorbed the majority of the Group’s 
investment costs. It also incurs the majority 
of senior management and Group Governance 
costs due to the Group being UK domiciled. 
Overall this has resulted in a 16.5 per cent 
increase in adjusted* operating profit from 
£56.2 million to £65.5 million.
Tony Conophy
Group Finance Director
*  Adjusted profit before tax is stated prior to 
amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional 
items. Adjusted operating profit is also stated after 
charging interest on CSF.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
37
Group Finance Director’s review
Group Finance Director’s review 2014 Germany**
German revenue declined in 2014 with 
revenue, as reported, reducing by 8.2 per cent 
to £1,167.1 million (2013: £1,271.4 million).  
In constant currency revenue fell 3.3 per cent. 
Supply Chain revenues fell by 5.0 per cent in 
2014, driven by a series of coinciding material 
events. The underlying demand from customers 
fell away in the first half and did not recover until 
the fourth quarter of the year. This was further 
impacted by the loss of a previously recurring 
software licence resale of circa €30 million  
that occurred for the last time in the second 
quarter of 2013. Whilst the year as a whole was 
disappointing, real momentum returned in the 
final quarter of the year with strong growth of 
16.0 per cent over the final quarter of 2014.
Services revenues were flat with 0.3 per cent 
growth in 2014. The business continues to 
focus on the quality of offering and targeting 
strategic partnerships for the Contractual 
Services pipeline, whilst expanding the 
Professional Services business. As the 
business becomes more confident in the 
bidding and execution of Contractual Services 
deals, we expect services revenue growth  
to return, as evidenced by several recent  
key Contractual Services wins. 
The quality of offering, and the focus on the 
profitability of those offerings, has seen gross 
margin within the German business increase 
from 12.4 per cent in 2013 to 13.0 per cent in 
2014. Supply Chain gross margin was broadly 
flat which was a considerable result in a 
declining sales environment and was supported 
through a material increase in services margins 
which are continuing to improve and close the 
gap on UK services margins.
SG&A has increased by 3.3 per cent in 
constant currency, but has fallen 2.0 per cent 
in reported currency.
Overall, the German segment adjusted* 
operating profit decreased by 12.4 per cent 
from £30.6 million to £26.8 million as reported, 
a decrease of 8.0 per cent in constant currency. 
France**
The revenue in the French segment increased 
by 6.4 per cent in the year but is still below 
the levels of 2012. Supply Chain revenue 
grew by 6.4 per cent. However, this was 
flattered by a significant increase in the  
level of activity with lower margin customers. 
Whilst most of the operational issues related 
to the unsatisfactory implementation of  
our ERP system have been resolved and 
corrective action taken in our warehouse 
operation, which have materially improved 
the overall customer experience, the business 
now needs to focus on customer quality  
and the impact on total cost to serve.
Services revenues grew 6.5 per cent over 
during 2014, although this is primarily related  
to the take-on of the Group’s largest Contractual 
Services win. The take-on of this contract has 
been completed successfully, but hides an 
underlying decline in activity and opportunities 
within the French services business. This has 
resulted in an under-utilisation of resources 
which leaves the French business uncompetitive 
and, for international deals involving France, 
renders the Group uncompetitive. 
Services gross profit in 2014 has been 
impacted throughout the year by the weak 
growth in demand for our Professional 
Services business where revenue was  
broadly flat on 2013. This continues the 
capacity utilisation issues seen in 2013, which 
in France are difficult to correct over the short 
term. This spare capacity continues to have a 
significant impact on gross margins achieved. 
In addition, gross margins in the Supply  
Chain business have continued to reduce  
as the quality of product mix has deteriorated 
with an increased proportion of low-margin 
software business which has had a positive 
effect on revenue but generated little 
incremental contribution.
The result of these two issues is that overall 
gross margin reduced from 8.2 per cent  
to 6.7 per cent. 
SG&A expenses have decreased by 6.2  
per cent, largely reflecting the initial benefit  
from the French Social Plan and business 
transformation which is targeted to reduce 
costs in the business to improve the 
competitive position. The SG&A reduction 
was impacted by a €2 million additional  
cost to provide for doubtful debts. The cost  
of implementing the Social Plan has been 
recorded as an exceptional cost in 2014  
of £9.1 million.
Overall, the adjusted* operating result as 
reported in France has increased from a  
£7.3 million loss in 2013 to a £8.8 million  
loss in 2014. 
Table 1: Group revenues (£m)
Half 1
£m
Half 2
£m
Total
£m
2012 1,422.3 1,491.9 2,914.2 
2013 1,426.3 1,645.8 3,072.1 
2014 1,458.3 1,649.5 3,107.8 
2014/13 2.2% 0.2% 1.2%
Table 2: Adjusted* profit before tax (£m)
Half 1 Half 2 Total
£m % £m % £m %
2012 25.8 1.8% 53.5 3.6% 79.3 2.7%
2013 26.2 1.8% 55.5 3.4% 81.7 2.7%
2014 28.0 1.9% 57.9 3.5% 85.9 2.8%
2014/13 6.9% 4.3% 5.1%
Table 3: Revenues by country (£m) 
2014 2013
Half 1 Half 2 Total Half 1 Half 2 Total
UK 675.4 741.5 1,416.9 592.1 694.0 1,286.1 
Germany 526.5 640.6 1,167.1 603.4 668.0 1,271.4 
France 230.9 240.2 471.1 207.8 258.6 466.4 
Benelux 25.5 27.2 52.7 23.0 25.2 48.2 
Total 1,458.3 1,649.5 3,107.8 1,426.3 1,645.8 3,072.1 
**  Unless specifically stated, comments on growth  
rates in overseas segments are stated in local / 
constant currency. 38
Group Finance Director’s review
continued Belgium**
Reported revenue increased by 9.3 per cent to 
£52.7 million (2013: £48.2 million) equating to 
an increase of 15.1 per cent in local currency. 
Supply Chain revenue increased 24.7 per cent 
rebuilding the business to 2012 levels which 
saw a very significant one-off Supply Chain 
order from one customer. This is especially 
pleasing as the customer base has broadened 
and become more international reducing the 
opportunity for future revenue declines to  
be related to large individual customers. 
Services revenue was largely flat in 2014, 
growing 0.4 per cent, in a year of consolidation 
due to the full integration of the business 
acquired at the end of 2012. The focus was on 
renewing key Contractual Services customers 
to provide stability in the contract base to 
continue to grow the business through 2015. 
Whilst both service and product margin increased 
through the year, the large increase in product 
sales compared to the flat services revenue 
growth has resulted in an overall decrease  
in gross profit return on sales for Belgium from  
12.5 per cent in 2013 to 11.6 per cent in 2014.
SG&A in 2014 is broadly flat compared to 2013 
with an increase of 2.7 per cent. Overall, there 
has been a 16.7 per cent increase in reported 
adjusted* operating profit from £1.8 million in 
2013 to £2.1 million in 2014 which is equivalent 
to a 18.2 per cent increase in constant currency. 
Exceptional items
The three onerous contracts in Germany have 
continued to perform in line with our original 
forecast throughout 2014. One of the contracts 
ceased in the final quarter of the year with the 
other two contracts due to complete in 2016. 
The performance outlook on these two 
contracts continues to improve and coupled 
with the settlement of an associated legal 
claim, has given Management confidence  
to release £1.5 million of the provision  
as an exceptional gain, partly reversing the 
previously recorded exceptional loss incurred 
in establishing the provision. The scale of  
the remaining two contracts means that  
any significant deviation from the projections 
considered at the year-end could result in  
a further material change to the provisioning 
required. However, Management remains 
confident in the level of provisioning held  
at the end of 2014.
Computacenter France has implemented  
a programme to reduce its SG&A and 
restructure the business and cost model  
in line with the Group Operating Model  
in an attempt to make the business more 
competitive both within France and as part  
of the Group. This programme will position  
the business to enable it to embark on 
transformative activity in its approach to 
winning and servicing new customers, both  
in services and, more importantly in the short 
term, its Supply Chain business. As previously 
mentioned the Supply Chain business features 
a number of very large but very low-margin 
contracts supplemented by numerous small 
volume contracts where individual relationship 
margins do not sufficiently contribute to justify 
the business relationship.
This programme, or Social Plan, has incurred 
£9.1 million of costs in 2014, with the majority  
of the cash flows to occur in 2015. 
Finance income and costs
Net finance costs of £0.2 million were incurred 
on a statutory basis in 2014 (2013: £0.5 
million). This takes account of finance costs  
on CSF of £0.6 million (2013: £0.8 million).  
On an adjusted basis, prior to the interest  
on CSF, net finance income was £0.3 million  
in 2014 (2013: £0.3 million).
Taxation
The effective adjusted* tax rate for 2014  
was 24.9 per cent (2013: 23.7 per cent).  
The deterioration was due to a lower mix of 
overseas earnings in 2014 compared to 2013, 
with the continuing lack of profitability in 
France significantly impacting the overall rate. 
However, the Group’s tax rate continues to 
benefit from losses utilised on earnings in 
Germany and further benefits from the 
reducing corporation tax rate in the UK.  
The Group makes every effort to pay all  
the tax attributable to profits earned in each 
jurisdiction that it operates in. The Group does 
not artificially inflate or reduce profits in one 
jurisdiction to provide a beneficial tax result  
in another.
Deferred tax assets of £12.2 million (2013: 
£13.6 million) have been recognised in respect 
of losses carried forward. At 31 December 
2014, there were unused tax losses across the 
Group of £115.8 million (2013: £125.4 million) 
for which no deferred tax asset has been 
recognised. Of these losses, £35.9 million 
(2013: £54.5 million) arise in Germany and 
£78.9 million (2013: £67.6 million) arise in 
France. A significant proportion of the losses 
arising in Germany have been generated in 
statutory entities that no longer have 
significant levels of trade. The remaining 
unrecognised tax losses relate to other 
loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
Earnings per share and dividend
The adjusted* diluted earnings per share has 
increased in line with profit performance by 
8.1 per cent from 43.3 pence in 2013 to 46.8 
pence in 2014. The statutory diluted earnings 
per share has increased from 23.0 pence in 
2013 to 40.0 pence in 2014, primarily driven 
by the impact of exceptional charges in 2013 
being significantly higher than in 2014.
Table 4: Adjusted operating profit by country (£m)
2014
Half 1 Half 2 Total
£m % £m % £m %
UK 24.9 3.7% 40.6 5.5% 65.5 4.6% 
Germany 7.8 1.5% 18.9 3.0% 26.7 2.3% 
France (5.6) (2.4%) (3.2) (1.3%) (8.8) (1.9%)
Benelux 1.0 3.9% 1.1 4.0% 2.1 4.0% 
Total 28.1 1.9% 57.4 3.5% 85.5 2.8%
2013
Half 1 Half 2 Total
£m % £m % £m %
UK 20.0 3.4% 36.2 5.2% 56.2 4.4% 
Germany 9.7 1.6% 20.9 3.1% 30.6 2.4% 
France (4.6) (2.2%) (2.6) (1.0%) (7.2) (1.5%)
Benelux 0.6 2.6% 1.2 4.8% 1.8 3.7% 
Total 25.7 1.8% 55.7 3.4% 81.4 2.6% 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
39 The Board has proposed a final dividend of 
13.1 pence per share. The interim dividend 
paid on 17 October 2014 was 5.9 pence  
per share (the ‘Interim Dividend Amount’). 
Adjusting this payment for the share 
consolidation on 20 February 2015 (the 
‘Share Consolidation’) increases the Interim 
Dividend Amount to 6.7 pence, resulting in  
a total dividend per share of 19.8 pence, for 
those shares in existence immediately after 
the Share Consolidation. The total dividend 
per share for 2013 was 17.5 pence per share 
or 19.6 pence per share on a pro forma  
basis, after taking account of the Share 
Consolidation. The Board has consistently 
applied the Group’s Dividend Policy, which 
states that the total dividend paid will result 
in a dividend cover of 2 to 2.5 times. Subject 
to the approval of our shareholders at our 
Annual General Meeting on Tuesday 19 May 
2015, the proposed dividend will be paid on 
Friday 19 June 2015. The dividend record 
date is set on Friday 22 May 2015, and  
the shares will be marked ex-dividend  
on Thursday 21 May 2015.
Disposal of R.D. Trading Ltd
On 2 February, 2015, the Group announced 
that it was disposing of its wholly-owned  
IT disposal and recycling subsidiary, R.D. 
Trading Ltd (‘RDC’).
The Group reached agreement with Arrow 
Electronics UK Holding Limited for the 
disposal of the entire issued share capital of 
RDC. For the year ended 31 December 2014, 
RDC generated revenues of £44.1 million 
(2013: £41.9 million) and statutory profit 
before tax of £4.8 million (2013: £3.7 million).
Gross consideration for the disposal is  
£56 million payable in cash (on a cash free 
and debt free basis), before transaction  
costs and subject to certain post-completion 
adjustments. Completion of the disposal  
is not subject to any outstanding conditions 
and has now taken place. There is no 
provision for the payment of deferred 
consideration under the sale agreement. 
The proceeds of the disposal were used  
as part of the one-off Return of Value  
to Shareholders outlined below.
Return of Value to Shareholders
The Group also announced on 2 February, 
2015, that it proposed to make a one-off 
Return of Value to shareholders of 71.9 pence 
per Existing Ordinary Share, equivalent to 
approximately £100 million or approximately 
11.2 per cent of Computacenter’s market 
capitalisation, based on the middle market 
price of 643 pence per Existing Ordinary 
Share on 29 January 2015.
Cash flow 
Net funds excluding CSF increased from  
£90.3 million to £128.5 million by the end of 
the year. The Group continued to deliver strong 
cash generation from its operations in 2014, 
with net cash flow from operating activities  
of £94.4 million (2013: £62.9 million).
Challenges remain within working capital due to 
legacy and systemic issues that have materially 
impacted our French business and its cash 
collection in particular. These issues stem from 
the poor ERP implementation in 2013, which  
led to backlogs preventing the timely processing 
of transactions impacting cash collection and 
payment of invoices. These backlogs have 
continued to grow in 2014 as the French 
business entered the Social Plan which caused 
some disruption to the teams responsible for 
collecting cash and monitoring debt levels 
within the business. During the second half of 
the year a new Finance Shared Service Centre 
was set up in Budapest, Hungary, which, after 
the normal transition and start-up challenges 
has stabilised and is on an improving trend. 
Whilst the debt position in France remains a top 
priority for both local and Group management, 
significant headway has been made in 
understanding and resolving legacy collection 
and system related invoicing issues that are 
reducing the overdue debt and increasing the 
rates of collection amongst new debt. 
In the year we spent over £17 million on 
capital expenditure primarily on investments 
in IT equipment in our business and software 
tools to enable us to deliver improved service 
to our customers.
Whilst the cash position remains robust,  
the Group continued to benefit from the 
extension of an improvement in credit terms 
with a significant vendor, equivalent to  
£38.6 million at 31 December 2014, a 
decrease of £2.5 million from 31 December 
2013. This improvement in credit terms has 
been in operation since 2009 and whilst the 
continuation of these terms is not guaranteed 
and can be withdrawn at any time, the terms 
are generally available to all material partners 
of that significant vendor. We no longer feel  
it is necessary to continue to highlight these 
terms in the Performance Review. However,  
we will continue to reference this item in this 
report, but we will not routinely report the 
number in Interim Management Statements, 
similar external updates or within the  
accounts themselves. 
Customer Specific Financing decreased in  
the year from £18.9 million to £9.3 million. 
CSF remains low compared to historical 
standards due to a decision to restrict this 
form of financing in light of the current credit 
environment and reduced customer demand.
Taking CSF into account, net funds at the end 
of the year were £119.2 million, compared  
to £71.4 million at the start of the year.
Customer specific financing
In certain circumstances, the Group enters 
into customer contracts that are financed by 
leases or loans. The leases are secured only 
on the assets that they finance. Whilst the 
outstanding balance of CSF is included  
within the net funds for statutory reporting 
purposes, the Group excludes CSF when 
managing the net funds of the business,  
as this CSF is matched by contracted future 
receipts from customers. 
Whilst CSF is repaid through future customer 
receipts, Computacenter retains the credit risk 
on these customers and ensures that credit 
risk is only taken on customers with a strong 
credit rating.
The committed CSF facilities, are thus 
outside of the normal working capital 
requirements of the Group’s product resale 
and service activities. 
The Group does not expect a material 
increase in the level of CSF facilities, partly 
as the Group applies a higher cost of finance 
to these transactions than customers’ 
marginal cost of finance. 
Capital Management
Details of the Group’s capital management 
policies are included within note 25 to the 
financial statements.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise 
borrowings, cash and liquid resources,  
and various items that arise directly from  
its operations. The Group enters into hedging 40
Group Finance Director’s review
continued transactions, principally Forward Exchange 
contracts or currency swaps. The purpose  
of these transactions is to manage currency 
risks arising from the Group’s operations and 
its sources of finance. As the Group continues 
to expand its global reach and benefit from 
lower cost operations in certain geographies 
such as South Africa, it has entered into 
Forward Exchange contracts to help manage 
cost increases due to currency movement. 
The Group’s policy remains that no 
speculative trading in financial instruments 
shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s 
financial instruments are interest rate, 
liquidity and foreign currency risks. The 
overall financial instruments strategy is to 
manage these risks in order to minimise their 
impact on the financial results of the Group. 
The policies for managing each of these risks 
are set out below. Further disclosures in line 
with the requirements of IFRS 7 are included 
in the financial statements.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a 
mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings 
and finance leases and loans for certain 
customer contracts. The Group’s bank 
borrowings, other facilities and deposits are 
at floating rates. No interest rate derivative 
contracts have been entered into. 
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy is to ensure that it has 
sufficient funding and facilities in place to 
meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing 
requirements. The Group’s positive net funds 
position was maintained throughout 2014, and 
at the year-end was £128.5 million excluding 
CSF, and £119.2 million including CSF.
Due to strong cash generation over the past three 
years, the Group is currently in a position where  
it can finance its requirements from its cash 
balance, and the Group operates a cash pooling 
arrangement for the majority of Group entities.
During 2013 the Group entered into a specific 
committed facility of £40.0 million for a 
three-year term which expires in May 2016. 
In February 2015 this facility was extended  
at the same value through to February 2018.
The Group has a Board monitored policy  
in place to manage its counterparty risk  
that places cash on deposit across a range  
of reputable banking institutions.
Customer specific financing facilities  
are committed.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates primarily in the UK, 
Germany, France, and with smaller operations 
in Belgium, Hungary, India, Malaysia, 
Luxembourg, Spain, South Africa, Switzerland 
and the United States of America. The Group 
uses a cash pooling facility to ensure that its 
operations outside of the UK are adequately 
funded, where principal receipts and payments 
are denominated in Euros. For those countries 
within the Euro zone, the level of non-Euro 
denominated sales is small and, if material, the 
Group’s policy is to eliminate currency exposure 
through forward currency contracts. For the UK, 
the majority of sales and purchases are 
denominated in Sterling and any material 
trading exposures are eliminated through 
forward currency contracts. 
The Group has been increasingly successful 
in winning international services contracts 
where services are provided in multiple 
countries. The Group aims to minimise  
this exposure by invoicing the customer  
in the same currency in which the costs  
are incurred. For certain contracts, the 
Group’s committed contract costs are not 
denominated in the same currency as its 
sales. In such circumstances, for example 
where contract costs are denominated in 
South African Rand, the Group eliminates 
currency exposure for a foreseeable future 
period on these future cash flows through 
forward currency contracts. In 2014, the 
Group recognised a loss of £0.3 million 
(2013: loss of £1.4 million) through other 
comprehensive income in relation to the 
changes in fair value of related forward 
currency contracts, where the cash flow 
hedges relating to firm commitments were 
assessed to be highly effective.
Credit risk
The Group principally manages credit  
risk through management of customer  
credit limits. The credit limits are set for  
each customer based on the creditworthiness  
of the customer and the anticipated  
levels of business activity. These limits  
are initially determined when the customer 
account is first set up and are regularly 
monitored thereafter. 
There are no significant concentrations  
of credit risk within the Group. The Group’s 
major customer, disclosed in note 3 to the 
financial statements, consists of entities 
under the control of the UK Government.  
The maximum credit risk exposure relating  
to financial assets is represented by carrying 
value as at the balance sheet date. 
Going concern
As disclosed in the Directors’ report, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation  
that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue its operations for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly they continue to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The UK Corporate Governance Code has  
a requirement for the Board to consider 
whether the Annual Report and Accounts  
are ‘fair, balanced and understandable’  
and ‘provides the information necessary  
for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy’.
We have continued to formalise the process 
through which we can provide comfort to the 
Board to make the relevant assertions within 
the Annual Report and Accounts.
Tony Conophy
Group Finance Director
11 March 2015 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
41 Computacenter understands that the services 
that it provides to its customers, and therefore 
the value that it can deliver to its shareholders, 
require vital contributions from a wide range  
of stakeholders, including its employees, 
contractors, suppliers and business partners. 
The societies and communities which provide 
and support these individuals and 
organisations therefore themselves make an 
indirect, but important contribution, towards 
the Group’s success, and it is important that 
Computacenter gives something back to these 
societies and communities where it can. 
Additionally, it is increasingly the case that our 
existing and prospective customers view 
activity in this area as one of the determinant 
factors in who they want to do business with. 
Therefore, not only is making an appropriate 
contribution in this area the right thing to do 
for the wider community, it is the right thing  
to do for our business. 
Since 2007, the Group has based its approach 
to Corporate Sustainable Responsibility on  
the 10 core principles (the ‘Principles’) of  
the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), 
which are outlined opposite. This includes 
setting objectives and behaving in a manner 
which is consistent with these Principles  
when dealing with its own workforce and in  
its business interaction with each community 
in each country within which it operates.  
In 2009, the Group published its first 
Communication on Progress on the UNGC 
website, and we have continued to do so on  
an annual basis ever since that time.  
The Group believes that the UNGC provides  
it with an appropriate framework through 
which to measure its development and 
progress in this area. We strive to incorporate 
the UNGC and its principles into our strategy, 
culture and day-to-day operations, through  
the development, communication and 
implementation of relevant policies throughout 
the organisation. Indeed, following the 
establishment of our commitment to the 
Principles, we have adopted and revised  
a number of our existing policies and 
procedures across the Group, and will  
continue to do so on an ongoing basis. 
We actively seek to collaborate with and 
encourage our suppliers and contractors  
to operate in a similar socially responsible 
manner. This is reviewed by the Group 
through the completion and ongoing review 
of relevant third party documentation.  
The Group makes additional enquiries to 
ensure that the commitments we receive 
from our suppliers are fulfilled. 
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
11 March 2015
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
42
Corporate Sustainable Responsibility
Corporate Sustainable Responsibility Update on progress against  
the Principles 
A summary of the action undertaken by the 
Group against each of these objectives, and 
the objectives it has set for itself in 2015  
can be found on its website at:  
www.computacenter.com.
Other Corporate Sustainable 
Responsibility Activity
The environment
Computacenter is committed to continuously 
improving the environmental impact of its 
business activities. We comply fully with  
all relevant environmental legislation and 
regulation of the jurisdictions in which we 
operate, and monitor the environmental 
impact of our business. We aim to reuse, 
recycle and reduce waste wherever possible, 
actively prevent pollution and have an 
emergency response capability to cope with 
any accidental pollution incidents. We train 
and communicate with our employees to 
improve their awareness of environmental 
matters as part of our established 
Environmental Management system. 
We continue to monitor our carbon dioxide 
emissions across the Group, which are set out  
by country and area of business in this report. 
As part of investing in more energy efficient 
technology, we have purchased and installed 
equipment to assist in reducing our ‘Carbon 
Footprint’. As a result, we are pleased to report 
a 0.7 per cent reduction in our greenhouse  
gas emissions in 2014 against prior year 
comparative levels, notwithstanding the 
continued expansion of our global activities,  
and an increase in our Group revenues during 
the reporting period. 
We continue to hold an ISO 14001:2004 
Certificate in the UK, and have during the 
reporting period achieved this certification  
in France for the first time. 2014 saw the 
successful recertification of the quality  
UNGC 10 Core Principles
Category Principles
Human Rights
Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed  
human rights; and
Principle 2 ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labour Standards
Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition  
of the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and
Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Environment
Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; and
Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-corruption
Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
CO 2 – percentage of total emissions 
by country (%)
Belgium – 0.6%
France – 2.8%
Germany – 28.7%
Hungary – 8.0%
Luxembourg – 0.1%
Malaysia – 0.3%
South Africa – 2.6%
Spain – 1.4%
Switzerland – 0.4%
UK – 55.0%
and Environmental Management system  
(ISO 9001:2000 and 14001:2005) in our 
German business.
Health & safety
It is the Company’s policy that, as far as is 
reasonably practicable, a working environment 
is created and maintained which does not  
pose undue risk to the health & safety of  
our employees, customers, suppliers, 
sub-contractors, visitors and members of  
the public. Our approach to health & safety  
is also based on the identification and control  
of hazards. The prevention of all incidents, 
particularly those involving personal injury and 
damage to equipment or property, is recognised 
as being essential to avoid similar occurrences  
and the efficient operation of the business.  
A fundamental part of our preventative approach 
is the completion of thorough ‘near-miss’ 
investigations, the recommendations from  
which are implemented and then monitored  
as deemed appropriate. 
All of our employees are made aware  
of the importance of health & safety and 
contribute to the maintenance of a safe 
working environment. We promote consultation 
between employees and managers concerning 
matters of health & safety and provide the 
necessary finance, equipment, personnel  
and time to ensure its implementation and 
maintenance. The reporting period saw an 
acceptable health & safety performance,  
driven by an established health & safety 
system, during which we have kept the 
Accident Incident Rate (‘AIR’), (i.e. the number 
of accidents per 1,000 employees), across our 
main operating geographies to less than 2.5, 
and the Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’),  
(i.e. the number of accidents per 100,000 
working hours) to below 1.2. In 2015, we  
will be attempting to reduce the AFR to  
below 1.0 in the UK, Germany and France. 
  
Computacenter 
is committed  
to continuously 
improving the 
environmental 
impact of  
its business 
activities.”
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
43 AIR and AFR results for 2014
Average Results for 2014 AIR AFR
UK 0.59 0.33
Germany 2.02 1.16
France 1.06 0.59
Additional Group health & safety 
activity in 2014
In the UK, an internet-based training and risk 
assessment programme was used to deliver 
targeted training in the area of health & safety. 
As a result, 2,977 employees completed some 
form of health & safety training during the 
period, and we anticipate similar levels of 
activity in 2015. In addition, 57 Project 
Managers have gained an IOSH certification  
so that they can assist in the delivery of health 
& safety requirements for certain projects 
undertaken by the business. Further courses 
will be held in 2015 to increase this number 
further. In France, an online e-book was 
developed and used to train all new  
employees in environmental, health & safety, 
and sustainable development requirements  
of the Group. 
Recognition and development
Our people, like our tools and services,  
are an important asset and a major source  
of competitive advantage for us. Therefore, 
we are continually searching for new talent, 
and for the most effective way to develop  
our existing employees.
As a recognised ‘Investors in People’ employer  
we play an important role in developing our 
people. Computacenter is committed to 
providing a working environment that enables  
it to attract, inspire and retain the right people  
to work at every level. The Company wants  
to create a working environment in which all 
employees can fulfil their potential. We are  
proud of the fact that our people are at the  
heart of what we do, and we believe we are  
CO 2 – Source of emissions from 
across the business (%)
Datacenter – 55%
Facilities – 45%
Computacenter plc mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting
Computacenter plc mandatory  
greenhouse gas emissions reporting Methodology
Recent UK-based emission reduction  
projects include:
Global GHG emissions data for period 
1 January to 31 December 2014
Emissions = Metric Tonnes of CO 2e
Year 2013 2014
Scope 1 3,290 5,191
Scope 2 24,949 22,856
Total 28,239 28,047
We have used the main requirements  
of the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition).
Emission factors used are from the UK 
Government’s Conversion Factors 
supplied by Defra.
Based on input from external 
consultants, our methodology was 
developed to capture additional 
emissions, such as refrigerants. 
This activity has been conducted  
as part of our UK Environment 
Management System registered  
to ISO 14001:2004 (EMS 71255).
Group properties included in this report 
are all current locations in the UK, 
Germany, France, Belgium, Spain, 
South Africa, Luxembourg, Switzerland 
Malaysia and Hungary. 
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. 
Limitations to data collection
Less than 5 per cent of emissions  
were estimated or based on an average 
energy usage per square foot of  
space occupied.
Installation of 4 Voltage Optimisation 
Units saving 7 to 10 per cent of 
electricity usage per year.
£4.5 million of renewable electricity has 
been purchased for the UK sufficient for 
two years usage for period 2013/14.
Continued investments in new 
technology helping reduce emissions  
in datacenters. The electricity used in 
the datacenters is 45 per cent of the 
total for the UK. These datacenters  
host customers’ IT in the form of 
servers thus reducing their carbon 
footprint however, this increases the 
emissions for Computacenter as we 
become the landlords.
Investment was also made in the 
replacement of nine more efficient  
gas boiler systems located at the  
UK Hatfield and London offices.
During Q4 2014 the UK warehouse 
lighting was replaced with more energy 
efficient LED devices.
Scope 1 = Combustion of fuel and 
refrigerants usage 
Scope 2 = Electricity, heat, steam  
and cooling purchased for own use 
 
Company’s chosen  
intensity measurements:
Emissions as reported above,  
9.02 per £ million value of Group 
revenue: (2013: 9.19 per £ million  
of Group revenue).
Emissions as reported above 2.05 per 
Group employee: (2013: 2.22 per Group 
employee in 2013).
We can report a reduction of 0.7  
per cent in emissions against the 
comparative performance in 2013.  
This is a positive achievement when 
considered against the continued 
expansion of activities of the Group. 
Scope 1/2/3 This data is available for the UK and is reported annually in the Carbon Discloser 
Project reports for both Investor and Supply Chain requirements.
Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC)
(CRC8804716)
The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme, registered as a participant. 
Packaging Waste Regulation Via the compliance company Paperpak the UK are registered as a distributor  
of product ensuring full compliance since 2000.
ISO 14001:2004 (EMS 71255) The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
44
Corporate Sustainable Responsibility
continued Our CSR approach for 2015
The Group will continue to base its 
approach in this area on the UNGC  
10 core principles. In line with our  
Group Operating Model, we will look  
to harmonise our additional CSR 
aspirations and targets across  
the Group.
We will continue to focus on lowering 
the environmental impact of our 
business activities, and providing  
our employees with a supportive 
environment within which to work.  
We will continue to contribute 
appropriately to the communities  
which provide and support our people, 
and additionally to external causes 
chosen by our employees.
The UNGC continues to be an 
appropriate tool and framework to  
guide us towards the achievement  
of our CSR aspirations, and accordingly 
we will remain committed to it in 2015.
Simon Pereira
Company Secretary
11 March 2015
The charitable trek to Machu Picchu in Peru which took place in October 2014. 
“What an experience! Great country, great colleagues and all for a great cause.” 
David R Patrick, Service Manager
an organisation with a winning culture that 
embraces continuous development. We are fully 
committed to investing the time and resource  
to provide development and talent frameworks 
which support, engage and motivate our 
managers and employees. Our employees  
are able to access a wide range of development 
tools or job-specific training appropriate to their 
needs as identified by their manager through  
the annual performance and development 
review process.
Equality and diversity
Full and fair consideration is given to 
opportunities for employment, training, 
career progression and promotion on the 
basis of each individual’s ability, attitude  
and track record, irrespective of their gender, 
ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual 
orientation or disability. We recognise the 
benefits that diverse skills, experience and 
points of view can bring to the Group and 
understand that there are times when our 
employees may need to change their hours 
and work pattern. We have a Flexible Working 
Policy because we know that allows us to 
support our employees, which is beneficial 
for both the employee and the Group.
Employee engagement, 
communication and representation 
In September 2014, we ran our first  
Group employee survey, which included 
approximately 13,400 employees across the 
organisation. This Group survey, which had 
previously been carried out separately and 
included different content for each of our 
operating geographies, will now be carried out 
on a bi-annual basis. In 2014, regular elections 
of new works councils to represent German 
employees for the next four years took place  
in all of the Group’s German entities. 
Engaging with our local community
Amongst other activities, we continue to work 
with local colleges assisting young people’s 
understanding of how IT can assist any 
organisation, the services offered by an IT 
services company and explaining what skills 
employers look for in those leaving education 
and looking for their first role. 
Charitable giving
In the UK we aim to raise money for our  
three Charity Partners, as nominated by 
Computacenter UK employees. During the 
reporting period, this raised over £145,190 
for Prostate Cancer UK, the Alzheimer’s 
Society and the Teenage Cancer Trust. This 
amount has been matched by the Group. 
Additionally, a number of charitable events 
are held throughout the year, which included 
a team of 15 employees raising over £2,000 
each by taking part in a sponsored 10-day 
trek in Peru. 
In France, we have maintained our 
partnership with Aide et Action to support 
schooling for children worldwide who are 
forced to work due to their circumstances. 
Our German business has also undertaken 
several charitable events during 2014. These 
events not only raise money for our chosen 
charities, but enable our employees to make 
a contribution towards the communities and 
societies that supports them.
Anti-bribery and corruption
Following an external assessment of  
the Group’s anti-bribery and corruption 
procedures in 2013, additional procedures 
have been implemented across the Group 
during the course of 2014. An audit of 
compliance with these updated procedures 
will take place across the Group during  
the course of 2015 and 2016.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
45 1. Greg Lock
Non-Executive 
Chairman and 
Chairman of  
the Nomination 
Committee
N, R
Board Member Attendance:
8/8
1. 
2. 
3. 4. 
2. Mike Norris
Chief Executive 
Officer
Board Member Attendance:
8/8
3. Tony Conophy
Group Finance 
Director
Board Member Attendance:
8/8
4. Peter Ogden
Non-Executive 
Director
Board Member Attendance:
7/8
Greg is the Chairman  
of Kofax plc and a 
Non-Executive Director  
of United Business Media. 
He has more than 45 
years’ experience in the 
software and computer 
services industry, 
including four years as 
Chairman of SurfControl 
plc and from 1998  
to 2000, as General 
Manager of IBM’s Global 
Industrial sector. Greg 
also served as a member 
of IBM’s Worldwide 
Management Council and 
as a governor of the IBM 
Academy of Technology. 
(Age 67)
Tony has been a  
member of the Institute  
of Chartered Management 
Accountants since 1982. 
He qualified with Semperit 
(Ireland) Ltd and then 
worked for five years at 
Cape Industries plc. He 
joined Computacenter  
in 1987 as Financial 
Controller, rising in 1991 
to General Manager of 
Finance. In 1996, he was 
appointed Finance and 
Commercial Director  
of Computacenter (UK) 
Limited with responsibility 
for all financial, purchasing 
and vendor relations 
activities. In March 1998 
he was appointed Group 
Finance Director. (Age 57)
Mike graduated with  
a degree in Computer 
Science and Mathematics 
from East Anglia University 
in 1983. He joined 
Computacenter in 1984  
as a salesman in the  
City office. Following 
appointments in senior 
roles, he became Chief 
Executive in December 
1994, with responsibility 
for all day-to-day activities 
and reporting channels 
across Computacenter. 
Mike also led the Company 
through flotation on the 
London Stock Exchange in 
1998. Mike was awarded 
an Honorary Doctorate of 
Science from Hertfordshire 
University in 2010. (Age 53)
Peter founded 
Computacenter with  
Philip Hulme in 1981  
and was Chairman of  
the Company until 1998, 
when he became a 
Non-Executive Director. 
Prior to founding 
Computacenter, he was  
a Managing Director of 
Morgan Stanley and Co. 
(Age 67)
Committee  
Membership
Key
A – Audit Committee
N – Nomination Committee
R – Remuneration Committee 46
Board of Directors 5. 
6. 
7. 9. 
8. 
5. Philip Hulme
Non-Executive 
Director
Board Member Attendance:
8/8
6. Regine Stachelhaus
Non-Executive 
Director
A, N, R
Board Member Attendance:
8/8
7. John Ormerod
Non-Executive 
Director and Audit 
Committee 
Chairman
A, N, R
Board Member Attendance:
8/8
8. Minnow Powell
Non-Executive 
Director
A, N, R
Board Member Attendance:
N/A (Joined 1 January 2015)
9. Brian McBride
Non-Executive 
Director, Senior 
Independent 
Director and 
Chairman of the 
Remuneration 
Committee
A, N, R
Board Member Attendance:
8/8
Philip founded 
Computacenter with  
Peter Ogden in 1981  
and worked for the 
Company on a full-time 
basis until stepping down 
as Executive Chairman  
in 2001. He was previously 
a Vice President and 
Director of the Boston 
Consulting Group. (Age 66)
Minnow is a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman  
of the Audit Committee  
of SuperGroup Plc and is  
on the Supervisory Board 
and Audit Committee of 
TUI AG. Minnow spent 35 
years with Deloitte where 
he became a Partner in 
1985. He is a Chartered 
Accountant and was a 
member of the Auditing 
Practices Board for six 
years. (Age 60)
Regine is a member of the 
Board of SPIE Paris. She 
has been on the Board of 
Directors at E.ON SE, a 
major energy company 
included in the Eurostoxx 
50 index, where she had a 
broad range of operational 
responsibilities including 
Legal & Compliance, 
Group Procurement, Group 
Human Resources and 
Group IT. Before that, she 
worked for several years 
as Vice President Imaging 
and Printing Group of  
HP Germany. (Age 59)
John is a Non-Executive 
Director of Constellium 
NV, a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman  
of the Audit Committee  
of Gemalto NV, a 
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of ITV plc  
and Chairman of Tribal 
Group plc. John is a 
Chartered Accountant and 
has held senior positions 
with Arthur Andersen and 
with Deloitte. His former 
non-executive board 
appointments include 
Transport for London  
and Misys plc. (Age 66)
Brian is the Chairman of 
ASOS plc. He is a member 
of the UK Government’s 
Digital Advisory Board, 
established in April 2012 
to help steer the digital 
delivery of Government 
services to citizens in the 
UK. Brian is also a 
member of the Court 
(Governing Body) of the 
University of Glasgow, 
Senior Advisor at Scottish 
Equity Partners and a 
Non-Executive Director  
of AO World plc. (Age 59)
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
47 Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Board
Nomination 
Committee
  
At Computacenter,  
we are committed to 
ensuring high standards 
of Corporate Governance 
across our business to 
enhance the performance 
of the Group.”
Greg Lock
Non-Executive Chairman
Dear Shareholder
Commitment to Corporate Governance
The Board of Computacenter believes that long-term shareholder value 
creation is supported by high-quality corporate governance. We are 
committed to ensuring high standards of corporate governance across 
our business to enhance the performance of the Group. The Board is 
therefore committed to the principles of good governance and supports 
the best practice guidelines contained within the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’). The Code is published by the Financial 
Reporting Council and can be found at www.frc.gov.uk. The Company  
is aware of the recently released 2014 Corporate Governance Code  
(the ‘Revised Code’), and will ensure that it responds in an appropriate 
manner to the additional requirements of the Revised Code. 
This Corporate Governance report outlines and explains the Company’s 
governance policies and practices, and sets out how the principles of 
the Code have been applied during the year ended 31 December 2014.  
I am able to confirm to you that, except where indicated and fully 
explained within this report, the Company has complied with each  
of the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
We have additionally, for ease of reference, prepared a separate report 
by reference to each of the Main Principles and separate provisions of 
the Code explaining how the Company has complied with each of these. 
This report can be found at www.computacenter.com/investors. 
Board Committees
48
Corporate Governance report
Letter from the Chairman of the Company
Corporate Governance report Board composition
It is important for me to ensure that the Board has the right 
composition. This includes having the right balance of skills and 
experience, maintaining a strong level of independence and objectivity 
and ensuring that all Directors have a good knowledge of the Group  
and the context in which it operates. The changes made to the Board 
since the 2013 financial year-end, and the process undertaken to 
facilitate those changes, have been described and explained within  
the Nomination Committee report on page 62. As previously announced 
by the Company in December 2014, we were very pleased to welcome 
Minnow Powell onto the Board and each of its Committees, with effect 
from 1 January 2015. As a former senior audit partner with Deloitte 
LLP, Minnow brings with him a wealth of corporate reporting and risk 
management experience, which will be of great value to the Board  
as it continues to drive the Company’s growth through its services-led 
strategy. In line with the Company’s procedure for new Directors, he 
received a full induction, which included meetings with the Chairman  
of the Board and its Committees, the CEO and Group Finance Director 
(‘CFO’), the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Head  
of Commercial Finance, as well as other selected members of Group 
Management. As also previously announced by the Company, after  
nine years of valuable service, John Ormerod will step down from his 
role as a Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman of  
the Company with effect from 1 April 2015, following which he will  
be replaced in that role by Minnow Powell. 
Strategy
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the 
Group and for implementing the business model set out on pages 14  
and 15 of this Annual Report and Accounts. It is essential for the Board 
to ensure that the Company has the right strategy in place and this  
has been an area of focus again in 2014. The development of the 
Group’s strategy is now discussed at every Board meeting, with an 
additional annual session dedicated to receiving strategy-related 
presentations from Group Executive Management. The Group Head  
of Strategy and Marketing is a member of the Group Executive 
Committee and with the Board requesting more focus on strategy  
and forward planning and less on operational issues, the Board  
has seen a high quality of both strategic thought and management 
information during the reporting period. 
Board effectiveness
Following the external evaluation of the Board referred to in the 
Company’s 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, the recommendations 
from that exercise have now been implemented. A further internal 
evaluation of the Board and its Committees has now taken place for  
the reporting period, and after careful consideration of its findings, the 
Board has agreed its priorities for 2015. Further details of the process 
carried out and the findings of the evaluation can be found on page 50 
of this report. After careful consideration of its findings, I am satisfied 
that the Board is functioning effectively and that its current constitution 
and range of skills are appropriate to ensure that the long-term 
interests of the Company and our shareholders are protected. 
I also remain satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the 
Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles  
at Board and Committee level as currently required by the Company. 
However, I can assure you that in my role as Chairman of the Board,  
I will continue to assess both of these judgements to ensure that  
they remain the case on an ongoing basis. The Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, Brian McBride, has carried out a review of my 
performance with input from the remaining Non-Executive Directors. 
Board committees
As it is entitled to do under the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Board Committees to 
enable it to carry out its functions effectively. A diagram of the Board 
governance structure is set out on page 48. 
Board visits
During the year, the Board held meetings at the offices of the Company’s 
two principal overseas subsidiaries, in Kerpen, Germany and Paris, 
France. During these visits the Board received presentations from senior 
members of the in-country German and French management teams, 
with a particular focus on the progress made by both businesses 
following the relatively recent implementation of Group Operating  
Model policies and procedures. 
Diversity 
The Board continues to recognise the benefits that diverse skills, 
experience and points of view can bring to an organisation,  
and how it may assist the decision-making ability of the Board, 
thereby increasing its effectiveness. Whilst the Board continues  
to recognise and monitor the continuing debate around possible 
future legislation in this area, appointments to the Board will continue 
to remain primarily based on merit. As at 31 December 2014, the 
Computacenter Board had one female Non-Executive Director, Regine 
Stachelhaus, representing 12.5 per cent of total Board membership.
Shareholder engagement
This Corporate Governance report is intended to give shareholders  
an understanding of the Company’s corporate governance 
arrangements and how they operated during the 2014 financial year. 
The Board remains committed to communicating with our shareholders 
and, where appropriate, submitting its views and considerations for 
consultation and feedback. Further details regarding this engagement 
with our shareholders can be found on page 51 of this report.
In accordance with the Code, with the exception of John Ormerod 
who is standing down from his role as a Non-Executive Director of  
the Company and Minnow Powell who will be standing for election for 
the first time following his appointment to the Board in January 2015, 
all of the Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2015 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). 
Greg Lock
Non-Executive Chairman
11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
49 Board composition and independence
The membership of the Board as at 31 December 2014 is set out on 
pages 46 and 47, and on that date included six Non-Executive Directors 
and two Executive Directors. The attendance of the Directors at Board 
and Committee meetings is additionally set out on pages 58, 62 and 67 
of this report. Minnow Powell has been appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of the Board with effect from 1 January 2015, and his 
biography can also be found on page 47.
During the period, the Board has considered the independence  
of each Director, taking into account the guidance provided by  
the Code. The Chairman, Greg Lock, was considered by the Board  
to be independent on appointment, and each of Brian McBride,  
John Ormerod and Regine Stachelhaus are considered by the Board 
to be independent in their character and judgement. Brian McBride 
remains the Senior Independent Director, following his appointment  
to the Board in 2011. In this role, Brian acts as an intermediary 
between the Chairman and the other Directors. The Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors met twice throughout the year without  
the Executive Directors being present. 
The Board acknowledges that the Company is not in compliance  
with paragraph B.1.2 of the Code, which requires at least half of  
the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The founders of the Company, Philip Hulme and Peter 
Ogden, are Non-Executive Directors, but are not considered 
independent under the Code, due to their long tenure, substantial 
shareholding in the Company and their previously held executive 
positions with the Company. The Board continues to review this 
matter and, as a result of the Board evaluation recently carried  
out, it remains clear that the contribution being made by these two 
Directors to the Board, not least due to their continuity of service  
and knowledge of the Company, continues to be highly valued  
by its other members.
Roles and responsibilities of the Board
The Board is responsible for the management and performance  
of the Group. It plays a key role in discussing, reviewing and 
approving the strategic objectives of the Group, and through the 
review of business plans and budgets submitted by the Executive 
Directors and senior management, is additionally responsible for 
ensuring that adequate resources are in place to meet these aims. 
The Board reviews the performance of the Executive Directors and 
senior management against the targets set for the delivery of these 
agreed objectives, including a monthly review of the financial 
performance of each of the Group’s in-country units. Additionally,  
the Board has the powers and duties conferred upon it by the  
relevant laws of England and Wales and the Computacenter plc 
Articles of Association. There is also a documented schedule of 
Matters Reserved for the Board which additionally include, amongst 
other things, the approval of acquisitions, major capital expenditure 
and Group strategy and budgets. This schedule was reviewed and  
updated twice during the course of 2014, and is reviewed on an 
annual basis as a standing Board agenda item. This schedule can  
be found on our website at www.computacenter.com/investors. 
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year to deal  
with the standing items on its agenda, including reviewing and 
discussing any information provided to it by senior management. 
Day-to-day management and operational activities are delegated  
to a duly authorised Group Executive Committee including, amongst 
others, the Executive Directors, Group Chief Operating Officer  
and Group Chief Commercial Officer. Other Board level matters  
are delegated to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees, details of which can be found at pages 58 to 74.  
The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained  
from the Company’s website, www.computacenter.com/investors,  
or from the Company Secretary, upon request. The composition  
of each Committee as at 31 December 2014 appears on pages  
58, 62 and 67 following this report, as do reports from the Chairman 
of each Committee setting out the main responsibilities of their 
respective Committee and its main activities during the year. 
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate 
and their responsibilities are clearly defined in writing, reviewed 
annually and approved by the Board. In summary, the Chairman’s role 
is to lead and manage the Board, and to play a role in facilitating the 
discussion of the Company’s strategy by the Board. The Chairman 
actively encourages contribution from all Directors and is responsible 
for ensuring that constructive interaction is ongoing between the 
individual members of the Board. Externally, there have been no 
changes to the other significant commitments of the Chairman  
of the Company during the year which would impact the time  
he has to fulfil his role.
The Chief Executive Officer, in turn, is responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Group’s operational activities and for the proper 
execution of strategy, as set by the Board. There is no dominant 
individual or group of individuals on the Board influencing its 
collective decision-making ability and the Board is comfortable  
that each of the Directors makes a valuable contribution to the Board. 
Board effectiveness
Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive 
induction programme, tailored to their specific background and 
requirements. New Directors receive an induction pack which 
contains information on the Group’s business, its structure and 
operations, Board procedures, corporate governance related matters 
and details regarding Directors’ duties and responsibilities. All new 
Directors are introduced to the Group’s senior management team. 
All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance of each 
Board and Committee meeting, including detailed briefings on all 
matters, in order to discharge their duties effectively in considering  
a matter and reaching a decision on it. 
50
Corporate Governance report
continued
Effectiveness  A performance review of the Board, its Committees and Directors  
has been undertaken since the conclusion of the 2013 financial 
reporting period. As part of this process an interview was conducted 
with each Director, and the information from each questionnaire and 
interview was then provided to the Chairman, and further considered 
and discussed by the Board as a whole. The review indicates that  
the Board is effectively run and administered, and is functioning  
well as a cohesive unit. It additionally found that there is appropriate 
opportunity for all Directors to participate in open and constructive 
debate, and did not find any major areas of concern or identify  
any matters which were of particular importance to individual  
Directors. Members recognised that there had been a significant  
shift towards focusing on the development of the Group’s strategy  
and away from operational matters. 
The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal action 
against the Directors and, to the extent allowed by legislation, the 
Company has issued an indemnity to each Director against claims 
brought by third parties.
While the Company’s Articles of Association require a Director  
to be subject to election at the first AGM following his or her 
appointment and thereafter every third year, the Board has decided 
that, in accordance with the Code, with the exception of Minnow 
Powell who will be standing for election for the first time, all Directors 
on the Board as at 19 May 2015, should be subject to re-election  
at the Company’s next AGM to be held on that date. All Directors  
will then be subject to re-election at each AGM thereafter. 
Board support
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all 
corporate governance matters and provides advice to the Chairman of 
the Board to ensure that all Board procedures are followed, applicable 
rules and regulations are complied with and the Board is continually 
updated on regulatory and governance matters. All Directors have 
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to obtain 
independent professional advice, at the Company’s expense,  
where they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties.
The Board recognises and values the importance of meeting the 
Company’s shareholders to obtain their views and has established  
a programme to communicate with shareholders, based on its 
financial reporting calendar. 
The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the ownership  
of the Company’s shares by the Company’s corporate brokers who 
provide monthly reports on that ownership. In addition, meetings  
are held with major shareholders following both the full-year and 
half-year results. Normally, these meetings are with the Chief 
Executive Officer and Group Finance Director. The whole Board is 
briefed on the outcome of these meetings and any issues raised  
are discussed. It additionally receives feedback reports from the 
Group’s public relations firm, Tulchan Communications LLP.
In addition, once a year, the Company’s top 15 shareholders are 
invited to meet individually with the Chairman and the Company 
Secretary to provide feedback on the Company’s management  
and raise other comments, albeit only a few shareholders take  
up this opportunity. Specifically, at these meetings, the Company 
Secretary discusses the Company’s corporate governance 
arrangements and invites feedback on any areas of particular  
interest from the relevant shareholder. 
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are contactable  
at the Company’s registered office to answer any queries that  
both institutional and individual shareholders may have. All of  
the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the opportunity  
of welcoming individual shareholders and other investors to 
communicate directly and address their questions. In addition  
to mandatory information, a full, fair and balanced explanation  
of the business of all general meetings is sent in advance to 
shareholders. Resolutions at the Company’s general meetings  
have been passed on a show of hands and proxies for and against 
each resolution (together with any abstentions) are announced at 
such meetings, noted in the minutes, available on the Company’s 
website and notified to the market.
Relations with 
shareholders
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
51 Risk management
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing the risks  
faced by the Group lies with executive and operational management.  
A comprehensive risk management programme is developed and 
monitored by the Group Risk Committee, the members of which include 
senior operational managers across the Group, the Group Finance 
Director and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk. The Group  
Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer. 
The Board sets the Group’s risk appetite and, through the Audit 
Committee, reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management activities. The Board receives regular reports from 
the Group Risk Committee and periodically reviews the strategic risks 
faced by the Group and key mitigation plans. 
Further information on the key risks facing the Company and the  
work of the Group Risk Committee can be found within the ‘Our Risk 
Management Approach’ on pages 18 to 21. Through a programme  
of assessment, appropriate measures and systems of control are 
maintained and, where necessary, developed and implemented. 
Detailed business interruption contingency plans are in place for  
all key sites and these are regularly tested, in accordance with  
an agreed schedule.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing  
the Group’s systems of internal control and ensuring that the controls 
are robust and effective in enabling risks to be appropriately assessed 
and managed. The Group’s systems and controls are designed to 
manage risks, safeguard the Group’s assets and ensure the reliability 
of information used both within the business and for publication.  
This system of control is designed to reduce to a level consistent  
with the Board’s risk appetite, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but  
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the 
systems of internal control including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems. It is of the 
opinion that the Company has complied with the internal control 
requirements of the Code throughout the year. Where weaknesses  
or opportunities for improvement are identified, changes are 
implemented and monitored.
All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate and 
manage significant risks faced by the Group continuously. The key 
elements of the Group’s controls are as follows:
Responsibilities and authority structure
The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic decisions 
and there is a written schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board. 
The Group Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis to discuss 
day-to-day operational matters and, with the implementation of the 
Group Operating Model now having taken place within all of the 
Group’s main operating entities, ultimate authority and responsibility 
for operational governance sits at Group level.
The Group operates defined authorisation and approval processes 
throughout all of its operations. Access controls exist where 
processes have been automated to ensure the security of data. 
Management information systems have been developed to identify 
risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of the systems  
of internal control. Accountability is reinforced and further scrutiny  
of costs and revenues encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives  
to customer satisfaction and profitability.
Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure  
that proposals for capital expenditure are properly reviewed and 
authorised. Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and 
approved at divisional level. Major investment projects are subject  
to approval by the Board, and Board input and approval is sought  
for all merger and acquisition proposals.
Planning and reporting processes
A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated by senior 
management annually and reviewed by the Board. A comprehensive 
budgetary process is completed annually and is subject to the 
approval of the Board. Performance is monitored through a rigorous 
and detailed financial and management reporting system, by which 
monthly results are reviewed against budgets and agreed targets  
for the period which, additionally, are compared to historic data  
as deemed appropriate, such as for the previous year. The results  
and explanations for variances are regularly reported to the Board. 
Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
Management and specialists within the Finance Department are 
responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial 
records and processes that ensure financial information is relevant, 
reliable, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and 
distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner. A review 
of the consolidated financial statements is completed by management 
to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are 
appropriately reflected. All financial information published by the 
Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Centralised treasury function
The Board has established and reviews regularly key treasury  
policies over matters such as counterparty exposure, borrowing 
arrangements, and foreign exchange exposure management. All cash 
payments and receipts are managed by centralised finance functions 
within each of the Group operating companies. The management of 
liquidity and borrowing facilities for customer specific requirements, 
ongoing capital expenditure and working capital of the business are 
all undertaken by the Group treasury function which reports to the 
Group Finance Director, with regular reporting to the Board.
Quality and integrity of staff
Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new 
employees are of a suitable calibre. Management continuously 
monitors training requirements, and ongoing appraisal procedures  
are in place, to ensure that required standards are maintained across 
the Group. Resource requirements are identified by managers  
and reviewed by the relevant Executive Committee.
52
Corporate Governance report
continued
Accountability Compliance policies
The Company has in place a number of compliance policies which  
are applied, including those relating to Business Ethics and Anti-
bribery. Any breach of these policies by an employee is considered  
a disciplinary matter and is dealt with accordingly. The internal 
control regime is supported by the operation of a Whistleblowing 
process, by which employees can report concerns anonymously and 
in confidence. The Audit Committee has, during the year, reviewed 
and approved the process by which the Company deals with any 
Whistleblowing incidents received by it. This process includes an 
initial review by the Group’s General Counsel to establish the terms  
of any subsequent investigation by the Company into whether  
relevant laws or company procedures have been breached as  
a result of Whistleblowing report received. 
Internal audit
The Group has an internal audit function which reports to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. The function has direct access to 
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Its key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance 
on risks and controls to the Board, the Audit Committee and senior 
management, and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate 
governance and regulatory responsibilities. The Board, acting through 
the Audit Committee, has directed the work of the Internal Audit 
department towards those areas of the business that are considered 
to be of the highest risk. The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit 
programme, ensuring that all significant areas of the business are 
independently reviewed over, approximately, a three-year period.  
The programme and the findings of the reviews are continually 
assessed to ensure that they take account of the latest information 
and in particular, the results of the annual review of internal control 
and any shifts in the focus areas of the various businesses. The 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit department and the Group’s  
risk management programme are reviewed annually by the Audit 
Committee. The role of the internal audit function and the scope of  
its work continue to evolve, and will be formally reviewed in the 2015 
financial reporting period, with any resultant changes being reported 
to shareholders in the Company’s 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held on 19 May 2015 at Computacenter 
House, 93-101 Blackfriars Road, SE1 8HL. The AGM notice of meeting 
sets out each of the resolutions being proposed. This notice will shortly  
be available for download from www.computacenter.com, and has been 
mailed to shareholders if they have elected to receive hard copies.
Compliance with DTR
The information that is required by DTR 7.2.6, relating to the share capital 
of the Company, can be found within the Directors’ report from page 54. 
By order of the Board
Simon Pereira 
Company Secretary 
11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
53 Computacenter plc is incorporated as a public limited company  
and is registered in England with the company number 3110569. 
Computacenter plc’s registered office address is Hatfield Avenue, 
Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9TW. The Company’s registrars are 
Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. 
The Directors present the Directors’ report, together with the  
audited accounts for the year of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary 
companies (‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 December 2014.  
Pages 1 to 74, inclusive, of this Annual Report are incorporated by 
reference into the Directors’ report that has been drawn up and 
presented in accordance with English company law, and the liabilities 
of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to  
the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing  
Rules (LR 9.8.4C), the information to be included in the Annual Report 
and Accounts , where applicable, under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this 
Directors’ report, with the exception of transactions with controlling 
shareholders and related parties, which is set out on page 116 (note 
31 to the financial statements). 
Strategic report
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a Strategic 
report, which commences at the start of this Annual Report and Accounts 
from pages 1 to 45. The Strategic report includes information about  
the Group’s operations and business model, financial performance 
throughout the year and likely developments, key performance indicators, 
principal risks and information regarding the Group’s sustainable 
development plan.
Corporate governance
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is required 
to include a Corporate Governance report within the Directors’ report. 
Information on our corporate governance practices can be found in 
the Corporate Governance report on pages 48 to 51, and the reports 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on pages 58 
to 72, which are incorporated into the Directors’ report by reference, 
as explained previously in this Directors’ report.
Management report
This Directors’ report, together with the other reports, forms the 
Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 4.1.8.
Results and dividends
The Group’s activities resulted in a profit before tax of £76.4 million 
(2013: £50.5 million). The Group profit for the year, attributable  
to shareholders, amounted to £55.1 million (2013: £33.2 million).  
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.2 pence per share 
totalling £15.7 million (2013: £16.7 million). Dividends are recognised 
in the accounts in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of  
a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders. As such, the 
amount recognised in the 2014 accounts, as described in note 11,  
is made up of last year’s final dividend (12.3 pence per share) and  
the interim dividend (5.9 pence per share).
The final ordinary dividend for 2014, if approved at the forthcoming 
AGM, will be paid on 19 June 2015. The dividend record date is set  
on Friday 22 May 2015 and the shares will be marked ex-dividend  
on Thursday 21 May 2015. The Company paid an interim dividend  
of £8.9 million in October 2014.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the procedures  
for governing the Company. A copy of the Articles of Association, 
which were not amended during the reporting period, is available  
on the Company’s website (www.computacenter.com/investors).  
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by  
a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. 
Directors and Directors’ authority
The Directors who served throughout the year ended 31 December 
2014 were Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, Brian McBride, 
Mike Norris, John Ormerod, Peter Ogden and Regine Stachelhaus. 
Additionally, Minnow Powell was appointed to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director effective as of 1 January 2015. Biographical 
details of each Director, as at 31 December 2014, are given on pages 
46 and 47. The Company’s Articles of Association require at each 
AGM that those Directors who were appointed since the last AGM 
retire, as well as one-third of the Directors who have been the longest 
serving. The Board has decided, in accordance with the Code, that  
all Directors, with the exception of Minnow Powell, will retire at  
each forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-election. The 
Nomination Committee has considered the re-election of each 
Director and recommends their re-election. Further details on the 
Committee’s recommendations for the re-election of the Directors  
are set out in the Notice of AGM, as is the brief Curriculum Vitae of 
each Director, which collectively illustrate the skills and experience 
that the Directors bring to the Board. At the 2015 AGM, Minnow 
Powell will offer himself for election to the Board for the first time 
following his appointment in January 2015. 
The Company’s Articles of Association provide for a Board of 
Directors consisting of not fewer than three, but not more than 20 
Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the Company.  
The Directors may appoint additional or replacement Directors, who 
shall serve until the following AGM of the Company, at which point 
they will be required to stand for election by the members. A Director 
may be removed from office at a general meeting of the Company,  
by the passing of an Ordinary Resolution (provided special notice  
has been given in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006).
Members have previously approved a resolution to give the Directors 
authority to allot shares, and a renewal of this authority is proposed  
at the 2015 AGM. This authority allows the Directors to allot shares  
up to the maximum amount stated in the Notice of AGM (approximately 
one-third of the issued share capital) and this authority would generally 
expire at the following AGM. In addition, the Company may not allot 
shares for cash (unless pursuant to an employee share scheme) without 
first making an offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their 
existing holdings. This is known as rights of pre-emption. A resolution 
to allow a limited waiver of these rights was passed by the members  
at last year’s AGM. It is proposed at the forthcoming AGM that a similar 
waiver should be granted, which will represent approximately five per 
cent of the issued share capital. Full details of the proposed waiver  
are in the Notice of AGM. The current waiver expires at the conclusion 
of the 2015 AGM.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity with each of the 
Directors. These deeds contain qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions, indemnifying the Directors to the extent permitted by  
law and remain in force at the date of this report. The indemnities  
are uncapped and cover all costs, charges, losses and liabilities  
the Directors may incur to third parties, in the course of acting  
as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
54
Directors’ report
Directors’ report Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations (appointments, 
holdings or otherwise), or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company.  
These notifications are then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate,  
are considered further by the Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to (if deemed appropriate) authorise the situation. The register  
of notifications and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year. Where the Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it has 
imposed the condition that the conflicted Director abstains from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors (that served the Company during the 2014 financial reporting period) in the share capital of the Company  
at the beginning and end of the year are set out below:
As at 31 December 2014
As at 1 January 2014 or 
date of appointment
Number of 
ordinary 
shares 
Beneficial
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
 Non-
Beneficial
Number of 
ordinary 
shares 
Beneficial
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
 Non-
Beneficial
Executive Directors
Mike Norris 1,288,939 – 1,288,939 –
Tony Conophy 2,025,177 – 2,025,177 –
Non-Executive Directors
Greg Lock 400,000 25,885 400,000 25,885
Philip Hulme 12,996,593 10,741,526 13,846,593 9,891,526
Brian McBride – – – –
Peter Ogden 31,802,071 881,249 31,802,071 881,249
John Ormerod 22,500 – 22,500 –
Regine Stachelhaus – – – –
Between 31 December 2014 and 11 March 2015, no Director has been granted, or traded in, shares of the Company. However, as previously 
announced by the Company on 20 February 2015, a share consolidation of 15 new ordinary shares for 17 existing ordinary shares took place, 
and so the shareholdings detailed in the table above have also been subject to this share consolidation. Save as disclosed in this report and the 
Remuneration Committee report, no Director has any interest (beneficial or non-beneficial) in any share or loan capital of the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries. 
Major interests in shares
As at 27 February 2015, the Company was aware of the following major interests in its shares:
Name of Major Shareholder % of issued share capital held
Jethou Holding Company Limited (beneficially owned by Sir Peter Ogden) 16.35
Philip Hulme 9.35
Sir Peter Ogden 6.47
Standard Life Investments Limited 7.21
Artemis Investment Management Limited 6.44
Investec Asset Management Ltd 5.75
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 5.24
The Hadley Trust (of which Philip Hulme, Non-Executive Director, is a trustee but not a beneficiary) 5.14
Capital structure
As at 28 February 2015, there were 122,657,970 fully paid ordinary shares of 7
5
/ 9 pence each in issue, all of which have full voting rights  
and are not subject to restrictions on transfer other than in respect of:
• certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or regulations such as those related to insider dealing; and
• the Company’s Share Dealing Code, whereby the Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the Company’s shares.
Additionally, there were 292,944,196 deferred shares in issue. Pursuant to the Company’s share schemes, there are two employee trusts 
which, as at the year-end and prior to the share capital consolidation on 19 February 2015, held a total of 2,866,500 ordinary shares  
of 6
2
/ 3 pence each, representing approximately 2.06 per cent of the issued share capital at that time. The rights attaching to each of  
the Company’s ordinary shares and deferred shares are set out in its Articles of Association, which were last amended by the Company  
on 19 February 2015. 
During the year, these trusts purchased a total of 365,102 shares in order to ensure that the maturities occurring pursuant to these share 
option schemes could be satisfied. In the event that shares are held by these Trusts before being transferred to employee participants pursuant 
to the schemes then, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise the voting rights attaching to such shares. The Trustees also have 
a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the Trusts. 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
55 In the event that another entity or individual takes control of the 
Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company 
have change of control provisions contained within them that would 
be triggered. Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed 
to exchange their existing options for options of an equivalent value 
over shares in the acquiring company. Alternatively, the options may 
vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive schemes 
will generally be on a time-apportioned basis and under the 
Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise their 
options to the extent that their accumulated savings allow at that 
time. The Company was granted authority at its Extraordinary General 
Meeting on 19 February 2015, to make market purchases of up to 
12,265,797 ordinary shares of 7
5
/ 9 pence each. This authority will 
expire at the 2015 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be 
sought to renew the authority. During the period no shares were 
purchased for cancellation.
Significant agreements and relationships
Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities used  
by the Group are provided in the Group Finance Director’s review  
on pages 37 to 41. These facility agreements each include a change 
of control provision, which may result in the facility being withdrawn 
or amended upon a change of control of the Group. It is also not 
extraordinary within our business sector for our longer-term services 
contracts to contain change of control clauses that allow a 
counterparty to terminate the relevant contract in the event  
of a change of control of the Company. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are 
discussed in the Group Finance Director’s review on pages 37 to 41.
Employee share schemes
The Company operates executive share option schemes and a 
performance-related option scheme for the benefit of employees. 
During the year, no options were granted under the executive share 
option schemes.
At the year-end, the options remaining outstanding under these 
schemes were in respect of a total of 330,000 ordinary shares of  
6
2
/ 3 pence each (2013: 592,000 shares). During the year options  
over 262,000 shares were exercised and options over nil shares 
lapsed. The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) 
to incentivise employees. During the year, 777,970 ordinary shares  
of 6
2
/ 3 pence each were conditionally awarded (2013: 1,049,579 
shares). At the year-end, awards over 2,673,423 shares remained 
outstanding under this scheme (2013: 3,066,742 shares). During  
the year, awards over 87,897 shares were transferred to participants 
and awards over 863,041 shares lapsed. In addition, the Company 
operates a Sharesave scheme for the benefit of employees. At the 
year-end, 4,025,176 options granted under the Sharesave scheme 
remained outstanding (2013: 3,292,614).
Corporate sustainable responsibility
The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible  
way benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, the 
environment and employees alike. Further information can be  
found in the report on pages 42 to 45 and covers matters regarding 
health & safety, the environment, equal opportunities, employee 
involvement, employee development and charitable donations.  
During the year, the Group did not make any political donations  
to any political party or organisation and it did not incur any political 
expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Equal opportunities
The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and diversity  
and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the workplace. 
The Group’s policies for recruitment, training, career development  
and promotion of employees, are based purely on the suitability of  
the employee and give those who may be disabled equal treatment  
to their able bodied colleagues. Where an employee becomes 
disabled, subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts are made to 
enable that employee to continue in their current job. However if,  
due to the specific circumstances, it is not possible for an employee 
to continue in their current job, they will be given suitable training  
for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies and practices  
to ensure that it meets current legislative requirements, as well as its 
own internal standards. The Group is committed to making full use of 
the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy 
environment that encourages productive and mutually respectful 
working relationships within the organisation. Policies dealing with 
equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take 
account of the Group’s overall commitment and also address local 
regulatory requirements.
Gender split across the Group (as at 31 December 2014) 
Male Female
Number of persons who are  
senior managers 65 12
Number of employees 10,216 3,104
Number of Directors  
(of the Company) 7 1
Employee involvement and development
The Group is committed to involving all employees in significant 
business issues, especially matters which affect their work and 
working environment. A variety of methods are used to engage with 
employees, including team briefings, intranet, email and in-house 
publications. The Group will use one or more of these channels to 
brief employees on the Group’s performance and the financial and 
economic factors affecting the Group’s performance. In particular,  
the Group operates a Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’) share scheme, which 
is open to eligible employees, where employees are encouraged to 
save a fixed monthly sum for a period of either three or five years. 
Upon maturity of the scheme at the end of the relevant saving period, 
participants can purchase shares in the Company at a price set at  
the commencement of the saving period. The primary method used  
to engage and consult with employees is through team briefings, 
where managers are tasked with ensuring that information sharing, 
discussion and feedback happen on a regular basis.
The development of employee skills and careers, as well as the 
communication of Company goals, are driven by our e-FACE tool. 
Annual assessments via our e-FACE tool are a formal requirement  
of all managers. 
Employee consultative forums exist in each country to consult staff  
on major issues affecting employment and matters of policy, and to 
enable management to seek the views and opinions of employees on 
a wide range of business matters. Should there be cross-jurisdictional 
issues to discuss, a facility exists to engage a European forum made 
up of representatives from each country forum. The Group regularly 
reviews the performance of its employees through a formal review 
process, in order to identify areas for development. Managers are 
responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives, aligned  
to corporate and functional goals. The Board closely oversees  
and monitors management skills and the development of talent to 
meet the current and future needs of the Group. The Board directly 
monitors and reviews closely, succession and plans for developing 
identified key senior managers. 
56
Directors’ report
continued Business ethics
An ethics policy is operated by each company within the Group, which 
commits its employees to the highest standards of ethical behaviour 
in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders 
in the business. The policy includes a requirement for all employees to 
report abuses or non-conformance with the policy (‘Whistleblowing’) 
and sets out the procedures to be followed. 
Going concern
Computacenter’s business activities, business model, its strategic 
goals and its performance are set out within the Strategic report on 
pages 1 to 45. The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out within the Group 
Finance Director’s review on pages 37 to 41. In addition, notes 24 and 
25 to the financial statements include Computacenter’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its 
exposures to credit and liquidity risk. Computacenter’s balance sheet 
strength, its long-term contracts with customers and suppliers, as 
well as the different geographies within which it operates, provide  
the Directors with confidence that Computacenter is well placed  
to manage its business risks even during a prolonged period of 
economic uncertainty.
The Directors have, after due consideration and investigation,  
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources  
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting  
in preparing the annual financial statements.
Auditor
Following an audit tender process carried out by the Company in 
2014, Ernst & Young LLP will step down from its role as auditor with 
effect from the 2015 AGM. A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as the 
auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
 
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders
Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together  
with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30 per cent  
or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters 
at general meetings are known as ‘controlling shareholders’. The 
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules now require companies 
with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally 
binding agreement (a ‘Relationship Agreement’) which is intended  
to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain 
‘independence related’ provisions. The Company confirms that it has 
undertaken a thorough process during the reporting period to review 
whether it has any ‘controlling shareholders’ which included the 
procurement of external legal advice. Following this process, it was 
determined that there was no requirement on the Company to enter 
into a Relationship Agreement with any of its shareholders. The 
Company confirms that this remains the case as at 31 December 
2014, but will keep the matter under ongoing review. 
 
Mike Norris Tony Conophy
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
11 March 2015 11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
57 John Ormerod
Audit Committee Chairman
Member Role
Attendance 
record
1.  John Ormerod 
(Chairman) Non-Executive Director 6/6
2. Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 6/6
3. Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 5/6
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for  
the financial year ended 31 December 2014, as set out from  
pages 58 to 61. 
During 2014, the Committee has continued to focus on overseeing  
the integrity of financial information published by the Company. We 
have done this through engagement with our auditors Ernst & Young 
LLP, reviewing their planning and scope of work and reviewing their 
findings and conclusions. We have also challenged Management’s 
judgements over key accounting issues and reviewed the fairness  
of presentation of financial information. 
The Committee also continues to support the Board in discharging  
its responsibilities for the Group’s systems of Internal Control and  
Risk Management. This year our operations in France have been 
challenged by poor operational performance, uncertainties around 
restructuring and the transfer of certain back-office finance functions 
to the Group’s new Shared Services Centre in Budapest, Hungary.  
We have received reports from Management and Internal Audit on  
the issues and plans for improvement. The level of outstanding French 
receivables has been a particular area of focus for the Committee.
During the year, the Committee also led a formal process to tender 
the statutory audit for the Group, following which it recommended  
to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed in this role with effect  
from the Company’s 2015 Annual General Meeting, subject to 
approval by shareholders. 
I will step down from my role as Chairman of the Committee  
with effect from 1 April 2015, to be succeeded by Minnow Powell. 
Minnow joined the Board and the Audit Committee at the beginning  
of the year, and we have been working closely together to achieve  
a smooth transfer of responsibilities.
We continually seek to improve communication with shareholders  
in respect of the work of the Committee, and we welcome feedback 
on our work and this report. 
John Ormerod
Chairman of the Audit Committee
11 March 2015
58
Audit Committee report
Audit Committee report Responsibilities of the Audit Committee
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the review  
of financial information released by the Group. The Committee is 
required to review, challenge, and report to the Board on the 
appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies and the key 
judgements made in the preparation of financial information, and to 
assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of its financial statements.  
It also supports the Board in its role of overseeing the Group’s Risk 
Management processes and maintaining a strong Group internal 
control environment. The full responsibilities of the Committee  
can be found within its Terms of Reference on our website, at  
www.computacenter.com/investors. 
Committee membership, meetings and performance
All members of the Audit Committee are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company, and are considered by the Board to have  
a wide range of business and financial experience to enable the 
Committee to perform effectively. The Board considers the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee to have recent and relevant financial 
experience for the purposes of the Code. The Committee met six 
times during the course of 2014. Meetings are attended by members 
and, at the Committee’s invitation, the Chairman of the Board, Chief 
Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, Group Head of Internal 
Audit and Risk and representatives of the external auditor. Others  
are invited to the Committee’s meetings to participate in topics 
relevant to their responsibilities or experience. The Committee also 
meets privately, at least on an annual basis, with the external auditor 
and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk. The Chairman of the 
Committee has regular informal discussions with the Group Finance 
Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk and our external 
auditor. He also receives the reports of the Internal Audit department 
as they are issued, and additionally receives feedback on the 
preparation and audit of accounts as that work progresses and  
as any significant judgements arise. 
Main activities and significant areas considered
The Committee reviewed the key areas of judgement made in the 
preparation of the Group’s financial information in 2014, and these 
included the following:
 
Contract accounting and revenue recognition
The Committee considered the Group’s revenue recognition and 
contract accounting policies to ensure that they remained appropriate 
and that the Group’s internal controls were operating effectively in 
this area. The Company has several large complex contracts which 
require judgements to be made by Management, in particular around 
the recognition of revenue accruing from separate component parts  
of these contracts. In 2014, the Committee particularly focused on 
the accounting treatments for a major contract which terminates early 
in 2015, where there are transfers of staff and other arrangements  
to be recognised on termination. Following a review of reports and 
presentations, including from Management and the external auditor, 
the Committee has concluded that judgements by Management were 
reasonable and the accounting treatment appropriate. 
Supplier discounts and rebates
The Committee also reviewed the process by which the Company 
recognised supplier rebates, which principally related to the 
achievement of sales volume targets by the Company or in connection 
with specific contract bids. Following this review, the Committee was 
satisfied that the process implemented by the Company was both 
reasonable and in line with accounting standards. 
Exceptional items and estimation of provisions
The Committee considered both the nature and quantum of those 
items disclosed as exceptional in the Company’s 2014 Accounts.  
The principal item recognised related to reorganisation costs incurred 
within the Group’s French business. The Committee reviewed the 
nature and estimates of these costs with Management and received 
input from the external auditors to confirm that such accounting 
treatment is consistent with accounting standards, and additionally 
that the estimates made were reasonable. The Committee concluded 
that the classification of the item as exceptional was also in line with 
the Group’s accounting policy, and was appropriately disclosed in  
the Group’s 2014 accounts. 
Following the identification, in 2013, of three of the Group’s  
long-term service contracts as likely to be loss-making, the Company 
recorded a provision of £10.7 million for projected losses on these 
three contracts over the remainder of their lifetimes. During 2014,  
the Committee has continued to monitor the progress of these 
contracts and the utilisation of the provision. As a result of improved 
performance, Management was able to reassess the projected 
outturn on these contracts. As they have progressed, and material 
uncertainties around levels of resource required to sustain improved 
performance were resolved, it was proposed that £1.5 million of the 
provision taken be released as an exceptional item in the Company’s 
2014 Accounts. The Committee reviewed the judgements made by 
Management in this area, and agreed that the proposed quantum  
of release was appropriate. 
Impairment
As a result of the ongoing poor financial performance by the Group’s 
French business during 2014, the Committee considered whether any 
further impairment of the non-current assets in the French business 
was required, in addition to the charge taken in 2013. In this case, the 
judgements in relation to asset impairment are based predominantly 
on assumptions relating to the future performance of the French 
business. The Committee reviewed with Management the key 
assumptions concerning future performance of the French business 
and the cost of capital, and reviewed sensitivity analysis on the 
impact of changes in key variables. Following this process, and having 
received additional input from the external auditor, the Committee 
agreed with the recommendation of Management that no further 
impairment was currently required to the remaining non-current 
assets within the French business. 
Going concern
The application of the going concern basis remains a focus of  
the Committee. Whilst the Group remains highly-cash generative,  
the application of this basis at the end of the year was discussed  
by the Committee in the context of the recent sale of the Company’s 
operating subsidiary, R.D. Trading Limited, and the subsequent  
proposal for the return of £100 million to shareholders. The review  
by the Committee of information prepared by Management supported 
the Board’s decision to seek a three-year extension to the existing 
committed borrowing facility, effective from the date of announcement 
of the cash return by the Company, to provide significant financial 
headroom to meet unexpected cash requirements. The end of year 
financial projections were updated to provide the sale of R.D. Trading 
Limited and the return of cash transaction, and underpinned the view  
of the Committee that the 2014 financial statements were appropriately 
prepared on a going concern basis. 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
59 Deferred tax assets
The Company continues to recognise certain deferred tax assets, 
resulting from the recognition of accumulated losses within its 
German subsidiaries. The level of deferred tax asset recognition  
in relation to accumulated tax losses is underpinned by a range  
of judgements, and is substantially based on the future forecasted 
profitability of these entities. The Committee has therefore challenged 
the appropriateness of judgements applied in order to estimate  
the asset to be recognised in relation to deferred tax positions  
and agreed with Management’s judgements.
Outstanding levels of French receivables and 
transition to Group shared services centre
The Group’s French business continues to have a material level  
of overdue receivables against which an increased level of provision 
was recognised in 2014. The Committee requested that both 
Management, and subsequently the external auditor, carry out  
a detailed review of the receivables and their likely recoverability.  
The Committee reviewed the results of this work and agreed that  
the level of provision recommended by Management was appropriate. 
As well as considering the financial reporting issues relating  
to the overdue French debtors, the Committee has monitored 
Management’s French receivables recovery plan throughout the 
reporting period. A key part of this plan has been the establishment  
of a shared services accounting centre in Hungary (‘SSC’), which  
has progressively assumed responsibility for processing the Group’s 
accounting transactions. The Committee received reports from  
the Group Internal Audit Department on the transfer of the French 
Accounts Payable and Receivables functions to the SSC. The 
Committee continues to monitor recent transfers of financial  
support activity from the Group’s UK and German businesses. 
Whistleblowing
Each Group entity has a Whistleblowing policy that enables staff,  
in confidence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties in 
financial and other matters. The Audit Committee receives an update 
from the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk at each meeting  
on Whistleblowing and during the year has reviewed and approved  
the process by which the Company deals with any Whistleblowing 
incidents received by it. This process includes an initial review by  
the Group’s General Counsel to establish, if required, the terms of  
any subsequent investigation by the Company into whether relevant 
laws or Company procedures have been breached as a result of  
a Whistleblowing report received.
Annual report – fair, balanced and understandable 
statement
At the request of the Board, the Committee assisted with oversight  
of the procedures performed to provide the formal assurance now 
required from the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, 
balanced and understandable and that it provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy. The Group’s procedures include clear 
guidance issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent approach 
and a formal review process at all levels to ensure that the Annual 
Report is factually correct and includes all relevant information.  
The Committee advised the Board that appropriate procedures  
had been applied. 
Internal audit and controls
The Board accepts and acknowledges its overall responsibility  
for the Group’s systems of Internal Control and Risk Management.  
On behalf of the Board, during the year, the Committee monitored  
the Group’s risk management and reviewed the effectiveness  
of its internal control procedures. A number of detailed areas for 
improvement are routinely identified and actions implemented  
as a result of the review of internal controls by Management and  
the internal audit function. A particular area of focus for the 
Committee in 2014 has been the Group’s operations in France  
where performance has been poor and significant changes in people  
and processes have followed the implementation of the Social Plan 
and transfer of processes to the SSC. This has had an adverse effect 
on the control environment which has been particularly evident in 
respect of financial controls over debtors. The Committee continues 
to monitor implementation of agreed improvements. 
Risk management
As disclosed in the ‘Our Risk Management Approach’ section on 
pages 18 to 21 of this report, the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) 
meets on a quarterly basis to review the key risks facing the business. 
These are identified and assessed as to their likelihood and impact 
within the Group’s ‘Heat Risk Map’, and are then reviewed in 
conjunction with accompanying risk mitigation plans. The Board 
reviews the Group’s key risks and sets the Group’s risk appetite.  
To assist the Board, the Committee monitors the risk management 
processes receiving detailed presentations from Management  
relating to certain key risks and reports from internal audit.
Effectiveness of Internal Audit
The Committee continues to oversee the internal audit function.  
The Committee received an update from the Group Head of Internal 
Audit and Risk at each meeting during the year on current audit 
activities, and any associated issues resulting from the completion  
of such work. The Chairman of the Committee additionally meets  
with the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk on a number of 
occasions throughout the year, through which he is continually 
updated on the activities of the internal audit function, and receives  
a frequent assessment as to whether the function is adequately 
resourced. The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit 
Committee and kept under review to reflect the changing needs  
of the business and to ensure that new and emerging business  
risks are appropriately considered within it. A core function of  
the Group Internal Audit Department relates to reviewing and 
providing assurance to the Committee regarding the effectiveness  
of governance controls, and bid management and execution. As the 
nature of Services work undertaken by the Company continues to 
mature and evolve, the role of the function will be formally reviewed 
during the 2015 financial year. 
Other activity
The Committee reviewed its own terms of reference, the internal  
audit charter, and received a report from an independent consulting 
organisation on the Company’s Anti-bribery and Corruption Policies 
and Procedures. Although there were matters, processes and records 
that can be improved, the existing processes and controls were 
confirmed as fit for purpose, given the risk profile of the Company  
in this area. Management is implementing the recommendations 
made during the year, and a review of the effectiveness of 
implementation will take place during the 2015 financial year. 
External audit
The Audit Committee is required to oversee the Company’s 
relationship with its external auditor, and to make recommendations 
in relation to the Board concerning the appointment, reappointment 
and remuneration of the external auditor. 
60
Audit Committee report
continued Appointment of external auditor following  
tender process
During 2014, the Committee led a tender process for the statutory 
audit appointment for the Group. Prior to launching the tender,  
the Committee contacted a number of major shareholders to invite  
their input, albeit there was only a limited but constructive response. 
Following a process in which the Committee received a written 
submission and presentation from the participants, the Committee 
recommended that KPMG LLP be appointed as the new auditor  
of the Company for approval by shareholders at, and with effect  
from, the Company’s 2015 Annual General Meeting. 
Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’) will retire at the Company’s 2015 Annual 
General Meeting. EY has fulfilled this role since the Company’s 
flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 1998. The Committee  
is grateful for their advice and support over many years. 
Effectiveness of the external audit process
The Committee reviews the effectiveness and quality of the external 
audit process by:
• Reviewing the audit plan and monitoring changes in response  
to new issues or changing circumstances;
• Receiving reports on the results of the audit work performed;
• A post-audit review; and
• Considering the report of the Financial Reporting Council’s  
Audit Quality Review Team on EY. Any response provided by  
EY is reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee receives and reviews the annual audit plan from  
EY identifying the key risks to the business which will be subject  
to their audit process. In 2014, these risks included contract 
accounting and revenue recognition, presentation of exceptional 
items, impairment and the going concern basis of accounting, due  
to the inherent management judgements required in, or as a result  
of, these issues. At this planning stage, the Committee agrees with 
the auditors their assessment of materiality and overall scope of  
work and approves the audit fee arrangements. The Committee 
additionally assesses the quality of the audit process through  
the audit reporting from EY in relation to such issues.
The Committee further monitored the effectiveness of the  
external audit process by means of a detailed questionnaire which  
is completed by key stakeholders and relevant internal management. 
The results of the questionnaire were then discussed as a specific 
agenda item at the Committee meeting immediately following the 
completion of the questionnaire process, and any actions requested 
by the Committee to enhance effectiveness were followed up and 
appropriately monitored thereafter. The Committee additionally 
receives and reviews reports from EY on their quality controls  
and independence policies. 
Auditor independence
The Committee places considerable importance on ensuring  
the continuing independence of the Group’s auditors. This topic  
is reviewed at least annually with the auditors, who also have 
procedures in place, to ensure they bring to bear appropriate 
scepticism and avoid conflicts of interest. 
In support of maintaining the auditor’s independence, the  
Committee has established a policy in relation to the scope and  
extent of provision of non-audit services by the Group’s auditors 
which is summarised on this page. During the year, the Committee 
monitored compliance with this policy by approving the audit fee  
and monitoring the level of non-audit work provided by the external 
auditor, resulting in non-audit fees being 19.2 per cent of the EY 
overall audit fee during 2014. This related primarily to additional  
tax, compliance and consulting work done during the year. The 
Committee deemed it appropriate to use the Company’s auditors  
for this work due to their existing and detailed prior knowledge  
and understanding of the business.
Summary of policy for engagement of auditors  
to undertake non-audit work
The external auditor is appointed primarily to report on the annual  
and interim financial statements. The Committee places a high 
priority on ensuring that this independent role of reporting to 
shareholders is not compromised. The Committee recognises, 
however, that there are occasions when the auditors are best placed 
to undertake other accounting, advisory and consultancy work in  
view of their knowledge of the Company’s business, confidentiality 
and cost considerations. The Committee has therefore established 
procedures to ensure that any non-audit work is only undertaken by 
auditors where there is no risk of compromise to their independence.
To this end, the Committee has formally defined areas of work for 
which the auditors will be prohibited from engagement and areas 
where, subject to following the stipulated processes of authorisation 
and where appropriate, competitive tendering, the auditors may  
be engaged. The former areas of work include the preparation of 
accounting records and financial statements which will ultimately  
be subject to audit. Currently, the latter areas of potential engagement 
may include acquisition due diligence and tax compliance and advice. 
In all cases significant non-audit engagements are subject to prior 
approval by the Audit Committee or if approval is required between 
meetings, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Other than in 
exceptional circumstances, the Committee does not expect the value 
of non-audit services to exceed the aggregate value of audit and audit 
related services in any financial year.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
61 Greg Lock
Nomination Committee Chairman
Member Role
Attendance 
record
1.  Greg Lock  
(Chairman)
Non-Executive Chairman 
of the Board 3/3
2. John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 3/3
3. Brian McBride Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director 3/3
4. Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 3/3
Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee
The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to assist  
the Board with:
• The search and selection process for the appointment of both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Board.
• Reviewing whether to recommend a Director for re-election  
at the AGM.
• Reviewing the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors.
• Determining whether the Board’s composition remains appropriate, 
with particular regard to its size, balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity and whether these enable it to discharge 
its duties and responsibilities effectively.
• Succession planning of the Board, and the induction, training  
and development of the Directors.
• Identifying and nominating Board candidates to fill any Board 
candidacy, and ensuring that there is a formal, thorough and 
transparent procedure in place for the appointment of any new 
Directors to the Board.
• Reviewing the membership of its Committees. 
The full terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are 
available on our website, www.computacenter.com/investors.
Membership and attendance
The members of the Nomination Committee are the independent 
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board. However, 
input from all the Directors is sought by the Committee and it involves 
the Board as a whole when performing its key responsibilities. Details 
of the membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the 
year are provided opposite. 
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee. 
Main activities of the Committee during 2014
The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during 2014  
and its work included the following:
• Undertaking the process of identifying and nominating an additional 
Board member, following which Minnow Powell was appointed  
to the Board with effect from 1 January 2015. The Committee 
engaged the executive search and recruitment firm Russell 
Reynolds for this process which, aside from this type of 
engagement, has no other connection with the Company. 
• Reviewing the performance of the Directors who stood for 
re-election at the 2014 AGM and recommending their re-election.
• Considering the composition of the Board through a review of the 
skills, knowledge and experience of the individual members and 
concluding on the appropriateness of the Board’s combined ability 
to adequately challenge and support the Company.
It should be noted that, whilst Minnow Powell was not a member  
of the Nomination Committee during the reporting period, he has  
been appointed as a member of each Committee of the Board with 
effect from 1 January 2015, and as explained within the Corporate 
Governance Report on page 49, he will become Chairman of the 
Company’s Audit Committee with effect from 1 April 2015. 
Greg Lock
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
11 March 2015
62
Nomination Committee report
Nomination Committee report Brian McBride
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Key information
Annual Statement Page 63 
Remuneration Policy Table Page 64
Annual Remuneration report Page 67
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present our Remuneration Committee report for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2014. The report is split into two 
sections. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy table, which includes  
a summary of the policy approved by shareholders at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting in 2014, can be found at pages 64 to 66. As 
there are no proposed changes to this Directors’ Remuneration Policy,  
this will not be subject to a shareholder vote at the Company’s 2015 
Annual General Meeting, but has been included so that shareholders can 
reference this easily alongside the Annual Report on Remuneration, which 
has been included at pages 67 to 74 of this report. The Annual Report on 
Remuneration discloses how the Group’s applicable remuneration policy 
has been implemented in 2014, and includes information concerning the 
amount paid to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors. In addition  
to this Annual Statement, it will be subject to an advisory vote of 
shareholders at the forthcoming 2015 AGM. 
Aligning remuneration with financial performance  
and delivery of the Company’s strategy.
During the financial reporting period, the Committee has sought to ensure 
that the amount paid to Computacenter’s Executive Directors is clearly 
linked with their performance and, most importantly, to the value that 
they have delivered to our shareholders during that time. Remuneration  
is weighted towards variable pay, and this is dependent on financial 
performance. The Committee has additionally sought to increase the link 
between the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the successful 
delivery of the Company’s strategy. Further detail of this can be found on 
pages 68 to 74 of this report. 
Group performance for the year
Our performance is explained in more detail within the Strategic report on 
pages 1 to 45. In general, 2014 was a year of good financial performance 
for the Group, which performed slightly above external market expectations. 
Overall turnover and adjusted profitability increased, underpinned by 
another very strong performance by the Group’s UK business. As can be 
seen from Our Key Performance Indicators on pages 22 and 23, the Group 
also made progress against its strategic objectives. The levels of variable 
remuneration paid out to the Executive Directors for the 2014 financial year 
reflect this, but also a recognition from the Board that the performance  
of the Group’s French business was poor, and the Group’s performance  
in Germany was slightly disappointing, albeit that this improved throughout  
the course of the year and finished on an upward trend. 
Remuneration outcomes for 2014
The basic salaries of the Executive Directors were not increased at 
the beginning of the reporting period, and will remain at their current 
level during the course of 2015.
For the financial reporting period, 69.39 per cent of total potential 
bonus was paid out to the Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’), whilst the 
Group’s Finance Director (‘CFO’) received 69.86 per cent of his total 
potential bonus for the year. 
35.34 per cent of the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) awards granted  
in March 2012, which are due to vest in March 2015, will be paid out  
for the Executive Directors or the top levels of senior management in the 
Group as relevant financial conditions have been partially met. You can 
find more detail on these outcomes at pages 69 and 70 of this report. 
It has been the role of the Committee to ensure that the performance 
of the Group is reflected in the remuneration paid out to its Executive 
Directors. It hopes that, having read this report, shareholders are of 
the opinion that we have performed this role appropriately and in line 
with their interests. 
Remuneration for 2015
Further detail on how our Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be applied  
in practice for the 2015 financial year is set out from pages 73 and 74 of 
this report. The Remuneration Committee has decided to increase the 
2015 bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors on a one-off basis, 
following the divestment of RDC. These payments are within the limits set 
out in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, and are payable contingent on 
shareholder value being secured through the successful implementation 
of the Operating Agreement entered into between Computacenter and 
RDC (under its new ownership), and the overall performance of the Group 
in 2015. Further details are on page 73.
Shareholder views
During the year, I provided the Committee with general feedback from  
our major shareholders in respect of executive remuneration, particularly 
as a result of the consultation we carried out in respect of the performance 
conditions attaching to the Performance Share Plan for the Executive 
Directors and Senior Management, as is outlined in more detail on page 74. 
Where we have engaged with shareholders, we are grateful for the 
feedback that we have received. We hope to receive your support at 
our AGM in May 2015. 
Brian McBride
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
63
Annual statement from the Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee 
Remuneration Committee report The table included below sets out the main components of Computacenter’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which was approved at  
the Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting, and has been in effect since that time. Prior to that date in the financial reporting period,  
the Company’s prior remuneration policy was applied. 
Policy Table
Purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Performance Targets
Fixed pay
Base Salary
Supports the 
recruitment and 
retention of executives 
of the calibre  
required to deliver  
the Group’s strategy.
Will reflect an individual’s responsibilities, performance, skills and experience.
Reviewed annually on 1 January taking into account the level of pay 
settlements across the Group, the performance of the business and general 
market conditions.
Salary levels at other organisations of a similar size, complexity and business 
orientation will be reviewed for guidance.
An exceptional review may take place to reflect a change in the scale or 
scope of a Director’s role, for example: a major acquisition.
Salary levels for the current Executive Directors for the 2015 financial year are:
Chief Executive Officer: £500,000
Group Finance Director: £325,000
n/a
Benefits
To provide a 
competitive level of 
employment benefits.
No special arrangements are generally made for Executive Directors. 
Benefits currently include a car benefit appropriate for the role performed, 
participation in the Company’s private health and long-term sickness 
schemes, life insurance and income continuance schemes, and participation 
in all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible employees.
All of the Group’s UK and German tax-resident employees are eligible  
to participate in the Company’s SAYE scheme.
If new benefits are introduced for a wider employee group, the Executive 
Directors shall be entitled to participate.
If, in the opinion of the Committee, a Director must relocate to undertake  
and properly fulfil his/her executive duties, a one-off cash payment may  
be made to cover reasonable expenses.
While there is no maximum amount as the cost of benefits is dependent  
upon costs in the relevant market, benefits will be set at levels which are 
competitive, but not excessive.
n/a
Pension
To provide an income 
for retirement.
No special arrangements are made for Executive Directors. They are  
entitled to become members of the Group’s defined contribution pension 
scheme, which is open to all UK employees.
If the Executive Director so chooses, he/she may take the pension 
contribution as a cash alternative, which will be the same percentage  
of salary as the pension contribution foregone.
Pension contributions or allowances will not exceed 15 per cent of base salary.
n/a
64
Computacenter’s Remuneration  
Policy Table
Remuneration Committee report
continued Purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Performance Targets
Performance Related Pay
Annual Bonus
To incentivise the 
delivery of annual, 
short-term, stretching 
financial and non-
financial objectives.
To align pay costs  
to affordability and  
the value delivered  
to shareholders.
The total sum due is paid in cash after completion of the relevant 
performance period.
The maximum annual bonus achievement will be 200 per cent of Base Salary.
The Committee has discretion to vary bonus payments downwards or 
upwards if it considers the outcome would not be a fair and complete 
reflection of the performance achieved by the Group and/or the Executive 
Director. To the extent that this discretion is exercised, this will be disclosed  
in the relevant Remuneration Committee report and may be the subject  
of shareholder consultation if deemed appropriate.
Financial measures will normally 
be used to calculate at least a 
majority of bonus achievement 
and the remainder of annual 
bonus will normally be attributed 
to non-financial measures. 
Financial measures will  
normally include profitability, 
cost management, cash 
management and other 
appropriate measures. 
Non-financial targets will  
be stretching targets set  
by the Committee.
Targets are reviewed and 
approved annually by the 
Committee to ensure that they 
are stretching and adequately 
reflect the strategic aims of  
the Group.
Performance Share Plan
To align the interests  
of Executive Directors 
and shareholders. 
To incentivise the 
achievement of 
longer-term profitability 
and returns to 
shareholders, and 
growth of earnings  
in a stable and 
sustainable manner.
An annual grant of shares, or options to acquire shares, will be made subject 
to performance criteria. Awards normally vest after a three-year period.
The current maximum face value of annual awards granted in 2015 is 200  
per cent of salary for the CEO and 175 per cent of salary for the CFO.
Details of the performance conditions applied to awards granted in the year 
under review and to be granted in the forthcoming year are set out on pages 
69 and 74. 
The Committee will review performance criteria in line with business priorities 
to ensure they are challenging and fair.
The maximum opportunity contained within the plan rules is:
Ordinarily 200 per cent of annual Base Salary or 400 per cent of annual  
Base Salary in exceptional circumstances. 
The Committee has discretion to vary the percentage of awards vesting 
downwards or upwards if it considers that the outcome would otherwise  
not be a fair and complete reflection of performance over the plan cycle.
Earnings per share is the primary 
measure for our Performance 
Share Plans, and the Committee 
may exercise its discretion  
to introduce additional or 
alternative measures.
In the event of serious 
misconduct of an Executive 
Director, or the misstatement of 
financial results, these awards 
may be subject to malus or 
clawback provisions at the 
discretion of the Committee.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
65 Purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Performance Targets
Other
Chairman and Non-Executive Director Fees
To ensure that the 
Group is able to attract 
and retain experienced 
and skilled Non-
Executive Directors.
Fee levels are determined with reference to those paid by other companies of 
similar size and complexity and taking into account the scope of responsibilities 
and the amount of time that is expected to be devoted during the year.  
No individual is involved in the process of setting his/her remuneration. 
Fee levels are normally reviewed bi-annually. They may also be increased  
on an ongoing or temporary basis to take into account changes in the 
working of the Board. 
The Chairman of the Board receives a fixed fee. Other Non-Executive 
Directors receive a basic fee and additional fees are payable for the 
Chairmanship of the Board Committees and for the additional responsibility  
of being the Senior Independent Director. 
Travel expenses and hotel costs are also paid where necessary. 
2015 fee levels for the incumbents are as follows:
Non-Executive Chairman: £170,000 
Non-Executive Director Base Fee: £45,000 
Supplementary Fee for Senior Independent Director: £6,000
Fee for:
Audit Committee Chair: £14,000 
Remuneration Committee Chair: £8,000
Non-Executive Directors do not 
participate in any of the Group’s 
incentive arrangements or share 
schemes and are not eligible for 
pension or other benefits.
Share Ownership Guidelines
To strengthen 
alignment between 
Executives and 
shareholders.
Levels are set in relation to annual Base Salary, and are normally required to 
be built over a three-year period. The Committee retains discretion to extend 
this on an individual basis, if it believes that it is fair and reasonable to do so.
Options which have vested unconditionally, but are as yet unexercised,  
will be included on a net basis, for the purposes of calculating shareholdings, 
as will shares held by an Executive’s spouse or dependants. 
The Committee will regularly review the minimum shareholding guidelines.
There is no maximum, but minimum levels have been set at 200 per cent  
of Base Salary for the CEO and 100 per cent of Base Salary for other 
Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors are not required to hold  
shares in the Company.
Statement of consideration of employment 
considerations elsewhere in the Group
When setting executive remuneration, consideration is given to  
pay and employment conditions of employees of the Company and 
policies elsewhere in the Group. The average annual salary increase 
of Computacenter Executive Directors in 2014 was 0 per cent, 
compared to a possible increase of 3 per cent for full-time employees 
achieving a very high level of performance and 2 per cent for full-time 
employees achieving a good level of performance.
Whilst only Executive Directors and senior executives participate  
in the PSP plan, other full time employees in the UK and Germany  
can participate in the Group’s All Employee SAYE scheme. This plan  
is not subject to performance conditions, but requires the employee  
to remain employed at the end of the term of the scheme which  
they have joined. This plan has been extremely successful, and  
is increasing in popularity amongst our employees, with take-up 
increased by 86 per cent since 2012. 
There has been no rise in the base fee for Non-Executive Directors  
in 2015, given that this is subject to a biennial benchmarking exercise 
which will next be carried out by the Company at the end of that year. 
Fees were previously increased in January 2014.
Whilst the Company has not formally consulted with employees when 
drawing up the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Committee has 
considered any informal feedback received via employee staff surveys 
or other channels and updates provided to it by the Group HR Director, 
Barry Hoffman. 
Statement of consideration of shareholders’ views
The Remuneration Committee takes very seriously the view of 
shareholders when making any changes to executive remuneration 
arrangements. It continues to welcome shareholders’ views on 
executive remuneration packages.
The Group consulted with its major shareholders during the second 
half of the year on its decision to add a second performance criteria  
to the Performance Share Plan awards. This is related to growth in 
the Company’s Services revenue, which is one of its key strategic 
objectives, as explained in more detail on page 23. 
The Chairman of the Board also met with a number of the Company’s 
largest shareholders in December 2014, following which remuneration 
based feedback in respect of the Executive Directors was fed back  
to the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
66
Remuneration Committee report
continued Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee
The key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to determine on behalf of the Board:
• The Company’s general policy on executive remuneration; and
• The specific remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and senior executives of the Company including, 
but not limited to, base salary, annual performance-related bonuses and long-term share incentive awards.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. All Directors are subject to the  
overriding principle that no person shall be involved in the process of determining his or her own remuneration. 
The full responsibilities of the Committee are contained within its terms of reference, which are available on our website at  
www.computacenter.com/investors.
Membership and attendance
The Remuneration Committee is made up of the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board, who was considered to 
be independent on appointment. Details of the membership of the Committee and attendance of the members at Committee meetings during 
the year, are provided below. 
Member Role Attendance record
1.  Brian McBride (Chairman) Senior Independent Director 5/5
2. Greg Lock Non-Executive Director 5/5
3. John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 5/5
4. Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 5/5
The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings by invitation, as does the Group HR Director and Group Head of Financial Planning where financial 
information provided requires additional background or explanation to facilitate the considerations of the Committee. The Group Company 
Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
The principal adviser to the Committee is Mercer Limited (‘Mercer’), who was first selected by the Committee in 2010 by way of a tender process. 
During the year, Mercer provided advice to the Company principally in respect of the consultation undertaken with the Group’s largest shareholders 
concerning the addition of a second performance criterion for its Performance Share Plan Scheme. Additionally, advice was provided on the 
contents of the Directors’ Remuneration Committee report as set out on pages 63 to 74. The total fees paid by the Company to Mercer in 2014  
in respect of this advice was £39,957. The Committee considers the advice that it receives from Mercer to be independent considering, amongst 
other things, that Mercer provided no other services to the Company during the year other than those outlined above. Mercer is a founder member 
of the Remuneration Committee Group, and adheres to its code.
The Committee considers comparative practice in the European technology sector, FTSE techMARK 100 companies and FTSE 250 companies. 
However, such market data is used by the Committee to inform rather than drive policy and decision making.
Audited information
The audited tables and related notes are identified within this report, using an  key. 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
67
Annual Remuneration report Single figure of total remuneration
The total amount paid by the Company to each of the Directors, in respect of the financial years ending 31 December 2013 and 2014, is set out 
in the table below:
Salary or fees
£’000
Benefits
£’000
Annual Bonus
£’000
PSP Awards
£’000
Pension
£’000
Total 
£’000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Executive 
Mike Norris 500.0 500.0 51.6
2
63.9
2
451.0 367.2 478.7
3
0 25.0 6.2 1,506.3 937.3
Tony Conophy 325.0 325.0 16.5 16.9 227.0 185.7 263.9
3
0 16.2 6.2 848.6 533.8
Non-Executive
Greg Lock 170.0 160.0 – – – – – – – – 170.0 160.0
Philip Hulme 45.0 42.0 – – – – – – – – 45.0 42.0
Brian McBride 59.0 56.0 – – – – – – – – 59.0 56.0
Peter Ogden 45.0 42.0 – – – – – – – – 45.0 42.0
John Ormerod 59.0 56.0 – – – – – – – – 59.0 56.0
Regine 
Stachelhaus
1
45.0 23.5 – – – – – – – – 45.0 23.5
Total (£’000) 1,248.0 1204.5 68.1 80.8 678.0 552.9 742.6 0 41.2 12.4 2,777.9 1,850.6
1. Regine Stachelhaus was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2013.
2. Included within this benefits figure is the cost to the Company of providing a driver service for Mike Norris which he uses for business and personal use.
3.  This relates to the 2012 LTIP awards, which will vest in March 2015 and had a performance period of 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. The relevant performance criteria 
was partially achieved and therefore 35.34 per cent of this award vested in each of the Executive Directors. This calculation is based upon the value of a Computacenter plc share 
at the time of vesting, being £5.865.
Remuneration paid in 2014 – additional detail
Base Salary
The annual salaries of the Executive Directors were unchanged in 2014. 
Annual Bonus
The bonus criteria applied for each of the Executive Directors during 2014, were as follows:
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth 
(up to 15%)
Average cash balance 
(up to 15%)
Personal objectives 
(up to 20%)
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth 
(up to 10%)
Cost savings 
(up to 10%)
Average cash balance 
(up to 10%)
Personal objectives 
(up to 20%)
Mike Norris – CEO 
(2014)
Tony Conophy – CFO 
(2014)
68
Remuneration Committee report
continued The table below sets out details of performance against the FY 2014 bonus targets:
As a percentage
of Maximum Bonus 
Opportunity
Performance required
Actual %
achieved Payout (£) Threshold On-Target Maximum
CEO CFO CEO CFO CEO CFO CEO CFO CEO CFO CEO CFO
Financial 
Criteria
Group Profit 
Before Tax (£m) 50% 50% 15% 15% 32.5% 32.5% 50% 50% 30.17% 30.17% 196,105 98,052
Services 
Contribution 
Growth (£m) 15% 10% 7.5% 5% 15% 10% 15% 10% 14.6% 9.74% 94,900 31,655
Cash Balance 
(£m) 15% 10% 7.5% 5% 15% 10% 15% 10% 8.62% 5.75% 56,030 18,688
Cost Savings 
(£m) – 10% – 10% – 10% – 10% – 8.2% – 26,650
Non-Financial 
Criteria
Personal 
Objectives 20% 20% 1% 1% 15% 15% 20% 20% 16% 16% 104,000 52,000
Total 100% 100% 31% 36% 77.5% 77.5% 100% 100% 69.39% 69.86% 451,035 227,045
As a result, 69.39 per cent of maximum bonus was paid to the CEO, and 69.86 per cent was paid to the CFO. The actual performance targets 
set at the beginning of the performance period are not disclosed as they are considered to remain commercially sensitive at this time.  
We will generally disclose these targets retrospectively at a time that the Committee considers that they are no longer commercially sensitive. 
LTIPs/PSPs
There was a pay-out of 35.34 per cent of those awards granted to the Executive Directors, pursuant to the 2012 PSP Scheme as the relevant 
performance criteria threshold was partially achieved. This was in respect of the performance period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 
and the level of vesting is referred to in the ‘single figure of total remuneration’ table on page 68. The performance criteria for this report are 
set out in more detail within the table on page 70.
Share scheme interests awarded during the year
The table below details awards of conditional shares made during 2014 under the PSP scheme. The face value of the awards has been 
calculated based on the closing share price for the trading day immediately prior to the award date. The performance conditions for these 
awards are set out in more detail directly below. 
Scheme/Type
of Award
Number
of 
Shares
Face
Value 
at time 
of grant
Performance
Conditions
Applied
Amount Vesting related to 
Threshold of Performance
Performance
Period Set
Threshold
Performance
(% of face 
value)
Maximum
Performance
(% of face 
value)
Group CEO
PSP – nil 
cost option 146,520 £1,000,000
Compound growth of
Company Earnings Per Share 25% 100%
3 financial years from 
1 January 2014
Group CFO
PSP – nil 
cost option 83,333 £568,750
Compound growth of
Company Earnings Per Share 25% 100%
3 financial years from 
1 January 2014
Vesting of these awards to each Executive Director will be dependent upon the achievement of the performance measures over the 
performance period, as follows:
The compound annual growth rate of the Group’s adjusted fully diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’)
Performance level Company EPS
Maximum 20%
In line with expectations 10%
Threshold 7.5%
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
69 Executive Director outstanding share awards as at 31 December 2014
Directors’ Interests in Share Plans (Audited) 
Scheme Note
Exercise/ 
share price
Exercise period/
Vesting period
At  
1 January 
2014
Granted 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year Lapsed
At  
31 December 
2014
Mike Norris Sharesave* 1 320.0p 01/12/14-31/05/15 4,859 – – – 4,859
Sharesave* 1 524.0p 01/12/19-31/05/19 – 5,782 – – 5,782
PSP 2 Nil 17/03/14-16/03/21 224,586 – – 224,586 –
PSP 3 Nil 23/03/15-22/03/23 230,947 – – – 230,947
PSP 4 Nil 03/05/16-02/05/24 227,273 – – – 227,273
PSP 5 Nil 20/03/17-19/03/24 – 146,520 – – 146,520
Tony Conophy Sharesave* 1 343.0p 01/12/17-31/05/17 4,373 – – – 4,373
PSP 2 Nil 17/03/14-16/03/21 124,113 – – 124,113 –
PSP 3 Nil 23/03/15-22/03/23 127,309 – – – 127,309
PSP 4 Nil 03/05/16-02/05/24 129,261 – – – 129,261
PSP 5 Nil 20/03/17-19/03/24 – 83,333 – – 83,333
1.   Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme, which is available to employees and full-time Executive Directors of the Computacenter Group. Eligible 
employees can save between £5 and £500 a month to purchase options in shares in Computacenter plc at a price fixed at the beginning of the scheme term. There are no 
conditions relating to the performance of the Company for this scheme.
2.  Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005 as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the performance period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013 (the ‘Performance Period’) equals 7.5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will 
vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is 
between 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half. Awarded shares will vest in full if the 
compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
3.  Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the performance period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 (the ‘Performance Period’) equals 7.5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will 
vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is 
between 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half. Awarded shares will vest in full if the 
compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
4.  Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the performance period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 (the ‘Performance Period’) equals 7.5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will 
vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is 
between 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half. Awarded shares will vest in full if the 
compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
5.  Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the performance period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 (the ‘Performance Period’) equals 7.5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will 
vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum. If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is 
between 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half. Awarded shares will vest in full if the 
compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
*  The Sharesave scheme only requires that an employee remains employed by the Group at the end of the term of the scheme. There are no other performance conditions attached.
Director gains
Performance Share Plan
Director Date of vesting Scheme
Number of 
shares
Exercise 
price
Market value 
at exercise
Gain on 
exercise
Mike Norris 22/03/2014 PSP – n/a n/a £0
Tony Conophy 22/03/2014 PSP – n/a n/a £0
The closing market price of an ordinary share at 31 December 2014 (being the last trading day of 2014) was 586.5 pence.
The highest price during the year was 718.5 pence and the lowest was 582.0 pence.
Minimum shareholding requirements
In accordance with the Group’s minimum shareholding guidelines, the Chief Executive Officer is required to build up a shareholding that is 
equal to 200 per cent of his/her gross salary. In respect of the Chief Financial Offer, the threshold that is expected to be achieved is 100 per 
cent of his/her gross salary. It is additionally expected that the Executive Director will achieve these levels within three years of appointment. 
For the purposes of these requirements, options which have vested unconditionally, but are as yet unexercised, will be included on a net basis, 
for the purposes of calculating shareholdings, as will shares held by an Executive’s spouse or dependants. There is no requirement for the 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company to hold shares. 
70
Remuneration Committee report
continued Current Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interest of each of the Directors in the shares of the Company, as at 31 December 2014, is as follows: 
Current Directors
Number of 
shares in the  
Company as at  
31 December 
2014
% of 
requirement 
achieved
Interests In Shares
SAYE PSP Total
Mike Norris 1,288,939 756
3
10,641
1
604,740
2
1,904,320
Tony Conophy 2,025,177 2,375
3
4,373
1
339,903
2
2,369,453
Greg Lock 400,000 n/a – – 400,000
Philip Hulme 12,996,593 n/a – – 12,996,593
Brian McBride – n/a – – –
Peter Ogden 31,802,071 n/a – – 31,802,071
John Ormerod 22,500 n/a – – 22,500
Regine Stachelhaus – n/a – – –
Note: There has been no grant of, or trading in, shares of the Company, between 1 January 2015 and 28 February 2015. However, as announced by the Company on 20 February 2015, a share 
consolidation of 15 new ordinary shares for 17 existing ordinary shares took place on 20 February 2015, and the effect of this is excluded from the numbers set out above. However, as at  
28 February 2015, each Director owns the same percentage shareholding of the Company, as he/she did as at 31 December 2014. 
1. The only performance condition attaching to this scheme is to remain employed by the Group as at the end of its term.
2. There are performance conditions for this scheme as set out opposite in the table on page 70.
3. Based on the Company’s closing share price as at 31 December 2014.
Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the unvested shares held by the Computacenter Employee Benefit Trust (2,772,338  
ordinary shares held as at 31 December 2014) and the Computacenter Quest Trust (94,162 ordinary shares held as at 31 December 2014).
Dilution limits
Computacenter uses a mixture of both new issue and market purchase shares to satisfy the vesting of awards made under its Option,  
PSP and Sharesave plans. In line with best practice, the use of new or treasury shares to satisfy awards made under all share schemes,  
is restricted to 10 per cent in any 10-year rolling period, with a further restriction for discretionary schemes of 5 per cent in the same period.  
As at the year-end, the potential dilution from awards under all share plans during that 10-year period was approximately 3.42 per cent and  
the potential dilution from awards under the discretionary schemes was approximately 1.27 per cent. 
Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office
There have been no payments made to past Directors, and no Directors have stood down from the Board during the course of the financial reporting period. 
Executive service contracts
A summary of the Executive Directors’ contracts of employment is given in the table below: 
Director Start Date Expiry Date Unexpired Term
Notice Period 
(months)
Mike Norris 23/04/1998 n/a None specified 12 
Tony Conophy 23/04/1998 n/a None specified 12 
All Executive Directors have a rolling 12-month service contract with the Company, which is subject to 12 months written notice by either  
the Company or the Director.
External appointments
Executive Directors are permitted to hold outside directorships, subject to approval by the Chairman of the Board, and any such Executive 
Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services. During 2014, Mike Norris served as a Non-Executive Director of Triage Holdings 
Limited and received a fee of £24,000. 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
71 Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
The Non-Executive Directors have not entered into service contracts with the Company. They each operate under a letter of appointment which 
sets out their terms, duties and responsibilities. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term, which runs to the conclusion of the 
third Annual General Meeting following their appointment, which may be renewed at that point for a further three-year term. The letters of 
appointment provide that should a Non-Executive Director not be re-elected at an AGM before he is due to retire, then his or her appointment 
will terminate. The Board has agreed that all Directors will be subject to re-election at the AGM on 19 May 2015, with the exception of Minnow 
Powell, who will be subject to election for the first time at that meeting.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered 
office. The appointments continue until the expiry dates set out below, unless terminated for cause or on the period of notice stated below:
Director
Date of latest 
letter of appointment Expiry Date Notice Period
Greg Lock 13 May 2014 13 May 2017 3 months
Philip Hulme 2 May 2013 2 May 2016 3 months
Brian McBride 28 February 2014 28 February 2017 3 months
Peter Ogden 10 May 2013 10 May 2016 3 months
John Ormerod 13 May 2013 13 May 2016 3 months
Minnow Powell 1 January 2015 1 January 2018 3 months
Regine Stachelhaus 1 July 2013 1 July 2016 3 months
In 2015, the Chairman will be paid a single consolidated fee of £170,000. The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional  
fees for Chairmanship of Board Committees and acting as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
The annual rates of Non-Executive Directors’ fees are shown in the table below. These are generally reviewed every two years and, therefore, 
the next scheduled review will be in January 2016:
Position Annual Fees (£)
Non-Executive Director 45,000
Additional fee for the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee 14,000
Additional fee for the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee 8,000
Additional fee for the position of Senior Independent Director 6,000
Performance of the Company
Total shareholder return performance
(Computacenter versus FTSE Software and Computer Services sector)
Dec 09 Dec 14 Dec 13 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10
Computacenter
FTSE All Share – Software and Computer Services
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
72
Remuneration Committee report
continued CEO pay history
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO over the previous five financial years. The total remuneration figure includes 
the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus and LTIP percentages show the 
pay-out for each year as a percentage of the maximum. 
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
CEO single figure of remuneration 1,407,034 1,910,675 1,878,675 1,085,300 937,300 1,506,300
Annual bonus pay-out (as a % of maximum 
opportunity) 87% 98.5% 63.7% 26.8% 61.2% 69.39%
Annual Bonus (£) 413,250 467,875 350,350 161,000 367,000 451,035
PSP vesting (as a % of maximum opportunity) 100% 100% 100% 58.5% 0% 35.34%
PSP vesting (£) 489,235 938,201 997,351 385,355 – 478,679
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO and employees
The table below sets out the percentage change in the salary, benefits and annual bonus of the Group CEO compared to the average amount 
paid to Computacenter employees in the UK, between the year ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014. 
Salary Benefits
Annual Bonus
potential
Group CEO 0% -19.2% 0%
Computacenter UK based employees +2.63% +5.22% +2.98%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The charts below show the relative expenditure of the Group on the pay of its employees, against certain other key financial indicators of the Group:
2014 £542.6m -0.4%
2013 £545.0m
2014 £24.8m* -74.1%
2013 £95.9m
2014 £85.9m +5.1%
2013 £81.7m
Year ended 31 December 2014
Year ended 31 December 2013
Expenditure on Group  
Employees’ pay
Shareholder Distributions  
(Ordinary Dividend and Return of Capital)
Group Adjusted Profit Before Tax
*The 2013 figure provided includes a one-off Return of Value to shareholder of approximately £75 million.
As well as information prescribed by current remuneration reporting regulations, Group Adjusted Profit Before Tax has also been included  
as this is deemed to be a key performance indicator of the Company which is linked to the delivery of value to our shareholders.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year
Executive Director remuneration for 2015 will be in accordance with the terms of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy table, as set out  
on pages 64 to 66 of this report. 
2015 Base Salaries
The Base Salaries of the CEO and CFO have not been increased since 2011 and 2012 respectively, and will remain unchanged in 2015. 
2015 Annual Bonus Scheme 
There will be two elements to the annual bonus in 2015. The main part of the bonus pays up to 130 per cent of Base Salary for the CEO and up 
to 100 per cent of Base Salary for the CFO, and will operate in the usual way based upon the performance of the business, as illustrated below: 
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth 
(up to 15%)
Average cash balance 
(up to 15%)
Personal objectives 
(up to 20%)
Prot – Group prot before tax
(up to 50%)
Services contribution growth 
(up to 10%)
Cost savings 
(up to 10%)
Average cash balance 
(up to 10%)
Personal objectives 
(up to 20%)
Mike Norris – CEO 
(2015)
Tony Conophy – CFO 
(2015)
The proposed levels for 2015 have been set to be challenging relative to our 2015 business plan. The targets themselves, as they relate to the 
2015 financial year, are deemed by the Committee to be commercially sensitive and therefore have not been disclosed. They will be disclosed 
at such time as the Committee no longer deems them to be commercially sensitive.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
73 In addition, the Remuneration Committee has decided to increase the 2015 bonus opportunity to the Executive Directors on a one-off basis, 
following the divestment of RDC by the Group. The bonus opportunity equates to a maximum of £300,000 each for the CEO and CFO, which 
represents 60 per cent of Base Salary for the CEO and 92.3 per cent of Base Salary for the CFO. These payments are payable contingent on 
shareholder value being secured through the successful implementation of the Operating Agreement entered into between Computacenter  
and RDC (under its new ownership), and the overall performance of the Group in 2015. This second element of bonus is a one-off item that  
it is anticipated will apply for 2015 only. The aggregate potential payment of both items is within the limits set by Computacenter’s Directors 
Remuneration Policy maximum of 200 per cent of Base Salary.
2015 PSP Scheme
The award levels of Performance Shares for the Executive Directors in the 2015 financial year are 200 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive 
Officer and 175 per cent of salary for the Chief Financial Officer. The 2015 financial year LTIP awards will be subject to the following 
performance conditions:
A) Compound Growth of Company Earnings per Share (70 per cent of total vesting criteria) 
Below Threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
Vesting 
(25% vesting)
On-target 
(50% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% 
vesting)
Compound Growth of Company Earnings per Share < than 5% 5% 8.33% 12.5%
In respect of the growth of Earnings per Share, awards will vest on a straight line between these points. These targets will require management 
to deliver a strong, sustainable performance over the period.
B) Growth in the Company’s total services revenue (30 per cent of total vesting criteria)
Following a consultation with the Company’s top 15 shareholders (by size of holding) during the year, the Committee approved the addition  
of a second performance criterion for the Performance Share Plan. Whilst the Committee deems the actual services revenue growth targets  
to be commercially sensitive, these will be disclosed by the Company at the time of vesting. 
Statement of voting at 2014 AGM
The results of voting on the Directors’ Remuneration report at the Company’s 2014 AGM are outlined in the table below: 
Votes cast in favour/discretionary Votes cast against Votes Withheld Total votes cast
124,142,256 99.6% 543,283 0.039% 17,793 0.01% 124,685,539 89.7%
The Committee is grateful for the continuing support of shareholders, and in order to ensure that this continues, the Committee will ensure that 
it consults with shareholders on major issues on which it feels it is appropriate to do so. It will also continue to adhere to its underlying principle 
of decision-making that Executive Director pay must be linked to performance and the sustainable delivery of value to our shareholders.
This Annual Remuneration report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Brian McBride
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
11 March 2015
74
Remuneration Committee report
continued Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and  
the financial statements in accordance with applicable company law 
and regulations and those International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union. Under Company law, the Directors 
must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs  
of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.  
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year which present fairly the financial position of the 
Company and of the Group and the results and cash flows of the 
Group for that period. In preparing the financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable;
• State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained  
in the accounts; and
• Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper and adequate 
accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any 
time, the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure 
that the accounts and the Directors’ Remuneration report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence, 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the financial and corporate governance information as provided  
on the Computacenter plc website (www.computacenter.com). 
Disclosure of information to auditor
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each  
of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
• To the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no 
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which  
the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
• Each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably  
be expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are  
aware of that information.
Directors’ responsibility statement
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
for the Company and undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
• Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company’s 
Annual Report and Accounts include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position  
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face; and
• The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken 
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
and the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Annual Report from pages 1 to 75 was approved by the Board  
of Directors and authorised for issue on 11 March 2015 and signed  
for on behalf of the Board by:
 
Mike Norris Tony Conophy
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
11 March 2015 11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
75
Directors’ responsibilities
Directors’ responsibilities Opinion on financial statements, which is unmodified
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited:
We have audited the financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2014, which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity, 
consolidated cash flow statement and related notes, as set out on pages 79 to 123.
• The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
• The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement
The table below shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources 
in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team together with our audit response to the risk:
Risk Our response
Revenue recognition (see note 2):
The Group’s revenue comprises Supply Chain and Professional and Contractual Services. We considered the risks 
associated with each revenue stream separately and designed our audit response appropriately:
• Supply Chain – the risk of inappropriate recognition of revenue
on significant product contracts around the period end due
to non-standard contract terms.
• Contractual Services – the risk of inappropriate contract
segmentation resulting in revenue being recorded in the wrong
period and the inappropriate matching of revenue with contract
delivery or incurred costs (including any contractual penalties
due). In the case of the Group’s one long-term accounting
contract, which terminates in 2015, the risk related to the
estimations made by management in assessing the appropriate
stage of completion, costs to complete, and revenue recognised.
• Professional Services – the risk of inappropriate revenue
recognition relating to complex contracts – namely, timing
of revenue recognition and use of the correct rate and the
appropriate associated incurred costs.
• For contract related revenue (Professional and Contractual
Services) – we considered the risk around loss provisions, that
the appropriate revenue and costs were included within the
provision; management had appropriately identified all contracts
requiring a loss provision.
• We performed detailed testing of a sample of sales around the
period end date to ensure that revenue had been appropriate
recognised in the correct period, and we tested a sample of
sales to supporting documentation to identify any right of return
clauses and ensure that revenue had been appropriately
recognised. We performed audit procedures on the controls
in place to test the appropriate determination of the revenue
to be recognised, and vouched revenue levels to the related
purchase order or agreement (including terms and conditions)
held with customers.
• We tested management’s controls to ensure the correct billing
and cost capture on contracts.
• For a sample of sales transactions we agreed the recorded
amounts to underlying records.
• We re-performed the calculations to confirm the accuracy of
the accrued and deferred income recorded at the period end.
• We have reviewed actual to forecast performance, interviewed
and challenged management (both financial and non-financial)
in relation to poorer performing contracts.
• For the Group’s one long-term accounting contract, we
challenged management’s performance assumptions in respect
to the judgements made in assessing the cost to complete
estimate, verifying explanations for unexpected variances.
76
Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Computacenter plc
Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Computacenter plc Risk Our response
French operations (see notes 13, 17 and 23):
The impact of the activities to turnaround the Group’s French subsidiary and its impact on the carrying value of the related 
non-current assets and working capital balances, specifically the recoverability of the related debtors.
• In recent years, the French operations of Computacenter have 
returned a loss. This indicates the risk of impairment of 
non-current and intangible assets in relation to Computacenter 
France, as set out in the Audit Committee’s report on page 58  
of the Annual Report and Accounts. We have considered the 
risks associated with management’s estimation processes, 
assumptions and the reasonableness of management’s 
forecasts and specific turnaround plans.
• Following the significant increase in the level of overdue  
trade receivables within Computacenter France, there are  
risks associated with their recoverability. These include the risks 
associated with determining the collectability of aged debtors  
in France and the related assumptions used in determining  
the provision required.
• Completeness and valuation of the provision for the French 
restructuring and assessment of the key assumptions used  
within the calculation.
• We examined management’s calculations for assessing  
the valuation of the non-current and intangible assets of 
Computacenter France. In particular, we assessed the forecasts 
of the cash flows for the cash-generating unit by reviewing 
management’s supporting information and that contained on our 
files, interviewing financial and non-financial management within 
the business and considering contra-indicators within our other 
procedures. We assessed the appropriateness of other key 
assumptions, such as discount rates and terminal growth rates  
by comparing to relevant external economic data. We also 
performed sensitivity analyses by stressing key assumptions  
in the model to assess the level of headroom in place based  
on reasonably expected movements in such assumptions.
• We tested existence of the trade receivables balance through 
testing a sample of invoices to proof of delivery and customer 
purchase orders. We assessed the adequacy of management’s 
provision against the aged French trade receivables and their 
recoverability by testing the provision rationale for a sample of 
receivables, reviewing ageing and obtaining third party evidence 
to support the recoverability of aged receivables not provided for.
• We examined management’s calculation and the assumptions 
used in determining the provision for restructuring of 
Computacenter France in the year, its utilisation, and performed 
an analysis of the key factors within this calculation to assess their 
impact on the resulting provision. 
Exceptional items (see note 5):
The risks associated with the appropriateness of disclosures made within the Annual Report and Accounts,  
specifically those disclosure associated with exceptional items (see note 5 of the Annual Report and Accounts).
• The risk of non-compliance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards and guidance issued by the UK’s Financial 
Reporting Council in relation to exceptional items, and 
compliance with the Computacenter Group’s stated policy.
• A sample of exceptional items (including all material items)  
have been agreed to source documentation and challenged  
by the local and Group audit teams as to their nature in order  
to validate that they are material non-recurring items which are 
appropriate to present outside of normalised operating profit.
Our application of materiality 
We initially determined materiality for the Group to be £4.0 million (2013: £3.5 million), which is approximately 5 per cent (2013: 5 per cent) of 
pre-tax profit before non-recurring exceptional items. We used this adjusted pre-tax profits measure as we consider this to be one of the principal 
considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group. This provided a basis for determining the nature, 
timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing 
and extent of further audit procedures. We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing 
needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole.
During the course of our audit, the actual profit of the Group was in line with the forecasted profit and as a result we maintained our  
materiality threshold at £4.0 million (2013: £3.5 million). On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s 
overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75 per cent (2013: 75 per cent)  
of planning materiality, namely £3.0 million (2013: £2.6 million). Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected 
and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality. The performance materiality 
set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the 
current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was £1 million to £2 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.2 million (2013: £0.2 million), 
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other 
relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected three components which represent 
the Group’s three principal reportable segments and, together with the Group operations (also subject to a full audit), account for 95 per cent  
(2013: 98 per cent) of the Group’s total assets and 96 per cent (2013: 98 per cent) of the Group’s revenue, and 93 per cent (2013: 92 per cent)  
of the Group’s profit before tax and exceptional items. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to 
address the risks of material misstatement identified above. For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to confirm there  
were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor 
visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused, or meets with the location audit teams, each year. 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
77 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006, which is unmodified
In our opinion:
• the part of the Annual Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared  
is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing  
our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and  
the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance  
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based  
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of  
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us  
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body,  
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Nick Powell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP,  
Statutory Auditor 
London 
11 March 2015
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Computacenter plc website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
78
Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Computacenter plc continued Note
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Revenue 3 3,107,759 3,072,075 
Cost of sales (2,697,842) (2,668,814)
Gross profit 409,917 403,261 
Administrative expenses (323,814) (321,096)
Operating profit: 
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items 86,103 82,165 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,868) (2,375)
Onerous contracts 1,540 (15,739)
Non-cash impairment – (12,195)
Other exceptional items (9,128) (830)
Exceptional items 5 (7,588) (28,764)
Operating profit 76,647 51,026 
Finance revenue 7 1,615 1,351 
Finance costs 8 (1,844) (1,852)
Profit before tax:
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items 85,874 81,664 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,868) (2,375)
Onerous contracts 1,540 (15,739)
Non-cash impairment – (12,195)
Other exceptional items (9,128) (830)
Exceptional items 5 (7,588) (28,764)
Profit before tax 76,418 50,525 
Income tax expense:
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items (21,353) (19,325)
Tax on amortisation of intangibles 238 244 
Tax on onerous contracts (185) 1,889 
Tax on non-cash impairment – 1,014 
Tax on other exceptional items – (700)
Total tax on exceptional items 5 (185) 2,203 
Exceptional tax items – (489)
Income tax expense 9 (21,300) (17,367)
Profit for the year 55,118 33,158 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 55,117 33,160 
Non-controlling interests 1 (2)
Profit for the year 55,118 33,158 
Earnings per share
– basic for profit for the period 10 40.5p 23.2p
– diluted for profit for the period 10 40.0p 23.0p
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
79
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Note
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit for the year: 55,118 33,158 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Loss arising on cash flow hedge 21 (251) (1,403)
Income tax effect 54 326 
(197) (1,077)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (10,976) 4,326 
(11,173) 3,249
Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of defined benefit plan (1,177) –
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (12,350) 3,249 
Total comprehensive income for the period 42,768 36,407 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 42,768 36,407 
Non-controlling interests – – 
42,768 36,407 
80
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Note
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 79,940 89,044 
Intangible assets 13 90,344 98,870 
Investment in associate 15 42 45 
Deferred income tax asset 9 15,049 15,172 
185,375 203,131 
Current assets
Inventories 16 50,006 58,618 
Trade and other receivables 17 695,915 667,722 
Prepayments 52,688 61,579
Accrued income 50,869 53,140 
Forward currency contracts 24 2,434 –
Cash and short-term deposits 18 129,865 91,098 
981,777 932,157 
Total assets 1,167,152 1,135,288 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 635,279 604,945 
Deferred income 106,862 115,986 
Financial liabilities 20 6,850 8,147 
Forward currency contracts 24 389 2,360 
Income tax payable 9,810 10,239 
Provisions 23 9,808 6,005
768,998 747,682 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 20 3,818 11,540 
Provisions 23 8,176 10,449 
Deferred income tax liabilities 9 748 947 
12,742 22,936 
Total liabilities 781,740 770,618 
Net assets 385,412 364,670 
Capital and reserves
Issued capital 26 9,283 9,271 
Share premium 26 4,597 4,362 
Capital redemption reserve 26 74,957 74,963
Own shares held 26 (10,760) (11,976)
Foreign currency translation reserve 26 (4,326) 6,649 
Retained earnings 311,648 281,388
Shareholders’ equity 385,399 364,657 
Non-controlling interests 13 13 
Total equity 385,412 364,670 
Approved by the Board on 11 March 2015
  
MJ Norris    FA Conophy
Chief Executive Officer   Group Finance Director
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
81
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014
Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2014 Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Issued
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own
shares
held
£’000
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling
interests
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
At 1 January 2014 9,271 4,362 74,963 (11,976) 6,649 281,388 364,657 13 364,670 
Profit for the year – – – – – 55,117 55,117 1 55,118 
Other comprehensive income – – – – (10,975) (1,373) (12,350) (1) (12,351)
Total comprehensive income – – – – (10,975) 53,744 42,767 – 42,768
Prior period corrections (note 2) 6 – (6) 695 – (695) – – –
Cost of share-based payments – – – – – 2,810 2,810 – 2,810 
Tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – – 39 39 – 39 
Exercise of options 6 235 – 2,804 – (965) 2,080 – 2,080 
Purchase of own shares – – – (2,283) – – (2,283) – (2,283)
Equity dividends – – – – – (24,673) (24,673) – (24,673)
At 31 December 2014 9,283 4,597 74,957 (10,760) (4,326) 311,648 385,399 13 385,412
At 1 January 2013 9,234 3,769 74,957 (13,848) 2,325 345,893 422,330 13 422,343
Profit for the year – – – – – 33,160 33,160 (2) 33,158 
Other comprehensive income – – – – 4,324 (1,077) 3,247 2 3,249 
Total comprehensive income – – – – 4,324 32,083 36,407 – 36,407
Cost of share-based payments – – – – – 1,070 1,070 – 1,070 
Tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – – 126 126 – 126
Exercise of options 28 1,194 – 3,364 – (1,872) 2,714 – 2,714
Bonus issue 15 (15) – – – – – – – 
Expenses on bonus issue – (586) – – – – (586) – (586)
Redemption of shares (6) – 6 – – – – – –
Return of Value – – – – – (73,115) (73,115) – (73,115)
Purchase of own shares – – – (1,492) – – (1,492) – (1,492)
Equity dividends – – – – – (22,797) (22,797) – (22,797)
At 31 December 2013 9,271 4,362 74,963 (11,976) 6,649 281,388 364,657 13 364,670 
82
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Note
2014
£’000
Restated
2013
£’000
Operating activities
Profit before taxation 76,418 50,525 
Net finance income 229 501 
Depreciation 12 20,398 22,735 
Amortisation 13 12,675 9,839 
Impairment of intangible assets – 12,195 
Share-based payments 2,810 1,070 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 676 (215)
Loss on disposal of intangibles 1 642 
Decrease in inventories 5,834 10,596 
Increase in trade and other receivables (51,167) (94,982)
Increase in trade and other payables 50,275 54,814
(Decrease)/Increase in provisions (1,851) 5,626
Other adjustments (473) (815)
Cash generated from operations 115,825 72,531 
Income taxes paid (21,408) (9,624)
Net cash flow from operating activities 94,417 62,907 
Investing activities
Interest received 1,615 1,741
Decrease in current asset investment – 10,000 
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 15b (465) –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 44 921 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (12,189) (9,609)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 1 –
Purchases of intangible assets (5,494) (15,544)
Net cash flow from investing activities (16,488) (12,491)
Financing activities
Interest paid (1,275) (2,663)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the parent 11 (24,673) (22,797)
Return of Value – (73,115)
Expenses on Return of Value – (586)
Proceeds from share issues 1,791 2,910
Purchase of own shares (2,283) (1,492) 
Repayment of capital element of finance leases (4,983) (8,066)
Repayment of loans (7,767) (2,766)
New borrowings 3,908 9,267 
Net cash flow from financing activities (35,282) (99,308)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 42,647 (48,892)
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (3,835) 1,755 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 18 90,334 137,471 
Cash and cash equivalents at the year-end 18 129,146 90,334 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
83
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 1  Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The consolidated financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance 
with a resolution of the Directors on 11 March 2015. The balance sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by MJ Norris and FA Conophy. 
Computacenter plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly traded.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), as adopted by 
the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and applied in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£’000) except when 
otherwise indicated.
Restatement for prior period corrections
Management have identified several misstatements related to the information presented within the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and have 
corrected these as noted below:
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – note 13 intangible assets
We have corrected the note disclosure for intangible assets for the 2013 prior period in note 13. The effect of the correction was to increase the 
charge for the year by £163,000 from £2,212,000 to £2,375,000 and to decrease the foreign currency adjustment by the same amount from 
£287,000 to £124,000 within the comparative note disclosure only.
Return of Value – consolidated statement of changes in equity
An element of the 2013 Return of Value transaction was accounted for in error. This has been corrected in the current period with the entry 
increasing issued capital by £6,000 and decreasing the capital redemption reserves by the same amount.
Historical differences within the own shares held reserve have been identified and corrected during 2014 resulting in a debit to the own shares 
held reserve of £695,000 and a credit to retained earnings of £405,000.
Both of these corrections are contained within the line item ‘prior period corrections’ within the statement of changes in equity for the year 
ended 31 December 2014.
Own shares held – consolidated cash flow statement and consolidated statement of changes in equity
An amount paid for own shares of £1,492,319 was incorrectly netted against other line items in both the consolidated cash flow statement for the year 
ended 31 December 2013 and the consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 31 December 2013. The relevant comparative information for 
both statements has been restated with the amount appearing on a separate ‘purchase of own shares’ line in both comparative statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.  
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using existing GAAP in each country of 
operation. Adjustments are made on consolidation for differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the  
Group no longer retains control.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented 
separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders’ equity.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows:
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year. Except as noted below, adoption  
of these standards did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group. They may however give rise to additional 
disclosures. The other pronouncements which came into force during the year were not relevant to the Group:
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities – amendments to IAS 32 
These amendments clarify the meaning of ‘currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off’ and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement 
mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting and is applied retrospectively. These amendments have no impact on the Group, since 
none of the entities in the Group has any offsetting arrangements.
Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting – amendments to IAS 39 
These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument 
meets certain criteria and retrospective application is required. These amendments have no impact on the Group as the Group has not novated 
its derivatives during the current or prior periods. 84
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle 
In the 2010-2012 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued seven amendments to six standards, which included an amendment to  
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. The amendment to IFRS 13 is effective immediately and, thus, for periods beginning at 1 January 2014,  
and it clarifies in the basis for conclusions that short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rates can be measured at invoice 
amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial. This amendment to IFRS 13 has no impact on the Group.
Annual improvements 2011-2013 cycle 
In the 2011-2013 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued four amendments to four standards, which included an amendment to IFRS 1 
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. The amendment to IFRS 1 is effective immediately and, thus, for periods 
beginning at 1 January 2014, and it clarifies in the Basis for Conclusions that an entity may choose to apply either a current standard or a new 
standard that is not yet mandatory, but permits early application, provided either standard is applied consistently throughout the periods presented 
in the entity’s first IFRS financial statements. This amendment to IFRS 1 has no impact on the Group, since the Group is an existing IFRS preparer.
New and revised standards and interpretations not applied
The following new or revised standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have not been applied  
in preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall in periods beginning after 31 December 2014.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2017
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments relating to Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.
IAS 27 Amendments relating to Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements.
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments relating to Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture.
IFRS 11 Amendments relating to Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2019
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge 
accounting and derecognition.
It is not anticipated that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s accounts, however 
Management’s assessment of the impact and accepted best practice is ongoing. Certain of these standards and interpretations will, when 
adopted, require addition to or amendment of disclosures in the accounts.
Critical judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires Management to exercise judgement in applying the Group’s accounting policies. It also requires 
the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Due to the inherent uncertainty 
in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are 
revised and in any future periods affected. The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of  
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and other non-current assets
Determining whether goodwill, intangible assets and other non-current assets are impaired requires an estimation of their recoverable amount 
which is the higher of either the value in use to the cash-generating units (‘CGU’) to which these assets belong or the fair value less costs of 
disposal. The value in use calculation requires appropriate forecasts of future cash flows expected to arise for the CGU and the selection of suitable 
discount rates and future growth rates. The Group reviews impairment of these assets at least on an annual basis, or more frequently if there  
is an indicator of impairment.
Further detail on the impairment testing of intangible assets, goodwill and non-current assets is disclosed in note 14.
Provisions
Provisions are established by the Group based on Management’s assessment of relevant information and advice available at the time of preparing 
the Financial Statements. Outcomes are uncertain and dependent on future events. Where outcomes differ from Management’s expectations, 
differences from the amount initially provided will impact profit or loss in the period the outcome is determined.
As disclosed in note 23, the Group’s provisions principally relate to obligations arising from onerous lease property provisions, customer contract 
provisions, restructuring provisions and retirement benefit obligations. Further details of specific estimates used in arriving at these provisions  
are provided in the note.
Providing for doubtful debts
The Group provides services and equipment to business and public sector customers, mainly on credit terms. Management know that certain  
debts due to us will not be paid through the default of a small number of our customers. Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in 
determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected. These estimates include such factors as the current state of the economy, particular 
industry issues and the individual credit risk assessed against each customer. Refer to note 24 for further details on credit risk.
The level of overdue outstanding debt in France has required Management to increase its estimate of debt that may not be collected. Some of the debt is 
of considerable age and has not been collected due to legacy issues related to the move to the SAP ERP platform in 2013 and subsequently to the Finance 
Shared Service Centre environment in 2014. Management reviews the overdue debt position weekly and estimates the provision required accordingly.
The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 17.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
85 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Taxation
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available  
in the future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. To determine the future taxable profits, reference is made to the 
latest available profit forecasts. Where the temporary differences are related to losses, relevant tax law is considered to determine the availability 
of the losses to offset against the future taxable profits. 
The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the deferred tax asset in Germany are derived from the Group’s best 
estimation, as described above. Recognition therefore involves estimates regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity  
in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits resulted in the derecognition of the French deferred tax asset in 2013. 
In arriving at the current and deferred tax liability the Group has taken account of tax issues that are subject to ongoing discussions with the 
relevant tax authorities. Liabilities have been calculated based on Management’s assessment of relevant information and advice. Where outcomes 
differ from the amounts initially recorded, such differences impact current and deferred tax amounts in the period the outcome is determined.
Further details on the deferred tax balances held at 31 December 2014 are disclosed in note 9d.
Revenue recognition
For a limited number of Support and Managed Services contracts, an estimate of the total contract costs and total contract revenues is required  
to determine the stage of completion. 
The Group accounts for these contracts using the percentage-of-completion (units of work) method, recognising revenue and direct costs as 
performance on the contract progresses through the recorded utilisation of our services. This method places considerable importance on accurate 
estimates of the extent of progress towards completion of the contract and may involve estimates on the scope of services required for fulfilling  
the contractually defined obligations. These significant estimates include total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including 
technical risks, and other judgements. Under the percentage-of-completion method, changes in estimates may lead to an increase or decrease  
of revenue recognised at a point in time. 
When the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that expenses incurred are eligible  
to be recovered. No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration.
Critical Judgements
Judgements made by Management in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the financial statements:
Exceptional items
Management is required to exercise its judgement in the classification of certain items as exceptional and outside the Group’s adjusted results.
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the 
nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements  
of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Management have considered the materiality, infrequency and nature of the French Social Plan against the requirements and guidance provided  
by IAS 1, our Group accounting policies and recent press releases from the FRC. Management judged that classifying the scale and transformative 
nature of the restructuring programme in France and the subsequent expense related to the French Social Plan as an exceptional item in the 
income statement provides the best guidance as to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the results of the Group  
in accordance with the policy above.
During 2014 the reversal of the unutilised portion of our onerous Managed Services customer contracts provision was classified as an exceptional 
item as the original expense related to the provision was classified as such in 2013.
Asset held for sale
Management made a judgement in deciding that the sale of its subsidiary, R.D. Trading Limited should not be accounted for as an asset held for 
sale under the Group’s relevant accounting policy disclosed later in this note. Management considered the timeline of events from the unsolicited 
enquiry from the purchaser near the end of the reporting period through to the rapid conclusion of the sale process on 2 February 2015, among 
other factors, when making the judgement. 
Management had neither a programme for disposal of the asset or a plan to market the subsidiary for sale to any other party during 2014 or 2015. 
The sale process began following the purchaser’s opportunistic approach in late 2014.
Management did not consider the sale of the subsidiary probable at the end of the reporting period, based on the stage of discussions with  
the purchaser. 
86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation, down to residual value, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows:
Freehold buildings 25-50 years 
Short leasehold improvements shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease
Fixtures and fittings
– Head office 5-15 years
– Other shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease
Office machinery, computer hardware 2-15 years
Motor vehicles 3 years
Freehold land is not depreciated. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased  
item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate  
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.  
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets
Software and software licences
Software and software licences include computer software that is not integral to a related item of hardware. These assets are stated at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value. Amortisation is calculated on straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. 
Currently software is amortised over four years.
The carrying values of software and software licences are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount,  
the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Software under development
Costs that are incurred and that can be specifically attributed to the development phase of management information systems for internal  
use are capitalised and amortised over their useful life, once the asset becomes available for use. 
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business are carried initially at fair value. Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows:
Existing customer contracts 5 years
Existing customer relationships 10 years
Tools and technology 7 years
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
may not be recoverable.
Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 (Revised) using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised  
in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised. Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included 
within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed  
for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by Management, usually at 
business segment level or statutory company level as the case may be. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less  
than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
87 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. Where an asset does not 
have independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is assessed for the cash-generating unit to which it belongs. The recoverable amount is 
the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the asset or cash-generating unit. Where the carrying amount of an asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement  
in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment 
losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group estimates the assets or cash-generating unit’s recoverable 
amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the last impairment was recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its 
recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised 
for the asset in prior years. As the Group has no assets carried at revalued amounts, such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Investment in associates
The Group’s interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint 
ventures, are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share 
of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. The Group income statement 
reflects the share of the associate’s results after tax. Where there has been a change recognised in other comprehensive income of the associate, 
the Group recognises its share of any such change in the Group statement of other comprehensive income.
Inventories
Inventories are carried at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving 
items. Costs include those incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised at their fair value which initially equates to the consideration given plus directly attributable transaction costs 
associated with the investment.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as described in each category below.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at their original invoice amount less an allowance for any 
uncollectable amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Balances are written off when 
the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Current asset investments
Current asset investments comprise deposits held for a term of greater than three months from the date of deposit and which is not available  
to the Group on demand. Subsequent to initial measurement, current asset investments are measured at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of 
three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as described in each category below.
Interest-bearing borrowings
All borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense 
when incurred.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
88
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised where:
• the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
• the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay  
to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; or
• the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of  
the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations affecting cash 
flows from forecasted transactions and unrecognised firm commitments. 
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply 
hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation includes identification of the 
hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of changes  
in the hedging instrument’s fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged  
risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in cash flows and are addressed on an ongoing basis to 
determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they are designated.
Forward contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value at 
each reporting date. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar 
maturity profiles. Forward contracts are recorded as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either 
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in  
an unrecognised firm commitment.
Cash flow hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement in administrative expenses. 
Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to the Income Statement, within administrative expenses, when the hedged 
transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial expense is recognised.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is transferred 
to the income statement within administrative expenses. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or 
rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income remains in other 
comprehensive income until after the forecast transaction or firm commitment affects profit or loss.
Any other gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on forward contracts are taken directly to administrative expenses in the income statement.
Foreign currency translation
The Group’s presentation currency is Pounds Sterling (£). Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included  
in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded 
in the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the 
consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date  
of initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the material overseas subsidiaries are Euro (€), US Dollar (US$), South African Rand (ZAR) and Swiss Franc (CHF).  
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at the 
rate of exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet date and their Income Statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange 
differences arising on the retranslation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. On disposal of a foreign entity,  
the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to that particular foreign operation  
is recognised in the income statement.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
89 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount 
of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax  
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Customer contract provisions
Contractual Services revenue includes revenue from Support Services and Managed Services contracts.
On a limited number of these contracts revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis which is determined by reference  
to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract. 
If the performance of one of these limited number of contracts results in a margin that was less than anticipated at the time that it was agreed 
then the future financial performance of that contract will be reviewed in detail. If, after further financial analysis, the full financial consequence 
of the contract can be reliably estimated, and it is determined that the contract is potentially loss-making, then the best estimate of the losses 
expected to be incurred until the end of the contract will be provided for. 
The Group has elected to apply IAS 11 in its assessment of whether contracts are considered onerous and in subsequently estimating the 
provision as IAS 18 considers the requirements of IAS 11 are generally applicable to the recognition of revenue and the associated expenses  
for a transaction involving the rendering of services.
A contract that is accounted for under IAS 11 that is considered potentially onerous is assessed according to the recognition of expected losses 
in IAS 11 ahead of the onerous contract guidance in IAS 37 and considers total estimated costs (i.e. directly attributable variable costs and 
fixed allocated costs) as included in the assessment of whether the contract is onerous or not and in the measurement of the provision.
Restructuring provisions
The Group recognises a ‘restructuring’ provision when there is a programme planned and controlled by Management that materially changes 
the scope of the business or the manner in which it is conducted. 
Further to the Group’s general provision recognition policy, a restructuring provision is only considered when the Group has a detailed formal 
plan for the restructuring identifying, as a minimum, the business or part of the business concerned; the principal locations affected; the 
location, function and approximate number of employees who will be compensated for terminating their services; the expenditures that  
will be undertaken and when the plan will be implemented.
The Group will only recognise a specific restructuring provision once a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring 
by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The Group only includes incremental costs associated directly with the restructuring within the restructuring provisions such as employee 
termination benefits that relate directly to the restructuring and consulting fees that relate directly to the restructuring. The Group specifically 
excludes from recognition in a restructuring provision any costs associated with ongoing activities such as the costs of training or relocating 
staff that are redeployed within the business rather than retrenched and costs for employees who continue to be employed in ongoing 
operations, regardless of the status of these operations post-restructure.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme available to all UK employees. Contributions are recognised as an expense in the 
income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme. There are no other material pension schemes within 
the Group’s overseas operations.
The Group has an obligation to make a one-off payment to French employees upon retirement, the Indemnités de Fin de Carrière (‘IFC’).
French employment law requires that a company pays employees a one-time contribution when (and only when) the employee leaves  
the company for retirement at the mandatory age. This is a legal requirement for all businesses who incur the obligation upon departure,  
due to retirement, of an employee.
Typically the retirement benefit is based on length of service of the employee and his or her salary at retirement. The amount is set via a legal 
minimum but the retirement premiums can be improved by the collective agreement or employment contract in some cases. In Computacenter 
France, the payment is based on accrued service and ranges from 1 month of salary after 5 years service to 9.4 months of salary after  
47 years of service.
If the employee leaves voluntarily at any point before retirement, all liability is extinguished and any accrued service is not transferred to any 
new employment.
Previously, due to the lack of materiality of the obligation, Management had made an accrual through the income statement and expensed any 
payments as they occurred. This reporting period Management has recorded the previously unrecognised unrealised actuarial losses through 
reserves in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and reclassified the obligation, in the current year, as a provision and will 
continue to account for this obligation according to IAS 19 (revised) in future periods. Due to the materiality of the obligation, Management 
considers no further disclosures are relevant at this time.
90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Taxation
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the  
tax authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts  
in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing  
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
• deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses, can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to the statement of comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to the 
statement of comprehensive income. Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement. 
Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except:
• where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax  
is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and
• trade receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the  
balance sheet.
Revenue
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts and rebates given to customers, VAT and 
other sales tax or duty. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Supply Chain
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on dispatch of goods.
Professional Services
Revenue is recognised when receivable under a contract following delivery of a service or in line with the stage of work completed. The stage  
of completion is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract and unbilled revenue  
is recognised within accrued income. If the total estimated costs and revenues of a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised 
only to the extent that costs have been incurred. A provision is made as soon as a loss is foreseen.
Contractual Services
Contractual Services revenue includes revenue from Support Services and Managed Services contracts, and is recognised as services are 
delivered. Unrecognised contracted revenue is included as deferred income in the balance sheet. Amounts invoiced relating to more than one 
period are deferred and recognised over their relevant life. Where a contract contains several elements, the individual elements are accounted 
for separately where appropriate and revenue thereon is measured at the fair value of the consideration received.
On a limited number of Contractual Services contracts revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis which is determined by 
reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract. Unbilled revenue is recognised within accrued 
income. If a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is restricted to the extent that costs have been incurred that it is probable will  
be recoverable.
Bid and set-up costs
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and is frequently involved in contract bids with multiple competitors with the outcome 
usually unknown until the contract is awarded and signed.
Any bid costs incurred by the Group’s Central Bid Management Engines are not capitalised or charged to the contract, but instead directly 
charged to selling, general and administrative expenses as they are incurred. These costs associated with bids are not separately identifiable 
nor can they be measured reliably as the Group’s internal bid teams work across multiple bids at any one time. Further, it cannot be assessed 
as probable that the contract will be obtained until the tender process has completed and the contract has been awarded.
Finance income
Income is recognised as interest accrues.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right to receive payment is established.
Operating lease income
Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
91 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Exceptional items
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the 
nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements  
of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Share-based payment transactions
Employees (including Executive Directors) of the Group can receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions,  
whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the award at the date at which they  
are granted. The fair value is determined by utilising an appropriate valuation model, further details of which are given in note 27. In valuing 
equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions as none of the conditions set are market-related ones.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or 
service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (‘vesting date’). The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date, until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and the Directors’ best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The Income Statement charge or credit for a period 
represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period. As the schemes do not include any market-
related performance conditions, no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share (see note 10).
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives and senior employees. Shares in the Group 
held by the employee share trust are treated as investment in own shares and are recorded at cost as a deduction from equity (see note 26).
Own shares held
Computacenter plc shares held by the Group are classified in shareholders’ equity as ‘own shares held’ and are recognised at cost. Consideration received 
for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue 
reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Fair value measurement
The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments that are measured at fair value or where fair values are disclosed, are summarised  
in note 24.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Assets held for sale
Non-current assets are classified separately as held for sale in the Balance Sheet when their carrying amount will be recovered through  
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is met only when:
• The sale is highly probable;
• The asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition;
• Management have an approved programme to market and sell the asset or an approved plan for disposal; and 
• Management is committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from  
the date of classification
Liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale and expected to be included as part of the sale transaction are 
correspondingly also classified separately. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not  
subject to depreciation or amortisation. The net assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are measured at the  
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is considered to be a component of the Group that has either been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale, 
which represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose  
of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 3 Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into geographical segments, with each segment determined by the location of the Group’s 
assets and operations. The Group’s business in each geography is managed separately and held in separate statutory entities.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the below reportable operating segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its geographical segments separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource 
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on adjusted operating profit or loss which is measured 
differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements. Adjusted operating profit or loss takes account of the interest 
paid on customer specific financing (‘CSF’) which Management consider to be a cost of sale. Excluded from adjusted operating profit is the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items as Management do not consider these items when reviewing the underlying 
performance of a segment.
 Segmental performance for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 was as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2014
UK 
£’000
Germany
£’000
France
£’000
Belgium
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue
Supply Chain revenue 919,342 774,913 393,406 34,580 2,122,241 
Services revenue
Professional Services 128,901 108,950 19,752 2,113 259,716 
Contractual Services 368,663 283,203 57,957 15,979 725,802 
Total Services revenue 497,564 392,153 77,709 18,092 985,518 
Total revenue  1,416,906 1,167,066 471,115 52,672  3,107,759 
Results
Adjusted gross profit 219,789 151,682 31,757 6,120 409,348 
Administrative expenses (154,259) (124,906) (40,592) (4,057) (323,814)
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 65,530 26,776 (8,835) 2,063 85,534 
Adjusted net interest 942 452 (929) (125) 340 
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax 66,472 27,228 (9,764) 1,938 85,874 
Exceptional items:
– onerous contracts – 1,540 – – 1,540 
– exceptional items – – (9,128) – (9,128)
– 1,540 (9,128) – (7,588)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (551) (1,232) – (85) (1,868)
Statutory profit/(loss) before tax 65,921 27,536 (18,892) 1,853 76,418 
Other segment information
Property, plant and equipment 53,719 16,540 8,009 1,672 79,940
Intangible assets 70,431 17,833 69 2,011 90,344
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 4,802 7,344 759 1,172 14,077
Software 5,078 412 4 – 5,494
Depreciation 10,719 7,505 2,047 127 20,398
Amortisation of software 10,018 706 83 – 10,807
Share-based payments 2,531 215 64 – 2,810
     
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
93 3 Segment information continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
UK 
£’000
Germany
£’000
France
£’000
Belgium
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue
Supply Chain revenue 828,097 859,404 389,517 29,195 2,106,213 
Services revenue
Professional Services 113,102 104,446 20,794 3,716 242,058 
Contractual Services 344,930 307,592 56,008 15,274 723,804 
Total Services revenue 458,032 412,038 76,802 18,990 965,862 
Total revenue 1,286,129 1,271,442 466,319 48,185 3,072,075 
Results
Adjusted gross profit 200,097 158,051 38,320 6,006 402,474 
Administrative expenses (143,926) (127,403) (45,603) (4,164) (321,096)
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 56,171 30,648 (7,283) 1,842 81,378 
Adjusted net interest 791 173 (561) (117) 286 
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax 56,962 30,821 (7,844) 1,725 81,664 
Exceptional items:
– onerous contracts – (15,739) – – (15,739)
– impairment of intangibles – – (12,195) – (12,195)
– exceptional items 3,466 (3,105) (1,191) – (830)
3,466 (18,844) (13,386) – (28,764)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (792) (1,225) (242) (116) (2,375)
Statutory profit/(loss) before tax 59,636 10,752 (21,472) 1,609 50,525 
Other segment information
Property, plant and equipment 60,332 18,063 9,948 701 89,044
Intangible assets 75,734 20,901 155 2,114 98,904
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 5,556 3,927 1,275 85 10,843 
Software 14,883 597 64 – 15,544 
Depreciation 11,658 8,850 2,111 116 22,735
Amortisation of software 6,516 816 131 1 7,464 
Share-based payments 838 (2) 234 – 1,070 
Information about major customers
Included in revenues arising from the UK segment are revenues of approximately £285 million (2013: £280 million) which arose from sales to 
the Group’s largest customer. For the purposes of this disclosure a single customer is considered to be a group of entities known to be under 
common control. This customer consists of entities under control of the UK Government, and includes the Group’s revenues with central 
government, local government and certain government controlled banking institutions. 
94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 4 Group operating profit
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit of the financial statements 419 437
Audit of subsidiaries 64 64
Total audit fees 483 501
Audit related assurance services 42 41
Taxation compliance services 30 34
Taxation advisory services 43 67
Total non-audit services 115 142
Total fees 598 643
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 20,398 22,735 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 676 (238)
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1 745 
Impairment of acquired intangibles – 12,195 
Amortisation of software 10,807 7,464 
Amortisation of other intangible assets 1,868 2,375 
Net foreign currency differences (456) 271 
Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 1,902,479 1,878,999 
Operating lease payments – minimum lease payments 53,924 32,768 
5 Exceptional items
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Operating profit
Redundancy and other restructuring costs (9,128) (4,291)
Onerous contracts 1,540 (15,739)
Impairment of acquired intangible assets – (12,195)
Impairment of investment in associate – (539)
Services contracts re-valuation – 4,000
(7,588) (28,764)
Income tax
Tax on onerous contracts included in operating profit (185) 1,889 
Tax on impairment of acquired intangible assets – 1,014 
Tax on exceptional items included in operating profit – (700)
Total tax on exceptional items (185) 2,203 
Exceptional tax items
– Deferred tax asset in respect of France – (2,184)
– Tax credit in relation to prior year R&D claim – 1,695
(185) 1,714 
 
Exceptional items after taxation (7,773) (27,050)
Included within the current year are the following exceptional items:
Computacenter France has incurred an exceptional charge of £9.1 million relating to the estimated costs of a comprehensive restructuring  
plan with the Group’s French business.
The substantial restructuring exercise currently underway aims to reduce the cost base, improve the competitiveness and therefore improve 
the profitability of the Group’s French business.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
95 5 Exceptional items continued
In line with our accounting policy, Management has elected under IAS 1 to report this provision under the heading of ‘Exceptional Items’ due to  
the materiality, infrequency and nature of the restructuring plan. This election provides the best guidance to users of our external reporting as 
to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the results of the Group in a way that is fair, balanced and understandable. 
Excluding the costs related to the restructuring plan is consistent with treatments of similar costs in prior periods and presents the adjusted 
profit before tax in a way that enables users to better assess the quality of the Group’s underlying profitability.
The Group’s three onerous contracts have performed within the provisions previously taken, and one of these contracts came to an end as of 
30 September 2014. A related legal dispute with a sub-contractor on one of these contracts, that was previously provided for, has now been 
resolved. Given these factors and ongoing operational improvements within two remaining contracts, Management has revised its estimates  
of the losses to be incurred. On this basis the Group has released £1.5 million of the provision. As the onerous contracts were previously 
treated as an exceptional item on recognition, the write back of the provision has also been released as an exceptional item.
Included within the prior year are the following exceptional items:
In Germany three managed service contracts were identified as onerous. A £2.1 million provision was made in December 2012 for these 
contracts. A further provision for estimated future losses of £7.5 million was held as at December 2013. This further provision was classified  
as an exceptional item due to its size and nature and the 2012 result was restated to be consistent.
Included within the German segment results in 2012 and 2013 were losses incurred in relation to these onerous contracts. In order to provide  
a clearer understanding of the performance of the remainder of the business, losses previously recognised within the German operating  
result for these contracts were reclassified within exceptional items. In 2012 trading losses of £5.9 million were incurred on revenues of  
£15.4 million. In 2013 trading losses of £8.2 million were incurred on turnover of £23.0 million.
The deterioration in the performance of Computacenter France led to an assessment of their non-current assets. It was concluded that the 
forecasted cash flows for the French cash generating unit did not fully support the value of non-current assets in the business. This resulted  
in an impairment of £12.2 million of intangible assets in the French cash generating unit.
During 2013 Computacenter Germany continued its programme, from late 2012, to reduce its net operating expenses. As a result, redundancy 
costs of £3.1 million were incurred during the year, which due to their size and nature were included within exceptional items.
Similarly, Computacenter France begun a programme to also reduce its SG&A and restructure its business and senior management in line  
with the Group Operating Model. Redundancy related expenses of £1.2 million were included in the 2013 result.
Due to the continued adverse performance of our equity accounted associate, ICS Solutions Limited, we decided to fully impair the £0.5 million 
recorded value of our investment.
As part of our normal processes, we carried out a detailed evaluation of other long-term Services contracts across the Group. As a result of this 
ongoing evaluation, Management calculated that a positive change in certain estimates resulted in a one-off gain of £4.0 million. Due to the nature 
of the change in the estimates, and the size of the gain, it was decided to highlight this as an exceptional item. This is consistent with the treatment 
of the previously identified onerous contracts and provided a fairer and more balanced understanding of our underlying growth in profitability.
During 2013 a deferred tax asset relating to losses carried forward in France was written off for £2.2 million.
Tax relief from a prior period Research and Development project spend on the Group ERP platforms resulted in a prior year adjustment credited 
in the statutory tax charge for year. Due to the timing, materiality and one-off nature of this relief, it was decided to classify it as an exceptional 
tax item.
6 Staff costs and Directors’ emoluments
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Wages and salaries 542,594 544,954 
Social security costs 84,682 85,908 
Share-based payments 2,810 1,070 
Pension costs 20,595 20,069 
651,907 652,001 
Share-based payments arise from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
2014
No.
2013
No.
UK 5,770 5,385 
Germany 5,044 5,093 
France 1,858 1,856 
Belgium 287 257 
12,959 12,591 
96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 7 Finance income
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Bank interest receivable 1,510 1,340 
Other interest received 105 11
1,615 1,351
8 Finance costs 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Bank loans and overdrafts 969 627 
Finance charges payable on customer specific financing 570 787 
Other interest 305 438 
1,844 1,852 
9 Income tax
a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Tax charged in the income statement
Current income tax
UK corporation tax
– operating result 17,048 14,395
– exceptional items – (891) 
Total UK corporation tax 17,048 13,504 
Foreign tax
– operating result 5,820 5,031 
– exceptional items (459) (1,994) 
Total foreign tax 5,361 3,037 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 191 (509)
Total current income tax 22,600 16,032 
Deferred tax
Operating result
– origination and reversal of temporary differences (1,340) 139
– adjustments in respect of prior periods (604) 25
Exceptional items 644 1,171
Total deferred tax (1,300) 1,335
Tax charge in the income statement 21,300 17,367
 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
97 9 Income tax continued
b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Accounting profit before income tax 76,418 50,525
At the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 21.49 per cent (2013: 23.25 per cent) 16,422 11,747 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,173 802 
Non-deductible element of share-based payment charge 60 54
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous periods (413) (485)
Higher tax on overseas earnings 1,417 1,511 
Other differences (688) 766
Effect of changes in tax rate on deferred tax – (262)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (3,238) (3,169)
Exceptional changes in recoverable amounts of deferred tax assets – 2,185
Tax on impairment of acquired intangible assets – (1,014)
Overseas tax not based on earnings 1,345 1,554
Tax credit in relation to prior year R&D claim – (1,695)
Deferred tax not recognised on current year losses 5,222 5,373 
At effective income tax rate of 27.9 per cent (2013: 34.4 per cent) 21,300 17,367 
c) Tax losses
Deferred tax assets of £12.2 million (2013: £13.5 million) have been recognised in respect of losses carried forward. 
In addition, at 31 December 2014, there were unused tax losses across the Group of £115.8 million (2013: £125.4 million) for which no deferred  
tax asset has been recognised. Of these losses, £35.9 million (2013: £54.5 million) arise in Germany and £78.9 million (2013: £67.6 million) arise 
in France. A significant proportion of the losses arising in Germany have been generated in statutory entities that no longer have significant levels 
of trade. The remaining unrecognised tax losses relate to other loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
None of the recognised or unrecognised losses referred to above are subject to an expiry date under existing regulation enacted at the period end.
d) Deferred tax
Deferred income tax at 31 December relates to the following:
Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated capital allowances 1,781 1,970 (189) 258 
Effect of changes in tax rate on opening liability – – – 267
Amortisation of intangibles 976 1,354 (309) 1,277 
Gross deferred income tax liabilities 2,757 3,324
Deferred income tax assets
Relief on share option gains 1,645 1,142 (502) (55)
Other temporary differences 3,204 2,501 (1,118) 1,562 
Effect of changes in tax rate on opening asset – – – (109)
Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 54 326 273 320 
Losses available for offset against future taxable income 12,155 13,580 545 (2,185)
Gross deferred income tax assets 17,058 17,549 
Deferred income tax (credit)/charge (1,300) 1,335
Net deferred income tax asset 14,301 14,225
Disclosed on the balance sheet
Deferred income tax asset 15,049 15,172
Deferred income tax liability (748) (947)
Net deferred income tax asset 14,301 14,225
At 31 December 2014, there was no recognised or unrecognised deferred income tax liability (2013: £nil) for taxes that would be payable  
on the unremitted earnings of the Group’s subsidiaries as the Group expects that future remittances of earnings from its overseas subsidiaries 
will be covered by the UK dividend exemption.
e) Impact of rate change
The main rate of UK corporation tax will be reduced to 20 per cent from 1 April 2015, as enacted in the Finance Act 2013. The deferred tax  
in these financial statements reflects this. 98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 10 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) amounts are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (excluding own shares held).
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (excluding own shares held) adjusted for the effect of dilutive options.
Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS are presented to assist with the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. 
Accordingly the adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS figures exclude amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 55,117 33,160 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 1,868 2,375 
Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles (238) (244)
Exceptional items within operating profit 7,588  28,764 
Tax on exceptional items included in operating profit 185 (2,203)
Exceptional tax items – 489 
Profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items 64,520 62,341 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Basic weighted average number of shares (excluding own shares held) 135,985 142,665 
Effect of dilution:
Share options 1,784 1,428 
Diluted weighted average number of shares 137,769 144,093 
2014
pence
2013
pence
Basic earnings per share 40.5 23.2 
Diluted earnings per share 40.0 23.0 
Adjusted basic earnings per share 47.4 43.7 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 46.8 43.3 
Return of Value
On 20 February 2015 the Company effected a capital reorganisation under which each ordinary share of 6
2
/ 3 pence was divided into one 
ordinary share of 7
5
/ 9 pence and one B share of 0.01 pence. Following this sub-division every 17 ordinary shares were consolidated into  
15 ordinary shares of 7
5
/ 9 pence. The holders of the B shares could elect to either sell the shares or receive a one-off dividend payment.  
Both options were remitted to shareholders on 10 March 2015. This return of value is not expected to impact earnings per share in future 
periods. Further details of this transaction are given in note 32.
 
11 Dividends paid and proposed
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Declared and paid during the year:
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Final dividend for 2013: 12.3 pence (2012: 10.5 pence) 16,636 15,759
Interim dividend for 2014: 5.9 pence (2013: 5.2 pence) 8,037 7,038
24,673 22,797
Proposed (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Final dividend for 2014: 13.1 pence (2013: 12.3 pence) 15,737 16,706
  
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
99 12 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land
and buildings
£’000
Short 
leasehold
improvements
£’000
Fixtures, 
fittings,
equipment 
and vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2013 78,004 23,405 163,270 264,679
Additions – 2,786  8,057  10,843 
Disposals – (865) (12,907) (13,772)
Foreign currency adjustment (5) (92) (503) (600)
At 31 December 2013 77,999 25,234 157,917 261,150 
Additions 1,069 1,442 11,566 14,077 
Disposals – (2,717) (9,282) (11,999)
Foreign currency adjustment (110) (1,199) (3,709) (5,018)
At 31 December 2014 78,958 22,760 156,492 258,210 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 33,187 12,923 117,873 163,983
Provided during the year 2,241 3,175 17,319  22,735 
Disposals (400) (776) (11,890) (13,066)
Foreign currency adjustment (1) (1,709) 164 (1,546)
At 31 December 2013 35,027 13,613 123,466 172,106 
Provided during the year 2,274 2,996 15,128 20,398 
Disposals – (2,650) (8,629) (11,279)
Foreign currency adjustment (11) (1,009) (1,935) (2,955)
At 31 December 2014 37,290 12,950 128,030 178,270 
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 41,668 9,810 28,462 79,940 
At 31 December 2013 42,972 11,621 34,451 89,044 
At 1 January 2013 44,817 10,482 45,397 100,696
Included in the figures above are the following amounts relating to leased assets which are used to satisfy specific customer contracts:
Fixtures, fittings,  
equipment and vehicles
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 74,971 76,097 
Additions 1,888 1,235 
Disposals (7,205) (2,922)
Foreign currency adjustment (1,114) 561 
At 31 December 68,540 74,971 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 63,785 60,003 
Charge for year 4,550 6,647 
Disposals (6,858) (3,036)
Foreign currency adjustment (624) 171 
At 31 December 60,853 63,785 
Net book value 7,687 11,186 
100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 13 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£’000
Software
£’000
Acquired 
intangible 
assets
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2013 56,775 72,504 18,444 147,723
Additions – 15,544 – 15,544 
Disposals – (4,583) – (4,583)
Foreign currency adjustment 640 123 598 1,361 
At 31 December 2013 57,415 83,588 19,042 160,045 
Additions – 5,494 – 5,494 
Disposals – (557) – (557)
Foreign currency adjustment (1,556) (645) (769) (2,970)
At 31 December 2014 55,859 87,880 18,273 162,012 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 – 34,583 8,528 43,111
Charged during the year – 7,464 2,375 9,839 
Impairment 9,271 – 2,924 12,195 
Disposals – (3,941) – (3,941)
Foreign currency adjustment (208) 55 124 (29) 
At 31 December 2013 9,063  38,161  13,951  61,175 
Charged during the year – 10,807 1,868 12,675
Disposals – (555) – (555)
Foreign currency adjustment (570) (389) (668) (1,627)
At 31 December 2014 8,493 48,024 15,151 71,668 
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 47,366 39,856 3,122 90,344 
At 31 December 2013 48,352 45,427 5,091 98,870 
At 1 January 2013 56,775 37,921 9,916 104,612
In the prior year, Management considered that the deterioration in the performance of Computacenter France during 2013 provided  
sufficient evidence to test the non-financial assets in the business for impairment as at 31 December 2013. Computacenter France, which  
is equivalent to the France segment, was the cash generating unit (‘CGU’) at which impairment was assessed. The recoverable amount of the 
Computacenter France CGU was determined based on a value-in-use calculation. The discount rate used was 12 per cent (2013: 12 per cent). 
As a result of the deterioration in performance, an impairment of £12.2 million was recognised in this CGU, which resulted in impairment to 
goodwill and acquired customer relationships. 
 
14 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and other non-current assets
Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to the following CGUs:
• Computacenter (UK) Limited
• R.D. Trading Limited
• Computacenter Germany
• Computacenter France
• Computacenter Switzerland
• NEWIS SA and Informatic Services IS SA (together ‘Belgium IS’)
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
101 14 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and other non-current assets continued
Movements in goodwill
Computacenter
(UK) Limited
£’000
R.D. Trading
£’000
Computacenter
Germany
£’000
Computacenter
France
£’000
Damax AG
£’000
Belgium IS 
£’000
Total
£’000
1 January 2013 30,429 835 14,628 8,903 900 1,080 56,775
Impairment – – – (9,271) – – (9,271)
Foreign currency adjustment – – 259 368 7 214 848 
31 December 2013 30,429 835 14,887 – 907 1,294 48,352
Foreign currency adjustment – – (939) – (45) (2) (986)
31 December 2014 30,429 835 13,948 – 862 1,292 47,366
Market growth rate 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5%
Discount rate 11.0% 11.0% 11.0% 12.0% 12.0% 15.0%
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The recoverable amounts of all six CGUs have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation. To calculate this, cash flow projections  
are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a three-year period and on long-term market growth rates of 
between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent (2013: between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent) thereafter.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation for all CGUs for 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 are: 
• budgeted revenue, which is based on long-run market growth forecasts;
• budgeted gross margins, which are based on average gross margins achieved in the year immediately before the budgeted year, adjusted  
for expected long-run market pricing trends; and
• the discount rate applied to cash flow projections ranges from 11.0 to 15.0 per cent (2013: 11.0 to 15.0 per cent) which represents the  
Group’s pre-tax discount rate adjusted for the risk profiles of the individual CGUs.
Each CGU generates value substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill attributed to each of them. Management therefore believes that no 
reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount. 
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets consist of customer contracts, customer relationships and tools and technology. The expected useful lives are shown in note 2.
Other non-current assets
When there is an indication of impairment within a CGU, the carrying value of the non-current assets are compared to their recoverable  
amount which is the higher of the assets’ fair value less costs of disposal or the value-in-use of the CGU calculated as described above.
In France, a shortfall from the financial budgets approved by Management, or adverse changes in the assumptions, such as a 0.5 per cent reduction  
in market growth rate or an increase in the discount rate of 0.5 per cent would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount.
15 Investments
a) Investment in associate
The following table illustrates summarised information of the investment in associates:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 594 585
Share of associates profit – 10
Exchange rate movement (3) (1)
At 31 December 591 594
Impairment
At 1 January (549) (10)
Charge for year – (539)
At 31 December (549) (549)
Carrying value 42 45
Gonicus GmbH
The Group has a 20 per cent (2013: 20 per cent) interest in Gonicus GmbH, whose principal activity is the provision of Open Source Software. 
Gonicus is a private entity, incorporated in Germany, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation 
price for the fair value of this investment. The reporting date of Gonicus is 31 December.
ICS Solutions Limited (‘ICS’)
The Group has a 25 per cent (2013: 25 per cent) interest in ICS Solutions Limited whose principal activity is the delivering of both on-premise 
and cloud based services and solutions across the Microsoft technology stack. ICS is a private entity, incorporated in the United Kingdom, that 
is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of the investment. The reporting date 
of ICS is 30 June. 
Due to the continued adverse performance of ICS, the Group’s investment in ICS was fully impaired as at 31 December 2013. 
102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued b) Investment in subsidiaries
The Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Proportion of voting rights 
and shares held
Name
Country of
incorporation Nature of business 2014 2013
Computacenter (UK) Limited England IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter France SAS France IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter Holding GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
CC Managed Services GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter NV/SA Belgium IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
R.D. Trading Limited England IT Asset Management 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter PSF SA Luxembourg IT Infrastructure services 100% 100%
Computacenter USA USA IT Infrastructure services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Services (Iberia) SLU Spain International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Digica Group Holdings Limited England
IT infrastructure and  
application services 100% 100%
Computacenter Services and Solutions  
(Pty) Ltd South Africa IT Infrastructure services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter AG Switzerland IT Infrastructure services 80% 80%
Informatic Services IS SA Belgium IT Infrastructure services 100%
3
100%
3
Computacenter Services (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter Services Kft Hungary International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
Computacenter India Private Limited India International Call Centre Services 100%
1
100%
1
1. Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter (UK) Limited.
2. Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter Holding GmbH.
3. Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter NV/SA.
Computacenter plc is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under S410(1)(2) CA 2006 and has disclosed those undertakings who principally affect  
the results or assets of the Group. The full details of all subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return.
Update on acquisitions
1)  On 28 December 2012 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the voting shares of NEWIS SA and its subsidiary, Informatic Services IS SA  
for a cash consideration of €2.3 million. Additional consideration of €0.6 million (£0.5 million, translated as at the date of the payment of 
February 2014) was paid, based on the terms of the Purchase Agreement. Details of the book and fair values of the net assets acquired  
are disclosed in note 16 of the December 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
2)  On 21 July 2011 the Group acquired 80 per cent of Damax AG in Switzerland for an initial consideration of CHF 7.2 million, and agreed to 
purchase the remaining 20 per cent by mid-2015 for a maximum consideration of CHF 3.2 million dependent upon the achievement of agreed 
performance criteria over the following three and a half years. It is highly probable that the maximum deferred consideration will be payable. 
Details of the book and fair values of the net assets acquired are disclosed in note 16 of the December 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
 
16 Inventories
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Inventories for re-sale 50,006 58,618
17 Trade and other receivables
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Trade receivables 686,253 657,893
Other receivables 9,662 9,829
695,915 667,722
For terms and conditions relating to related party receivables, refer to note 31.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day terms.
Note 24 sets out the Group’s strategy towards credit risk.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
103 17 Trade and other receivables continued
The movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
At 1 January 14,964 14,076 
Charge for the year 11,847 10,696 
Utilised (5,389) (5,220)
Unused amounts reversed (3,775) (4,791)
Foreign currency adjustment (810) 203 
At 31 December 16,837 14,964 
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Total
£’000
Neither past
due nor
impaired
£’000
Past due but not impaired
<30 days
£’000
30–60 days
£’000
60–90 days
£’000
90–120 days
£’000
>120 days
£’000
2014 686,253 568,707 69,814 21,276 6,515 5,245 14,695 
2013 657,893 548,629 68,627 16,679 6,065 6,522 11,371 
Of the amount of £26,455,000 (2013: £23,958,000) which is 60 or more days past due but not impaired, £17,559,000 (2013: £17,631,000) 
relates to Computacenter France.
18 Cash and short-term deposits
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 129,865 43,098 
Short-term deposits – 48,000
129,865 91,098 
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods 
of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective 
short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £129,865,000 (2013: £91,098,000).
Due to strong cash generation over the past three years, the Group is now in a position where it can finance its requirements from its cash 
balance. The Group does, however, retain overdraft facilities where required. The uncommitted overdraft facilities available to the Group are 
£16.1 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: £17.3 million). During 2013 the Group entered into a specific committed facility of £40.0 million for a 
three-year term which was due to expire in May 2016. In February 2015 this facility was extended at the same value through to February 2018. 
At 31 December 2014 the facility was not utilised.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 129,865 43,098 
Short-term deposits – 48,000 
Bank overdrafts (note 20) (719) (764)
129,146 90,334 
Cash pooling
The Group operates a notional cash pooling facility whereby Group companies have instant access to a facility into which excess funds can be 
deposited or withdrawn to meet funding requirements. Due to the nature of this facility, all balances related to this arrangement are disclosed 
within cash at bank and in hand.
19 Trade and other payables
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Trade payables 423,164 409,746 
Other payables 212,115 195,199 
635,279 604,945 
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
For terms and conditions relating to related parties, refer to note 31.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on net monthly terms.
Other payables, which principally relate to other taxes, social security costs and accruals, are non-interest bearing and have an average term 
of three months. 104
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 20 Financial liabilities
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Current
Bank overdrafts 719 764 
Other loans – ‘CSF’ 2,616 1,194 
Other loans – ‘Non-CSF’ 517 –
Bank loan 116 37 
Current obligations under finance leases – ‘CSF’ (note 22) 2,882 6,152 
6,850 8,147 
Non-current
Bank loan 4 29 
Other loans – ‘CSF’ – 6,087 
Non-current obligations under finance leases – ‘CSF’ (note 22) 3,814 5,424 
3,818 11,540
There are no material differences between the fair value of financial liabilities and their book value.
Bank overdrafts
The bank overdrafts are unsecured and are subject to annual review.
Finance leases
The finance leases are only secured on the assets that they finance. These assets are in the main used to satisfy specific customer contracts. 
There are a small number of assets that are utilised internally.
Bank loans
The bank loans are unsecured and comprise the following:
Maturity date Interest rate £’000
31 December 2014
2015 3.62% – 3.89% 116
2016 2.23% 4
120
Less: current instalments due on bank loans (116)
Non-current instalments 4
Maturity date Interest rate £’000
31 December 2013
2015 3.02% – 3.89% 51 
2016 2.23% 15 
66 
Less: current instalments due on bank loans (37)
Non-current instalments 29 
Other loans
The other loans are unsecured borrowings to finance equipment sold to customers on specific contracts or for equipment for own use.
Other loans comprise the following:
Maturity date Interest rate £’000
31 December 2014
2015 1.75% – 6.67% 3,133
Less: current instalments due on other loans (3,133)
–
Maturity date Interest rate £’000
31 December 2013
2014 0% – 2.76% 602 
2015 1.75% – 6.67% 6,679 
7,281 
Less: current instalments due on other loans (1,194)
6,087 
   
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
105 20 Financial liabilities continued
The table below summarises the maturity profile of these loans:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Not later than one year 3,133 602
After one year but not more than five years – 6,679
3,133 7,281
The finance lease and loan facilities are committed.
Facilities
At 31 December 2014, the Group had available £16.1 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities (2013: £17.3 million).
21 Forward currency contracts
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss
Foreign exchange forward contracts 2,296 (957)
Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange forward contracts (251) (1,403)
2,045 (2,360)
Cash flow hedges
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other comprehensive income 
These amounts reflect the change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges which are used to hedge 
expected contract costs in South African Rand where sales on those contracts are in Sterling, based on highly probable forecast transactions.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
The Group also enters into other foreign exchange forward contracts with the intention to reduce the foreign exchange risk of expected sales 
and purchases. When these other contracts are not designated in hedge relationships they are measured at fair value through profit and loss 
within administrative expenses.
The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with the level of expected foreign currency costs and changes in the foreign exchange 
forward rates.
Effectiveness of Hedging
The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts have been negotiated for the expected highly probable forecast transactions to which 
hedge accounting has been applied. No significant element of hedge ineffectiveness required recognition in the income statement.
The cash flow hedges of the forecasted costs were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised loss of £251,000 (2013: £1,403,000) with 
a deferred tax asset of £54,000 (2013: £326,000) relating to the hedging instruments is included in the other comprehensive income. The amounts 
retained in other comprehensive income of £251,000 are expected to mature and affect the income statement between 2015 and 2017.
22 Obligations under leases
a) Finance lease commitments
The Group has finance leases for various items of plant and machinery; these leases have no terms of renewal or purchase options and 
escalation clauses. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments 
are as follows:
2014 2013
Minimum
payments
£’000
Present 
value of 
payments
£’000
Minimum
payments
£’000
Present
 value of 
payments
£’000
Within one year 3,538 2,882 6,545 6,152
After one year but not more than five years 3,604 3,814 5,783 5,424
7,142 6,696 12,328 11,576
Future finance charges (446) (752)
Present value of finance lease obligation 6,696 11,576
106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued b) Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of small machinery. There are no restrictions 
placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Future commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Within one year 34,248 45,120
After one year but not more than five years 52,302 66,921
More than five years 13,357 14,276
99,907 126,317
c) Operating lease receivables where the Group is lessor
The Group entered into commercial leases with customers on certain items of machinery. These leases have remaining terms of between  
one and five years.
Future amounts receivable by the Group under the non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Within one year 2,651 4,967
After one year but not more than five years 3,796 5,878
6,447 10,845
The amounts receivable are directly related to the finance lease obligations detailed in note 22a.
 
23 Provisions
Customer
 contract
 provisions
£’000
Other
provision
£’000
Property
provisions
£’000
Total
provisions
£’000
At 1 January 2014 9,551 82 6,821 16,454
Arising during the year – 10,425 258 10,683
Transferred from other payables – 2,127 – 2,127
Utilised (4,577) (2,710) (1,671) (8,958)
Provisions unused reversed (1,540) – (107) (1,647)
Exchange adjustment (408) (266) (1) (675)
At 31 December 2014 3,026 9,658 5,300 17,984
Current 2014 1,882 5,810 2,116 9,808
Non-current 2014 1,144 3,848 3,184 8,176
3,026 9,658 5,300 17,984
Current 2013 4,268 82 1,655 6,005
Non-current 2013 5,283 – 5,166 10,449
9,551 82 6,821 16,454
Customer contract provisions
Customer contract provisions are based on the Directors’ best estimate of the amount of future losses to completion on certain contractual 
services contracts. Whilst there continues to be uncertainty around the future performance of these contracts and the exact timing of 
cashflows, this uncertainty continues to decrease due to the Group’s experience in running these particular contracts. Management remains 
comfortable with the level of the provision. One of the three contracts ended in the final quarter of this year leaving only two provided for.  
Of the other two contracts, one is due to complete in June 2016 with the second due to complete in December 2016.
Property provisions
Assumptions used to calculate the property provisions are based on the market value of the rental charges plus any contractual dilapidation 
expenses on empty properties and the Directors’ best estimates of the likely time before the relevant leases can be reassigned or sub-let, 
which ranges between one and nine years. The provisions in relation to the UK properties are discounted at a rate based upon the Bank  
of England base rate. Those in respect of the European operations are discounted at a rate based on Euribor. 
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
107 23 Provisions continued
Other provisions
Included within other provisions are estimated costs associated with elements of the comprehensive transformation of the Group’s French 
business. These included costs relate specifically to a material change in the employment base across the French Business known as the 
‘Social Plan’.
The nature of the costs provided for include termination payments and retraining and resettlement costs for terminated employees. 
Management implementation of the plan is largely complete with the individuals included within the Social Plan no longer working  
for the French business and the majority of the future cash flows of the costs provided at period end to occur in 2015.
The provision is based inter alia on assumptions concerning the duration of individual settlement payment programmes and the uptake of 
retraining and resettlement packages. There is some residual uncertainty relating to individual legal challenges to the implementation of the 
Social Plan. Having taken independent legal advice on this matter management has applied judgements which it considers reasonable in 
establishing the required provision.
Also included within other provisions is a provision against the Group’s retirement benefit obligations in France under the Indemnités de Fin de 
Carrière (‘IFC’) as described in note 2. Economic outflows under the obligation only occur if eligible employees reach the statutory retirement 
age whilst still in employment. The Group paid out £16,000 during 2014 under this obligation.
In estimating the provision required, Management is required to make a number of assumptions. The key areas of estimation uncertainty  
are the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the turnover rate of employed personnel and rate of salary increase over the length of their 
projected employment. The level of unrealised actuarial gains or losses are sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by 
market conditions and therefore potentially subject to significant variation. 
The net liability recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 in respect of the Group’s French retirement benefit obligations under  
the IFC was £3.4 million. During the year the previously unrecognised unrealised actuarial losses have been recorded through reserves  
in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income. This recognition is reflected above as ‘arising during the year’ for £1.2 million.
24 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the Group Finance 
Director’s review on pages 40 and 41.
Credit risk
The Group principally manages credit risk through management of customer credit limits. The credit limits are set for each customer based  
on the creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated levels of business activity. These limits are initially determined when the customer 
account is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter. The balance of trade receivables relates to customers for whom there is no recent 
history of default. In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 
receivables from the date the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The maximum exposure on trade receivables, as at the 
reporting date, is their carrying value. 
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, current asset 
investment and forward currency contracts, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum 
exposure equal to the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents. The Group manages its counterparty credit risk by placing cash on 
deposit across a panel of reputable banking institutions, with no more than £50.0 million deposited at any one time except for UK Government 
backed counterparties where the limit is £70.0 million.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, cash and short-term deposits and finance leases and 
loans for certain customer contracts. The Group’s bank borrowings, existing committed and uncommitted facilities and deposits are at floating 
rates. No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into. If long-term borrowings were to be utilised in the future, the Group’s policy 
would be to maintain these borrowings at fixed rates to limit the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Interest rate sensitivity
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant,  
of the Group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity.
Change
in basis
points
Effect
on profit
before tax
£’000
2014
Sterling +25 255
Euro +25 61
2013
Sterling +25 38
Euro +25 45
The impact of a reasonably possible decrease to the same range shown in the table would result in an opposite impact on the profit before tax 
of the same magnitude.
108
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Fair values
The carrying value of the Group’s short-term receivables and payables is a reasonable approximation of their fair values. The fair value  
of all other financial instruments carried within the Group’s financial statements is not materially different from their carrying amount.
Forward currency contracts
At 31 December 2014 the Group held foreign exchange contracts as hedges of an inter-company loan and future expected payments to suppliers. 
The exchange contracts are being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk. The terms of these contracts are detailed below:
31 December 2014
Buy
currency
Sell
currency
Value of
contracts
Maturity
dates
Contract
rates
UK Euros Sterling €2,039,624 Jan 15 1.2513 – 1.2678
Sterling Dollars £2,747,873 Jan 15 – Feb 15 1.5517 – 1.5756
Sterling Euros £8,371,469 Jan 15 – Feb 16 1.2504 – 1.2786
US Dollar Sterling $38,241,444 Jan 15 – Apr 15 1.5529 – 1.6342
Danish Kroner Sterling DKK 207,744 Jan 15 9.4749
Swiss Francs Sterling CHF 500,00 Apr 15 1.5384
HK Dollars Sterling HKD 400,000 Jan 15 12.0909
Hungarian Forint Sterling HUF 407,200,000 Jan 15 – Jul 16 394.8716 – 398.0425
SA Rand Sterling ZAR 374,143,726 Jan 15 – Dec 17 17.3776 – 21.5534
Germany US Dollar Euro $69,885,000 Jan 15 – Jan 16 1.2163 – 1.3445
Hungarian Forint Euro HUF 1,103,500,000 Jan 15 – Jan 18 321.00 – 323.58
France Hungarian Forint Euro HUF 628,969,730 Jan 15 – Oct 15 309.7486 – 319.77
   
31 December 2013
Buy
currency
Sell
currency
Value of
contracts
Maturity
dates
Contract
rates
UK Euros Sterling €2,715,853 Jan 14 1.1820 – 1.1871
Sterling Dollars £9,240,524 Jan 14 1.5713 – 1.6489
Sterling Swiss Francs £353,590 Apr 14 1.4141
Sterling Euros £3,089,003 Jan – Feb 14 1.1722 – 1.2093
Dollars Sterling $39,894,698 Jan – Apr 14 1.5458 – 1.6478
Danish Kroner Sterling DKK 43,695 Jan 14 8.9164
Hungarian Forint Sterling HUF 135,000,000 Feb 14 350.9973 – 358.3415
SA Rand Sterling ZAR 223,996,644 Jan 14 – Dec 15 14.9234 – 18.2271
Germany US Dollar Euro $48,975,000 Jan – May 14 1.3107 – 1.3863
The gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the above contracts are detailed in note 21.
Exchange rate sensitivity
The majority of the transactions in each of the Group’s geographical segments are denominated in the functional currency of that segment. 
There are, however, a limited number of transactions where foreign currency exchange risk exists. In these instances the Group enters into 
forward currency contracts, as shown in the above table, in order to mitigate such risk. At the end of the year the fair value of the outstanding 
contracts was a net asset of £2,045,000 (2013: £2,360,000 liability).
Other than differences arising from the translation of results of operations outside of the Group’s functional currency, reasonably foreseeable 
movements in the exchange rates of +10 per cent or -10 per cent would not have a material impact on the Group’s profit before tax or equity.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
109 24 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities as at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments:
On demand
£’000
<3 months
£’000
3–12 months
£’000
1–5 years
£’000
>5 years
£’000
Total
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2014
Financial liabilities 1,004 2,226 4,128 3,602 – 10,960
Derivative financial liabilities – 114 222 53 – 389
Trade and other payables – 638,662 – – – –
1,004 641,003 4,350 3,655
On demand
£’000
<3 months
£’000
3–12 months
£’000
1–5 years
£’000
>5 years
£’000
Total
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2013
Financial liabilities 1,224 3,135 7,546 8,431 – 20,336 
Derivative financial liabilities – 1,148 842 370 – 2,360
Trade and other payables – 604,316 – – – 604,316
1,224 608,599 8,388 8,801 – 627,012
Fair value measurements recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
Financial instruments which are recognised at fair value subsequent to initial recognition are grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree  
to which the fair value is observable. The three levels are defined as follows:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable  
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based  
on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
At 31 December 2014 the Group had forward currency contracts, which were measured at Level 2 fair value subsequent to initial recognition, 
to the value of a net asset of £2,045,000 (31 December 2013: £2,360,000 liability).
The realised losses from forward currency contracts in the period to 31 December 2014 of £4,405,000 (2013: £1,806,000), are offset  
by broadly equivalent realised gains on the related underlying transactions.
25 Capital management
Computacenter’s approach to capital management is to ensure that the Group has a strong capital base to support the development  
of the business and to maintain a strong credit rating, whilst aiming to maximise shareholder value.
Consistent with the Group’s aim to maximise return to shareholders, the dividend policy is to maintain a dividend cover of between 2 to 2.5 times.  
In 2014 the cover was 2.5 times, on a pre-exceptional basis (2013: 2.5 times).
The Group’s capital base is primarily utilised to finance its fixed assets and working capital requirements. The Group seeks to optimise  
the use of working capital and improve its cash flow. As a consequence, the UK has sourced an increasing proportion of its product business 
via distributors in order to reduce the working capital requirements of the business.
Capital is allocated across the Group in order to minimise the Group’s exposure to exchange rates. Each country finances its own working 
capital requirements, typically resulting in borrowings in France with cash on deposit in the UK and Germany. During 2013, a notional cash 
pooling arrangement was introduced, which Group companies can access and allows the Group to pool its funds.
In certain circumstances, the Group enters into customer contracts that are financed by leases, which are secured only on the assets that  
they finance, or loans. Whilst the outstanding amounts of this CSF are included within net funds for statutory reporting purposes, the Group 
excludes this CSF when managing the net funds of the business as this outstanding financing is matched by committed future revenues.  
These financing facilities, which are committed, are thus outside of the normal working capital requirements of the Group’s product resale  
and services activities.
In certain circumstances, the Group deposits its funds in short-term investments that do not fulfil the criteria to be classified as cash and cash 
equivalents. The Group considers these deposits when managing the net funds of the business, and accordingly includes these deposits within 
net funds excluding CSF.
Capital, defined as net funds, that the Group monitors is:
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Net funds excluding CSF 128,509 90,271 
Customer specific financing (9,312) (18,857)
Net funds 119,197 71,414 
110
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Each operating country manages working capital in line with Group policies. The key components of working capital, i.e. trade receivables, 
inventory and trade payables, are managed in accordance with an agreed number of days targeted in the budget process, in order to ensure 
efficient capital usage.
An important element of the process of managing capital efficiently is to ensure that each operating country rewards behaviour at an Account 
Manager and Account Director level to minimise working capital, at a transactional level. This is achieved by increasing commission payments 
for early payment by customers and reduced commission payments for late payment by customers, which encourages appropriate behaviour.
The Group regularly reviews the adequacy of its facilities against any foreseeable peak borrowing requirement. At 31 December 2014, the 
Group had available £16.1 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities (2013: £17.3 million of uncommitted overdraft and factoring facilities). 
26 Issued capital and reserves
Authorised share capital
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital. The Company’s Articles of Association 
has been amended to reflect this change.
Ordinary Shares
Issued and fully paid
6p ordinary 
shares
No. ’000
6
2
/3p ordinary 
shares
No. ’000
0.01p B 
shares
No. ’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2013 153,908 – – 9,234
Ordinary shares issued during the year for cash on exercise of share options 24 398 – 28 
Bonus issue – – 153,932 15 
Share redemption – – (64,500) (6)
Share consolidation (153,932) 138,532 – –
At 31 December 2013 – 138,930 89,432 9,271
Prior period correction – – 64,500 6
Ordinary shares issued during the year for cash on exercise of share options – 82 – 6
At 31 December 2014 – 139,012 153,932 9,283
During the year, the issued share capital was increased by £6,000 by the issue of 82,000 ordinary shares of 6
2
/ 3 pence each.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the 
general meetings of the Company. On a winding up of the Company, holders of Ordinary Shares may be entitled to the residual assets of  
the Company.
The Company has a number of share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted  
to certain executives and senior employees (note 27).
Return of Value
On 12 June 2013 the Company effected a capital reorganisation under which each ordinary share of 6 pence was divided into one ordinary 
share of 6
2
/ 3 pence and one B share of 0.01 pence. Following this sub-division every 10 ordinary shares of 6 pence were consolidated into  
9 ordinary shares of 6
2
/ 3 pence. As a result of the 9 for 10 consolidation, 153,931,830 ordinary shares of 6 pence became 138,538,647 
ordinary shares of 6
2
/ 3 pence.
The holders of the B shares could elect to either sell the shares or receive a one-off dividend income. Both options to be remitted to shareholders 
on 5 July. The holders of B shares are then not entitled to any further profits of the Company. 
Share premium
The share premium account is used to record the aggregate amount or value of premiums paid when the Company’s shares are issued/redeemed 
at a premium.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve is used to maintain the Company’s capital following the purchase and cancellation of its own shares.  
During the year the Company repurchased nil of its own shares for cancellation (2013: nil).
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
111 26 Issued capital and reserves continued
Own shares held
Own shares held comprise the following:
i) Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan
Shares in the parent undertaking comprise 2,772,338 (2013: 3,065,133) 6
2
/ 3 pence ordinary shares of Computacenter plc purchased by the 
Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘the Plan’). The principal purpose of the Plan is to be funded with shares that will satisfy 
discretionary executive share plans. The number of shares held represents 2.0 per cent (2013: 2.2 per cent) of the Company’s issued share capital.
None of these shares were awarded to executives of the Company under the Computacenter (UK) Limited Cash Bonus and Share Plan.  
Options previously awarded are to be held on behalf of employees and former employees of Computacenter (UK) Limited and their dependants, 
excluding Jersey residents. The distribution of these shares is dependent upon the trustee holding them on the employees’ behalf for a restrictive 
period of three years.
Since 31 December 2002 the definition of beneficiaries under the ESOP Trust has been expanded to include employees who have been awarded 
options to acquire ordinary shares of 6
2
/ 3 pence each in Computacenter plc under the other employee share plans of the Computacenter Group, 
namely the Computacenter Services Group plc Approved Executive Share Option Plan, the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998, 
the Computacenter Services Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, the Computacenter Performance-Related Share Option 
Scheme 1998, the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme and any future similar share ownership schemes.
All costs incurred by the Plan are settled directly by Computacenter (UK) Limited and charged in the accounts as incurred.
The Plan Trustees have waived the dividends receivable in respect of 2,772,338 (2013: 3,065,133) shares that it owns which are all 
unallocated shares.
ii) Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust (‘the Quest’)
The total shares held are 94,162 (2013: 41,965), which represents 0.07 per cent (2013: 0.03 per cent) of the Company’s issued share capital. 
All of these shares will continue to be held by the Quest until such time as the Sharesave options granted against them are exercised. The 
market value of these shares at 31 December 2014 was £552,260 (2013: £267,737). The Quest Trustees have waived dividends in respect  
of all of these shares. During the year the Quest subscribed for 77,959 (2013: 374,760) 6
2
/ 3 pence ordinary shares.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements  
of foreign subsidiaries.
27 Share-based payments
Executive share option scheme
During the year, options were exercised with respect to 262,000 (2013: 317,000) 6
2
/ 3 pence ordinary shares at a nominal value of £17,468  
(2012: £21,134) at an aggregate premium of £644,492 (2013: £800,946). Prior to the Return of Value during 2013 options in respect of 124,000  
6 pence ordinary shares, at a nominal value of £7,440 and at an aggregate premium of £320,695, were exercised. The total nominal value  
of options exercised during 2013 was £145,134 and the total aggregate premium was £1,121,641.
Under the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998 and the Computacenter Services Group Executive Share Scheme, options in respect 
of nil (2013: nil) shares lapsed.
The numbers of shares under options outstanding at the year-end comprise:
Date of grant Exercisable between
Exercise 
price
2014
Number
outstanding
2013
Number
outstanding
02/04/2004 02/04/2007 – 01/04/2014 424.00p – 4,000
24/10/2006 24/10/2011 – 23/10/2016 250.00p 300,000 558,000
17/04/2007 17/04/2012 – 16/04/2017 285.00p 30,000 30,000
330,000 592,000
Please refer to the information given in the Directors’ interest in share incentive schemes table in the Annual Remuneration report on page 70 
for details of the vesting conditions attached to the Executive share options.
112
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued The following table illustrates the number (‘No.’) and weighted average exercise prices (‘WAEP’) of share options for the Executive Share Option Scheme.
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
2013
No.
2013
WAEP
Executive share option scheme
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1
592,000 £2.53 1,033,000 £2.56
Forfeited during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year
2
(262,000) £2.53 (441,000) £2.61
Outstanding at the end of the year 330,000 £2.53 592,000 £2.53
Exercisable at the end of the year 330,000 £2.53 592,000 £2.53
Notes
1.  Included within this balance are options over nil (2013: nil) shares that have not been accounted for under IFRS 2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. 
These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
2. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is £6.29 (2013: £5.16).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2014 is 1.9 years (2013: 2.80 years).
 
Computacenter LTIP Performance Share Plan
Under the Computacenter LTIP Performance Share Plan, shares granted will be subject to certain performance conditions as described  
in the Annual Remuneration report.
During the year 777,970 (2013: 1,049,579) shares were awarded, 87,897 (2013: 571,821) were exercised and 863,041 (2013: 618,561) lapsed.
At 31 December 2014 the number of shares outstanding was as follows:
Date of grant Maturity date
Share price at
date of grant
2014
Number
outstanding
2013
Number
outstanding
17/03/2011 17/03/2014 423.00p 4,788 379,597
17/03/2011 17/03/2014 423.00p – 591,133
23/03/2012 23/03/2015 433.00p 918,017 1,046,433
03/05/2013 21/03/2016 440.00p 972,648 1,049,579 
20/03/2014 20/03/2017 682.50p 777,970 –
2,673,423 3,066,742
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is £6.59 (2013: £4.36).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2014 is 1.2 years (2013: 1.2 years).
Computacenter Sharesave Scheme
The Company operates a Sharesave Scheme which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Company and its 
subsidiaries who have worked for a qualifying period. All options granted under this scheme are satisfied at exercise by way of a transfer  
of shares from the Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust. During the year 1,275,286 (2013: 1,206,885) options were granted  
with a fair value of £2,182,192 (2013: £2,263,764).
Under the scheme the following options have been granted and are outstanding at the year-end:
Date of grant Exercisable between
Share 
price
2014
Number
outstanding
2013
Number
outstanding
October 2009 01/12/2014 – 31/05/2015 320.00p 19,267 103,420 
October 2010 01/12/2013 – 31/05/2014 286.00p – 82,377 
October 2010 01/12/2015 – 31/05/2016 258.00p 706,578 731,908 
October 2011 01/12/2014 – 31/05/2015 369.00p 52,098 220,369 
October 2011 01/12/2016 – 31/05/2017 332.00p 235,685 255,647 
October 2012 01/12/2015 – 31/05/2016 381.00p 216,033 242,940 
October 2012 01/12/2017 – 31/05/2018 343.00p 418,773 450,730 
October 2013 01/12/2016 – 31/05/2017 484.00p 405,335 446,589 
October 2013 01/12/2018 – 31/05/2019 430.00p 698,530 758,634 
October 2014 01/12/2017 – 31/05/2018 589.50p 428,261 –
October 2014 01/12/2019 – 31/05/2020 524.00p 844,616 –
4,025,176 3,292,614
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
113 27 Share-based payments continued
The following table illustrates the No. and WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme:
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
2013
No.
2013
WAEP
Sharesave scheme
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,292,614 £3.65 2,971,058 £3.04
Granted during the year 1,275,286 £5.46 1,206,885 £4.50
Forfeited during the year (205,728) £3.96 (224,961) £3.10
Exercised during the year
1
(336,996) £3.35 (660,368) £2.66
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,025,176 £4.23 3,292,614 £3.65
Exercisable at the end of the year 71,365 £3.56 82,377 £2.86
Notes
1. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is £6.23 (2013: £5.77).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2014 is 3.3 years (2013: 3.4 years).
The fair value of the Executive Share Option Scheme, the Performance-Related Share Option Scheme, the LTIP Performance Share Plan  
and Sharesave Scheme plans are estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The following tables give the 
assumptions made during the year ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013:
2014
Nature of the arrangement
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
SAYE
scheme
SAYE
scheme
Date of grant 20/03/2014 20/03/2014 20/03/2014 24/10/2014 24/10/2014
Number of instruments granted 404,138 360,103 13,729 430,092 845,194
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £5.895 £5.24
Share price at date of grant £6.635 £6.635 £6.635 £6.16 £6.16
Contractual life (years) 3 3 2 3 5
Vesting conditions
See note 5 on 
page 70 in the 
annual
remuneration
report
See note 1
below
See note 1
below
Three-year
service 
period
and savings
requirement
Five-year
service 
period
and savings
requirement
Expected volatility n/a n/a n/a 34.2% 36.9%
Expected option life at grant date (years) 3 3 2 3 5
Risk-free interest rate n/a n/a n/a 1.87% 1.87%
Dividend yield 2.60% 2.60% 2.60% 2.95% 2.95%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date £6.14 £6.14 £6.30 £1.34 £1.90
2013
Nature of the arrangement
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
LTIP
performance
share plan
SAYE
scheme
SAYE
scheme
Date of grant 03/05/2013 03/05/2013 03/05/2013 25/10/2013 25/10/2013
Number of instruments granted 570,681 418,752 60,146 447,554 759,331
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £4.84 £4.40
Share price at date of grant £4.40 £4.40 £4.40 £5.70 £5.70
Contractual life (years) 3 3 2 3 5
Vesting conditions
See note 4
on page 70 in
the annual
remuneration
report
See note 1
below
See note 1
below
Three-year
service period
and savings
requirement
Five-year
service period
and savings
requirement
Expected volatility n/a n/a n/a 37.3% 45.0%
Expected option life at grant date (years) 3 3 2 3 5
Risk-free interest rate n/a n/a n/a 1.51% 1.51%
Dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 2.75% 2.75%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date £3.97 £3.97 £4.11 £1.58 £2.05
Note
1.  Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2006, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound 
annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 5 per cent per annum. One-half of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance  
period equals 7.5 per cent and will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 10 per cent. If the compound annual EPS growth over  
the performance period is between 5 and 10 per cent, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis. The performance period usually covers a period of three years from  
1 January of the year the award is granted. A limited number of PSP awards are granted with a performance period of two years.
114
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the recent historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily 
be the actual outcome.
No other features of the options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
 
28 Analysis of changes in net funds
At 1 January
2014
£’000
Cash flows
in year
£’000
Non-cash
flow
£’000
Exchange
differences
£’000
At
31 December
2014
£’000
Cash and short-term deposits 91,098 42,682 – (3,915) 129,865
Bank overdraft (764) (35) – 80 (719)
Cash and cash equivalents 90,334 42,647 – (3,835) 129,146
Bank loans (63) (61) – 4 (120)
Other loans non-CSF – (517) – – (517)
Net funds excluding customer specific financing 90,271 42,069 – (3,831) 128,509
Customer specific finance leases (11,577) 4,983 (342) 240 (6,696)
Customer specific other loans (7,280) 4,664 – – (2,616)
Total customer specific financing (18,857) 9,647 (342) 240 (9,312)
Net funds 71,414 51,716 (342) (3,591) 119,197
At 1 January
2013
£’000
Cash flows
in year
£’000
Non-cash
flow
£’000
Exchange
differences
£’000
At
31 December
2013
£’000
Cash and short-term deposits 138,149 (48,865) – 1,814 91,098 
Bank overdraft (678) (27) – (59) (764)
Cash and cash equivalents 137,471 (48,892) – 1,755 90,334 
Current asset investment 10,000 (10,000) – – –
Factor financing (144) 84 – (3) (63)
Net funds excluding customer specific financing 147,327 (58,808) – 1,752 90,271 
Customer specific finance leases (17,999) 8,065 (1,235) (408) (11,577)
Customer specific other loans (702) (6,578) – – (7,280)
Total customer specific financing (18,701) 1,487 (1,235) (408) (18,857)
Net funds 128,626 (57,321) (1,235) 1,344 71,414 
29 Capital commitments
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 the Group held no significant commitments for capital expenditure.
30 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans
The Group has a defined contribution pension plan, covering substantially all of its employees in the UK. The amount recognised as an expense 
for this plan is detailed in note 6. Details of the Retirement Benefit obligation for France are given in note 23.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
115 31 Related party transactions
During the year the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties. Transactions entered into  
are as described below:
Biomni provides the Computacenter e-procurement system used by many of Computacenter’s major customers. An annual fee has been 
agreed on a commercial basis for use of the software for each installation. Both PJ Ogden and PW Hulme are Directors of and have a material 
interest in Biomni Limited.
The table below provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year:
Sales to
related
parties
£’000
Purchases
from related
parties
£’000
Amounts
owed by
related parties
£’000
Amounts
owed to
related parties
£’000
Biomni Limited 28 996 – 28
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding 
balances at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related 
party receivables. The Group has not recognised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties. This assessment 
is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party 
operates.
 
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)
The Board of Directors is identified as the Group’s key management personnel. Please refer to the information given in the remuneration table 
in the Annual Remuneration report on page 68 for details of compensation given to the Group’s key management personnel. A summary of the 
compensation of key management personnel is provided below: 
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,946 1,789
Social security costs 231 279
Share-based payment transactions 732 (5)
Pension costs 41 12
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 2,951 2,075
The interest of the key management personnel in the Group’s share incentive schemes are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration report  
on page 70.
32 Events after the reporting period 
Detailed below are the significant events that happened after the Group’s year end date of 31 December 2014 and before the signing of this 
Annual Report and Accounts on 11 March 2015.
Disposal of R.D. Trading Limited
On 2 February 2015, the Group announced that it was disposing of its wholly-owned IT disposal and recycling subsidiary, R.D. Trading Limited (‘RDC’).
The Group reached agreement with Arrow Electronics UK Holding Limited for the disposal of the entire issued share capital of RDC. For the year ended 
31 December 2014, RDC generated revenues of £44.1 million (2013: £41.9 million), statutory profit before tax of £4.8 million (2013: £3.7 million) and  
as at 31 December 2014 had net assets of £16.2 million (2013: £12.5 million).
Gross consideration for the disposal is £56.0 million payable in cash (on a cash-free and debt-free basis), before transaction costs and subject 
to certain post-completion adjustments. Completion of the disposal is not subject to any outstanding conditions and has now taken place. 
There is no provision for the payment of deferred consideration under the agreement. 
The disposal of RDC did not warrant classification as a non-current asset held for sale at the reporting date as management judged, in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policy (see note 2) that the sale was not highly probable at the reporting date, nor was the Board committed to a sale 
plan where there was an expectation that the assets would be sold within one year. RDC also does not meet the requirements for a discontinued 
operation as it is not a major line of business or discrete geographical area (i.e. an operating segment).
The proceeds of the disposal will be used as part of the one-off Return of Value to Shareholders outlined below.
Return of Value to Shareholders
The Group announced on 2 February 2015, that it proposed to make a one-off Return of Value to Shareholders of 71.9 pence per Existing 
Ordinary Share, equivalent to approximately £100 million or approximately 11.2 per cent of Computacenter’s current market capitalisation, 
based on the middle market price of 643 pence per Existing Ordinary Share on 29 January 2015. The return is being made using a B Share 
structure with an associated Share Capital Consolidation of 15 New Ordinary Shares for every 17 Existing Ordinary Shares. The approval of 
Shareholders was required for the Return of Value and Share Capital Consolidation. Accordingly, the Group posted a circular to its Shareholders 
and convening an Extraordinary General Meeting, held on 19 February 2015, where the Return of Value was approved.
116
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued The Return of Value consisted of a Capital Reorganisation, including the issue and allotment of B Shares and an associated Share Capital Consolidation. 
Under the terms of the Return of Value, Shareholders received for every 1 Existing Ordinary Share held at the Record Date 1 B Share;  
and in place of every 17 Existing Ordinary Shares held at the Record Date 15 New Ordinary Shares. 
Following Shareholder approval, Shareholders were able to elect between the following alternatives in relation to their B Shares.
Alternative 1 – Single B Share Dividend (‘Income’)
Shareholders could have elected to receive the Single B Share Dividend of 71.9 pence per B Share in respect of all of their B Shares.
Alternative 2 – Purchase Offer (‘Capital’)
Alternatively, Shareholders (other than US Shareholders) could have elected to for all of their B Shares to be purchased by Investec Bank plc, 
acting as principal on 23 February 2015, at 71.9 pence per B Share, free of all dealing expenses and commissions.
The payment of the consideration under the purchase offer and of the Single B Share Dividend was in each case completed on 10 March 2015.
Management reviewed the financial position of the Group just prior to the announcement of the Return of Value and continue to regard the 
going concern assumption as appropriate and the financial statements continue to be prepared on this basis.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
117 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial  
position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud  
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s  
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
118
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Note
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 2 76,221 84,721 
Tangible assets 3 18,867 20,483 
Investments 4 175,646 172,359 
270,734 277,563 
Current assets
Debtors 5 90,153 90,195 
Cash at bank and in hand 68 119 
90,221 90,314 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 51,672 129,783 
Net current assets/(liabilities) 38,549 (39,469)
Total assets less current liabilities 309,283 238,094 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year – –
Provisions for liabilities and charges – –
Total assets less liabilities 309,283 238,094 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7 9,283 9,271 
Share premium account 7 4,597 4,362 
Capital redemption reserve 7 74,957 74,963
Merger reserve 7 55,990 55,990 
Own shares held 7 (10,760) (10,015)
Profit and loss account 7 175,216 103,523
Equity shareholders’ funds 309,283 238,094 
Approved by the Board on 11 March 2015
  
MJ Norris    FA Conophy
Chief Executive Officer   Group Finance Director
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
119
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014
Company balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2014 1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements of Computacenter plc were approved for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 11 March 2015.  
The balance sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by MJ Norris and FA Conophy.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the applicable UK Accounting Standards.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The profit after tax for  
the Company was £93.3 million (2013: £869,000). 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 2D(b) of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and has not disclosed 
information required by that standard, as the Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent 
disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Intellectual property
Licences purchased in respect of intellectual property are capitalised, classified as an intangible asset on the balance sheet and amortised  
on a straight-line basis over the period of the licence, normally 20 years.
Depreciation of fixed assets
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on all other tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost,  
less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 25 years 
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment. In addition, subsequent to the adoption of UITF Abstract 41, 
investments in subsidiaries also include the FRS 20 cost of share-based payments.
Impairment of assets
The carrying values of assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may  
not be recoverable.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Share-based payment transactions
The expense for share-based payments is recognised in the subsidiary companies employing the relevant employees. The Company records a 
corresponding increase in its investments in subsidiaries with a credit to equity which is equivalent to the FRS 20 cost in the subsidiary undertakings.
Taxation
Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current tax rate. Where Group relief is surrendered from other subsidiaries in the 
Group, the Company is required to pay to the surrendering company an amount equal to the loss surrendered multiplied by the current tax rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which timing differences reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
 
120
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Notes to the Company  
financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Intangible assets
Intellectual
property
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 169,737
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 85,016
Charge in the year 8,500 
At 31 December 2014 93,516 
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 76,221
At 31 December 2013 84,721
3 Tangible assets
Freehold land
and buildings
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 42,350
Depreciation
At 1 January 2014 21,867
Charge in the year 1,616 
At 31 December 2014 23,483 
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 18,867
At 31 December 2013 20,483
4 Investments
Investments
in subsidiary
undertakings
£’000
Loans to
subsidiary
undertakings
£’000
Investment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 261,329 2,754 25 264,108 
Additions 31,742 – – 31,742 
Share-based payments 2,810 – – 2,810 
At 31 December 2014 295,881 2,754 25 298,660 
Amounts provided
At 1 January 2014 88,970 2,754 25 91,749
Provided during the year 31,265 – – 31,265 
At 31 December 2014 120,235 2,754 25 123,014 
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 175,646 – – 175,646 
At 31 December 2013 172,359 – – 172,359 
Details of the principal investments at 31 December in which the Company holds more than 20 per cent of the nominal value of ordinary share 
capital are given in the Group accounts in note 15.
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
121 5  Debtors
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amount owed by subsidiary undertaking 90,000 90,000 
Other debtors 128 165 
Deferred tax 25 30 
90,153 90,195 
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Amount owed to subsidiary undertaking 49,474 127,618 
Accruals 1,591 1,786 
Deferred income – 31 
Corporation tax 607 348 
51,672 129,783 
7 Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds and movements on reserves
Share 
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own 
shares 
held
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Profit and 
loss account
£’000
Total
shareholders’
funds
£’000
At 1 January 2013 9,234 3,769 74,957 (11,887) 55,990 199,706 331,769 
Exercise of options 28 1,194 – 3,364 – (2,324) 2,572
Total recognised gains and 
losses in the year – – – – – 869 869
Share options granted to 
employees of subsidiary 
companies – – – – – 1,070 1,070 
Bonus issue 15 (15) – – – – –
Expenses on bonus issue (586) – – – – (586)
Redemption of shares (6) – 6 – – – –
Return of Value – – – – – (73,115) (73,115)
Purchase of own shares – – – (1,492) – – (1,492)
Equity dividends – – – – – (22,797) (22,797)
At 31 December 2013 9,271 4,362 74,963 (10,015) 55,990 103,523 238,094 
Prior period corrections 6 – (6) 695 – (756) (61)
Exercise of options 6 235 – 2,804 – (965) 2,080 
Total recognised gains and 
losses in the year – – – – – 93,316 93,316 
Purchase of own shares – – – (2,283) – – (2,283)
Share options granted to 
employees of subsidiary 
companies – – – – – 2,810 2,810 
Shares gifted from subsidiary  
to ESOP – – – (1,961) – 1,961 –
Equity dividends – – – – (24,673) (24,673)
At 31 December 2014 9,283 4,597 74,957 (10,760) 55,990 175,216 309,283 
8 Contingent liabilities
The Company has given a guarantee in the normal course of business to a supplier of a subsidiary undertaking for an amount not exceeding 
£7.9 million (2013: £2.2 million).
The Company has provided cross guarantees in respect of certain bank loans and overdrafts of its subsidiary undertakings. The amount outstanding 
at 31 December 2014 is £0.7 million (2013: £0.8 million).
9 Related party transactions
The Company has taken the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with other wholly-owned Group companies.
The Company has not traded with any of the related parties disclosed in note 31 of the Group accounts.
10 Auditors’ remuneration
All auditors’ remuneration is borne by Computacenter (UK) Ltd, a fully-owned UK subsidiary of the Company.
 
122
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued 2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 2,676.5 2,852.3 2,914.2 3,072.1 3,107.8 
Adjusted* operating profit 64.4 72.5 79.1 82.2 86.1 
Adjusted* profit before tax 66.1 74.2 79.3 81.7 85.9 
Profit for the year 50.3 61.0 49.1 33.2 55.1 
Adjusted* diluted earnings per share 33.0p 37.4p 40.8p 43.3p 46.8p 
Net cash excluding CSF 139.4 136.8 147.3 90.3 128.5
Year-end headcount 10,566 11,626 12,627 12,703 13,175 
*  Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items. Adjusted operating profit is stated after charging finance costs on customer specific financing.  
In 2011 adjusted diluted EPS also excludes the effects of exceptional items within the tax charge for the year.
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Tangible assets 88.9 98.3 100.7 89.0 79.9 
Intangible assets 78.5 104.2 104.6 98.9 90.3 
Investment in associate – 0.5 0.6 – –
Deferred tax asset 15.5 15.9 14.4 15.2 15.1 
Inventories 81.6 97.4 67.8 58.6 50.0 
Trade and other receivables 471.1 549.0 573.7 667.7 695.9 
Prepayments and accrued income 84.2 90.1 104.2 114.8 103.6 
Forward currency contracts 0.6 (0.2) (0.6) (2.4) 2.4
Current asset investment – 10.0 10.0 – –
Cash 159.3 128.4 138.1 91.1 129.9 
Current liabilities (588.2) (665.9) (673.3) (745.3) (768.5)
Non-current liabilities (22.0) (24.0) (17.9) (22.9) (13.2)
Net assets 369.6 403.7 422.3 364.7 385.4
Title Date
AGM 19 May 2015
Dividend record date 22 May 2015
Dividend payment date 19 June 2015
Interim results announcement 28 August 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
123
Group five-year financial review 
Year ended 31 December
Group summary balance sheet 
Year ended 31 December
Financial calendar
Group financial information Board of Directors
Greg Lock (Non-Executive Chairman)
Mike Norris (Chief Executive Officer)
Tony Conophy (Group Finance Director)
Brian McBride (Senior Independent Director)
Philip Hulme (Non-Executive Director)
Peter Ogden (Non-Executive Director)
John Ormerod (Non-Executive Director)
Minnow Powell (Non-Executive Director)
Regine Stachelhaus (Non-Executive Director)
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
PO Box 544
54 Lombard Street
London
EC3V 9EX
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 845 755 5555
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
One More London Place
London
SE1 2AF
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7951 2000 
Company Secretary
Simon Pereira
Registered Office
Hatfield Avenue
Hatfield
Hertfordshire
AL10 9TW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000
Stockbrokers and Investment Bankers
Credit Suisse
One Cabot Square
London
E14 4QJ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7888 8888
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7597 4000
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 871 384 2074
(Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras)
Solicitors
Linklaters
One Silk Street
London
EC2Y 8HQ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7456 2000
Company Registration Number
3110569
Internet Address
Computacenter Group
www.computacenter.com
124
Corporate information
Corporate information UK and Group Headquarters
Computacenter
Hatfield Avenue
Hatfield
Hertfordshire
AL10 9TW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000
Fax: +44 (0) 1707 639966
Belgium
Computacenter NV/SA
Ikaroslaan 31
B-1930 Zaventem
Belgium
Tel: +32 (0) 2 704 9411
Fax: +32 (0) 2 704 9595
France 
Computacenter France SAS
Agence de Roissy
229 rue de la Belle Étoile
ZI Paris Nord II
BP 52387
95943 Roissy CDG Cedex
France
Tel: +33 (0) 1 48 17 41 00
Fax: +33 (0) 1 70 73 42 22
Germany
Computacenter AG & Co. oHG
Europaring 34-40
50170 Kerpen
Germany
Tel: +49 (0) 22 73 / 5 97 0
Fax: +49 (0) 22 73 / 5 97 1300
Hungary
Computacenter Services Kft
Haller Gardens, Building D. 1st Floor
Soroksári út 30-34
Budapest 1095 
Hungary
Tel: +36 1 777 7488
Printed on FSC
®
 certified paper by an EMAS certified 
printing company, its Environmental Management  
System is certified to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks  
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals  
are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any 
waste associated with this production will be recycled.  
This document is printed on Edixion Offset, a paper 
containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, 
responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used  
in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine 
free (ECF) process.
Luxembourg
Computacenter PSF SA 
13-15 Parc d’activités 
8308 Capellen 
Luxembourg
Tel: +352 (0) 26 29 11
Fax: +352 (0) 26 29 1 815
Malaysia
Computacenter Services (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
Level 9, Tower 1 
Puchong Financial Corporate Centre
Jalan Puteri 1/2, Bandar Puteri 
47100 Puchong
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Tel: +603 7724 9626
Netherlands
Computacenter N.V.
Beech Avenue 54-80
1119 PW, Schiphol-Rijk
The Netherlands
Tel: +31 (0) 20 658 6800
Fax: +31 (0) 20 658 6111
South Africa
Computacenter Services and Solutions (PTY) Ltd 
Building 1
Parc du Cap
Mispel Road
Bellville, 7535
Cape Town
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0) 21 957 4900
Fax: +27 (0) 21 948 3135
Spain
Computacenter Services (Iberia) S.L.U.
C/Balmes 236
08006 Barcelona
Spain
Tel: +34 936 207 000
Switzerland
Computacenter AG  
Riedstrasse 14
CH-8953 Dietikon
Switzerland
Tel: +41 (0) 43 322 40 80
Design and production:
Gather
+44 (0) 20 7610 6140
www.gather.london
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
125
Principal offices
Principal offices Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Computacenter plc
Hatfield Avenue 
Hatfield 
Hertfordshire 
AL10 9TW 
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000 
Fax: +44 (0) 1707 639966
E&OE. All trademarks acknowledged. 
© 2015 Computacenter. 
All rights reserved.
www.computacenter.com
