 3i Group plc 
Annual report and 
accounts 201 3
Debt Management Infrastructure Private Equity
Register online
To receive shareholder 
communications electronically, 
including annual reports and notices 
of meetings, please register at:  
www.3i.com/investor-relations/shareholder-information
Sign up for 3i news
To be kept up-to-date with 3i’s latest 
financial news and press releases, 
sign up for alerts at: 
www.3i.com/investor-relations/financial-news/email-alerts
Website www.3i.com
3i Group plc
1 6 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD, UK 
Telephone +44 (0)20 7975 31 31
M72791 3 May 201 3
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors’ report
Pages 2 to 75 comprise the Directors’ report and pages 
76 to 85 comprise the Directors’ remuneration report, 
both of which are presented in accordance with English 
company law. The liabilities of Directors in connection 
with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law. These reports are 
intended to provide information to shareholders and are 
not designed to be relied upon by any other party or for 
any other purpose.
Disclaimer
This Annual report and accounts may contain state-
ments about the future, including certain statements 
about the future outlook for 3i Group plc and its 
subsidiaries (“3i”). These are not guarantees of future 
performance and will not be updated. Although we 
believe our expectations are based on reasonable 
assumptions, any statements about the future outlook 
may be influenced by factors that could cause actual 
outcomes and results to be materially different.
View online
For more information on 3i’s business,  
its portfolio and the latest news, please visit:
Register online
To receive shareholder communications 
electronically, including annual reports and 
notices of meetings, please register at:
Sign up for 3i news
To be kept up-to-date with 3i’s latest financial 
news and press releases, sign up for alerts at:
www.3i.com
www.3i.com/investor-relations
www.3i.com/investor-relations
Annual and reports and Half-yearly reports online
If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications 
electronically in future, including annual reports and notices 
of meetings, please visit our Registrars’ website at  
www.shareview.co.uk/clients/3isignup and follow the 
instructions there to register . 
The 201 3 half-yearly report will be available online only.  
Please register to ensure you are notified when it becomes available.
More general information on electronic communications is available 
on our website at 
www.3i.com/investor-relations/shareholder-information
Investor relations and general enquiries
For all investor relations and general enquiries about 3i Group plc, 
including requests for further copies of the Report and accounts, 
please contact:
Investor relations 
3i Group plc 
1 6 Palace Street 
London SW1E 5JD 
Telephone +44 (0)20 7975 31 31 
email IRTeam@3i.com
or visit the Investor relations section of our website at 
www.3i.com/investor-relations, for full up-to-date investor relations 
information, including the latest share price, results presentations and 
financial news.
Registrars
For shareholder administration enquiries, including changes 
of address please contact:
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Telephone 0871 384 2031
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, 
other telephony provider costs may vary. Lines are open from 8.30am 
to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. 
(International callers +44 1 21 4 1 5 7183)
3i Group plc
Registered office: 
1 6 Palace Street, 
London SW1E 5JD, UK
Registered in England No. 1 142830
An investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
Printed by Pureprint Group who are a CarbonNeutral® printer certified 
to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS 
the Eco Management Audit Scheme. Printed using vegetable oil based inks.
The report is printed on Amadeus 50% Silk which is FSC® certified 
and contains 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre.
FSC – Forest Stewardship Council
This ensures that there is an audited 
chain of custody from the tree in the 
well-managed forest through to the 
finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001
A pattern of control for an 
environmental management system 
against which an organisation can 
be accredited by a third party.
CarbonNeutral®
The CO
2
 emissions associated with 
the production and distribution of 
our Annual Report and accounts 2012 
have been measured and reduced 
to net zero through the Renew Portfolio 
of 100% renewable energy projects. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 1
Overview
Overview Corporate responsibility
Performance highlights 2
Our business 4 
Chairman’s statement 6
Our approach and values 56
Organisation and governance 56
Our people 56
Environmental, Social and Governance standards 57
External benchmarking 58
Strategy and business model Governance
Chief Executive’s review 9
Our strategic goal 1 6
The 3i Value Build 1 7
Delivering our strategic goal 18
Our strategic priorities and progress 1 9
Introduction 59
Board of Directors and Executive Committee 60
Board and Committees 62
Statutory and corporate governance information 65
Corporate governance statement 68
Directors’ remuneration report 7 6
Business review Financial statements
Group overview 20
Financial data and key performance indicators 21
Market environment  22
Assets under management 24
Investment and realisations 25
Business lines – Private Equity 28
Business lines – Infrastructure 35
Business lines – Debt Management 39
Financial review 44
Statement of comprehensive income 86
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 87
Company statement of changes in equity 88
Statement of financial position 89
Cash flow statement 90
Significant accounting policies  91
Notes to the financial statements 97
Independent auditor’s report  1 23
Risk Portfolio and other information
Principal risks and risk management 50
Overview of risk management process 
and governance structure 51
Review of principal risks 52
Risk factors, oversight and operation 54
Portfolio valuation – an explanation  1 24
Fifty large investments 1 26
Information for shareholders 1 28
Contents 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 2
Overview
Performance highlights
Our performance for the year to 31 March 201 3 (FY201 3)
Strategic and restructuring highlights
Significantly outperformed 
cost savings target
Achieved £51 million of run-rate operating cost reduction  
by 31 March 201 3, 28% ahead of the original target of £40 million
£51m 
cost savings
Substantial gross debt reduction,  
with target achieved ahead  
of schedule
Gross debt of £1,081 million at 31 March 201 3 
Gross debt of £91 7 million at 30 April 201 3, representing a 44% 
reduction from £1,623 million at 31 March 201 2
44% 
gross debt reduction  
by 30 April 201 3
Strong Private Equity realisations
Delivered realised profits over opening value of £1 90 million,  
a significant increase compared to £22 million in FY201 2,  
and representing an uplift to opening value of 49% and a  
money multiple of 2. 1x
49% 
uplift to opening value
2.1 x 
money multiple
Growth in assets under management
Total AUM growth of 23% to £1 2.9 billion, including growth  
in third-party AUM of 45% to £9 .2 billion
23% 
 total AUM growth 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 3
Overview
Financial highlights
Material improvement in total return
Total return of £373 million representing 14.2% on opening  
shareholders’ funds, a significant improvement on the prior  
year loss of £(656) million and negative return of (1 9 .5)%
1 4.2%
total return on opening 
shareholders’ funds
Robust NAV growth
NAV per share of 31 1 pence, up 1 1.5% over the period, after taking  
into account implementation costs and dividends in the period of  
5.8 pence and 8. 1 pence per share respectively
311 p
NAV per share
11 .5%
NAV growth over year
Strong total shareholder return
Since the announcement of 3i’s future strategy, 3i has generated a  
total shareholder return of 67%, with an increase in share price from  
1 91 pence at close of 28 June 201 2 (day before the announcement)  
to 31 6 pence at close on 28 March 201 3 (last trading day of FY201 3)  
and an interim dividend of 2.7 pence paid in January 201 3
67%
total shareholder return
Rebased dividend
Proposed final dividend of 5.4 pence per share, bringing total  
dividend for FY201 3 to 8. 1 pence per share, in line with the rebased  
dividend policy
8.1 p
total dividend per share 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 4
Highlights of the year
n n Strong portfolio performance; delivered gross portfolio 
return of 1 9.7%
n n Re-focused new investment activity on northern Europe,  
North America and Brazil
n n Substantially implemented programme of asset management 
improvement initiatives
n n Strong realisations of £575m achieved at an uplift of 49% 
on opening value and a money multiple of 2. 1x
n n Completed three new investments, two in Brazil and one 
in Germany
n n Established framework arrangements with leading investors  
to co-invest alongside 3i on future transactions
Highlights of the year
n n European portfolio continued to perform well and generated 
a strong level of portfolio income 
n n 3iN’s share price increased by 7% and 3iN paid a dividend 
of £1 8m to 3i Group
n n In May 201 3, 3iN increased its annual distribution yield target  
to 5.5% of opening NAV from 5.0% 
n n Sale of 3i’s stake in Elenia for £30m
Investment funding model 
Investments have been made through a series of limited partner 
funds focused on either majority or minority interests. These 
funds include the €5bn European buyout fund, Eurofund V, and 
the €1.2bn Growth Capital Fund. 
Following the end of the investment periods for these funds, 
we will invest using a combination of proprietary capital and 
third-party co-investment. We have established framework 
arrangements with a number of leading investors for investing 
alongside 3i.
Investment funding model 
Investments are made through 3i Infrastructure plc (“3iN”),  
a listed vehicle in which the Group has a 34% shareholding, 
which focuses on investing in core infrastructure and social 
infrastructure projects in the developed world and, in particular, 
in northern Europe. 
3i also manages the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, a US$1.2bn 
limited partner fund to which the Group has a US$250m 
commitment. This Fund ended its investment period in 
November 2012.
Mid-market private equity business 
focused on investing in northern Europe, 
North America and Brazil.
102 3i portfolio companies
£2,707m of 3i portfolio value
£4,851 m of total AUM
35% third-party capital
as at 31 March 201 3
Infrastructure investor focused on 
investing in utilities, transportation 
and social infrastructure in Europe.
10 3i portfolio companies
£507m of 3i portfolio value
£1,579m of total AUM
70% third-party capital
as at 31 March 201 3
Private Equity Infrastructure
Our business
For more on Private Equity, please go to page 28 For more on Infrastructure, please go to page 35
1 Other includes 25 legacy investments, previously disclosed as non-core, 
with a total AUM of £43m.
Assets under management
Northern Europe, North America, 
Brazil as at 31 March (£m)
2013
2012
3,901
4,019
5,322 201 1
2013
2012
950
1,382
2,342 201 1
Asia, southern Europe, Other
1
as at 31 March (£m)
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
Assets under management
Europe
as at 31 March (£m)
2013
2012
1,175
1,144
1,047 201 1
2013
2012
404
590
589 201 1
India
as at 31 March (£m)
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 5
Overview
Highlights of the year
n n Good fund performance in Europe, maintaining strong 
track record
n n Acquisition of Invesco’s European CLO management contracts 
and subsequent performance enhancement
n n Established US platform, through a strategic transaction 
with Fraser Sullivan
n n Launch of two US CLOs since establishing the US platform,  
raising c.US$1bn
n n Grew AUM by 92% to £6.4bn at 31 March 201 3
Highlights of the year
n n Significantly outperformed cost savings target; 
achieved £51 m of run-rate operating cost reduction
n n Substantial gross debt reduction with target achieved  
ahead of schedule. Gross debt of £91 7m at 30 April 201 3, 
a 44% reduction from £1 ,623m at 31 March 201 2
n n T otal AUM growth of 23% to £1 2. 9bn, including growth  
in third-party AUM of 45% to £9 .2bn
n n Material improvement in total return to £373m (201 2: £(656)m), 
representing 1 4.2% on opening shareholders’ funds (201 2: (1 9 .5)%)
n n NAV per share of 31 1 p, up 1 1 .5%
Investment funding model 
Investments are made through 24 funds, 15 in Europe and nine 
in the US. There are 18 CLO funds and, as at 31 March 2013, 
12 of these funds remain within their re-investment period.
Across these funds, 3i has invested proprietary capital 
equivalent to 1% of AUM.
Investment funding model 
Investments are made using a combination of third-party 
and proprietary capital depending on the business line,  
in order to achieve a blend of capital and income-
based returns.
Loan manager specialising in the 
management of third-party capital, 
invested in non-investment grade debt 
in Europe and the US. 
24 funds 
£81 m of 3i portfolio value 
£6,440m of total AUM 
99% third-party capital
as at 31 March 201 3
Leading international manager of  
third-party and proprietary capital  
with three strong and complementary 
investment businesses.
£3.3bn of 3i portfolio value
£12.9bn of total AUM
71 % third-party capital
as at 31 March 201 3
Debt Management Group
For more on Debt Management, please go to page 39
Assets under management
Europe
as at 31 March (£m)
2013
2012
4,398
3,358
3,386 2011
2013
2012
2,042
–
– 2011
US
as at 31 March (£m)
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
Assets under management
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
 
as at 31 March (£m)
2013
2012
12,870
10,493
12,686 201 1 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 6
I am pleased to announce a strong set of 
results showing improved performance 
across our business.
FY201 3 has been a year of significant 
change for 3i. We have made substantial 
and rapid progress and this has 
established solid foundations for the 
next phase of our strategic plan.
Sir Adrian Montague  
Chairman 
Highlights
1 4.2%  
T otal return on opening
shareholders’ funds
23%  
Growth in total AUM
8.1 p  
T otal dividend per share
Chairman’s statement 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 7
Overview
Over 1 2 months ago, commencing 
in January 201 2, I undertook several 
rounds of discussions with our major 
shareholders which focused on 3i’s 
performance at that time and the 
prevailing discount of 3i’s share price 
to NAV. 
Following the announcement in March 201 2 of Michael Queen’s 
intention to resign as Chief Executive, I was again in contact with our 
shareholders regarding the process to select Michael’s successor . 
This culminated in the appointment in May 201 2 of Simon Borrows 
as 3i’s new Chief Executive with a clear mandate from the Board 
to pursue his strategic plan.
On 29 June 201 2, within six weeks of his appointment, Simon and his 
management team had undertaken a strategic review of the Group 
and announced the future strategy for 3i, including an extensive 
restructuring plan. Since then, the management team has made rapid 
progress in executing this wide-ranging restructuring plan which the 
Board believes has now established solid foundations for 3i’s future 
growth and success over the longer term.
Restructuring and 
strategic progress
FY201 3 has been a year of significant organisational change at 3i, 
the first step of which was a major cost reduction programme to bring 
down the Group’s operating costs to be more in line with our annual 
cash income. 
Alongside this, our Private Equity business has been restructured and 
re-focused. This has included the implementation of a comprehensive 
programme of initiatives to bring greater focus, consistency and 
discipline to its investment processes and asset management 
approach. These changes are already making a real difference as 
evidenced by the materially improved performance of the Private 
Equity investment portfolio as well as a series of realisations at strong 
uplifts to book value and healthy cash profits. 
In addition to re-shaping our Private Equity business, we have 
announced several important initiatives to grow and develop 
our Debt Management business.
We have almost doubled third-party AUM in Debt Management 
from £3.3 billion at 31 March 201 2 to £6.4 billion at 31 March 201 3. 
This growth has included the acquisition of European CLO 
management contracts from Invesco and the strategic transaction 
with Fraser Sullivan, a leading specialist US debt manager , to establish 
3i’s US debt management platform.
Infrastructure continued to generate strong portfolio income  
and deliver steady underlying asset performance in its core  
European market. The value of the Group’s 34% shareholding in  
3i Infrastructure plc (“3iN”), increased by 7 . 1 % in the year . In addition, 
3iN recently announced that following its strategic review and 
rebalancing of risk and reward, it will increase its annual distribution 
yield objective from 5.0% to 5.5% of opening NAV.
Overall, this demonstrates good progress towards our objective of 
growing our third-party fund management activities and generating 
a sustainable annual operating profit over time. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 8
Performance and results
Despite continuing difficult macroeconomic conditions and a subdued 
M&A market, the Group’s financial results for the year to 31 March 
201 3 show significant improvement compared to the prior year . 
In the year to 31 March 201 3, total AUM grew by 23% to £1 2.9 billion 
(201 2: £10.5 billion), reflecting the material growth in our Debt 
Management business in the period. Third-party AUM grew 
by 45% to £9.2 billion (201 2: £6.3 billion), representing 71 % of total 
AUM (201 2: 60%).
Total return for the Group in the period was a profit of £373 million 
representing 14.2% on opening shareholders’ funds, a significant 
improvement on the prior year loss of £(656) million and a negative 
return of (1 9.5)%. Good growth in portfolio earnings and strong 
realisations above book value in our Private Equity business 
contributed to a gross portfolio return for the Group of £546 million 
in the period compared to a loss of £(329) million in the prior year . 
At the time of our half-yearly results announcement in November 
201 2, the Board declared an interim dividend of 2.7 pence per share 
and announced its intention to propose a total dividend for the year 
of 8. 1 pence per share. The Board is therefore recommending a final 
dividend of 5.4 pence per share, subject to the approval of 
shareholders at the AGM. 
In May 201 2, the Board announced a strengthened distribution policy 
designed to give shareholders a direct share in the success of the 
Group’s realisation activities by adopting a policy of returning to 
shareholders a share of gross cash realisations subject to certain 
conditions. Under this new policy, the aggregate distribution to 
shareholders, including the annual base dividend, will be at least 
1 5% and up to 20% of gross cash realisation proceeds, provided that 
gearing is less than 20% and provided that 3i is on track to reduce 
gross debt to less than £1 billion. Given that these criteria have now 
been satisfied following the receipt of proceeds from the sale of 
Mold-Masters, we intend to initiate additional shareholder distributions 
above the annual base dividend in respect of the financial year ending 
31 March 2014.
I am pleased to report that for the year ended 31 March 201 3, 
NAV grew by 1 1.5% to 31 1 pence per share after taking into account 
implementation costs and dividends in the period representing  
5.8 pence and 8. 1 pence per share respectively. In particular ,  
in the three months to 31 March 201 3, NAV grew by 8.7% from  
286 pence per share at 31 December 201 2.
Since the announcement of 3i’s future strategy, there has been  
a material appreciation in 3i’s share price, and the discount of  
3i’s share price to reported NAV has been eliminated. 3i’s share  
price increased by 65% from 1 91 pence at close of business on  
28 June 201 2 (the day before the announcement) to 31 6 pence  
at close of business on 28 March 201 3 (the last trading day of  
the financial year). Over this same period, the premium/discount  
of 3i’s share price to last reported NAV has moved from a  
material discount of 31 % to a premium of 10%. This is pleasing  
and demonstrates the growing confidence in our team and an 
endorsement of the new strategic plan. However , significant work 
remains and we will continue to work hard to achieve our strategic 
goal and further re-build value for our shareholders.
Summary and outlook
Over the last year , our focus has been on restructuring the business 
and delivering against each of the strategic priorities and targets 
that we set ourselves in June 201 2. We have made substantial and 
rapid progress in this respect and we believe that this effort has 
established solid foundations for the next phase of our strategic plan. 
In particular , the materially improved performance of our Private 
Equity portfolio and the growth of our Debt Management business 
provide positive momentum going into this next phase of 3i’s 
development. We have set out a clear strategic plan to maximise 
shareholder value and we will continue to work hard to deliver this.
All of this is against an economic backdrop that remains uncertain 
and volatile. However , we are confident that the substantial progress 
that we have already made will ensure that 3i delivers value to 
its shareholders. 
Throughout this period of significant change, 3i’s employees have 
risen to the challenge and shown both resilience and commitment. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for 
their hard work in helping to deliver a strong set of results in such 
challenging conditions.
I have been fortunate to have the support of a hard working, 
committed and very capable Board throughout this period of change. 
With the progress that has been achieved, however , Willem Mesdag, 
who has served most ably as Chair of our Valuations Committee, 
feels able to step down and focus his attention on his US interests. 
He will be leaving us later this year , with my grateful thanks, and 
I expect over time progressively to continue the renewal of the Board.
Sir Adrian Montague  
Chairman 
Chairman’s statement 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 9
Strategy and  
business model
Our strategic priorities
We have made significant progress 
in the turnaround of 3i and this is 
demonstrated by our strong results. 
We are only one year into our three year 
strategic plan and there is plenty more 
that we are doing to drive performance 
and generate further shareholder value.
Simon Borrows  
Chief Executive
1
Create a leaner 
organisation with  
a cost base more 
closely aligned 
with its income
2
Improve 
consistency  
and discipline  
of investment 
processes 
and asset 
ma n a g e m e nt 
approach
3
Re-focus 
and re-shape 
the Private  
Equity business
4
Grow third-party  
AUM and income
5
Improve capital 
allocation, 
focusing on 
enhanced 
shareholder 
distributions and 
re-investment 
in our business
For more on our strategy, please go to page 1 6
Strategy and business model 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 10
On 29 June 201 2, following a strategic 
review of the business, I announced the 
future strategy for 3i, the first step of 
which involved the launch of a major cost 
reduction programme and restructuring 
of the business.
We are only one year into our three year strategic plan and 
I am pleased to report that we have made significant and rapid 
progress in the turnaround of 3i. We have delivered against all of 
the immediate priorities and targets for financial year 201 3 that 
we set out in our plan in June last year . These actions are described 
in more detail in the following pages.
During this period of considerable change at 3i, and against 
a backdrop of difficult and volatile economic conditions, we have 
delivered a strong set of Group results for the year to 31 March 201 3. 
These results underline the substantial progress that we have 
already made through implementing the first phase of our multi-year 
strategic plan. 
We are focused on executing the next phase of our plan, and there 
is plenty more that we are doing to drive performance and generate 
further shareholder value.
Strategic goal  
and the 3i Value Build
3i’s strategic goal is to be a leading international manager of  
third-party and proprietary capital with three strong investment 
businesses delivering top quartile cash investment returns over 
the longer term:
n n Focused mid-market Private Equity;
n n Class-leading Infrastructure; and
n n Growing Debt Management.
Each of these businesses has different drivers and return 
characteristics. Together , they provide an attractive balance 
of income and capital returns. We believe that the combination 
of our asset management skills across these three complementary 
platforms, together with our strong balance sheet and access 
to permanent capital, represents a differentiated and attractive 
value proposition.
At 3i’s half-yearly results and strategy update in November last year , 
I set out the key phases of our plan to deliver this strategic goal 
by financial year 201 6. These are outlined on page 18. 
We have executed successfully the first phase of this strategic plan 
(the year of “Restructuring”), and we are already making strong 
progress towards delivering the full benefits of this in financial years 
2014 and 201 5 (the years of “ Transition and delivery”).
The clear objective of this multi-year strategic plan is to improve 
business performance and maximise value for 3i, its shareholders 
and its fund investors – we call this the “3i Value Build” and 
it comprises:
n n Growing Private Equity investment portfolio earnings through the 
asset management improvement initiatives, and in turn, increasing 
the value of our portfolio;
n n Realising investments at values representing good uplifts to book 
value and strong cash-on-cash multiples, thereby optimising value 
from the portfolio and enhancing its valuation rating;
n n Generating a sustainable annual operating profit from our fund 
management activities through growth in third-party income 
combined with a right-sized cost base; 
n n Utilising our strong balance sheet and permanent capital to take 
advantage of further value-creating growth opportunities across 
our businesses; and
n n Increasing shareholder distributions through our enhanced 
distribution policy which provides shareholders with a direct share 
of our realisation proceeds above the base annual dividend level.
Chief Executive’s review 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11
Strategy and  
business model
Strategic priorities and 
progress in FY201 3
In June last year , when I announced the future strategy for 3i, we set 
out our immediate priorities and targets for the business in the first 
phase of our strategic plan. Our progress against each of these 
priorities is described on the following pages. 
1. Create a leaner organisation with a cost base 
more closely aligned with its income
My first priority was to create a fitter and more efficient 3i. 
In June 201 2, we set out key targets for the reduction of operating 
costs, including reducing staff and consolidating our international 
network of offices. The table below sets out these key targets 
for financial year 201 3 and our progress against each of them.
We have significantly outperformed our 31 March 201 3 cost reduction 
target through a combination of over-achievement against the 
previously identified operating cost savings as well as the 
identification of further areas of efficiency as we have been 
implementing the restructuring. By 31 March 201 3, we achieved 
annualised run-rate operating cost savings of £51 million, 
28% ahead of our original target of £40 million. To achieve these 
savings, we have incurred implementation costs (including the costs 
of associated redundancies) of £30 million in financial year 201 3, 
consistent with the limit that we set ourselves when we launched 
the restructuring.
Key targets announced on 29 June 201 2 
1
Progress in FY2013
Reduce staff
Headcount reduction of over 1 60 staff 
by 31 March 201 3.
Net headcount reduction of 1 68 staff at 
31 March 201 3, before the Debt Management 
strategic acquisitions.
Represents a reduction of 39% of the Group’s 
total headcount of 435 at 31 March 201 2.
Consolidate office 
network
Re-shape the international network with 
the closure of offices in Barcelona, 
Birmingham, Copenhagen, Hong Kong, 
Milan and Shanghai, reducing the total 
number of offices from 1 9 to 1 3.
All of these office closures were completed 
during FY201 3. T otal number of offices 
reduced from 1 9 to 1 3.
Additional run-rate operating cost savings 
achieved from reducing office space in 
London and New York.
Operating  
cost savings
T argeted annualised run-rate operating 
cost savings of £40m to be achieved by 
31 March 201 3.
These cost savings were set against  
a base-line of annualised run-rate operating 
costs of £1 85m at 31 March 201 2.
Given timing effects and implementation  
costs incurred, actual reported operating 
costs in FY201 3 were expected to be at  
a similar level to FY201 2.
Achieved annualised run-rate operating 
cost savings of £51m at 31 March 201 3, 
28% ahead of original £40m target.
This reduction represents 28% of the  
base-line operating costs at 31 March 201 2.
Actual reported operating costs of £1 70m, 
below the level in FY201 2 of £180m, and 
include implementation costs and additional 
operating costs from the acquired Debt 
Management businesses.
1  As stated in 3i’s announcement on 29 June 2012, the headcount and operating cost reduction targets exclude the impact of certain corporate transactions 
which were completed subsequently and which relate to our Debt Management business. These transactions are: i) the acquisition of certain European CLO 
management contracts from Invesco (completed in August 2012); and ii) the establishment of 3i’s Debt Management platform in the US through a transaction 
with Fraser Sullivan (completed in September 2012). These transactions added 15 staff to the Group’s headcount.
It is in this context that we have set a more ambitious cost reduction 
target for financial year 2014. We are now targeting cumulative 
annualised run-rate operating cost savings of £60 million by 
31 March 2014, on a like-for-like basis with the opening run-rate 
operating cost base of £185 million as at 31 March 201 2. This 
represents a significant upwards revision by 33% from the original 
cost reduction target of £45 million by 31 March 2014. To realise 
these additional cost reductions, we expect to incur up to £7 million 
of further implementation costs in financial year 2014. Please see 
page 47 for further information.
The overall objective is for the Group’s annual cash income to cover  
its annual operating costs. To help you measure our progress against 
this objective, we have introduced a new key performance indicator 
called “Annual operating cash profit”. This is defined in more detail on 
page 48, but in summary it is the difference between our annual cash 
income (cash fees from managing third-party funds and cash income 
from our investment portfolio) and our annual operating expenses, 
excluding restructuring costs. In the past, 3i has operated at a material 
deficit on this measure, and our target is to eliminate this deficit on 
a run-rate basis by 31 March 2014.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 12
Chief Executive’s review
As part of bringing greater cost efficiency and focus across 
the business, we have removed organisational complexity and 
bureaucracy. This has included rationalising the numerous existing 
committee structures, de-layering the organisation and streamlining 
processes. Shortly after I announced 3i’s future strategy in June 201 2, 
in order to drive the change programme effectively, I put in place a 
new leadership team, the Executive Committee, which is the principal 
day-to-day decision-making body in respect of managing the Group 
(see page 6 1 ).
All of these actions have led to a simpler organisational structure 
with shorter lines of communication, and this in turn is transforming 
the culture of 3i to be much more energised and dynamic. This is 
enabling faster and more consistent decision-making across the 
business in order to effect the changes that are necessary to deliver 
improved performance.
2. Improve consistency and discipline of investment 
processes and asset management approach
In June last year , I announced six asset management improvement 
initiatives, covering all aspects of 3i’s investment and asset 
management processes within Private Equity. In particular , these 
initiatives were designed to ensure a highly selective and consistent 
approach to new investment, earlier identification of potential issues 
with existing portfolio companies, and well constructed exit strategies 
that maximise value in realisation processes. This programme of 
initiatives has been substantially implemented and is already making 
a real difference. I believe that further benefits will be seen in the 
performance of our Private Equity portfolio over time. Examples 
of these initiatives include:
Investment review process: we have streamlined our investment 
review process, including rationalising the previously separate 
Investment Committee and Portfolio Committee structures, each 
of which considered investments at different points in their lifecycle. 
In July 201 2, we moved to a new single Investment Committee which 
considers the full spectrum of decisions from investment through 
to divestment. The new process brings greater central control and 
oversight. As a result, the Investment Committee is more involved 
in the early stages of investment processes and has formal oversight 
of material changes and other value impacting events between 
investment and divestment, including refinancings and senior 
management changes.
Management assessment: following a systematic assessment 
of key management of our Private Equity portfolio companies, we 
have replaced a number of chairmen and chief executives, particularly 
in situations where we have underperforming investments. At the 
same time, we have reviewed the portfolio company board appointees 
from our own investment teams to ensure that we have the right 
people and allocation of resource. 
Performance monitoring dashboards: we have overhauled our 
monthly portfolio reporting processes within Private Equity and 
introduced new performance dashboards across our portfolio 
companies. These include key financial, operational and strategic 
metrics and commentary. The Group’s Investment Committee 
and Private Equity Partners now meet monthly to review these 
dashboards and to decide on actions and the appropriate allocation 
of resources. This initiative has transformed the way we manage 
our Private Equity investment portfolio.
Exit planning: since March 201 2, we have been working closely 
with our Private Equity portfolio companies to develop clear and well 
constructed exit strategies for each of our investments. These plans 
are reviewed and refined on an ongoing basis in response to, 
for example, market developments or unsolicited approaches. 
This is all done in the context of maximising the value to 3i’s 
shareholders and fund investors of any realisation activity, as well 
as optimising capital allocation and resource across our business. 
The fruits of this effort have already been evidenced by recent 
realisations at attractive prices, including for example, Civica, Hyperion, 
Mold-Masters, NORMA and Quintiles, and there are a number of other 
investments in exit processes that are well advanced.
Vintage control policy and capital allocation: last year , we 
implemented a new vintage control policy for the Group’s own balance 
sheet investments. This is designed to minimise the risk of over-
investing at the top of the private equity cycle in the future. In addition 
to monitoring investment and capital allocation within Private Equity, 
we have extended this approach to the rest of the Group and have 
combined it with our broader risk management framework which 
assesses and monitors other key risks for the Group. This forms part 
of our refined risk management approach which is more closely 
linked to our new strategic objectives. Further information can 
be found on pages 50 to 55. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13
Strategy and  
business model
3. Re-focus and re-shape the Private Equity business
As well as consolidating the international office network, we have 
re-focused our Private Equity business on mid-market investing 
in sectors where we have real expertise, and in our core northern 
European markets, North America and Brazil. We have suspended 
new private equity investment in Asia and Spain, where the focus 
of our investment teams is on managing intensively 3i’s 
existing investments.
During financial year 201 3, we have made a number of important 
realisations with aggregate proceeds to 3i of £575 million.  
These include EUSA Pharma, Giraffe, HILITE, Mold-Masters and 
NORMA. In aggregate, Private Equity realisations in financial year 
201 3 have generated an uplift of 49% over opening book value and 
a money multiple of 2. 1x. Many of these realisations were based 
on the detailed exit plans that we put in place a year ago in order 
to optimise the value of those investments, and we will continue 
to execute our realisation plans in this way.
Over the next two years, the focus of our investment teams 
will continue to be on managing intensively the existing portfolio. 
We will continue to drive performance improvement and value-
building strategies and to seek realisations where conditions are right 
to maximise proceeds. This will further demonstrate the quality 
of our asset management approach and the value of our Private 
Equity portfolio, and is a key part of re-establishing our investment 
track record.
At the same time, we are pursuing a highly selective and measured 
approach to new investment. We will only focus on sourcing 
investment opportunities in the sectors and geographies where 
we believe that we have demonstrable competitive advantage. 
While the level of new opportunities being reviewed by our investment 
teams has increased materially over the last year , our investment in 
the last year has been low as we continue to see a wide gap between 
buyers’ and sellers’ price expectations.
4. Grow third-party AUM and income
Over time, 3i aims to generate more third-party income through the 
raising of further third-party funds under management. Despite the 
current tough fundraising environment, we have made good progress, 
growing third-party funds by 45% in financial year 201 3. Third-party 
funds now represent 71 % of our total assets under management, 
compared with 60% a year ago.
Private Equity: we are investing through a combination of third-party 
and proprietary capital.
n n In March 201 3, 3i announced it had completed its second Brazilian 
investment with the acquisition of leading Brazilian eyewear retailer , 
Óticas Carol. The 3i led consortium included institutional investors 
Neuberger Berman and Siguler Guff.
n n 3i has established framework arrangements with a number of 
leading investors to invest alongside 3i in mid-market European 
private equity buy-out opportunities. These arrangements include 
fees and carry payable to 3i. We believe that these innovative 
arrangements with market-leading institutions demonstrate 
confidence in 3i’s investment capabilities as well as providing 
access to additional investment capital.
Infrastructure: the European portfolio continued to perform well 
and generate a strong level of portfolio income.
n n Infrastructure is a key contributor to the Group’s annual cash 
income through both third-party fees and portfolio income. 
In addition, the value of the Group’s 34% shareholding in 
3i Infrastructure plc increased by 7 . 1 % during financial year 201 3.
n n There is strong demand for infrastructure assets as investors seek 
yield, and we are seeing a number of interesting investment 
opportunities in our core markets. In addition, we are continuing 
to explore opportunities to grow our existing infrastructure platform 
and product offering.
Debt Management: we have almost doubled third-party AUM over 
the past 1 2 months from £3.3 billion at 31 March 201 2 to £6.4 billion 
at 31 March 201 3.
n n We have made significant progress in growing our Debt 
Management business through a number of initiatives, including 
through the strategic transaction last year with Fraser Sullivan 
to establish 3i’s US debt management platform. This transaction 
closed in September 201 2, and in November 201 2 we launched 
a new US$450 million CLO (Jamestown I) in the US, and then in 
February 201 3, we refinanced an existing CLO in the US, upsizing 
it to US$500 million (Jamestown II).
n n We continue to see a number of attractive opportunities for further 
growth and development of our Debt Management business 
through fund launches and bolt-on acquisitions.
Overall, this demonstrates good progress towards our strategic 
objective of growing profitably our third-party fund management 
activities and generating a sustainable annual operating profit. 
We believe that over the medium term, this will create material 
additional value for our shareholders, over and above the value 
of our proprietary investments. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 14
Chief Executive’s review
5. Improve capital allocation, focusing on enhanced 
shareholder distributions and re-investment in 
our business
A key component of our new strategy is to change fundamentally 
3i’s capital allocation approach so that over time the Group uses less 
capital to pay operating costs, funding costs and debt repayments, 
and instead directs more capital towards shareholder distributions 
and re-investment in our core investment businesses.
As well as achieving a significant reduction in operating costs in 
financial year 2013, we have also substantially reduced our gross 
debt and funding costs. Since 31 March 201 2, gross debt has reduced 
from £1,623 million to £1,081 million as at 31 March 2013 and to 
£91 7 million by 30 April 2013, representing a total reduction of 44%. 
Therefore, 3i has met ahead of schedule its target of reducing gross 
debt to below £1 billion by June 201 3. As a result, in financial year 
2014, we expect gross interest costs to be less than £60 million 
(excluding the costs of any further early debt repayment), which 
is 42% lower than the level in financial year 201 2 of £103 million.
The Group’s balance sheet is in a very strong position with low 
gearing and high levels of liquidity. As announced in May last year , 
we have strengthened the Group’s distribution policy in order to give 
shareholders a direct share in the success of the Group’s realisation 
activities provided that gearing is less than 20% and gross debt is less 
than £1 billion. We have now satisfied these conditions, and we expect 
to initiate additional shareholder distributions above the annual base 
dividend in respect of financial year 2014. Specifically, for the 
purposes of the distribution calculation in financial year 2014, we will 
include the proceeds of £222 million from the sale of Mold-Masters, 
which were received in March 201 3. 
A further dimension of our improved capital allocation strategy relates 
to the structure of our compensation arrangements. In the past, 
I believe that annual compensation costs as a proportion of the 
Group’s income have been too high and have not represented an 
equitable split of returns between 3i’s shareholders and employees. 
It is also critical that compensation is not viewed just as a cost to the 
business, but it should also be seen as a key tool to deliver our 
strategic objectives and drive performance. Therefore, in July 201 2, 
we launched a Group-wide review of 3i’s compensation arrangements 
with the following key objectives:
n n Ensure a fair and transparent split of returns between 3i’s key 
stakeholders, including between shareholders and employees.
n n Closer alignment of our compensation arrangements with our 
key strategic objectives.
n n Clearer link between shareholder returns and compensation, 
including a greater proportion of compensation in 3i Group 
shares.
n n Greater differentiation between individuals based on their relative 
personal performance and contribution.
Following discussions with shareholders and employees, we designed 
new compensation arrangements to achieve these objectives, and we 
are now implementing them. Further information is provided in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 76 to 85.
Performance and results
Last year was another challenging year for our sector and for the 
broader financial services industry as we navigated difficult economic 
conditions and a changing regulatory landscape. On top of this, it was 
also a year of considerable change at 3i as we implemented a major 
restructuring plan. We have stayed focused on our objectives 
throughout all of this, and I am delighted to report that we have met 
or exceeded all of the targets that we set ourselves for financial year 
201 3 and we have delivered a strong set of Group results. 
In the 1 2 months to 31 March 201 3, total gross portfolio return for 
the Group was £546 million compared to a loss of £(329) million 
in the previous year . Each of our three business lines contributed 
to this result, delivering improved performances compared to last 
year . Private Equity was the largest contributor with a gross portfolio 
return of £518 million this year compared to a loss of £(34 1 ) million 
last year .
During financial year 201 3, we achieved a series of strong realisations 
within our Private Equity business. This delivered total realised profits 
over the last valuation of £1 90 million, a significant increase compared 
to £22 million in financial year 201 2, and representing an uplift of 
49% on the opening portfolio value of those investments realised. 
This is an excellent result and further evidence of the inherent value 
of our investment portfolio.
The Group’s net portfolio return this year was £432 million compared 
to a loss of £(425) million in financial year 201 2. Again, this represents 
a material improvement in performance compared to last year . 
This is despite the fall in third-party fee income from Private Equity, 
reflecting the impact of the Growth Capital Fund and Eurofund V 
coming to the end of their investment periods. 
The fall in fee income from Private Equity was partly off-set by the 
significant progress we have made in reducing the Group’s operating 
cost base. We significantly exceeded our cost reduction target for 
31 March 201 3, and materially reduced the deficit between the Group’s 
annual cash income and its annual operating costs. As a result of the 
actions we have taken, we now expect that Group cash income will 
cover operating costs by 31 March 2014 on a run-rate basis. This is 
not just about cost cutting; it also requires us to grow cash income, 
both from third-party funds under management as well as from 
our investment portfolio, particularly in our Debt Management and 
Infrastructure businesses. We have already made a good start in this 
respect by growing total third-party AUM by 45% in financial year 201 3 
from £6.3 billion to £9 .2 billion. This was largely driven by growth 
in Debt Management, including the strategic acquisition of Fraser 
Sullivan. However , cash investment levels were low in the period, 
falling to £1 72 million in financial year 201 3 from £464 million in 
the previous year . This reflects a number of factors, not least the 
continued low levels of M&A activity in Europe as well as our highly 
selective approach to new investment in the current environment.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15
Strategy and  
business model
During the period, NAV per share grew by 1 1.5% to 31 1 pence 
at 31 March 201 3 after taking into account implementation costs 
and dividends in the period representing 5.8 pence and 8. 1 pence 
per share respectively. In particular , strong growth was seen in the 
last three months of the financial year , with NAV per share growing 
by 8.7% from 286 pence at 31 December 201 2. 
In summary, these are strong results and show a marked 
improvement in performance compared to last year . Between  
28 June 201 2 (the day before the announcement of 3i’s future strategy) 
and 28 March 201 3 (the last trading day of financial year 201 3),  
3i delivered a total shareholder return of 67%. This is top quartile 
performance compared to the FTSE All-share index, which delivered 
an average total shareholder return of 22% over the same period. 
Strategic objectives and 
priorities for FY201 4– 1 5
We have made rapid progress in executing the restructuring plan 
during financial year 201 3, and we expect the full benefits of these 
actions to come through during the next phase of our strategic plan 
in financial years 2014 and 201 5 – T ransition and delivery . In this next 
phase, our overall strategic objectives are:
n n Cover operating costs with annual cash income.
n n Grow third-party income and generate a sustainable annual 
operating profit from our fund management activities.
n n Improve capital allocation strategy, focusing on enhanced 
shareholder distributions and re-investment in our core 
investment businesses.
To achieve these key objectives, our priorities and targets 
for financial years 2014 and 201 5 are set out on page 1 9.
The clear objective of all of these steps is to improve business 
performance and maximise value for the Group, our shareholders  
and our fund investors. This is the 3i Value Build.
Our business model is evolving. Historically, 3i was a private equity 
investor with returns dominated by realised gains from investment 
sales and unrealised portfolio value growth. Our new strategy is 
moving the business towards being a more balanced combination 
of Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management. Together , 
these three investment platforms provide an attractive balance 
of annual income and capital returns. In particular , we believe that 
the combination of our asset management skills across these three 
complementary platforms, together with our strong balance sheet 
and access to permanent capital, represents a differentiated and 
attractive value proposition for shareholders. 
While the value of our proprietary investments is the principal driver 
of our market value today, we believe that our fund management 
platform is capable of generating sustainable and growing annual 
profits over the medium term. We believe that this model is capable 
of generating significant additional shareholder value.
Outlook
While economic conditions continue to be challenging across 
a number of our key markets, we have made significant and rapid 
progress in executing the first phase of our turnaround plan, and 
this is already delivering improved performance. The actions we 
have taken have put 3i in a strong position to withstand future 
economic headwinds and uncertainty, and importantly, to take 
advantage of emerging opportunities. Our strong balance sheet and 
access to permanent capital represent a key competitive advantage.
With a clear strategy and strong management team, we look to the 
future with confidence as we execute the next phase of our strategic 
plan. Our objective is simple; it is to drive improved business 
performance and generate further shareholder value over the 
coming years.
It has been a busy and demanding period for everyone at 3i over 
the last year with many changes and new initiatives. Much of what 
we have accomplished is down to their hard work and commitment 
and I would like to thank all of our employees for their dedication 
and endurance through this challenging period for 3i.
Simon Borrrows  
Chief Executive  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 16
Three strong and complementary business lines
Private Equity Infrastructure Debt Management
1. Portfolio returns
2. Portfolio income
3. Fee income
n n Pro-cyclical asset class
n n Realised and unrealised 
capital gains and 
carried interest
n n Counter-cyclical asset class
n n Income from investment 
portfolio
n n Recurring annual fee 
income from permanent 
capital vehicle
1. Portfolio income
2. Fee income
3. Portfolio returns
n n Low exposure to volatility 
of underlying assets
n n Recurring annual third-party 
fee income
n n Proprietary capital “light” 
1. Fee income
2. Portfolio income
3. Portfolio returns
Illustrative  
capital allocation
Key return drivers
Key characteristics 
and sensitivity to  
market cycle
Our strategic goal
Clear vision and strategy
3i’s strategic goal is to be a leading international manager of third-party and proprietary capital 
with three strong investment businesses delivering top quartile cash investment returns over 
the longer term:
n Focused mid-market Private Equity;
n Class-leading Infrastructure; and
n Growing Debt Management.
Each of these businesses has different drivers and return characteristics. 
T ogether , they provide an attractive balance of income and capital returns.
We believe that the combination of our asset management skills across these three 
complementary platforms, together with our strong balance sheet and access to permanent 
capital, represents a differentiated and attractive value proposition.
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
Proprietary capital
Third-party capital
For more on our business lines, please go to pages 28 to 43 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17
Strategy and  
business model
Grow Private Equity  
investment portfolio earnings
n
 Grow NA V
Realise investments at good 
uplifts to book value and  
strong cash-on-cash multiples
n
  Optimise value of existing 
portfolio and enhance  
P /NA V rating
Generate a sustainable annual 
operating profit from our fund 
management activities
n
  Add value beyond NA V
Utilise strong balance sheet 
and permanent capital
n
  Invest in value-creating 
growth opportunities
Increase shareholder 
distributions through our 
enhanced distribution policy
n
  Greater capital efficiency;  
focus on shareholder 
distributions and attractive 
re-investment opportunities
The clear objective of all of the steps within our multi-year strategic plan is 
to improve business performance and maximise value for 3i, its shareholders 
and its fund investors – we call this the “3i Value Build” and it comprises:
The 3i Value Build 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 18
Key phases of our strategic plan
Our future strategy
On 29 June 201 2, following a strategic review of the business, we announced 
the future strategy for 3i and our immediate priorities for the business.
The first step in FY201 3 was an extensive organisational change and cost reduction 
programme – the year of “Restructuring”. We have made significant and rapid 
progress with this restructuring plan and we have met or exceeded all of our 
targets for the business in FY201 3.
We believe that these actions have established solid foundations for 3i’s future 
growth and success, and we expect to see further benefits coming through 
in FY2014 and FY201 5 – the years of “ T ransition and delivery”.
Restructuring T ransition 
and delivery
Strategic goal
FY2013 FY2014–15 FY2016+
Immediate priorities:
n  Reduce operating costs; 
create a leaner organisation
n  Reduce gross debt and 
funding costs materially
n  Achieve greater central 
control and business focus
n  Improve consistency and 
discipline in investment 
and asset management
n  Re-focus and re-shape 
the Private Equity business
n  Review Group-wide 
compensation and define 
new arrangements
Key objectives:
n  Cover operating costs 
with annual cash income
n  Grow third-party income and 
generate a sustainable annual 
operating profit from our fund 
management activities
n  Improve capital allocation, 
focusing on enhanced 
shareholder distributions and 
re-investment in our core 
investment businesses
Clear strategic goal: 
T o be a leading international 
manager of third-party and 
proprietary capital with three 
strong investment businesses 
delivering top quartile cash 
investment returns over the 
longer term:
n  Focused mid-market 
Private Equity
n  Class-leading Infrastructure
n  Growing Debt Management
Delivering our strategic goal 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 19
Strategy and  
business model
Improve 
consistency 
and discipline 
of investment 
processes 
and asset 
management 
approach
R e-focus and 
re-shape the 
Privat e Equity 
business
Grow third-party  
A UM and inc ome
Improve capital 
allocation, focusing 
on enhanc ed 
shareholder 
distributions and 
re-investment 
in our business
Create a leaner 
organisation with 
a cost base more 
closely aligned 
with its income
Progress in FY2013
Strategic priorities
Priorities for FY2014– 15
n  New target of £60m of cumulative 
run-rate operating cost reduction 
by 31 March 201 4; 33% increase 
from original target of £45m
n  Cover operating costs with annual 
cash income by 31 March 201 4 
on a run-rate basis
n  G r ow Private Equity investment 
portfolio earnings through 
asset management 
improvement initiatives
n  Continue to re-establish investment 
track record through improved 
performance and new investment
n   Roll-out of upgraded Private 
Equity system
n  Net reduction of 1 68 staff before Debt Management acquisitions;  
ahead of target reduction of more than 1 60 staff
n  Re-shaped international network with closure of six offices, 
reducing network to 1 3 offices
n  Achieved greater central control and business focus through removal 
of organisational complexity and bureaucracy
n £5 1 m of run-rate operating cost reduction; 28% ahead of £40m target 
n  Substantially implemented programme of six asset management 
improvement initiatives across Private Equity 
– Investment review process 
– People: governance and resourcing 
– Operational capabilities, knowledge management and networks
– Monitoring and performance tracking
– Valuation process, exit strategy and planning
– Systems upgrade and reporting
n  Implemented new vintage control policy
1
2
3
4
5
n   Continue to manage intensively 
the existing portfolio and realise 
investments at values representing 
good uplifts to book value and strong 
cash-on-cash multiples, thereby 
o p t i m i si n g t h e v a l u e o f t h e p o rtf o l i o f o r 3 i , 
its shareholders and its fund investors
n  Selective investing in our core 
markets using a combination of 
proprietary capital and third-party 
co-investment
n  Combined into single business unit
n  Re-focused Private Equity on mid-market investing in our core 
northern European markets, North America and Brazil
n  Continued to manage intensively the existing portfolio with total 
realisations of £575m, representing an uplift to opening value of 49%  
and a money multiple of 2. 1 x
n  Announced strengthened distribution policy in May 201 2 
to give shareholders a direct share of our realisation proceeds
n  Achieved gearing of less than 20% and gross debt reduction ahead 
of schedule to less than £1 bn 
–  44% reduction in gross debt from £1 .6bn to £0. 9bn by 30 April 201 3 
(31 March 201 3: £1 . 1 bn)
n   Reviewed Group-wide compensation arrangements. Established new 
principles and designed new arrangements
n n Continue to explore opportunities 
to further grow and develop our 
three fund management platforms
n  Grow annual operating profit 
from fund management activities, 
demonstrating additional value 
beyond NAV
n    Initiate additional shareholder 
distributions above the annual 
base dividend in respect of FY201 4 
n    Reduce gross interest payable to 
less than £60m, excluding costs 
of early debt repayment
n   Implement new compensation 
arrangements across the Group
n   Private Equity 
 –  Established framework arrangements with a number of leading 
investors to invest alongside 3i in Europe 
–  Completed second Brazilian investment alongside co-investors
n    Infrastructure 
 –  European portfolio continued to perform well and generated  
a strong level of portfolio income 
n  Debt Management 
 – Substantial increase in third-party AUM from £3.3bn to £6.4bn
–  Acquisition of Invesco European CLO management contracts
–  Strategic transaction with Fraser Sullivan, to establish US debt 
management platform
–  Launched two US CLOs, raising c.US$ 1 bn 
Our strategic priorities and progress  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 20
Group overview
3i Group is an international investor with 
three complementary business lines. 
All three business lines invest using 
a combination of proprietary capital from 
the Group’s own balance sheet and  
third-party capital. T otal assets under 
management (“ AUM”) were £1 2. 9 billion at 
31 March 201 3, an increase of £2.4 billion 
or 23% in the year (201 2: £1 0.5 billion). 
This business review provides detail 
on our performance for the 1 2 months 
to 31 March 201 3 (“the period”) as well 
as our financial position as at that date, 
together with comment on our markets 
and principal risk factors.
The Group’s performance for the period resulted in a total return 
of £373 million, or a profit on opening shareholders’ funds of 14.2%, 
a significant improvement on the prior year (201 2: £(656) million, 
(1 9 .5)%). Portfolio performance was good in the year , with improved 
earnings growth and strong realisations above March 201 2 valuations, 
generating a gross portfolio return of £546 million or 1 7 .0% of opening 
portfolio value (201 2: £(329) million, (8.2)%). Operating expenses and 
net interest costs were at similar levels to the prior year but include 
£55 million of charges and items (£30 million re-organisation 
implementation and £25 million of accelerated interest) linked to the 
implementation of the strategic priorities announced in June 201 2.
We end the year with a substantially lower cost base, with an annual 
run-rate of £140 million, including the annualised costs of acquired 
businesses, compared with £185 million at 31 March 201 2, the benefit 
of which will be seen in the next financial year .
We continue to make progress in restructuring 
the business and balance sheet.
Two acquisitions were completed in the period. The acquisition 
of Invesco’s European CLO management contracts in August 201 2 
added £1. 1 billion of AUM. The transaction with Fraser Sullivan 
in September 201 2 established 3i’s Debt Management platform 
in the US and added £2.0 billion of AUM by the year end.
Realisations were achieved at good uplifts to the March 201 2 value, 
generating proceeds of £606 million, an uplift of 47% over opening 
book value.
Investment levels were low in subdued mergers and acquisitions 
(“M&A”) markets, with cash investment of only £1 72 million 
(201 2: £464 million), primarily in our Private Equity and Debt 
Management businesses.
We used net realisations in the period to reduce gross debt to 
£1. 1 billion at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £1.6 billion) and, since the year 
end, have repaid a further £1 64 million. Consequently, at 30 April 201 3, 
gross debt was £91 7 million, a reduction of £706 million and 
significantly ahead of our target to reduce gross debt to below 
£1.0 billion by June 201 3. The one-off costs associated with this total 
reduction in gross debt offset the interest cost savings in the period. 
We therefore expect a material reduction in gross interest costs 
in the next financial year , to below £60 million, excluding the costs of 
any further early debt repayment (201 3: £97 million). Net debt also 
reduced in the year to £335 million, with a consequent reduction in 
gearing to 1 1 % at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £464 million, 18%).
In June 201 2, we set an objective to improve the operating cash flow 
of the Group so that fees and portfolio income cover costs over time. 
As a result of the growth in Debt Management and the Group 
restructuring programme, the position has improved, with operating 
cash losses of £(8) million in the year (201 2: £(20) million). We have 
added this disclosure into the Financial review on page 48. We expect 
this to improve further in the next financial year as we benefit from 
a full year of income from Fraser Sullivan and the Invesco fund 
management contracts and the full year effect of our cost reduction 
programme. Consequently, we have now set a target for cash income 
to cover operating expenses by 31 March 2014 on a run-rate basis.
The performance set out above resulted in an NAV per share of 
31 1 pence (201 2: 279 pence) after taking into account a 5.8 pence 
reduction for implementation costs and the payment of 8. 1 pence 
in dividends per share relating to last year’s final dividend and this 
year’s interim dividend.
Business review
Julia Wilson 
Finance Director Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 21
Financial data and key performance indicators
The table below summarises our financial results and our key performance indicators. The rest of this section of the report includes more detail 
on the performance in the year .
Year to/as at 
31 March 2013
Year to/as at 
31 March 2012
Returns
Gross portfolio return £546m £(329)m
Gross portfolio return on opening portfolio value 17.0% (8.2)%
Net portfolio return £432m £(425)m
Net portfolio return on opening portfolio value 13.5% (10.6)%
Total return £373m £(656)m
Total return on opening shareholders’ funds 14.2% (19.5)%
Dividend per ordinary share 8.1p 8.1p
Actual operating expenses £170m £180m
Run-rate operating expenses £140m £185m
Operating expenses as a percentage of assets under management
1
1.3% 1.6%
Annual operating cash profit/(loss) £(8)m £(20)m
Assets under management (“AUM”)
Proprietary capital £3,694m £4,173m
Third-party capital £9,176m £6,320m
Total assets under management £12,870m £10,493m
Balance sheet
3i portfolio value £3,295m £3,204m
Gross debt £1,081m £1,623m
Net debt £335m £464m
Gross interest payable £97m £103m
Net interest payable £91m £91m
Gearing 11.4% 17.7%
Liquidity £1,082m £1,653m
Net asset value £2,934m £2,627m
Diluted net asset value per ordinary share 311p 279p
Investment activity
Cash investment £172m £464m
Realisations £606m £771m
1 Actual operating expenses, excluding implementation costs of £30 million in the year to 31 March 2013, as a percentage of closing assets under management. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 22
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Chart 1: Global Private Equity fundraising 2002 to 2012 US$bn
 US$bn
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
 Capital raised US$bn Number of funds closed
Source: Preqin.
Macroeconomic conditions
The macroeconomic environment in Europe remained challenging 
in the period, restricting the ability of certain Eurozone countries 
to return to growth, while balancing austerity measures. Financial 
markets and M&A activity, particularly in Europe, reflected this in 
contrast to a recovery in activity in the US, Asia and Latin America. 
Global M&A activity in 201 2 was up 5% year-on-year , while European 
volume fell 3% (source: Capital IQ). The final quarter of 201 2 was 
stronger , with global growth of 1 2% and growth of 7% in Europe, 
compared to the third quarter . However , notwithstanding the increase, 
the final quarter of 201 2 in Europe was still 4% below the same 
period in 201 1.
Stock markets in our core markets of the UK, Europe and the US 
staged a strong rally since late 201 2 with the FTSE 100, Eurostoxx50 
and S&P up 1 1 %, 6% and 9% respectively between 1 November 201 2 
and 31 March 201 3. Currency markets experienced high volatility in 
the second half of the financial year , with a 6% weakening of sterling 
against both the euro and US dollar .
Investment and 
fundraising conditions
Private Equity
European private equity activity followed a similar pattern to wider 
M&A activity. Annual figures, reported by the unquote” Private Equity 
Barometer , showed deal volumes were down 14% in 201 2 compared 
to 201 1, with value down 21 %. However , the private equity market saw 
an increase in activity in the final quarter , with deal volumes up 21 % 
and value up 82% quarter-on-quarter . In particular , the increase 
in larger transactions reflects a gradual recovery in the health 
of the debt markets. 
Notwithstanding the increase in activity in the final quarter , deal flow 
remains at an historically low level and we expect 201 3 to be another 
year of slow improvement as market conditions gradually recover . 
The US and Latin American markets have seen a different trend. 
The US, in particular , regained momentum through 201 2. Company 
trading, debt availability and therefore market conditions for 
investment have been improving and a key trend of the year was 
positive US bank support for transaction activity involving companies 
with exposure to North America. 3i benefited from this improved 
sentiment with the sale of Canada based Mold-Masters in the year 
and the IPO of US based Quintiles, shortly after the period end. 
Brazil also recovered well from a low in 201 1, with a conducive M&A 
environment offsetting macro and currency concerns. T ransaction 
activity was strong, with deal value up 78% in 201 2, according to the 
Emerging Markets Private Equity Association. 
Private equity activity in Asia fell 38% in the year as macroeconomic 
concerns, political uncertainty and regulatory obstacles made 
investors question investing in the region.
Global private equity fundraising remained stable in 201 2, although 
at much lower levels than pre-crisis and many firms have scaled 
back ambitious fund targets. There continues to be considerable 
competition for capital globally; in May 201 3, according to Preqin, 
264 buyout funds are collectively targeting US$236 billion in 
commitments, giving private equity investors the opportunity 
to be highly selective when making allocations. 
Market environment  Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23
2002
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Chart 2: Global M&A deals 2002 to 2012 US$bn
0
4,000
8,000
12,000
16,000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
US$bn
 Deal value US$bn     Volume
Source: Dealogic, M&A review, Capital IQ, 3i.
Private equity remains an attractive asset class, but there is a broader 
range of alternatives over which investors are able to allocate their 
capital. Whilst there is a suggestion that some limited partners will 
increase their allocations to private equity in 201 3 and 2014, the trends 
towards reducing the number of managers with whom they invest will 
ensure that the fund-raising market will remain highly competitive 
in the near to medium term.
Infrastructure 
Infrastructure as an asset class is becoming increasingly attractive 
in a persistently low interest rate environment, as investors seek 
opportunities that can deliver a stable income. This has resulted 
in strong demand for infrastructure assets not only from specialist 
infrastructure investors, but also from direct investors such as large 
pension funds or sovereign wealth funds. T ransaction activity in the 
infrastructure market, however , has remained muted and, as demand 
for infrastructure assets has continued to increase, price points have 
risen, reducing projected returns. 
We continue to see good investment opportunities in core 
infrastructure, as corporates and financial institutions sell non-core 
assets to refocus on their core businesses or to comply with capital 
adequacy regulations.
We also believe that the PPP market is likely to provide interesting 
opportunities in the future. Investment in social and energy 
infrastructure is a core strategy of Europe-wide government agendas 
to stimulate economic growth and private sector funding is key to 
the success of those ambitions. Over time, we expect resource-
constrained governments throughout Europe to privatise or open 
up essential infrastructure markets through PPP-style transactions.
Infrastructure transaction volumes in India have reduced, as a result 
of lower GDP growth rates, a growing fiscal deficit, currency volatility 
and persistently high inflation. The 3i India Infrastructure Fund 
reached the end of its investment period in November 201 2 and, 
against challenging economic conditions, we have suspended 
any new fundraising in this market at present.
Debt Management 
As with M&A activity and private equity, there was a marked 
difference between debt management market conditions in the US 
and Europe. New Collateralised Loan Obligations (“CLO”) issuance, 
to support a resurgence in private equity activity, has been strong 
in the US and the market gained momentum throughout the year . 
There were 1 16 CLOs launched in the US in 2012, raising 
US$53.5 billion, an increase of over four times on the US$1 2.2 billion 
raised in 201 1. Indeed, the final quarter of 2012 alone saw 
US$23.5 billion raised and this momentum has continued into 201 3, 
with 52 new CLOs issued, raising US$26.3 billion. An interesting trend 
is the increasing size of issuance through the year , with first quarter 
201 3 CLOs averaging above US$500 million in size compared with 
US$433 million in the third quarter of 201 2.
New leveraged loan issuance in Europe in 201 2 was €28.5 billion, 
down 34% from the 201 1 total, with ongoing macro uncertainties and 
a lack of primary loan issuance restricting activity. The focus for the 
market in Europe was on larger players looking to increase market 
share through the acquisition of management contracts and teams 
and diversifying into smaller , more flexible, debt funds focused 
on secondary trading, high yield bonds and secondary senior debt 
markets. Increased private equity deal flow in the final quarter of 201 2 
and slow recovery in the health of the debt markets across Europe is 
expected to improve the market dynamics for CLO issuance in 201 3. 
Indeed, the first quarter of 201 3 saw a small handful of CLO launches 
providing evidence of prospects for a nascent recovery in this core 
market, after four years of no CLO issuance. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 24
29%
47%
11%
4%
9%
North America
UK
Rest of Europe
Asia
Rest of World
Chart 3: External investor base for non-listed funds managed 
and advised by geographical location as at 31 March 2013   
10%
7%
14%
54%
1%
1%
2%
11%
Financial institutions
Insurance companies
Funds of funds
Pension funds
Government agencies
Other
Private individuals
Endowments
Chart 4: External investor base for non-listed funds managed 
and advised by type of investor as at 31 March 2013   
Assets under management
T able 1: Reconciliation of movements in assets under management by business line
Private Equity  
£m
Infrastructure  
£m
Debt Management  
£m
Total  
£m
AUM at 31 March 2012 5,401 1,734 3,358 10,493
of which proprietary capital 3,578 547 48 4,173
of which third-party capital 1,823 1,187 3,310 6,320
Investment (cost) 390 19 23 432
Divestment/Distributions (cost) (503) (1) (50) (554)
3i Infrastructure plc NAV movement – 32 – 32
Change from committed to invested capital basis (421) (181) – (602)
Acquisitions – – 2,471 2,471
New funds raised – – 626 626
Foreign exchange movements and other (16) (24) 12 (28)
AUM at 31 March 2013 4,851 1,579 6,440 12,870
of which proprietary capital 3,145 481 68 3,694
of which third-party capital 1,706 1,098 6,372 9,176
Total AUM grew by £2,377 million to £1 2,870 million in the period. 
This reflected significant growth in Debt Management AUM following 
the Invesco and Fraser Sullivan transactions and the subsequent 
successful raisings of the Jamestown I and Jamestown II CLOs in 
the US. Debt Management AUM was £6,440 million at 31 March 201 3, 
up 92% in the period from £3,358 million at 31 March 201 2.
This growth was partially offset by net divestment activity in 
Private Equity. There was also a reduction in AUM as a result 
of the investment periods for the India Infrastructure Fund and 
the Growth Capital Fund coming to an end, when fees are charged 
on invested rather than committed capital and the calculation of 
our AUM reflects this change.
The table below summarises the key movements in the period.  
Fund by fund listings are shown in the relevant business line sections 
of this business review. Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 25
T able 2: Investment activity – proprietary capital and third-party 
capital year to 31 March
Proprietary capital Third-party capital
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Realisations 606 771 186 470
Cash investment (172) (464) (92) (496)
Net cash divestment/
(investment) 434 307 94 (26)
Non-cash investment (98) (182) (72) (78)
Net divestment/
(investment) 336 125 22 (104)
Realisations in the year generated cash proceeds of £606 million (201 2: 
£771 million), offset by cash investment of £1 72 million (201 2: £464 million), 
resulting in net cash inflow of £434 million (201 2: £307 million). A further 
£98 million of investment was in non-cash form (201 2: £1 82 million) and 
total investment was £270 million (201 2: £646 million). Further detail on 
investment and realisations by business line and type is included in 
T ables 4, 5 and 6, and by investment in T ables 3 and 7 .
Investment
The reduced level of M&A activity in the Group’s markets  
led to a lower level of investment activity in the year of £270 million 
(201 2: £646 million). Total cash investment in the year was only  
£1 72 million (201 2: £464 million).
Private Equity invested a total of £234 million in the year (201 2: 
£540 million). This included £1 00 million in three new investments: Geka 
(£57 million), a German cosmetic packaging business; Blue Interactive 
(£29 million), the Brazilian cable television service provider; and Óticas 
Carol (£1 4 million), a Brazilian eyewear retailer . The Private Equity 
business also provided £2 million of acquisition finance to existing 
portfolio companies to support their growth plans (201 2: £1 2 million) and 
£1 3 million to support restructurings (201 2: £9 million). Other non-cash 
investment includes capitalised interest of £1 1 3 million recognised 
in the loan portfolio (201 2: £1 63 million). This included £7 million (201 2: 
£8 million) of interest which was recognised in the prior year and now 
capitalised and £75 million (201 2: £87 million) of interest provided 
against as a result of the principal loan value being below par .
The reduction in value of Geka relative to cost reflects early 
operational issues experienced in the turnaround of this investment. 
Performance improved markedly in the first quarter of 201 3 following 
the implementation of 3i’s investment plan and a change in CEO.
Investment and realisations
Infrastructure invested £5 million in one new investment, Supreme 
Roads in India, in the year (201 2: £70 million).
Debt Management invested £31 million in the year in a number of new 
initiatives (201 2: £36 million). This included, in Europe, the purchase 
of European CLO contracts from Invesco for £5 million and net new 
investment of £8 million in Palace Street I, the European Credit 
Opportunities Fund. In the US, we invested £6 million in each of the 
Jamestown I and Jamestown II CLOs and a further £6 million into 
the 3i US Senior Loan Fund.
T able 4: Investment by business line for the year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Private Equity 234 540
of which non-cash 113 163
Infrastructure 5 70
of which non-cash – –
Debt Management 31 36
of which non-cash (15)
1
19
Total gross investment 270 646
1 Includes net investment in Palace Street I.
T able 5: Investment type for the year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
New/first investment 128 374
Acquisition finance 2 12
Other portfolio investment
1
35 17
Other 7 61
Total cash investment 172 464
Non-cash investment
2
98 182
Total gross investment 270 646
1 Includes net investment in Palace Street I and syndicated investments in 
Private Equity.
2 Includes capitalised interest and unsettled trades in Palace Street I.
T able 3: New investment in the year to 31 March 201 3
Investment Business line Country Sector Date
3i  
investment 
£m
Value at  
31 March  
2013  
£m
Geka Private Equity Germany Industrials & Energy April 201 2 57 39
Blue Interactive Private Equity Brazil TMT July 201 2 29 29
Óticas Carol Private Equity Brazil Consumer March 201 3 14 14
3i US Senior Loan Fund LP Debt Management US Financial services October 201 2 6 6
Jamestown I Debt Management US Financial services November 201 2 6 6
Jamestown II Debt Management US Financial services February 201 3 6 7
Supreme Roads Infrastructure India Infrastructure June 2012 5 6
Invesco Funds Debt Management UK Financial services August 201 2 5 6
Total 128 113 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 26
Realisations
The Group received cash proceeds from realisations of £606 million 
in the year to 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £771 million). These realisations 
were achieved at a strong average uplift over opening portfolio value 
of 47% (201 2: 3%). 
Sales to strategic trade buyers were the primary exit routes, 
with strong company balance sheets facilitating this activity.
Private Equity generated proceeds of £575 million (201 2: £770 million) 
at a 49% uplift over opening portfolio value (201 2: 3%). Notable exits 
included the sale of Mold-Masters, which generated proceeds of 
£222 million and an uplift over opening portfolio value of 93%; the sale 
of our remaining quoted holding in NORMA for £106 million and a 
6% uplift on opening portfolio value; and the sale of EUSA Pharma, 
a transatlantic healthcare business, which generated proceeds 
of £72 million and an uplift of 1 57% over opening portfolio value. 
The realisations from the Private Equity portfolio generated 
a money multiple of 2. 1x.
Infrastructure realisations generated proceeds of £31 million, 
which primarily reflected the sale of a direct stake in Elenia, the 
Finnish electricity distribution and heating business, for £30 million. 
3i had taken a position in Elenia prior to syndication to facilitate 
3i Infrastructure plc’s investment. A small profit of £1 million was 
achieved on this exit.
The Debt Management business is focused on creating value 
through earning fees from the provision of fund management 
services, so its performance is not driven by the realisation of the 
Group’s portfolio investments in the business line. However , realised 
profits of £5 million from trading activities within Palace Street I, 
the European Credit Opportunities Fund, were achieved in the year .
Further details of the realisations in the year are included in T able 7 .
T able 6: Realisations by type for the year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Trade sales 362 291
Secondaries 54 349
Loan repayment 6 18
Quoted asset sales 117 76
Other 67 37
Total 606 771
Investment and realisations Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 27
T able 7: Realisations in the year to 31 March 201 3
Investment Country
Calendar 
 year  
invested
31 March  
2012  
value  
£m
3i realised  
proceeds  
£m
Profit/(loss) 
in the year
1
 
£m
Uplift on 
opening 
value
2
 %
Money 
multiple  
over 
cost
3
IRR
Private Equity
Mold-Masters Canada 2007 115 222 107 93% 2.7x 22%
NORMA Germany 2006 103 106 6 6% 5.8x 39%
EUSA Pharma UK 2007 28 72 43 157% 2.3x 18%
HILITE
4
 Germany 2011 42 42 – – 1.6x 36%
Mayborn
4
UK 2007 32 32 – – 2.9x 19%
Esmalglass Spain 2002 21 23 4 21% 1.4x 4%
Giraffe UK 2007 6 15 9 150% 1.5x 7%
MWM
5
Germany 2007 – 13 13 100% 3.1x 31%
Monitise (incl Morse) UK 1995 12 11 (1) (8)% 4.9x 84%
Halti Finland 2005 6 5 (1) (17)% 1.4x 4%
VNU/Vouvray Benelux 2007 4 4 – – 0.1x (38)%
MDY Healthcare
4
UK 2006 3 3 1 50% 0.4x (6)%
The Japan Fund Singapore 2005 – 3 3 100% 0.7x (8)%
ABX
5
Benelux 2006 – 2 2 100% 5.9x 139%
Instone Nordic 2003 – 1 1 100% 3.1x 40%
Other investments
6
n/a n/a 13 21 3 17% 0.2x n/a
385 575 190 49% 2.1x n/a
Infrastructure
Elenia Finland 2012 29 30 1 3% 1.0x 5%
Other n/a n/a 2 1 (1) (50)% 0.7x n/a
31 31 – – 1.0x n/a
Debt Management
Palace Street I Europe 2011 n/a – 5 n/a n/a n/a
n/a – 5 n/a n/a n/a
Total 416 606 195 47% n/a n/a
1 Profit/(loss) for the year includes the impact of foreign exchange movements from 31 March 2012 to the date of the sale.
2  Cash proceeds in the period over opening value.
3  Cash proceeds (including income) over cash invested. 
4 For partial divestments and recapitalisations, valuations of any remaining investment are included in the money multiple over cost calculation.
5  Deferred consideration.
6 Other investments in Private Equity include the realisation of investments with a cost of £186 million.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 28
Introduction
3i’s Private Equity business operates across Europe, North America, 
Brazil and Asia. At 31 March 201 3, the Private Equity portfolio 
consisted of 102 companies with operations in over 70 countries. 
Assets under management at 31 March 201 3 were £4.9 billion (201 2: 
£5.4 billion). The value of 3i’s proprietary capital invested in the Private 
Equity portfolio at 31 March 201 3 was £3. 1 billion (201 2: £3.6 billion).
The announcement of 3i’s new strategy in June 201 2 re-focused the 
business on the regions where 3i has the most competitive advantage, 
with the consequent closure of five investing offices and the scaling 
back of resources to focus on portfolio management in a further four 
offices. The six key asset management initiatives also announced in 
June last year have now been substantially implemented.
We have a team of 7 4 investment professionals. The team is focused 
on making new investments in northern Europe, North America 
and Brazil, while actively managing our existing portfolio of assets. 
The team in Europe also manages 25 legacy investments, all of which 
are minority investments previously disclosed as non-core, with 
a total value of £75 million at 31 March 201 3.
Having reached the end of the investment period for the 3i Growth 
Capital Fund in December 201 2 and for Eurofund V in November 201 1, 
3i has established arrangements with a number of market leading 
investors to invest alongside 3i on future transactions in return 
for management and other fees and carried interest. 
Business model 
3i’s Private Equity business is focused on investing in mid-market 
private equity transactions.
The strategy is built around the following components:
n n identifying and investing annually in five to seven leading mid-
market businesses in northern Europe, North America and Brazil;
n n utilising 3i’s local knowledge and investment disciplines to select 
attractive assets, purchase them at the right price and then finance 
them appropriately;
n n building these businesses through organic growth, international 
expansion and acquisitions, as well as optimising their operations 
in partnership with top class management teams;
n n maximising value through timely and well-executed exit 
strategies; and
n n generating management fees and carried interest from managed 
third-party capital invested alongside 3i’s proprietary capital.
The main driver of performance is investment returns, supplemented 
by management fees and carried interest on third-party capital.
During the year , the team reviewed a range of opportunities across 
each of our core geographies. From these, two investments were 
completed in Brazil and one in Germany. The team completed 24 full 
exits, as well as a number of partial returns of capital, generating 
proceeds of £575 million at uplifts of 49% over opening value.
Strong returns performance, delivered 
through continued focus on the portfolio 
and selective realisations, positions us well 
for further new investments.
Alan Giddins 
Managing Partner, Private Equity Co-head
Menno Antal 
Managing Partner, Private Equity Co-head
Business lines Private Equity Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 29
Mold-Masters
In February 201 3, 3i realised 
£222 million through the sale 
of Mold-Masters, a leading 
manufacturer of melt delivery 
and control systems for the plastics 
industry. The proceeds from the 
sale represent a 93% uplift over 
the March 201 2 opening value 
of £1 1 5 million and a 2.7x money 
multiple on 3i’s initial investment 
in October 2007 .
Carefully planned exit
During the summer of 201 2, working closely 
with the company and its management 
team, 3i developed a detailed exit plan for 
Mold-Masters. An auction process was 
initiated in late 201 2 which led to interest 
from a wide range of private equity and 
strategic buyers. Management 
presentations were arranged with nine 
potential acquirers in January 201 3 and, 
after careful planning, a second round was 
launched. Eight bids were received in the 
second round, seven above the original 
mid-point of offers, and in February 201 3,  
3i entered into a definitive agreement to sell 
Mold-Masters to Milacron, a leading plastics 
processing solutions provider , for 
CAD$975 million.
Significant value creation
3i supported the company in substantially 
growing market share and turnover 
between 2009 and 201 2. T urnover grew 
from CAD$1 68 million to CAD$271 million, 
representing a CAGR of 1 7%, reinforcing the 
company’s position as a global leader in its 
sector . Leveraging 3i’s extensive active 
partnership approach enabled the company 
to accelerate its organic growth in Asia, 
Europe and South America. The company 
made a number of add-on acquisitions to 
expand its geographical reach and product 
More at www.3i.com
offering and 3i supported it through a range 
of performance enhancements including: 
improving its sales force effectiveness; 
optimising its global manufacturing 
footprint; new product introductions; 
upgrading financial management and 
controls; and de-leveraging in 2009,  
leading to significant value creation 
during the period of 3i’s investment.
Positioned for growth
Headquartered in Georgetown, Canada, 
Mold-Masters designs and manufactures 
the plastic industry’s most advanced hot 
runner systems, temperature controllers 
and auxiliary equipment. Since 1 963, 
Mold-Masters has invested heavily in 
research and development. With over  
900 granted and pending patents,  
Mold-Masters has created many technology 
breakthroughs and enabled countless new 
ways of molding parts with hot-runners. 
From its manufacturing facilities in Canada, 
China, Germany, India and the UK,  
Mold-Masters serves a diverse and global 
customer base across high growth end 
markets. These include consumer 
electronics, medical devices, personal care 
consumer products, telecommunications, 
packaging and automotive. The company 
is an attractive business, well positioned 
for continued growth as part of Milacron. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 30
Performance for the year
T able 8: Returns from Private Equity
For the year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Realised profits over value on the disposal 
of investments 190 22
Unrealised profits/(losses) on the revaluation 
of investments 250 (488)
Portfolio income 78 125
Gross portfolio return 518 (341)
Gross portfolio return % 19.7% (9.7)%
Fees receivable from external funds 19 32
Net carried interest (7) –
Operating expenses (114) (132)
Net portfolio return 416 (441)
Net portfolio return % 15.8% (12.5)%
Gross portfolio return
Gross portfolio return was strong at £518 million, or 1 9.7% on 
opening portfolio value (201 2: £(34 1 ) million, (9.7)%). The portfolios 
in northern Europe, North America and Brazil generated 
£543 million profit, 26.7% on opening portfolio value (201 2: 
£(78) million, (2.9)%). The Asia portfolio experienced a more 
challenging year , with a return of £(29) million, or (8.2)% on opening 
portfolio value (201 2: £(7 4) million, (1 6.8)%). In India, in particular , 
the portfolio faced the combined challenges of a slowing macro-
economy and currency devaluation.
Overall, the portfolio experienced good value growth of £250 million 
(201 2: £(488) million), supported by robust earnings growth. Strong 
realisations, at good uplifts to the March 201 2 valuations, added 
£1 90 million to returns (201 2: £22 million).
Income from the portfolio fell in the year to £78 million  
(201 2: £1 25 million) as a result of net divestment of the portfolio,  
a re-negotiation of terms on specific investments and a small  
number of loans, particularly in Spain and France, where interest  
is currently being provided against.
Net portfolio return
After deducting operating expenses and net carry payable, and 
including fee income from third-party capital managed, the net 
portfolio return was £4 1 6 million or 1 5.8% on opening portfolio value 
(201 2: £(44 1 ) million, (1 2.5)%).
Fee income reduced in the period to £1 9 million (201 2: £32 million) 
as the Growth Capital Fund ended its investment period and 
started charging fees on invested rather than committed capital. 
The reduction also reflects the full year impact of Eurofund V ending 
its investment period in November 201 1, after which fees were also 
reduced to a lower rate and received on invested capital.
Following the announcement of a significant restructuring in June 
201 2, operating expenses have been materially reduced and totalled 
£1 14 million, including one-off implementation costs of £23 million 
relating to the restructuring. The benefit of this lower cost base 
is expected to be seen in the next financial year .
Operating expenses as a percentage of AUM, excluding 
implementation costs, fell to 1.9% from 2.4% in the last financial year . 
Portfolio valuations
Unrealised value growth was good at £250 million (201 2: £(488) million), 
with the performance of the portfolio being the primary driver . Robust 
earnings growth and a consequent reduction in net debt were further 
supported by an increase in the multiples used to value the portfolio.
The majority of the portfolio (77% by value) grew earnings in the  
year and on a value weighted basis earnings grew by 10% (201 2: 9%). 
The larger investments continue to perform strongly. Chart 5 below 
shows earnings growth rates across the portfolio.
1,000
800
600
200
400
<(20)% (20)-(1 1)%
9*
5*
8*
13*
12*
13*
(10)-(1)% 0-9% 10-20% >20%
Chart 5: Portfolio earnings growth
1
 
3i carrying value at 3 1 March 2013
*  Number of companies
1 This represents 87% of the Private Equity portfolio, being those companies 
   valued on an earnings basis.
 
Although performance overall was good, there were a small number 
of investments, particularly in Asia and France, where earnings 
growth was disappointing against worsening economic conditions 
in these regions and values reduced. Forecast earnings, used 
when the forecast EBITDA outlook is lower than the last 1 2 months’ 
data, were used in 1 1 investments, 22% of the portfolio by number 
(201 2: 5, 8%) and 1 1 % by value (201 2: 2%).
In the case of one company, Action, which is experiencing significant 
growth due to its store roll-out programme, a run-rate adjustment 
was made to its earnings to reflect the profitability of opened stores 
for valuation purposes.
The net debt position of the portfolio further improved in the period, 
with the average ratio of net debt to EBITDA, for those assets valued 
on an earnings basis, reducing to 3.2x at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: 3.4x). 
Refinancings within the portfolio during the year also extended the 
maturity of portfolio debt, with 78% of the debt repayable in 201 5 
or later (201 2: 68%). Chart 6 shows the ratio of net debt to EBITDA 
weighted by portfolio value.
1,000
800
600
200
400
<1x 1-2x
590
434
586
297
536
151
2-3x 3-4x 4-5x >6x
–
5-6x
1 This represents 96% of the Private Equity portfolio, 
being those investments where net debt is relevant.
Chart 6: Ratio of net debt to EBITDA – Private Equity portfolio 
weighted by March 2013 carrying values
1
  
as at 31 March 2013
Business lines – Private Equity Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 31
T able 10: Assets under management
Close date
Original 
fund size
Original 3i 
commitment
Remaining 3i 
commitment 
at March 2013
% invested at 
March 2013
Gross money 
multiple
1
 at 
March 2013 AUM
Private Equity
3i Eurofund III July 1999 €1,990m €995m €90m 91% 2.1x €11m
3i Eurofund IV June 2004 €3,067m €1,941m €78m 96% 2.3x €406m
3i Eurofund V Nov 2006 €5,000m €2,780m €389m 86% 0.9x €3,700m
3i Growth Capital Fund March 2010 €1,192m €800m €376m 53% 1.0x €655m
Other various various various n/a n/a n/a €972m
Total Private Equity AUM £4,851m
1  Gross money multiple is the cash returned to the fund plus value as at 31 March 2013, as a multiple of cash invested.
The combination of earnings growth and net debt reduction 
(“performance”) led to a value increase of £14 1 million. Following the 
stock market rises seen since late 201 2, the multiples used to value 
the portfolio increased by 7% in the year . The average EBITDA multiple 
used to value the Private Equity portfolio on an earnings basis was 
8.8x before marketability discount (201 2: 8.2x) and 7 .9x after 
marketability discount (201 2: 7 .5x). This translated into a positive 
movement in the period of £37 million (201 2: £(267) million).
These multiples remain below those seen in relevant sector and 
geographic public markets. T able 9 details the EBITDA multiples 
used to value the portfolio and the FTSE 250 index.
T able 9: EBITDA multiples for the year to 31 March
2013 2012
Movements 
in the year 
FTSE 250 11.1x 9.6x 16%
3i pre-discount 8.8x 8.2x 7%
3i post-discount 7.9x 7.5x 5%
The multiple increase is lower than the increase in broader market 
indices as, in a small number of cases, multiples used for valuations 
have been linked to a cross-cycle level, or adjusted to reflect 
challenges in particular markets, or to reflect the small size of 
the portfolio business relative to comparable quoted companies.
Assets under management
As all the funds in T able 10 are now past the investment 
period, AUM is calculated using the remaining cost of the 
underlying investments.
AUM reduced to £4,851 million at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £5,401 million) 
as a result of the Growth Capital Fund switching from a committed 
capital basis to remaining cost and the net divestment of the portfolio, 
offset by the weakening of sterling against the euro.
During the year , 3i established framework arrangements with 
a number of leading investors to invest alongside 3i in future 
transactions in return for management and other fees and 
carried interest.
Priorities for the year ahead
The key focus of the team is to continue to manage intensively the 
existing portfolio by implementing clear value-building strategies and 
realising investments well through carefully planned and executed 
exit strategies.
We will continue to make new investments selectively in the focus 
markets of northern Europe, North America and Brazil to further build 
our track records in these regions.
We will work with co-invest partners on new investments to build 
those relationships and further expand the group of investors we will 
work with. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 32
Óticas Carol
Business lines – Private Equity
3i led a consortium with Neuberger 
Berman and Siguler Guff to invest 
R$1 08 million (£35 million) to 
support the acquisition of Óticas 
Carol in March 201 3. 3i invested 
R$43 million (£1 4 million) directly 
in its second Brazilian investment 
since establishing the team in 201 1 . 
Óticas Carol has built a successful business 
model that has grown rapidly and is well 
positioned in an attractive market.
Successful business model
The company was established in 1 997 and 
is the second largest eyewear retailer in 
Brazil, selling a broad range of prescription 
glasses, sunglasses and related eyewear 
accessories. The company operates a 
franchising model that has successfully 
attracted optical retailers thanks to the 
strength of its brand, its strong relationships 
with suppliers and its dedicated laboratory 
offering, which provides access to an 
exclusive range of high quality, own-
label lenses.
The strength of this model has resulted in 
the company operating 490 stores across 
1 9 of the 26 states in Brazil, including Rio de 
Janeiro and São Paulo. The investment will 
support the company management 
team’s plan to extend its store network 
throughout Brazil, with 3i working closely 
with management as an active partner , 
providing retail sector expertise and 
international best practice in strategy, 
operations and governance. 
Attractive market
The eyewear market in Brazil is highly 
fragmented and grew at a 1 5% CAGR 
between 2006 and 201 2. The market is 
expected to continue to expand significantly 
above GDP in the coming years due 
to strong domestic demand fuelled by 
increasing levels of income per capita, low 
unemployment, an ageing population, more 
people wearing prescription glasses and 
the increased use of eyewear as a fashion 
statement. This represents an excellent 
opportunity for the company to continue 
its growth, supported by 3i. 
More at www.3i.com Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 33
Long-term performance
The long-term performance of the Private Equity business’ buyout and growth capital investments are shown in T ables 1 1 and 1 2. The 201 2 
Buyout performance, at this early stage, has been very strong, with an IRR of 43%, reflecting excellent earnings growth in the majority of these 
investments. The 201 2 Growth Capital investments have not performed as well, mainly reflecting the higher exposure to more challenging 
economic markets compared to Buyout investments made in the same period.
The 2008 to 201 1 vintages continue to improve as we manage these investments to maximise value for shareholders and fund investors.
T able 1 1: Long-term performance – Private Equity: Buyouts
New investments made in  
financial years to 31 March  
vintage year
Cash 
investment 
£m
Return  
flow  
£m
Value 
remaining  
£m
IRR to  
31 March  
2013
IRR to  
31 March  
2012
2013 57 – 39 n/a
1
n/a
2012 269 46 420 43% n/a
2011 271 – 322 8% 5%
2010 – – – – –
2009 328 6 306 (1)% (13)%
2008 715 368 253 (4)% (7)%
2007 563 516 182 7% 9%
2006 437 1,176 – 48% 48%
2005 326 1,047 47 62% 63%
2004 295 707 – 35% 35%
1 The 2013 vintage IRR is not meaningful as the assets in the vintage are less than 12 months old.
T able 1 2: Long-term performance – Private Equity: Growth Capital
New investments made in  
financial years to 31 March  
vintage year
Cash 
investment 
£m
Return  
flow  
£m
Value 
remaining  
£m
IRR to  
31 March  
2013
IRR to  
31 March  
2012
2013 43 – 43 n/a
1
n/a
2012 70 – 66 (3)% n/a
2011 21 – 27 14% 20%
2010 46 – 27 (19)% (52)%
2009 211 49 80 (13)% (16)%
2008 1,004 720 444 3% (1)%
2007 553 255 257 (2)% (1)%
2006 441 629 54 22% 23%
2005 171 314 – 26% 25%
2004 289 530 – 26% 26%
1 The 2013 vintage IRR is not meaningful as the assets in the vintage are less than 12 months old. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 34
Chart 7: Direct portfolio by value by region and number
as at 31 March 2013 
UK
1
Northern Europe
North America
Brazil
Asia
Southern Europe
48%
24%
2%
13%
6%
7%
1 Includes 25 legacy investments, previously 
disclosed as non-core, with a total value of £75 million.  
10
17
5
32
36
2
Chart 8: Direct portfolio by value by sector and number 
as at 31 March 2013 
Business & Financial Services
Consumer
Healthcare
Industrials & Energy
TMT
24%
31%
21%
8%
16%
11
33
15
16
27
Chart 9: Direct portfolio by value by vintage year 
and number as at 31 March 2013
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006 and prior
18%
3%
26%
18%
14%
7%
1%
13%
37
7
6
3
1
8
22
18
Portfolio 
The Private Equity portfolio is concentrated in our focus regions,  
with 81 % of the Private Equity portfolio by value in northern Europe, 
North America and Brazil. We continued to build our presence in Brazil 
in the year , where we now hold two investments. The Group’s direct 
exposure by sector remains well diversified, with no one sector 
accounting for more than a third of the portfolio.
As shown in Chart 9, the direct value of the portfolio in the 2007 to 
2009 vintages is still high and accounts for over half the Private Equity 
portfolio. This section of the portfolio is being managed to maximise 
returns and has shown an improvement in performance in the year 
with a number of investments entering exit processes.
 
Business lines – Private Equity
Note: 
The number of portfolio companies is shown inside the segments of the above 
pie charts. Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35
The portfolio in Europe continues to perform well, 
providing a solid platform for future development.
Cressida Hogg 
Managing Partner, Infrastructure
Introduction
The Infrastructure business line currently 
operates in Europe and India, investing 
proprietary and third-party capital. 
The business managed or advised assets 
of £1 .6 billion at 31 March 201 3, primarily 
through 3i Infrastructure plc (“3iN”) a listed 
investment company, with net assets 
of £1 . 1 billion and a market capitalisation 
of £1 .2 billion at that date and the 3i India 
Infrastructure Fund (the “India Fund”),  
a limited partner fund. 3i’s infrastructure 
investments were valued at £507 million 
at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £528 million).
The Infrastructure business has a team of 18 investment 
professionals based in London, Mumbai and Delhi and is invested  
in seven businesses in Europe and seven in India, mostly through  
the funds it manages or advises. The India Fund reached the end  
of its investment period in November 201 2. In light of the impact  
of volatile macroeconomic and market conditions on the Fund’s 
performance, the Group does not, at present, intend to raise 
a successor fund in this market. 
3i’s stated strategic intention is to increase third-party fee  
income through growth in assets under management. Growth in 
Infrastructure AUM will focus on Europe where we have a market-
leading track record. 
Business model
3i’s Infrastructure business invests in core infrastructure companies 
and social infrastructure projects in Europe, with a particular focus 
on the UK and northern Europe, and manages the existing portfolios 
in Europe and India.
The strategy is built around the following components:
n n investing in core and social infrastructure in the developed world 
and, in particular , in northern Europe;
n n driving value and yield from its European investments by improving 
their operational performance over time, working with portfolio 
companies to implement strategies that deliver value over the 
long term;
n n maximising value in the existing portfolio of road, power and port 
investments in India, working with the local promoters to maximise 
value in the realisation phase; and
n n generating fee income by raising third-party capital to grow assets 
under management in Europe.
Mature infrastructure businesses tend to generate returns through 
income and an element of capital growth. They typically have a strong 
market position underpinning revenues, a degree of inflation linkage, 
they are capital intensive and tend to have lower volatility across 
economic cycles.
Returns for 3i from the Infrastructure business line are generated 
from dividend income and capital growth from its holding in 3iN, 
capital returns from its investment in the India Fund and advisory, 
management and performance fees from managing and advising 
third-party capital.
3i’s primary investing vehicle in Europe, 3iN, has permanent capital 
and can hold investments over the long term. Its objective, updated 
in May 201 3, is to generate a total return of 10% per annum, of which 
5.5% is through a distribution yield, by investing in core and social 
infrastructure. 3iN has delivered an annualised asset IRR since IPO 
in 2007 of 1 6% and an annual total return in the year to 31 March 201 3 
of 8.6%. 
Core infrastructure businesses are dynamic enterprises which tend 
to own their own asset base, such as utilities, not concessions with 
a finite life. An engaged asset management approach is therefore key 
to maximising value. 
Business lines Infrastructure 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 36
Social infrastructure investing, usually through public private 
partnership (“PPP”) projects, typically involves investing in finite 
concessions where the investor receives a payment in return 
for making an asset or facility available over a period of time, such 
as a school or hospital. This type of investment tends to have high 
inflation correlation, stable revenues backed by governments 
or related entities and a strong yield when fully operational.
Performance for the year
T able 1 3: Returns from Infrastructure
For the year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Realised profits over value on the disposal 
of investments – –
Unrealised losses on the revaluation 
of investments (2) (7)
Portfolio income 18 18
Gross portfolio return 16 11
Gross portfolio return % 3.0% 2.4%
Fees receivable from external funds 21 25
Net carried interest (1) (6)
Operating expenses (24) (17)
Net portfolio return 12 13
Net portfolio return % 2.3% 2.8%
The Infrastructure business line generated a gross portfolio return 
of £1 6 million in the year to 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £1 1 million). This was 
driven principally by portfolio income of £18 million (201 2: £18 million), 
which was partially offset by an unrealised value loss of £2 million 
(201 2: £(7) million). 
The value of the Group’s 34% holding in 3iN increased by 7 . 1 % in the 
year to 31 March 201 3, generating an unrealised value gain for the 
Group of £24 million for the year . This increase was underpinned 
by the strong performance of 3iN’s European portfolio, which also 
continued to generate good levels of income. In particular , 3iN’s 
holdings in AWG and Oystercatcher saw good value increases. 
These were supported, in the case of AWG, by the business’ continued 
good operational performance and by favourable market and 
transaction multiples in the UK water sector and, in the case 
of Oystercatcher , by resilient operational performance and the 
refinancing of the acquisition debt facility.
The valuation of the Group’s India investments, however , continued 
to be affected by a number of macroeconomic and market factors, 
resulting in an unrealised value loss of £27 million, which more than 
offset the gain generated by 3iN. The Indian power investments, in 
particular , have experienced issues around fuel supply and costs and 
their ability to pass increased fuel costs to their customers. The road 
investments faced challenges in project execution due to delays 
relating to land acquisitions and environmental clearances.
In addition to value growth, 3iN paid dividends of £18 million in the 
year , which makes up the portfolio income balance (201 2: £18 million).
Fees receivable totalled £21 million (201 2: £25 million). The year-on-
year decline is due to 3iN paying a lower advisory fee of 1.25% for 
investments held for more than five years (compared to 1.5% for 
investments under five years old). The lower advisory fee rate was 
applicable to 40% of 3iN’s portfolio during the year . In addition, having 
reached the end of its investment period, the India Fund now charges 
fees based on the remaining cost of the investments, rather than 
committed capital. 
In the year to 31 March 201 3, the Group also received a performance 
fee of £1.4 million from 3iN, as its total return exceeded the 
8% performance hurdle, which it recognises as carried interest 
receivable. This was offset by performance payments to the team.
Assets under management
The Infrastructure business line had assets under management 
of £1.6 billion at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £1.7 billion). 
The India Fund reached the end of its investment period in November 
201 2 and consequently its contribution to total AUM is now based 
on the remaining cost of its investments, rather than on committed 
capital. This change in methodology accounts for the year-on-year 
decline in AUM. 3iN is a permanent capital vehicle and its 
contribution to AUM is calculated on the basis of its net asset 
value, which increased by 3% in the year , net of dividend receipts.
Business lines – Infrastructure
T able 14: Assets under management
Close date
Original 
fund size
Original 3i 
commitment
Remaining 3i 
commitment 
at March 2013
% invested at 
March 2013
Gross money 
multiple
1
 at 
March 2013 AUM
Infrastructure
3i India Infrastructure Fund March 2008 US$1,195m US$250m US$38m 73% 0.8x US$689m
2
3i Infrastructure plc March 2007 £1,072m
3
£366m
4
n/a n/a £1,072m
Other various various various n/a n/a £103m
Total Infrastructure AUM £1,579m
1 Gross money multiple is the cash returned to the Fund plus value as at 31 March 2013, as a multiple of cash invested.
2 Adjusted to reflect 3i Infrastructure plc’s US$250 million share of the Fund.
3 Based on latest published NAV (ex-dividend).
4 3i Group’s proportion of latest published NAV. Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37
Elenia 
3i sold its holding in Elenia to a  
third-party pension fund investor 
in July 201 2, for a small profit over 
carrying value. Our Infrastructure 
team retains responsibility for 
managing that holding (alongside 
the 39% holding in Elenia owned by 
3iN) and generates fees from this. 
The investment exemplifies the 
smart use of our permanent capital, 
our ability to raise third-party AUM 
against an existing investment, as 
well as our ability to leverage our 
international network to execute 
the transaction.
More at www.3i.com
A strong business with 
clear infrastructure characteristics
Elenia owns the second-largest electricity 
distribution business in Finland, serving 
around 4 10,000 customers and with 
a c. 1 2% market share. This business is 
regulated on a four-year cycle, delivering 
a set return on its regulated asset base. 
It also owns and operates 1 6 local district 
heating networks, each with strong market 
shares in their local area. District heating, 
which involves the pumping of hot water 
directly into homes and businesses from 
central hubs, is not regulated in Finland.
The electricity distribution business 
operates in a stable and transparent 
regulatory environment. The new regulatory 
period began in January 201 2, providing 
clarity over the medium term. The 
framework encourages investment, 
providing opportunities for value-accretive 
growth, as well as network development 
and innovation. 
Finland is among the largest per capita 
electricity consumers in Europe, with 
demand expected to grow steadily. The 
market is fragmented and Elenia could 
leverage its operational efficiencies and 
technical superiority to act as a consolidator 
in its market. The first small bolt-on 
acquisition was completed in August 201 2. 
Elenia generates high EBITDA margins, 
supporting a strong yield over the long term. 
Returns from the electricity distribution 
business are linked to inflation and the 
heating business has been able to increase 
its charges at least in line with inflation.
An efficient use of our balance sheet
Elenia was acquired from Vattenfall AB in 
January 201 2 by a consortium comprising:
n n 3iN (39% share) and 3i (6% share);
n n GS Infrastructure Partners (45% 
share); and
n n Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance 
Company (10% share).
Using its own permanent capital, 3i invested 
alongside 3iN to facilitate its investment and 
deliver 3i’s strategy to grow its assets under 
management. 3iN’s own investment 
concentration limits prevented it from taking 
a larger stake, to match that of the other 
senior member of the consortium, 
GS Infrastructure Partners. 
In July 201 2, 3i sold its 6% holding in Elenia 
to a third-party pension fund investor for 
£30 million, generating a £1 million profit 
over the carrying value. This 6% stake 
is held by this third party through 
an intermediary limited partnership, 
3i Networks Finland LP , managed separately 
by 3i’s Infrastructure team for an ongoing 
management fee. This is a great example 
of 3i raising third-party assets under 
management against existing investments.
Leveraging our network
While our Infrastructure team does not have 
anyone on the ground in the Nordic region, 
it was able to leverage the resources of 3i’s 
Private Equity team in Stockholm to execute 
the transaction. The Stockholm team provided:
n n its knowledge of the local market and the 
help of native Finnish and Swedish speakers; 
n n access to the best local corporate finance 
and legal advisers; and
n n access to local banks, to put together 
a financing package. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 38
Chart 10: 3i Group plc Infrastructure business line 
portfolio by region as at 31 March 2013
1
 
UK
Continental Europe
Asia
28%
32%
40%
7
3
5
Chart 1 1: 3i Group plc Infrastructure business line continental 
European and UK portfolio by sector as at 31 March 2013
1
 
Social infrastructure
Transportation
Utilities
35%
11%
54% 3
2
3
Chart 12: 3i Group plc Infrastructure business line India 
portfolio by sector as at 31 March 2013
1
 
Transportation
Utilities
38%
62%
3
4
1 The underlying portfolio exposure is calculated by allocating 3iN’s 
31 March 2013 value across its portfolio of investments in addition to 
3i Group investments in India and directly held in Europe.
 
Note: 
The number of portfolio companies is shown inside the segments of the  
above pie charts.
Priorities for the year ahead
Delivering on the Group’s key strategic objective of increasing 
third-party AUM will be a key priority for the year . We will aim 
to achieve this by making new investments through 3iN, but will 
also consider inorganic opportunities.
In Europe, we will maintain our rigorous investment approach, 
focusing our activity in core and social infrastructure in the  
UK and northern Europe, building on our market-leading track record 
of returns. This will be key to positioning 3iN for future capital raisings. 
At present we do not intend to raise a successor fund in India. 
Our team in India is therefore incentivised to manage the portfolio 
to maximise value in the realisation phase.
Portfolio 
3i’s investment exposure to infrastructure assets is primarily through 
its shareholding in 3iN and its commitment to the India Fund. 3i owns 
34% of the equity of 3iN, which is a listed investment company with 
an independent board of directors, and is exposed not only to the 
operational and financial performance of the underlying investments, 
but also to the fluctuations in 3iN’s share price. The direct exposure 
to the underlying investments is shown in the charts that follow.
The underlying infrastructure portfolio is weighted to the UK and 
Europe, with 68% of the underlying portfolio value in those regions. 
The exposure to Asia reduced in the period to 31 March 201 3 as a 
result of the challenges faced by the Indian portfolio, primarily driven 
by volatile macroeconomic and market conditions in India. The three 
largest underlying investments are AWG, an English water supply 
and wastewater company, Elenia, a Finnish electricity distribution 
business, and Eversholt, a leading UK rail rolling stock company. 
Business lines – Infrastructure Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 39
Introduction
3i’s Debt Management business operates 
across Europe and established a presence 
in North America in the year . At 31 March 
201 3, the Debt Management team 
managed 24 funds and accounted for 
£6.4 billion of assets under management, 
in which 3i’s investment was valued at 
£81 million.
Debt Management’s returns are consequently driven by fee income 
from managing third-party capital. The profitable growth in AUM 
seen in this business line is a key contributing factor to improving 
3i’s ability to cover operating expenses with cash income.
The Fraser Sullivan transaction, completed in September 2012, 
established a 3i Debt Management platform in the US and added 
US$3. 1 billion of AUM from transferred funds and two new fund 
launches. Access to the attractive, and liquid, US market is important 
in developing Debt Management into a leading global manager of credit.
The team of 45, including 28 investment professionals, is currently 
based in London and New York and invests in the debt of c.550 
businesses at any one time across Europe and North America.
3i intends to increase its investment in Debt Management funds to  
c. 1 0% of the assets under management in this business line over time,  
from the 1 . 1 % at 31 March 201 3.
The establishment of our US platform positions 
us well for future growth.
Jeremy Ghose  
Managing Partner and CEO, 3i Debt Management
Business model
3i Debt Management specialises in the management of third-party 
capital, investing in non-investment grade debt issued by medium 
and large European and North American companies.
The strategy is built around the following components:
n n gaining access to investment opportunities through relationships 
with primary debt providers and private equity sponsors;
n n in-depth credit analysis of each opportunity and close monitoring 
of the existing portfolio using analysts specialised by sector; and
n n generating management fee income and incentive fees for 
strong performance by raising third-party capital to grow assets 
under management.
The main driver of returns is fees earned from managing the 
underlying CLOs and debt funds, supplemented by the returns on 
3i’s investment in those funds. During the year , the Invesco and Fraser 
Sullivan transactions added significant additional revenue streams.
Business lines Debt Management 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 40
Performance for the year
T able 1 5: Returns from Debt Management
For the year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Realised profits over value on the disposal 
of investments 5 1
Unrealised profits/(losses) on the revaluation 
of investments 2 (3)
Portfolio income 5 3
Gross portfolio return 12 1
Gross portfolio return % 28.0% 7.1%
Fees receivable from external funds 31 32
Net carried interest (7) 1
Operating expenses (32) (31)
Net portfolio return 4 3
Net portfolio return % 9.5% 21.4%
Debt Management returns are driven by fee income rather than 
capital returns. However , gross portfolio return was strong as the 
underlying investments continued to perform well and the demand 
for yield by investors drove valuations higher . A gross portfolio return 
of £1 2 million, or 28.0% of opening portfolio, was higher than the 
previous year (201 2: £1 million, 7 . 1 %) and was driven from only 
£7 4 million of proprietary capital invested.
Realised profits of £5 million relate to realised trading gains within 
Palace Street I, the European Credit Opportunities Fund. Portfolio 
income of £5 million (201 2: £3 million) increased as a result of 
increased distributions from our holdings in the CLO funds.
Unrealised profits at 31 March 201 3, primarily based on broker 
quotes, were positive at £2 million (201 2: £(3) million) due to improved 
underlying performance in the CLO funds. 
This portfolio performance added to the growing underlying profits 
from managing the debt funds. Fees of £31 million were in line with 
the prior year (201 2: £32 million) although grew on an underlying basis.
Fees included £6 million of catch-up fees relating to improved 
fund performance as performance hurdles were met and accrued 
subordinated fees became payable. We received £1 1 million of similar 
fees in the prior period. We do not expect to receive material similar 
fees in the future. Fee income of £31 million included £4 million 
relating to fee income earned on the CLO contracts acquired from 
Invesco in August 201 2 and £3 million of income from Fraser Sullivan 
contracts. Since the establishment of the US platform in August 201 2, 
we successfully launched two CLOs, Jamestown I, a US$450 million 
CLO, and Jamestown II, a US$500 million refinancing of an existing 
CLO. These two fund launches are expected to increase fee income 
by c.US$3 million per annum. A detailed review of 3i’s US expansion 
is shown on the opposite page.
Costs of £32 million included £6 million of non-cash amortisation 
costs and £2 million of due diligence costs relating to acquisitions. 
Underlying costs continue to be managed closely and include the 
addition of investor relations resource to the team in the year as 
we pursue expansion in this business line. On an accounting basis, 
the Debt Management business is operationally neutral, with 
operating expenses of £32 million exceeding fees of £31 million 
by £(1 ) million (201 2: £1 million). However , at an underlying level, 
excluding non-cash accounting adjustments for amortisation and 
one-off due diligence costs, fees exceeded operating expenses 
by £7 million (201 2: £9 million).
 
Business lines – Debt Management Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 41
Debt Management – 3i’s US business 
John is Managing Partner of 3i Debt 
Management US and joined 3i in September 
201 2 following the establishment of  
3i’s Debt Management platform in the US. 
John co-founded Fraser Sullivan with 
Tighe Sullivan in 2005. 
Prior to co-founding Fraser Sullivan, 
John was a Managing Director and 
Partner with Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P . 
from 1 997 to 2005, where he started 
the firm’s leveraged loan investment 
management business and served 
as portfolio manager of five leveraged 
loan funds since their inception. 
Before joining Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P ., 
John gained deep leverage loan experience 
at Cypress T ree Investment Management, 
Merrill Lynch Asset Management and 
Chase Manhattan Bank.
John Fraser  
Managing Partner , 3iDM US,  
Debt Management
Following the acquisition of the 
European CLO business in February 
201 1 , the acquisition of a similar 
US business was identified as 
critical to develop a leading global 
debt management business.
An attractive market opportunity
The US is a highly attractive credit market 
given its size and liquidity. The CLO market 
in the US has recovered strongly since 
the credit crisis and issuance in 201 2 at 
US$53.5 billion was the highest level in four 
years. New issuance in Q1 201 3 continued 
this momentum at US$26.3 billion. 
A strong platform
Following an in-depth analysis of the 
US market over 18 months, and having 
considered a number of other opportunities, 
we entered into a strategic transaction with 
Fraser Sullivan, a leading specialist US CLO 
manager . This established 3i’s Debt 
Management platform in the US. At the 
time of the transaction, Fraser Sullivan 
was managing US$2.5 billion of assets, 
comprising six CLO funds, one credit 
opportunity fund and one senior loan fund. 
Fraser Sullivan was founded in 2005 and 
has an experienced team of investment 
professionals that has largely worked 
together since the firm’s inception, 
led by John Fraser and Tighe Sullivan. 
The company was at the forefront of the 
US CLO market recovery and has raised 
seven new issue CLOs since 2009 . 
We were all deeply saddened to hear of the 
tragic passing of Tighe Sullivan in October 
201 2. Tighe had joined 3i in August 201 2 as 
co-head of the US business and was excited 
to be part of 3i. The growth in AUM since 
then is a testament to the strength of the 
team John and Tighe had built.
Immediate growth
3i Debt Management US was established in 
August 201 2 and the transaction with Fraser 
Sullivan was completed in September 201 2. 
In November 201 2, we launched our first US 
CLO, Jamestown I, a US$450 million CLO, 
followed by Jamestown II, a US$500 million 
CLO in February 201 3. Jamestown I is a new 
fund while Jamestown II is a refinancing of 
Fraser Sullivan CLO V, a US$400 million CLO 
launched in February 201 1 that had reached 
the end of its two-year reinvestment period. 
The refinancing extended the investment 
period of the CLO fund, increased its size 
by US$100 million and improved the fee 
economics for 3i. This early growth 
demonstrates the strength of our platform 
and our capabilities to successfully launch 
and close new funds. 
As at 31 March 201 3, 3i Debt Management 
US had US$3. 1 billion of assets under 
management, comprising seven CLO funds, 
one credit opportunity fund and one senior 
loan fund. All funds previously managed  
by Fraser Sullivan are now managed 
by 3i Debt Management US. We expect 
fee income of approximately £8 million 
in the next financial year and for this to 
be substantially greater than costs.
Well positioned
3i Debt Management is well positioned 
to grow, with a leading track record and 
a strong brand. The US business provides 
3i the opportunity to raise new CLO funds 
and managed accounts, and to diversify 
into complementary products, to generate 
increased fee income. 
More at www.3i.com 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 42
T able 1 6: Assets under management
European CLO funds
Closing date
Reinvestment 
period end
Maturity  
date
Par value of 
fund at
 launch
 1
Realised 
equity money
 multiple 
2
AUM
Annualised
 equity cash
 yield
3, 4, 5
Harvest CLO I Apr-04 Mar-09 Mar-17 €514m 0.7x €198m 7.8%
Harvest CLO II Apr-05 May-12 May-20 €540m 1.0x €492m 12.9%
Harvest CLO III Apr-06 Jun-13 Jun-21 €650m 0.6x €615m 9.6%
Harvest CLO IV Jun-06 Jul-13 Jul-21 €750m 0.7x €716m 10.6%
Harvest CLO V Apr-07 May-14 May-24 €632m 0.2x €607m 4.1%
Windmill CLO I Oct-07 Dec-14 Dec-29 €500m 0.3x €477m 6.1%
Petrusse CLO Jun-04 Sep-09 Dec-17 €295m 0.4x €74m 4.8%
Alzette CLO Dec-04 Dec-10 Dec-20 €362m 0.6x €150m 7.5%
Garda CLO Feb-07 Apr-13 Apr-22 €358m 1.0x €333m 15.8%
Coniston CLO Aug-07 Jun-13 Jul-24 €409m 0.6x €367m 11.4%
Axius CLO Oct-07 Nov-13 Nov-23 €350m 0.2x €312m 4.1%
£3,670m
Average: 
8.6%
US CLO funds
Fraser Sullivan CLO I Mar-06 Mar-12 Mar-20 US$400m 1.3x US$364m 19.9%
Fraser Sullivan CLO II Dec-06 Dec-12 Dec-20 US$485m 1.2x US$483m 22.7%
COA Caerus CLO Dec-07 n/a Dec-19 US$242m 1.1x US$244m 23.1%
Fraser Sullivan CLO VI Nov-11 Nov-14 Nov-22 US$409m 0.2x US$402m 16.4%
Fraser Sullivan CLO VII Apr-12 Apr-15 Feb-21 US$450m 0.1x US$452m 18.0%
Jamestown CLO I Nov-12 Nov-16 Nov-24 US$450m n/a US$450m n/a
Jamestown CLO II Feb-13 Jan-17 Jan-25 US$500m n/a US$500m n/a
£1,907m
Average: 
20.0%
Closing date
Reinvestment 
period end
Maturity  
date
Original 
fund size
Realised 
equity money
 multiple
2
AUM
Annualised
 equity cash
 yield
3, 4, 5
Other funds
Vintage I Mar-07 Mar-09 Jan-22 €500m 1.8x €492m 4.6x 
Vintage II Nov-11 Sept-13 n/a US$400m n/a US$263m 1.3x 
Palace Street I Aug-11 n/a n/a n/a 0.4x €75m 17.6%
Friday Street Aug-06 Aug-08 Aug-14 €300m 0.1x €114m 2.0%
COA Fund Nov-07 n/a n/a n/a n/a US$148m (4.2)%
Senior Loan Fund Jul-09 n/a n/a n/a n/a US$57m 10.0%
£863m 
6
Total £6,440m
1 Includes par value of assets and principal cash amount.
2 Multiple of total equity distributions over par value of equity at launch.
3 Average annualised returns since inception of CLOs calculated as annualised cash distributions over par value of equity. Excludes unrealised equity 
remaining in CLO.
4 Vintage I & II returns is shown as gross money multiple which is cash returned to the Fund plus value as at 31 March 2013, as a multiple of cash invested. 
5 The annualised returns for the COA fund and Senior Loan Fund are the annualised net returns of the Funds since inception.
6 The COA Fund AUM excludes the market value of investments the fund has made in 3i US Debt Management CLO funds (US$131 million as at 31 March 2013).
 
Business lines – Debt Management Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 43
Chart 13: Portfolio by value by geography and number
as at 31 March 2013 
UK
Northern Europe
Southern Europe
North America
Rest of World
36%
13%
44%
3%
5%
51
15
14
140
338
Chart 14: Direct portfolio by value by sector and number 
as at 31 March 2013 
Business & Financial Services
Consumer
Healthcare
Industrials & Energy
TMT
26%
16%
93
142
59
185
79
30%
15%
11%
Portfolio
The portfolios of non-investment grade debt held by the European and 
US managed CLOs are predominantly held in northern European and 
North American companies. Chart 1 3 details the underlying portfolio 
by region. Exposure in both value and number to the more challenging 
markets of southern Europe is limited. The portfolio is well diversified 
by sector with no single sector accounting for more than one third 
of the portfolio. Chart 14 details the underlying portfolio by sector .
Note:  
The number of portfolio companies is shown inside the segments 
of the above pie charts.
Assets under management 
The AUM for the Debt Management funds is typically based on the 
period end net asset value of the fund. The exception is Palace Street I, 
where AUM is based on the commitment to the Fund. AUM grew 
strongly to £6.4 billion (201 2: £3.4 billion).
In August 201 2, 3i acquired five CLO contracts from Invesco, which 
added £1. 1 billion of AUM. Two of these funds are now past their 
reinvestment period and AUM reduced, following distributions, 
to £1.0 billion at 31 March 201 3.
The establishment of a US platform in September 201 2 led to 
additional AUM of US$359 million relating to the US Senior Loan 
Fund and the COA Fund. Since establishing the platform, two 
new vehicles were launched, Jamestown I, a new US$450 million CLO, 
and Jamestown II, which was a refinancing of an existing Fraser 
Sullivan CLO on preferential terms and with an enlarged size. 
During March 201 3, we also completed the investor consent process 
for Fraser Sullivan’s remaining funds and transferred a further five 
CLOs to 3i’s management. At 31 March 201 3, the AUM of the US 
platform was £2.0 billion.
Priorities for the year ahead
Following the successful launch of Jamestown I and II in the year , 
further launches of CLOs in the US and, potentially, Europe 
are a priority.
In addition to CLOs, the Debt Management team intends to diversify 
into other debt funds, raising additional capital through the 
European Credit Opportunities Fund and the US Senior Loan Fund.
A focus on costs will continue to ensure fees exceed 
operating expenses.
Finally, consideration will be given to further inorganic growth 
opportunities where fee income from acquired management 
contracts or platforms would be incrementally profitable.
  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 44
Financial review
Returns
The gross portfolio return measures the performance of the 
investment portfolio. Net portfolio return includes additional income 
generated from managing external funds, through management fees 
and carried interest receivable, less the costs of running our business 
and carried interest paid to our investment teams. Finally, total return 
is the net portfolio return, less our funding costs and the impact 
of foreign exchange and other balance sheet factors.
Each of these aspects of our returns is considered in greater detail 
in this review.
Total return for the Group was £373 million, which represented 
a 14.2% return on opening shareholders’ funds and a significant 
improvement on the prior year (201 2: £(656) million, (1 9.5)%). 
Gross portfolio return of £546 million (201 2: £(329) million) 
demonstrated the better performance of the Group’s portfolio, 
supported by good cash realisations above opening valuations. 
The Group also benefited from the weakening of sterling against the 
euro and dollar during the year and recognised net foreign exchange 
gains in the year of £30 million (201 2: £(49) million). Finally, total return 
included the one-off cost of reorganising the Group (£30 million) and 
the costs of accelerating the gross debt reduction (£25 million).
T able 1 7: T otal return year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Realised profits over value on disposal of investments 195 23
Unrealised profits/(losses) on revaluation of investments 250 (498)
Portfolio income
 Dividends 43 47
 Income from loans and receivables 54 95
 Fees receivable 4 4
Gross portfolio return 546 (329)
Fees receivable from external funds 71 89
Carried interest receivable from external funds 4 (15)
Carried interest and performance fees payable (19) 10
Operating expenses (170) (180)
Net portfolio return 432 (425)
Net interest payable (91) (91)
Movement in the fair value of derivatives (6) (19)
Net foreign exchange movements 30 (49)
Pension actuarial gain/(loss) 17 (67)
Other (including taxes) (9) (5)
Total comprehensive income (“Total return”) 373 (656)
Total return on opening shareholders’ funds 14.2% (19.5)% Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 45
Gross portfolio return
Realised profits
Realised profits at £1 95 million in the year to 31 March 201 3 (201 2: 
£23 million) demonstrated the strong performance of the portfolio 
in the year and were achieved at an uplift over opening value 
of 47% (201 2: 3%).
T able 7 on page 27 details realisations in the period and sets out the 
accounting uplift reflected in the annual total return and the longer 
term cash-to-cash results. The Private Equity realisations completed 
in the year produced a money multiple of 2. 1x.
Unrealised value movements 
T able 18: Unrealised profits/(losses) on revaluation 
of investments year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Private Equity and Infrastructure 
Earnings based valuations
 Performance 141 3
 Multiple movements 36 (267)
Other bases
 Provisions 4 (138)
 Uplift to imminent sale 24 –
 Discounted Cash Flow (41) (1)
   O th er m ov em en t s  
on unquoted investments 73 (72)
 Quoted portfolio 11 (20)
Debt Management
 Broker quotes 2 (3)
Total 250 (498)
Note: The table above no longer allocates value movements between loan and 
equity instruments as we believe it gives a clearer view of performance to 
combine the two under the “Earnings based valuations” heading. The split of 
value movement between loans and equity instruments is still shown in note 3 
to the accounts. Value movements in loan instruments were previously labelled 
as impairments. 
Performance 
The performance category measures the impact of earnings and net 
debt movements for the portfolio companies valued on an earnings 
basis. In general, when valuing a portfolio investment on an earnings 
basis, the earnings used in the 31 March 201 3 valuations are the last 
1 2 months’ management accounts data to December 201 2, unless 
the current year forecast indicates a lower maintainable earnings 
level. Where appropriate, adjustments are made to earnings on 
a pro forma basis for acquisitions, disposals and non-recurring items. 
In the case of one company, Action, which is experiencing significant 
growth due to its store roll-out programme, a run-rate adjustment 
was made to its earnings to reflect profitability of opened stores 
for valuation purposes.
Improvements in the performance of the portfolio valued on 
an earnings basis resulted in an increase in value of £14 1 million  
(201 2: £3 million). This was driven by an aggregate increase in 
earnings used to value the portfolio of 1 % and reductions in leverage 
1
 
to 3.2x from 3.4x at the beginning of the year . Value weighted 
earnings, the most relevant measure of NAV impact, increased 
by 10% in the year , demonstrating that the portfolio’s largest assets 
are delivering strong improvements in performance. 
Multiple movements 
Multiples used to value the portfolio showed improvement in the 
latter part of the financial year , following the general recovery in 
stock markets. The weighted average EBITDA multiple increased to 
8.8x pre-marketability discount (201 2: 8.2x) and to 7 .9x post discount 
(201 2: 7 .5x). This 7% increase in the year generated an increase 
in value of £36 million (201 2: £(267) million) for those assets valued 
on an earnings basis. 
Provisions
A provision is recognised where we anticipate that there is a 50% or 
greater chance that the Group’s investment in the portfolio company 
will fail within the next 1 2 months. The £4 million net reversal of 
provisions in the period is attributable to the improvement in outlook 
for one company which had previously been provided for , resulting 
in a modest increase in value, offset by the impact of two companies 
which were written down to nil. Each movement is less than 
£10 million.
Uplift to imminent sale
Portfolio companies which are currently in a negotiated sales process 
are valued on an uplift to imminent sale basis. At 31 March 201 3, three 
portfolio companies were in an advanced sales process, generating 
a value increase of £24 million (201 2: nil). Cash has since been 
received for one of these portfolio companies, with the cash expected 
on the other two portfolio companies following regulatory approval.
Discounted Cash Flow
The Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) valuation basis is used to value 
portfolio companies with predictable and stable cash flows, typically 
infrastructure investments. As at 31 March 201 3, there were 
1 1 portfolio companies valued using the DCF valuations basis, the 
majority of which relate to the Group’s Indian portfolio. The continued 
challenging environment in India has contributed to an unrealised 
loss for investments valued using DCF models of £4 1 million in the 
year (201 2: £(1 ) million).
1 Net debt to EBITDA used to value portfolio companies. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 46
Other
Where a different valuation basis is more appropriate for a portfolio 
company, the “other” category is used to determine fair value, for 
example, the sum of the parts of the business or industry specific 
methods. The total “other” increase in value was £73 million in the 
year to 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £(51 ) million), predominantly driven by 
a value increase in one company, which was supported by a market 
valuation metric. 
Quoted portfolio
The quoted portfolio was valued at £431 million and now represents 
1 3% (201 2: 1 7%) of the Group’s total portfolio, following the sale of 
Norma in the period. The Group’s 34% investment in 3i Infrastructure 
plc represents the majority of the quoted portfolio at £398 million. 
3i Infrastructure plc’s share price increased by 7% in the year , 
resulting in value growth of £24 million. However , this was partially 
offset by a £1 3 million value reduction in the remaining quoted 
portfolio, resulting in a net increase in the quoted portfolio value 
of £1 1 million in the year to 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £(20) million). 
Broker quotes
The Debt Management business line has investments in a number 
of the CLOs which the Group manages, as well as in the Credit 
Opportunities Fund, Palace Street I. These assets, valued using broker 
quotes, increased in value by £2 million in the year (201 2: £(3) million). 
T able 1 9: Proportion of portfolio value by valuation basis  
as at 31 March 201 3
%
Earnings 67
Imminent sale 2
Quoted 13
Discounted Cash Flow 7
Other 9
Broker quotes 2
Portfolio income 
T able 20: Portfolio income year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Dividends 43 47
Income from loans and receivables 54 95
Net fees receivable 4 4
Portfolio income 101 146
Received as cash 62 60
Cash income/opening portfolio  
(“cash income yield”) 1.9% 1.5%
Income from the portfolio was £101 million in the year to 31 March 
201 3 (201 2: £146 million). Dividends of £43 million were received 
(201 2: £47 million), including £18 million from 3i Infrastructure plc, 
£10 million from Quintiles, a US Private Equity healthcare investment, 
and £4 million from Debt Management investments. Interest income 
was materially lower in the period at £54 million (201 2: £95 million) 
due to the net divestment position for Private Equity, the effect of 
restructurings and a small number of investments, particularly in 
Spain, where the interest accruing was provided for as the fair value of 
the investment was judged to be below that of the principal loan value.
A further £4 million in net deal fees was received in the year 
(201 2: £4 million), principally relating to fees received on 
completing new investments and annual monitoring fees paid 
by portfolio companies.
Portfolio income received as cash in the year was £62 million 
(201 2: £60 million), reflecting the relatively high proportion of 
capitalised interest generated by the Private Equity portfolio. 
Financial review Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47
Net portfolio return 
T able 21: Net portfolio return year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Gross portfolio return 546 (329)
Fees receivable from external funds 71 89
Net carried interest and performance 
fees payable (15) (5)
Operating expenses (170) (180)
Net portfolio return 432 (425)
Fees receivable from external funds 
Fees earned from external funds of £71 million in the period were 
lower than the prior year (201 2: £89 million). 
Our managed Private Equity funds generated fee income of  
£1 9 million (201 2: £32 million), the decline reflecting the Growth Capital 
Fund coming to the end of its investment period in December 201 2 
and the full year effect of Eurofund V’s investing period ending  
in November 201 1.
Our Debt Management business line continued to generate  
strong fund fee income of £31 million, in line with the prior year  
(201 2: £32 million). Fee income grew on an underlying basis due to  
the one-off catch up of deferred subordinated fees as a result of the 
strong performance of the CLOs in the prior year . The £31 million fee 
income includes £4 million of fees generated from the acquisition of 
five CLO management contracts from Invesco in the year . The impact 
from the Fraser Sullivan transaction was relatively small as the 
transaction completed part way through the year and was offset  
by due diligence and other acquisition costs. We recognised the 
subordinated fees on 1 6 out of 18 CLO funds at 31 March 201 3, 
demonstrating their continuing solid performance.
Advisory and management services to 3i Infrastructure plc and the 
3i India Infrastructure Fund generated £21 million of fee income in  
the year (201 2: £25 million). This was lower than last year as a result 
of lower investment activity by 3i Infrastructure plc and the 3i India 
Infrastructure Fund reaching the end of its investment period in 
November 201 2.
Net carried interest and performance fees payable
Carried interest and performance fees are accrued on the realised 
and unrealised profits generated, taking relevant performance 
hurdles into consideration. 
Net carried interest and performance fees payable in the year  
were lower than might be expected given the improved portfolio 
performance and realisations, with a net payable amount of  
£1 5 million (201 2: £5 million payable), as the portfolio value movement 
in the period was primarily in assets where the performance hurdle 
has not yet been achieved. The prior year period reflected a net 
reversal of carry payable and receivable given the gross portfolio  
loss in that period.
Operating expenses 
T able 22: Operating expenses year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Operating expenses 170 180
Operating expenses excluding 
implementation costs 140 171
Run-rate operating expenses at 31 March 140 185
Run-rate operating expenses/AUM
1
1.1% 1.8%
Operating expenses/AUM
1
 
(excluding implementation costs) 1.3% 1.6%
1 Run-rate or actual operating expenses as a percentage of closing AUM.
Operating expenses were £1 70 million (201 2: £180 million)  
and included implementation costs of £30 million in respect  
of redundancy, office closures and organisational changes  
(201 2: £9 million). The reduction in costs and the result of the  
Invesco and the Fraser Sullivan transactions and two new  
US CLOs launched in the year resulted in operating expenses  
per AUM decreasing to 1.3% (201 2: 1.6%).
Run-rate expenses are calculated to exclude implementation  
costs and the timing effect of changes taking place part way through 
the year . By doing so, the run-rate reflects the ongoing annual cost  
of running the business, assuming no further changes. 
We have achieved annualised run-rate cost savings of £51 million  
at 31 March 201 3. This represents a reduction of 28% against  
the annualised run-rate costs of £185 million at 31 March 201 2. 
However , during the year , we entered into several corporate 
transactions and consequently the perimeter of 3i’s operating cost 
base has changed. The acquisition of European CLO management 
contracts from Invesco and the establishment of a Debt Management 
platform in the US through the transaction with Fraser Sullivan have 
increased the annualised run-rate operating costs at 31 March 201 3 
by £7 million. These additional costs are expected to be more than 
offset by the aggregate of the cash income generated by these 
additional business activities. 
Run-rate expenses on a like-for-like basis, excluding the Invesco and 
Fraser Sullivan transactions, are £1 34 million, significantly lower than 
the target of £145 million set out in June 201 2. The total run-rate at 
March 201 3, including the corporate transactions, was £140 million,  
or 1. 1 % of closing AUM.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 48
Annual operating cash profit 
T able 23: Annual operating cash profit year to 31 March
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Third party capital fees 70 91
Cash portfolio fees 4 7
Cash portfolio dividends and interest 58 53
Cash income 132 151
Operating expenses
1
 170 180
Less: Restructuring costs (30) (9)
140 171
Annual operating cash profit/(loss) (8) (20)
1 Operating expenses include accruals, the effect of which is not 
considered material.
In June 201 2, the Group set an objective of generating cash income, 
from third-party fees and portfolio income, sufficient to cover the 
operating expenses incurred in the year , prior to restructuring costs. 
We call this “Annual operating cash profit”.
The full benefits of the cost reduction programme will be seen in the  
next financial year , with the implementation costs and timing effects 
largely negating the immediate savings in the year to 31 March 201 3. 
The annualised run-rate operating expenses of the business at 
31 March 201 3 are £140 million, or 1. 1 % of closing AUM. This includes 
the annual costs relating to corporate transactions completed 
in the period which are expected to be more than offset by the 
corresponding fee income.
Headcount at the end of 31 March 201 3 reduced by 1 68 to 267  
(201 2: 435) prior to the increases in headcount from strategic 
transactions in Debt Management. This exceeds the target, set 
in June 201 2, to reduce staff by more than 1 60 by 31 March 201 3.  
Total headcount, including additional employees added from strategic 
transactions in Debt Management, was 282 at 31 March 201 3.
The annual operating cash profit position improved from a loss 
of £20 million in the year to 31 March 201 2 to a loss of £8 million 
in the year to 31 March 201 3.
T otal return 
Net interest payable
Net interest payable for the year was £91 million (201 2: £91 million) 
and included an additional £25 million of interest cost which was 
accelerated into the period as a result of the early settlement of bonds 
which were scheduled to mature in later periods. 
Interest receivable reduced to £6 million (201 2: £1 2 million) in the year , 
as a result of the lower level of cash and deposits held by the Group.
Having reduced gross debt to £1,081 million at 31 March 201 3 and 
further to £91 7 million at 30 April 201 3, the gross interest cost in the 
year to 31 March 2014 is expected to be below £60 million, a reduction 
of 42% compared to FY201 2.
Derivative movements
The Group used foreign exchange contracts as part of its general 
hedging programme. There was a £6 million loss recognised from 
the fair value movement of the derivatives during the year (201 2: 
£1 9 million loss), principally relating to long-term legacy interest 
rate swaps. 
Net foreign exchange movements
The Group maintained its partial hedging policy through the year , 
using core currency borrowings and derivatives as appropriate. 
The hedging ratio of the euro denominated portfolio at 31 March 201 3 
reduced to 49% (201 2: 89%) as a result of the reduction in euro 
denominated debt. Hedging of the US dollar portfolio also reduced 
to 54% (201 2: 65%). The net foreign exchange gain of £30 million 
(201 2: £49 million loss) was driven by the weakening of sterling 
against the unhedged element of the euro (1.5%) and US dollar (5.5%). 
The outcome of a review of hedging strategy during the year 
is discussed on page 49 .
Pensions
The IAS 1 9 valuation of the Group’s UK defined benefit pension 
scheme was negatively impacted by a reduction in the discount rate, 
driven by a reduction in AA corporate bond yields and an increase 
in inflation rates, resulting in an increase in the value of the scheme’s 
liabilities. This was, however , offset by the strong performance 
of equity markets and resulted in an actuarial gain of £1 7 million  
(201 2: £(67) million) for the year . A total of £36 million was paid 
to the fund in April 201 2, being the final payment in relation to the  
last triennial funding review, which was finalised in September 201 1. 
The accounting effect of this payment on total return was included in 
the year to 31 March 201 2. As part of the same review, in April 201 2, 
the Group finalised the terms of a guarantee to the scheme in relation 
to contingent assets, as detailed in note 31 on page 1 1 9. The next 
triennial valuation will be carried out shortly, with an effective date 
of 30 June 201 3.
Financial review Business review
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 49
Since the end of March, we repaid a further £1 64 million of debt which 
resulted in a gross debt balance of £91 7 million as at 30 April 201 3, 
significantly ahead of the target to reduce gross debt to below  
£1 billion by 30 June 201 3. This repayment has no impact on net  
debt or gearing.
Foreign exchange hedging
As a result of the reduction in gross debt, and the increased 
concentration of the portfolio into a smaller number of individually 
significant assets, the hedging strategy was reviewed during the year . 
The use of derivatives to hedge currency movements on a portfolio 
basis will be reduced over time. Foreign exchange risk will now be 
considered as an integral part of the investment process rather than 
managed at the Group level via structural hedging programmes. 
Specific hedging on entry or exit of an investment may be used 
as appropriate.
Liquidity
Liquidity reduced in the year to £1,082 million (201 2: £1,653 million). 
This comprised cash and deposits of £7 46 million (201 2: £1, 1 59 million) 
and undrawn facilities of £336 million (201 2: £494 million). The cash 
balance reduced primarily as a result of the repayment of debt  
in the year , with cash inflows from divestment activity being offset  
by investment and other operating cash flows. The repayment  
of £1 64 million of gross debt after the period end had no impact  
on liquidity as it was the repayment of drawings under one  
of the committed facilities, providing a currency hedge. Cash  
reduced by £1 64 million and undrawn facilities increased by  
a corresponding amount. 
Diluted NAV
The diluted NAV per share at 31 March 201 3 was £3. 1 1 (201 2: £2.79). 
This was driven by the total return in the year of £373 million 
(201 2: £(656) million), and partially offset by dividend payments 
in the year of £76 million (201 2: £49 million).
Strong realisations in the year were offset by investment of 
£270 million and unrealised value growth of £250 million, resulting 
in a modest increase in the total portfolio value to £3,295 million 
at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: £3,204 million).
T able 25: Gearing and borrowings as at 31 March
2013 2012
Gross debt £1,081m £1,623m
Net debt £335m £464m
Gearing 11% 18%
The Group further reinforced its conservative balance sheet approach, 
with gross debt reducing by a third in the year to £1,081 million  
(201 2: £1,623 million). Gross debt reduced primarily due to the 
repayment of £223 million of the €500 million floating rate note,  
early repayments of £283 million of private placements, £1 5 million 
market purchases of the €350 million bond and repayment 
of a £50 million term loan drawn under a £200 million bilateral 
credit facility.
Net debt at £335 million reduced following net divestment (201 2: 
£464 million). Gearing consequently reduced to 1 1 % at 31 March 201 3 
(201 2: 18%) as a result of both the decrease in net debt and the 
increase in shareholders’ funds to £2,934 million (201 2: £2,627 million) 
following the total return of £373 million in the year to 31 March 201 3.
Balance sheet 
Portfolio value 
T able 24: Portfolio value movement by business line
Opening 
portfolio  
value  
1 April  
2012  
£m
Investment  
£m
Value  
disposed  
£m
Unrealised 
value 
movement  
£m
Other 
movement 
1
 
£m
Closing 
portfolio  
value  
31 March  
2013  
£m
Business lines
Private Equity
 2
2,634 234 (385) 250 (26) 2,707
Debt Management
 3
42 31 5 2 1 81
Infrastructure 528 5 (31) (2) 7 507
Total 3,204 270 (411) 250 (18) 3,295
1 Other relates to foreign exchange and the provisioning of capitalised interest.
2 Non-core has been combined with Private Equity.
3 The Palace Street 1 Fund presents investment net of realisations. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 50
Risk
Principal risks and risk management
The Group faces a range of risks and 
uncertainties which could materially affect 
its financial performance and/or the 
achievement of its strategic objectives.
This section describes our approach 
to risk management and the process 
and governance framework that we have 
in place to identify, manage and monitor 
risks. This is followed by a summary 
description of the principal risk areas 
facing the Group and the corresponding 
mitigating actions that are in place.
Approach to risk management
Risk is a part of doing business. We identify the risks involved and 
ensure that these are carefully considered and that the level of risk 
taken is appropriate in relation to its potential impact on the Group’s 
financial performance and the achievement of the Group’s strategic 
objectives. Ultimately, we seek to achieve an appropriate balance 
between taking risk and generating returns for our shareholders.
Our approach to risk management is therefore closely aligned 
with the Group’s strategy and objectives. When considering the 
Group’s strategic direction, the Board reviews the level of risk 
to be taken. Adherence to this level of risk appetite is monitored 
by the Group Risk Committee.
On 29 June 201 2, following a strategic review of the Group, the future 
strategy of 3i was announced. This included the launch of a major 
restructuring and cost reduction programme. Further information 
on this can be found in the Strategy and business model section of this 
report. The risk review framework and governance structure have 
been modified and refined to reflect the new strategic objectives 
and the changes to the organisational structure of the Group. 
These changes are described below.
Risk management process  
and governance structure
3i’s risk management process and associated governance structure 
are designed to ensure that there is an effective process and a clear 
organisational structure with well defined responsibilities to identify, 
manage and monitor risk.
The process of identifying, managing and monitoring risks, and 
assessing their potential impact, occurs at a number of levels 
throughout the Group.
The Board is ultimately responsible for risk management, which 
includes the Group’s risk governance or oversight structure, 
and for maintaining an appropriate internal control framework.
Responsibility for oversight of risk management is delegated to the 
Group Risk Committee which considers the Board’s appetite for risk 
and any specific limits set. The Group Risk Committee maintains the 
Group risk review, which summarises the Group’s principal risks and 
associated mitigating actions.
The Group risk review is a result of thought and input from both 
management and professionals across the Group, including the 
Executive Committee. The Group risk review is considered and refined 
at meetings of the Group Risk Committee and is reviewed by the Audit 
and Compliance Committee on a quarterly basis. It is also reviewed 
by the Board with a particular focus on the potential impact on the 
setting and execution of the Group’s strategy.
The Audit and Compliance Committee is updated at each meeting 
on the outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting and has 
the opportunity to contribute views or raise questions.
The Group’s risk management process and governance structure 
are outlined in the diagram shown on page 51. Members of each 
of the Committees are listed on page 63.
The Group’s reporting cycle and the dates of key meetings are 
co-ordinated to ensure that appropriate risk and strategic reviews are 
performed in alignment with the timetable for meetings of the Board 
and of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Further details on the risk management framework can also be found 
in 3i’s Pillar 3 disclosures at www.3i.com.
Changes and improvements
During the year , the Group has continued to refine and strengthen its 
risk management framework and process, particularly in light of the 
strategic review and the announcement of the Group’s new strategy 
and objectives in June last year .
For example, a key part of our programme of asset management 
improvement initiatives has been the strengthening of our investment 
review process with the introduction of a new single Investment 
Committee which considers the full spectrum of decisions from 
investment through to divestment of portfolio companies. The Group 
has also implemented a new vintage control policy in respect of its 
own balance sheet investing activity. This is designed to minimise the 
risk of over-investing at the top of the private equity cycle in the future.
In addition, a number of improvements have been made to our 
reporting and monitoring processes, including the introduction of 
new monthly portfolio performance dashboards within Private Equity. 
The Group’s Investment Committee and Private Equity Partners now 
meet monthly to review these dashboards and to decide on actions.
As part of the new strategy, the Group’s organisational structure has 
been simplified and processes have been streamlined. A number 
of committee structures have been rationalised in order to reduce 
organisational complexity and to enable better and more efficient 
decision-making. A new leadership team, the Executive Committee, 
has been established by the Chief Executive as the principal day-to-
day decision-making body in respect of managing the business. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51
Risk
Overview of risk management process and governance structure
Furthermore, the T reasury Management Committee was 
discontinued, and replaced with a T reasury T ransactions Committee 
of the Board to provide formal approval for specific treasury related 
transactions. Day-to-day treasury matters are handled by the Finance 
Director and Group T reasurer , within the limits delegated by the Board. 
Key treasury and funding risks continue to be overseen by the Group 
Risk Committee. The Operational Risk Forum was similarly 
discontinued and its responsibilities assumed by the Group Risk 
Committee. Finally, the responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee were assumed by the Brand and Values Committee.
The Group Risk Committee continues to meet quarterly, to coincide 
with meetings of the Executive Committee. The quarterly Group risk 
review has recently been enhanced with a clearer link between  
the identified risks and the Group’s strategic objectives, as well 
as the monitoring of key financial and strategic metrics which are 
indicators of those risks. This includes the application of the vintage 
control policy and associated analysis and asset allocation data.  
In addition, we have designed new dashboards which track our 
financial performance and progress against our new strategic 
objectives at a Group level and for each of our business lines. 
These dashboards are now updated and reported monthly. Going 
forward, these will help the Group Risk Committee assess each risk 
and highlight whether risks are increasing or decreasing. We expect 
that this process will continue to be refined, and for example, we are 
currently reviewing our risk management approach in the context of 
the European AIFM Directive, which comes into force on 22 July 201 3.
n n Determines Group’s risk appetite as part 
of strategy setting.
n n Overall responsibility for maintaining 
a system of internal control that ensures 
an effective risk management and oversight 
process operates across the Group.
n n Dedicated Brand and Values Committee to 
monitor reputational risks and brand issues.
Board
Chief Executive
n n Deals with conflict issues.
n n Meets periodically and as required.
Conflicts Committee
n n Receives reports from the Director 
of Internal Audit on the Group’s risk 
management processes and system 
of internal controls.
n n Receives reports from the Director 
of Group Compliance on regulatory 
and compliance matters.
n n Updated at each meeting on the outputs 
of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting 
with the opportunity to contribute views 
or raise questions.
n n Meets four times a year.
Audit and Compliance  
Committee
n n Delegated responsibility for risk 
management and oversight across the 
Group, reflecting the Board’s appetite 
for risk and any specific limits set.
n n Maintains the Group risk review, which 
summarises the Group’s risk exposure 
and associated mitigation or response 
plan based on risks identified.
n n Meets at least four times a year to consider 
the Group risk review, including adequacy 
of risk mitigation and controls.
n n Chairman provides update at each meeting 
of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Group Risk Committee
n n Considers risk in context of individual 
portfolio investments and divestments.
n n Meets as required.
Investment Committee
n n Principal decision-making body in respect 
of managing the business.
n n Quarterly Group Risk Committee 
meetings coincide with Executive 
Committee meetings.
Executive Committee
Committees of the Board 
Committees of the Chief Executive 
Independent review of conflict issues 
Delegated responsibility for risk management and oversight 
Risk reporting to Audit and Compliance Committee
Key 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 52
Review of principal risks 
The disclosures on the following pages 
should not be regarded as an exhaustive 
list of risks and uncertainties faced by 
the Group, but rather a summary of those 
principal risks which the Group currently 
faces and which the Board believes have 
the potential to materially impact the 
Group’s financial performance and/or the 
achievement of its strategic objectives.
External 
The key external risks affecting 3i over the course of the financial 
year remain centred on the impact of the continuing challenging 
macroeconomic and market conditions, especially in Asia and Europe. 
Specific areas of risk considered by the Group Risk Committee include 
ongoing Eurozone instability, the impact of government austerity 
measures and slowing of growth rates in parts of Asia and Europe.
These uncertain conditions impact 3i’s operating environment 
in different ways and to varying degrees, reflecting both 3i’s 
geographical diversity and the different economic drivers of its 
three investment platforms: Private Equity, Infrastructure and 
Debt Management.
Fundraising conditions are difficult for the Private Equity industry 
as a whole, owing to a combination of a funding overhang, which 
continues to underpin high prices for transactions, underperformance 
of some recent vintages and more selective investors. General M&A 
activity remains relatively subdued in Europe, partly reflecting 
companies’ preference for high levels of liquidity over investment. 
This also has consequences for the level of activity in the debt 
markets, which currently remains limited in Europe.
The integrity and transparency of financial services firms, as well 
as their Responsible Investing principles, are of high importance to 
investors. Firms that are able to differentiate themselves positively in 
these areas are likely to be at an advantage in the future. In recognition 
of this, 3i has comprehensive policies and processes. Further 
information is set out in the section on Corporate responsibility. 
Regulatory developments continue to be monitored closely. The key 
development affecting 3i is the European AIFM Directive, which comes 
into force on 22 July 201 3. This introduces a number of regulatory 
requirements for applicable firms and will likely require some 
modifications to 3i’s related policies and processes. This is expected 
to result in additional costs to the business; however , the effect on 
3i is not expected to be disproportionate in the context of its sector .
Strategic 
3i undertook a strategic review following the appointment of  
Simon Borrows as 3i’s Chief Executive in May 201 2, the results  
of which were communicated to shareholders in June 201 2.  
This has involved a major organisational change and cost reduction 
programme. A key focus for the Board and the Group Risk Committee 
has been the assessment, mitigation and monitoring of the 
associated risks.
Other key strategic risks are broadly similar to last year . These include 
investment performance at this point of the economic cycle and the 
Group’s funding strategy, factoring in the current external fundraising 
environment, expected investment and realisation levels and balance 
sheet management. The growth of the Debt Management business 
line has also been an area of focus from a risk management 
perspective, as it has expanded its geographical footprint and assets 
under management.
Principal risks and risk management 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 53
Risk
Investment 
The Group’s key investment risks remain closely linked to the 
economic and market conditions, described earlier . 
The Private Equity business line is the largest in terms of proprietary 
balance sheet investment. Returns can be cyclical in nature and given 
the current macroeconomic environment, the ability to deliver target 
returns can be challenging. Specific risks include the pricing of new 
investment opportunities, potential operational underperformance 
of portfolio companies impacting earnings growth and valuations, 
exposure to movements in quoted multiples used to derive valuations, 
and, for more highly leveraged assets, the ability to meet debt 
covenant tests. 
A cautious and selective approach has continued to be applied to new 
investment over the year . The overall health and performance of the 
Private Equity investment portfolio has improved compared to the 
previous financial year and has been comparatively stable. However , 
portfolio companies in some geographies, in particular southern 
Europe, where economic recovery remains challenged, and Asia, 
where economies have slowed significantly, have been impacted 
by market conditions. Accordingly, some valuation reductions were 
required during the year . The Group’s investment portfolio has also 
become relatively more concentrated over time, with increasing 
exposure to the performance of a smaller number of investments. 
Covenant tests and refinancing requirements across the portfolio 
continue to be actively monitored and managed and there has been 
a steady reduction in the portfolio leverage level over the year . 
The Group’s strategic review included the implementation of six key 
asset management improvement initiatives aimed at enhancing the 
Private Equity portfolio management processes and capabilities. 
Investment returns in the Infrastructure business line are driven 
by a combination of portfolio income and advisory and management 
fees, as well as capital returns. The valuation of the portfolio is 
influenced by the underlying performance of individual assets, 
the resulting estimates of future cash flows, discount rates applied, 
and the level of income distributed from those assets. There are 
two quoted assets in the portfolio, which are marked to market and, 
therefore subject to fluctuation, and also some exposure to foreign 
exchange rate movements, notably through the 3i India Infrastructure 
Fund. The portfolio, which covers a range of sectors with different 
economic cycles, has shown steady operational progress in the 
current macroeconomic environment.
The main driver of returns for the Debt Management business line 
is fees earned from managing the underlying Collateralised Loan 
Obligation (“CLO”) and other debt funds. Ongoing portfolio 
management is a critical area of focus. Analysts are organised 
by sector and the performance of each investment is monitored 
to ensure any issues are identified early. The various funds are 
well diversified by sector . The establishment of a US platform with 
Fraser Sullivan, a US based business, in September 201 2, broadens 
the geographical coverage of the business beyond Europe. The impact 
of the economic downturn on debt markets has been particularly 
pronounced in Europe, where there has been a lack of primary loan 
issuance. Consequently, the business has not launched any new CLO 
funds in Europe in the last financial year , although has increased AUM 
through the acquisition of existing CLO management contracts from 
Invesco in August 201 2. By contrast, US market conditions are more 
favourable and the business launched two CLO funds in the US in 
November 201 2 and February 201 3.
T reasury and funding 
The Group continues to maintain a conservative financial structure, 
supported by balance sheet targets and a strong control framework.
The Group continues to target a reduction of the overall gross debt 
level over time. Funding requirements are evaluated on a rolling 
1 2-month outlook, in the context of the Group’s investment and capital 
allocation strategies, to ensure the appropriate balance between 
liquidity benefits against the cost of funding and to monitor the full 
range of refinancing options in advance of debt maturities. 3i’s current 
credit rating is BBB stable/Baa2 stable.
Liquidity continues to be monitored on a weekly basis and there is 
close review of counterparty exposures. The majority of funds are 
placed with AAA liquidity funds and selected banking counterparties. 
The AAA liquidity funds are regularly evaluated to understand  
the nature of the underlying counterparty exposures and 
geographical mix.
The Group has historically used core currency borrowing to act as 
a natural hedge against foreign exchange exposures in the portfolio, 
primarily in euro and US dollars, and supplemented this by the use of 
derivatives. However , with the reduction in the Group’s gross debt and 
the associated funding costs, this strategy will be less effective in the 
future. The Board has therefore reviewed 3i’s hedging strategy in the 
context of the Group’s strategic objectives, market conditions and 
funding requirements and has concluded that the level of currency 
hedging should be reduced and the derivative programme closed 
down over time. Instead, the Group will look to hedge specific cash 
transactions, such as specific currency investment and divestment 
decisions, with specific hedging instruments. Currency risk will be 
assessed at the investment, rather than the Group, level. The Board 
will continue to review currency volatility and uncertainty and this 
strategy on a periodic basis.
Operational 
The key operational risks facing the Group during the year relate 
mainly to the significant level of organisational change and cost 
reduction following the announcement in June 2012 of 3i’s future 
strategy. This has included significant headcount reductions, the 
outsourcing of a number of functions, most notably in the area of 
IT services, as well as systems changes and upgrades. Associated 
with this have been a number of process changes and reallocation 
of responsibilities, which have required close monitoring to ensure 
appropriate management of the transition risks and maintenance 
of a robust internal control environment. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 54
Risk type Risk areas Inherent risks Risk mitigation Key developments Management reports Board reporting
External
n n External stakeholders
n n Reputational
n n Government/regulation
n n Market/economic
n n Changes in macroeconomic variables
n n General health of capital markets
n n Exposure to new markets and 
investment products
n n Regulatory developments
n n Changes in government policy
n n Reputational risks
n n Three distinct and complementary 
investment platforms
n n Diversified investment portfolio in a range 
of sectors, with different economic cycles, 
across geographical markets
n n Close monitoring of relevant regulatory and 
fiscal developments by in-house specialists 
and external advisers
n n Due diligence when entering new markets 
or business areas
n n Continuing uncertain economic conditions, 
particularly in Asia and Europe
n n Regulatory developments which may impose 
additional costs, in particular AIFMD
n n Interim updates and results announcements
n n Group management report – market review; 
investor relations
n n Group risk review 
n n Review of brand and trends affecting reputation
n n Reputational risk log
n n Board – pre-publication
n n Board – monthly 
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Brand and Values Committee – annually
n n Brand and Values Committee – three times 
per annum
Strategic
n n Strategic delivery
n n Meeting key targets
n n New business opportunities
n n Managing communications
n n Understanding and analysis of risks 
and rewards
n n Appropriateness of choice of business 
model and strategy
n n Unexpected changes in the Group’s 
operating environment
n n Unanticipated outcomes versus 
assumptions and announced targets
n n Potential loss of key staff in areas critical 
to the Group’s strategic delivery
n n Periodic strategic reviews 
n n Regular monitoring of key risks by Group 
Risk Committee and the Board
n n Monitoring of a range of key financial and 
strategic performance indicators and 
forecasts
n n Periodic updates of plans and underlying 
assumptions
n n Disciplined management of key 
strategic projects
n n Continued challenging market and economic 
conditions which could impact investment 
performance and, therefore, strategic delivery
n n Continued caution on the part of third-party 
investors to commit to new funds
n n Emergence of activist shareholders
n n Group management report – financial 
performance and strategic progress dashboards
n n New business proposals and business cases
n n Group risk review 
n n Strategic plan and updates
n n Board – monthly 
n n Board – as required
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Board – annual update or refresh
Investment
n n Profitable growth of assets under 
management
n n New investment and exit decisions
n n Portfolio performance
n n Valuations
n n Market competition and asset pricing
n n Fund raising capability
n n Access to new investment opportunities
n n Investor capability and investment 
discipline 
n n Asset valuations 
n n Over exposure to a particular sector, 
geography or small number of assets 
n n Limited influence over minority 
investments 
n n Investment performance track record
n n Reputational risks arising from portfolio 
related events
n n Rigorous investment appraisal and 
approval process
n n Monthly asset reviews and risk 
assessments, based on up-to-date reports
n n Consistent application of detailed valuation 
guidelines and review processes 
n n Monitoring of investment concentration
n n Representation by a 3i executive on 
the boards of Private Equity investee 
companies
n n Implementation of asset management 
initiatives 
n n Responsible Investing guidelines 
incorporated into investment procedures
n n Application of vintage control policy and 
asset allocation analysis
n n Reduced Private Equity investment levels owing  
to a selective and measured approach to new 
investments 
n n Continued impact of current economic 
environment on the growth of Private Equity 
portfolio companies’ earnings and level of activity 
in European debt markets 
n n Subdued M&A market conditions
n n Valuations Committee report
n n Group management report – portfolio update; fund 
performance; new investments
n n Long-term vintage performance update
n n Periodic business updates
n n Monthly portfolio monitoring dashboard
n n Portfolio overview (including ESG matters) 
n n Group risk review
n n Valuations Committee and Board – quarterly
n n Board – quarterly 
n n Board – two times per annum
n n Board – as required
n n Board – monthly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – two times per annum
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
T reasury  
and funding
n n Liquidity 
n n Debt levels and refinancing 
n n Foreign exchange 
n n Counterparties
n n Maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity 
n n Capital adequacy 
n n Managing debt levels and maturity 
profiles 
n n Credit rating and access to funds
n n Counterparty management
n n Foreign exchange exposure
n n Interest rate exposure
n n Impact of volatility of investment 
valuations
n n Weekly detailed cash flow forecasts, 
tracked against minimum liquidity 
headroom 
n n Monitoring of gross debt against  
target limits
n n Monitoring of material debt maturities 
within a 12 month rolling period
n n Periodic review of currency volatility 
and use of hedging
n n Use of “plain vanilla” derivatives 
where appropriate
n n Board reviews of the Group’s 
treasury policy
n n Continued uncertainty within the Eurozone
n n Increase in currency volatility
n n Reduced gross debt levels
n n Reducing derivative hedging programme over time
n n Group management report – key financial 
highlights; financial performance; capital adequacy
n n Group risk review 
n n Annual budget (and rebase)
n n Financial forecasts
n n Ad hoc reporting on key treasury matters
n n Capital adequacy
n n Board – monthly 
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Board – two times per annum
n n Board – three times per annum
n n Board – as required
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
Operational
n n People, processes and systems 
n n Legal and regulatory compliance
n n Reputational
n n Resource balance, including recruitment, 
retention and development of 
capable people 
n n Alignment of remuneration and 
incentives
n n Appropriate systems, processes and 
procedures
n n Adherence to tax regulations, including 
permanent establishment risk
n n Change management
n n Complexity of regulatory operating 
environment and ability to influence 
regulatory change
n n Potential exposure to litigation
n n Reputational risks arising from 
operational risk incidents
n n Exposure to fraud
n n Business disruption
n n Framework of core values, global policies, 
a code of business conduct and delegated 
authorities
n n Detailed policies and procedures
n n Rigorous staff recruitment, vetting, review 
and appraisal processes 
n n Appropriate remuneration structures 
n n Succession planning 
n n Close monitoring of legal, regulatory and 
tax developments by specialist teams 
n n Internal Audit and Compliance functions 
carry out independent periodic reviews
n n Business continuity and 
contingency planning
n n Implementation of asset management 
initiatives
n n Controls over information security, 
confidentiality and conflicts of interest 
n n Anti-fraud programme
n n Group-wide compensation review
n n Further acquisitions in the Debt Management 
business requiring integration 
n n Changes in applicable tax and regulatory 
requirements eg AIFMD
n n Downsizing in response to business needs  
and to manage costs
n n New outsourcing arrangements  
eg IT services
n n New IT system implementations
n n Risk log summary 
n n Group risk review 
n n Litigation summary 
n n Review of 3i values
n n Compliance update reports 
n n Internal control effectiveness review
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Brand and Values Committee – annually
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – annually
Risk factors, oversight and operation  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 55
Risk
Risk type Risk areas Inherent risks Risk mitigation Key developments Management reports Board reporting
External
n n External stakeholders
n n Reputational
n n Government/regulation
n n Market/economic
n n Changes in macroeconomic variables
n n General health of capital markets
n n Exposure to new markets and 
investment products
n n Regulatory developments
n n Changes in government policy
n n Reputational risks
n n Three distinct and complementary 
investment platforms
n n Diversified investment portfolio in a range 
of sectors, with different economic cycles, 
across geographical markets
n n Close monitoring of relevant regulatory and 
fiscal developments by in-house specialists 
and external advisers
n n Due diligence when entering new markets 
or business areas
n n Continuing uncertain economic conditions, 
particularly in Asia and Europe
n n Regulatory developments which may impose 
additional costs, in particular AIFMD
n n Interim updates and results announcements
n n Group management report – market review; 
investor relations
n n Group risk review 
n n Review of brand and trends affecting reputation
n n Reputational risk log
n n Board – pre-publication
n n Board – monthly 
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Brand and Values Committee – annually
n n Brand and Values Committee – three times 
per annum
Strategic
n n Strategic delivery
n n Meeting key targets
n n New business opportunities
n n Managing communications
n n Understanding and analysis of risks 
and rewards
n n Appropriateness of choice of business 
model and strategy
n n Unexpected changes in the Group’s 
operating environment
n n Unanticipated outcomes versus 
assumptions and announced targets
n n Potential loss of key staff in areas critical 
to the Group’s strategic delivery
n n Periodic strategic reviews 
n n Regular monitoring of key risks by Group 
Risk Committee and the Board
n n Monitoring of a range of key financial and 
strategic performance indicators and 
forecasts
n n Periodic updates of plans and underlying 
assumptions
n n Disciplined management of key 
strategic projects
n n Continued challenging market and economic 
conditions which could impact investment 
performance and, therefore, strategic delivery
n n Continued caution on the part of third-party 
investors to commit to new funds
n n Emergence of activist shareholders
n n Group management report – financial 
performance and strategic progress dashboards
n n New business proposals and business cases
n n Group risk review 
n n Strategic plan and updates
n n Board – monthly 
n n Board – as required
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Board – annual update or refresh
Investment
n n Profitable growth of assets under 
management
n n New investment and exit decisions
n n Portfolio performance
n n Valuations
n n Market competition and asset pricing
n n Fund raising capability
n n Access to new investment opportunities
n n Investor capability and investment 
discipline 
n n Asset valuations 
n n Over exposure to a particular sector, 
geography or small number of assets 
n n Limited influence over minority 
investments 
n n Investment performance track record
n n Reputational risks arising from portfolio 
related events
n n Rigorous investment appraisal and 
approval process
n n Monthly asset reviews and risk 
assessments, based on up-to-date reports
n n Consistent application of detailed valuation 
guidelines and review processes 
n n Monitoring of investment concentration
n n Representation by a 3i executive on 
the boards of Private Equity investee 
companies
n n Implementation of asset management 
initiatives 
n n Responsible Investing guidelines 
incorporated into investment procedures
n n Application of vintage control policy and 
asset allocation analysis
n n Reduced Private Equity investment levels owing  
to a selective and measured approach to new 
investments 
n n Continued impact of current economic 
environment on the growth of Private Equity 
portfolio companies’ earnings and level of activity 
in European debt markets 
n n Subdued M&A market conditions
n n Valuations Committee report
n n Group management report – portfolio update; fund 
performance; new investments
n n Long-term vintage performance update
n n Periodic business updates
n n Monthly portfolio monitoring dashboard
n n Portfolio overview (including ESG matters) 
n n Group risk review
n n Valuations Committee and Board – quarterly
n n Board – quarterly 
n n Board – two times per annum
n n Board – as required
n n Board – monthly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – two times per annum
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
T reasury  
and funding
n n Liquidity 
n n Debt levels and refinancing 
n n Foreign exchange 
n n Counterparties
n n Maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity 
n n Capital adequacy 
n n Managing debt levels and maturity 
profiles 
n n Credit rating and access to funds
n n Counterparty management
n n Foreign exchange exposure
n n Interest rate exposure
n n Impact of volatility of investment 
valuations
n n Weekly detailed cash flow forecasts, 
tracked against minimum liquidity 
headroom 
n n Monitoring of gross debt against  
target limits
n n Monitoring of material debt maturities 
within a 12 month rolling period
n n Periodic review of currency volatility 
and use of hedging
n n Use of “plain vanilla” derivatives 
where appropriate
n n Board reviews of the Group’s 
treasury policy
n n Continued uncertainty within the Eurozone
n n Increase in currency volatility
n n Reduced gross debt levels
n n Reducing derivative hedging programme over time
n n Group management report – key financial 
highlights; financial performance; capital adequacy
n n Group risk review 
n n Annual budget (and rebase)
n n Financial forecasts
n n Ad hoc reporting on key treasury matters
n n Capital adequacy
n n Board – monthly 
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Board – two times per annum
n n Board – three times per annum
n n Board – as required
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
Operational
n n People, processes and systems 
n n Legal and regulatory compliance
n n Reputational
n n Resource balance, including recruitment, 
retention and development of 
capable people 
n n Alignment of remuneration and 
incentives
n n Appropriate systems, processes and 
procedures
n n Adherence to tax regulations, including 
permanent establishment risk
n n Change management
n n Complexity of regulatory operating 
environment and ability to influence 
regulatory change
n n Potential exposure to litigation
n n Reputational risks arising from 
operational risk incidents
n n Exposure to fraud
n n Business disruption
n n Framework of core values, global policies, 
a code of business conduct and delegated 
authorities
n n Detailed policies and procedures
n n Rigorous staff recruitment, vetting, review 
and appraisal processes 
n n Appropriate remuneration structures 
n n Succession planning 
n n Close monitoring of legal, regulatory and 
tax developments by specialist teams 
n n Internal Audit and Compliance functions 
carry out independent periodic reviews
n n Business continuity and 
contingency planning
n n Implementation of asset management 
initiatives
n n Controls over information security, 
confidentiality and conflicts of interest 
n n Anti-fraud programme
n n Group-wide compensation review
n n Further acquisitions in the Debt Management 
business requiring integration 
n n Changes in applicable tax and regulatory 
requirements eg AIFMD
n n Downsizing in response to business needs  
and to manage costs
n n New outsourcing arrangements  
eg IT services
n n New IT system implementations
n n Risk log summary 
n n Group risk review 
n n Litigation summary 
n n Review of 3i values
n n Compliance update reports 
n n Internal control effectiveness review
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Brand and Values Committee – annually
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – quarterly
n n Group Risk Committee and Audit and Compliance 
Committee – annually 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 56
Our approach and values
For 3i, corporate responsibility is about 
being a responsible investor , as well 
as a responsible company. We take 
responsibility for our actions, carefully 
consider how others will be affected by 
our choices and ensure that our values 
and ethics are integrated into our formal 
business policies, practices and plans. 
Our approach to corporate responsibility is underpinned by our values 
of ambition, courage, responsibility, collaboration and integrity, which 
together commit us to doing the right thing in the right way.
All employees have a responsibility to be aware of, and to abide by, 
3i’s policies and procedures, which have been developed to guide staff 
and regulate the conduct of the day-to-day operations of the business. 
These policies and procedures include 3i’s environmental, ethical and 
social policies, which set out a number of common sense operating 
principles to guide staff and to underpin 3i’s values and its reputation 
for acting with integrity, ethically and within the law. These policies are 
available to all employees through 3i’s portal, a web-based knowledge 
system. Employees are encouraged to make suggestions to improve 
our policies and procedures. These recommendations are formally 
reviewed and updated, where appropriate, on an annual basis.
Organisation and governance
3i has a policy of seeking to comply with established best practice 
in the field of corporate governance. The Board has adopted and 
promotes corporate values and Group standards, which set out the 
behaviour expected of employees in their dealings with shareholders, 
customers, colleagues, suppliers and others who engage with 3i. 
Brand and Values committee
The Board’s Brand and Values Committee oversees the Group’s brand, 
corporate values, reputation, ethical approach and behaviours, 
together with its approach to corporate responsibility, and considers 
and provides recommendations and advice to the Board on broad 
strategy, positioning and standards concerning the Company’s values 
and reputation. 
The Brand and Values Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague 
(Chairman), Simon Borrows (Chief Executive) and Kevin Dunn 
(General Counsel and Company Secretary), together with two 
or more non-executive Directors determined by the Board from 
time to time. Relevant other members of the Executive Committee 
are also invited to attend meetings, as required.
Our people
A spirit of co-operation is encouraged to ensure the highest 
standards of integrity and professionalism. Fair and open 
communication is a high priority.
3i has comprehensive global and regional policies to help ensure 
that employees treat their colleagues and others with courtesy 
and respect. 
T raining and development
We encourage the continuous development of our staff, with the 
objective of maximising both the overall performance of the business 
and their career potential. We aim to ensure that our working 
environments are attractive and stimulating places to work.
Compliance training
It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all executives involved 
in making or managing investment transactions receive anti-money 
laundering training and periodic refresher training. 
Our Compliance team has developed a series of e-based training 
courses, including financial crime, anti-bribery, confidential 
information and regulatory refresher/induction training. It is 
mandatory for all staff to complete and pass these courses. 
Health and safety
Promotion of health and safety at work is an essential responsibility 
of managers and staff at all levels, as is working safely.
At 3i, we ensure staff can go about their everyday business at 3i’s 
offices safely and without risks to their health. We have a good record 
and our high standards of health and safety apply to all our 
employees, visitors, clients and contractors. 
We have redesigned our workstation training and assessment 
software, making it more interactive and relevant to employees. 
All new employees are asked to complete the training and 
assessment programme. 
We ensure we have competent health and safety advice, and regularly 
monitor how well we are performing.
For further details of our Health and Safety policy, please visit the 
CR section of our website at www.3i.com/corporate-responsibility
Corporate responsibility 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 57
Corporate  
responsibility
Environmental, Social and 
Governance standards 
Risk management
3i’s risk governance framework provides a structured process to 
oversee the identification, assessment and approach to mitigation 
in respect of those risks which could materially impact the Group’s 
financial performance and/or the achievement of the Group’s strategic 
objectives. This includes risks with an environmental, social and/or 
governance aspect.
Our principal risks and risk management process are explained on 
pages 50 to 55 of this Report. Details can also be found in the Pillar 3 
disclosures on our website, www.3i.com. The most significant 
corporate responsibility related risks arising from our investment 
activity relate to environmental, ethical, governance and social issues.
We believe that companies with high environmental, social and 
governance standards (“ESG”) are typically better run, have fewer 
business risks and ultimately deliver better value.
Responsible investing
We are signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Investing (“RI”) 
and have embedded RI policies and procedures in our investment and 
in our portfolio company review processes. The Board, through both 
its Brand and Values Committee and its Audit and Compliance 
Committee, receives regular updates on RI policy and procedure,  
and compliance with it, as well as broader reputational risks arising 
from our investment activities.
The environment
We endeavour to minimise our impact, wherever possible, and have 
established procedures to reduce our environmental footprint. 
In London, which is where the majority of our employees are based, 
the carbon intensity per employee has reduced by 57% compared 
with the previous year . Our procedures include:
n n powering off lights, computers and other equipment during 
evenings and weekends;
n n recycling office waste; and
n n rationalising business travel through a set of clear guidelines. 
Our travel policy clearly states that people should only travel 
when the use of alternate conferencing methods does not meet 
business needs. 
In the year to 31 March 201 3 our reported emissions were 
2000.29 tCO 2 e. 3i reduced total carbon emissions by 951.87 tCO 2e 
from the year 1 April 201 1 to 31 March 201 2, a reduction of 32%. 
This significant reduction in emissions can be attributed principally 
to the overall reduction in staff numbers during the year , a reduction 
in business travel, closure of offices and rationalisation of services 
in the Palace Street office. For example, the Palace Street office has 
achieved significant carbon reductions by lowering building emissions 
by 58% (549 .03 tCO 2 e), mainly due to the removal of gas sources from 
the site in May 201 2. For a breakdown of emissions by source for the 
year to 31 March 201 3, please visit the CR section of our website at 
www.3i.com. 
3i’s employees attach importance to working for a company which 
acts responsibly on environmental matters. Since the beginning 
of 2013, our Palace Street office has taken part in a sustainability 
project in conjunction with our landlords, Land Securities, and Planet 
First, an organisation which supports businesses in improving their 
sustainability performance. The programme has a different focus 
each month, covering the environmental impacts of how we source our 
food, consume water and energy in our buildings and use transport. 
Transparency
We take an open and straightforward approach to doing business. 
Our Annual and Half-yearly reports and our website, www.3i.com, 
provide significant disclosure on 3i and on our underlying investments.
Prompt payment code
During the year , 3i became a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code. 
The Code encourages and promotes best practice between 
organisations and their suppliers. Signatories to the Code commit 
to paying their suppliers within clearly defined terms, and to ensuring 
there is a proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 58
Community
We focus our charitable activities on the disadvantaged, on young 
people and on education. Charities are supported on the basis of their 
effectiveness and impact.
Our charitable giving for the year to 31 March 201 3 totalled £1 98,000. 
We match employees’ fundraising and in the UK we promote the Give 
As You Earn scheme, administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
Give As Y ou Earn 
In the UK, we promote the Give As You Earn scheme, administered 
by the Charities Aid Foundation. 
Subject to an individual cap (currently £400 per month) and a monthly 
cap of £10,000 in aggregate, 3i currently matches amounts donated 
by UK staff under the Give As You Earn scheme.
Fundraising events 
3i has a policy of matching the amount raised by UK staff through 
sponsorship by family and friends of their fundraising efforts for 
UK registered charities.
 
External benchmarking
3i has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index 
(“DJSI”) since 2002 and has been reporting to the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (an independent not-for-profit organisation working to drive 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction and sustainable water use by 
business and cities) for the last seven years.
The Passage, which is based very near to our London office, has 
a high impact on the local community. 3i funds The Passage’s 
education, training and employment department, which provides 
homeless and insecurely housed people with support to find a way 
back into employment and explore training and educational options. 
Enterprise Education T rust was founded by 3i 35 years ago and 
we have supported the charity as it has grown and developed. 
The T rust focuses on improving the financial literacy of 1 6 to 
1 9 years olds, raising their aspirations and attainment levels, with 
a particular focus on business, preparing them for further and 
higher education, training and employment, and promoting links 
between schools and businesses. 
Community Links is based in Newham, one of the most deprived 
boroughs in London. Community Links provides ”early action” work, 
which includes running youth clubs and safe play areas, through 
to providing advice on debt, welfare benefits, form filling etc. 
It also carries out specialist intervention work when people are 
experiencing severe problems such as exclusion from school 
and prolonged periods of unemployment. 
Historic Royal Palaces is an independent charity that looks after 
the Tower of London, Hampton Court Palace, the Banqueting House, 
Kensington Palace and Kew Palace. 3i helps fund the Outreach and 
Community Involvement team, in Kensington Palace, which works 
with the local community to engage them in activities in and around 
the Palace. Despite Kensington & Chelsea being one of the 
wealthiest boroughs in the UK, it also contains pockets of 
substantial deprivation. The team engages with the local 
community in a number of ways, including illustrated talks, 
storytelling and practical workshops and works with a variety 
of groups, including elderly people, young people not in education, 
employment or training, children from disadvantaged backgrounds 
and the disabled. It also provides the use of community rooms 
within the palace for local groups to develop their own activities. 
Corporate responsibility
Bridges Ventures
3i is proud to be a founding investor in Bridges Ventures, a privately 
owned UK venture capital company with a social mission. 
Bridges was founded in 2002 and has since made equity 
investments totalling over £77 million in 35 businesses employing 
1,693 people, almost 240 of whom came out of unemployment. 
In December 201 1, 3i invested £5 million into Bridges Ventures  
Fund III bringing 3i’s total commitment to over £7 million. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 59
Governance
This section of the report describes how  
3i is governed and managed. It explains 
how the Board is organised and operates, 
including the roles and composition of 
each of its Committees, and provides 
details on our Board and Executive 
Committee members. It also explains  
the division of responsibilities between  
the Directors, including between the 
Chairman and Chief Executive. This 
section also includes the Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
Introduction
Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i and its activities. 
Governance and oversight of the Group’s business model and strategy 
are critical to the delivery of value to the Group’s stakeholders. This is 
more important than ever given the current challenging and uncertain 
economic environment that the Group faces and the changing 
regulatory landscape across our sector .
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management 
and oversight of the Group and for its long-term success. In particular , 
the Board is responsible for agreeing the Group’s strategy, monitoring 
financial performance, setting and monitoring the Group’s risk 
appetite and maintaining an effective system of internal controls. 
It is the Board’s responsibility to ensure that the Group has a clear 
strategy and that the necessary people, resources and structures 
are in place to support the delivery of this strategy. 
Governance
The Board has been very focused on strategy and 
delivering clear and measurable improvement in 
shareholder returns.
Sir Adrian Montague  
Chairman
Appointment of the Chief Executive
During the last year , a key role of the Board was the appointment of a 
new Chief Executive of 3i. Following the announcement in March 201 2 
of Michael Queen’s intention to resign as Chief Executive, the Board 
consulted with shareholders regarding the process to select Michael’s 
successor . The Nominations Committee and the Board followed 
a rigorous process that considered a strong field of both external 
and internal candidates. This culminated in the appointment on 
1 7 May 201 2 of Simon Borrows as 3i’s new Chief Executive with 
a strategic mandate from the Board to pursue a clear and concrete 
set of measures to maximise shareholder value over the longer term. 
The key areas of immediate focus for the strategic review of the 
business were as follows: 
n n determining the best shape and investment strategy for the 
business going forward; 
n n improving the consistency and discipline of the Group’s asset 
management approach and ensuring that the Group’s investment 
capabilities were of a high quality; and 
n n ensuring that the operating cost base and liquidity costs were 
consistent with the Group’s investment and asset management 
strategy and with the prudent maintenance of the balance sheet. 
On 29 June 201 2, following the strategic review, the future strategy for 
3i was announced. The Board continues to meet regularly to review, 
discuss and debate the Group’s strategic objectives and its progress 
towards achieving these. As part of this, in December 201 2, the Board, 
together with members of the Executive Committee, met for a full day 
to review and discuss progress against the Group’s strategy. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 60
Board of Directors
Chairman 
Sir Adrian Montague
Chairman
Chairman since 2010. Chairman of Anglian Water 
Group. A non-executive director of Aviva plc, Skanska 
AB and CellMark AB.
Previous experience
Chairman of Michael Page International plc, London 
First, Friends Provident PLC, British Energy Group PLC, 
Cross London Rail Links Ltd (Crossrail) and Deputy 
Chairman of Network Rail and the UK Green 
Investment Bank plc.
Executive Directors 
Simon Borrows  
Chief Executive
Chief Executive since May 2012, and an Executive 
Director since he joined 3i in October 201 1. Chairman 
of the Group Risk Committee, the Executive Committee 
and the Group’s Investment Committee. Also a 
non-executive director at Inchcape plc and The British 
Land Company Public Limited Company.
Previous experience
Formerly Chairman of Greenhill & Co International LLP , 
having previously been Co-Chief Executive Officer  
of Greenhill & Co, Inc. Before founding the European 
operations of Greenhill & Co in 1998 he was the 
Managing Director of Baring Brothers 
International Limited.
Julia Wilson  
Group Finance Director
Group Finance Director and member of the Executive 
Committee since 2008. A member of the Group’s 
Investment Committee since July 2012. Joined 3i  
in 2006 as Deputy Finance Director, with responsibility 
for the Group’s finance, taxation and treasury 
functions. Also a non-executive director at  
Legal & General Group Plc.
Previous experience
Group Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & 
Wireless plc.
Non-executive Directors 
Jonathan Asquith  
Non-executive Director since March 201 1. Chairman 
of AXA Investment Managers and Dexion Capital plc.  
A non-executive director of Citibank International plc 
and Citigroup Global Markets Limited.
Previous experience
Non-executive director of Ashmore Group plc 
2008–2012. Executive director of Schroders plc  
from 2002 until 2008, during which time he was  
Chief Financial Officer and later Vice-Chairman. 
Previously spent 18 years in investment banking  
with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
Alistair Cox  
Non-executive Director since 2009. Chief Executive 
of Hays plc.
Previous experience
Chief Executive of Xansa plc from 2002 to 2007 , and 
Regional President of Asia and Group Strategy Director 
at Lafarge (formerly Blue Circle Industries) between 
1994 and 2002.
Richard Meddings  
Non-executive Director since 2008 and Senior 
Independent Director since October 2010. Group 
Finance Director of Standard Chartered PLC since 
2006, having joined the Board of Standard Chartered 
PLC as a Group Executive Director in 2002. A member 
of the Governing Council of the International Chamber 
of Commerce, United Kingdom.
Previous experience
Chief Operating Officer, Barclays Private Clients, Group 
Financial Controller at Barclays PLC and Group 
Finance Director of Woolwich PLC.
Willem Mesdag  
Non-executive Director since 2007 . Managing 
Partner of Red Mountain Capital Partners LLC. 
Previous experience
A Partner and Managing Director of Goldman, 
Sachs & Co. 
Martine Verluyten  
Non-executive Director since January 2012. A 
non-executive director of Thomas Cook Group plc, 
STMicroelectronics NV and Groupe Bruxelles Lambert.
Previous experience
Chief Financial Officer of Umicore, a Brussels-based 
listed materials technology group, from 2006 to 
December 201 1. Before joining Umicore was Group 
Controller and then Chief Financial Officer of Mobistar.
Sir Adrian Montague
Simon Borrows
Julia Wilson  
Jonathan Asquith  
Alistair Cox  
Richard Meddings  
Willem Mesdag  
Martine Verluyten  
Board of Directors and Executive Committee 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 61
Governance
Executive Committee 
Menno Antal  
Managing Partner , Private Equity
A member of the Executive Committee and the Group’s 
Investment Committee since 2010.
Previous experience
Joined 3i in 2000 and Managing Director, Benelux, 
since 2003. Prior to joining 3i, held a broad range of 
international managerial positions within Heineken.
Kevin Dunn  
General Counsel, Company Secretary and 
Head of Human Resources 
Responsible for 3i’s legal, compliance, internal audit, 
human resources and company secretarial functions. 
A member of the Executive Committee since joining 
3i in 2007 .
Previous experience
Prior to joining 3i, was a Senior Managing Director, 
running GE’s European Leveraged Finance business 
after serving as European General Counsel for GE. 
Prior to GE, was a partner at the law firms Travers 
Smith and Latham & Watkins.
Jeremy Ghose  
Managing Partner and CEO of 3i 
Debt Management 
A member of the Executive Committee since joining  
3i in February 201 1 on 3i’s acquisition of Mizuho 
Investment Management (UK) Limited from Mizuho 
Corporate Bank.
Previous experience
Prior to joining 3i, was with Mizuho Corporate Bank 
(formerly The Fuji Bank) since 1988 and on its 
executive board since 2005. Founder of Mizuho’s 
Leveraged Finance business in 1988 and of the 
third-party independent debt fund management 
business in 2005.
Alan Giddins  
Managing Partner , Private Equity
A member of the Executive Committee and the Group’s 
Investment Committee since 2010.
Previous experience
Joined 3i in 2005. Prior to joining 3i, spent 13 years in 
investment banking, latterly as a Managing Director  
at Société Générale. 
Cressida Hogg  
Managing Partner , Infrastructure
A member of the Executive Committee and the Group’s 
Investment Committee since 2010. Responsible for  
the Infrastructure business line and for leading the 
advisory relationship with the independent Board of  
3i Infrastructure plc.
Previous experience
Joined 3i in 1995. Co-founded 3i’s Infrastructure 
business in 2005 and became Managing Partner, 
Infrastructure in 2009.
Ben Loomes  
Group Strategy Director 
A member of the Executive Committee and the Group’s 
Investment Committee since July 2012.
Previous experience
Joined 3i in April 2012. Prior to joining 3i, was an 
Executive Director within Morgan Stanley’s UK 
investment banking business and before that was a 
Principal of Greenhill & Co. International, focusing 
on European mergers and acquisitions, financing 
advisory and restructuring. Began career at 
Goldman Sachs International within its European 
investment banking division.
Alan Giddins  
Cressida Hogg  Menno Antal  
Kevin Dunn  
Jeremy Ghose  
Ben Loomes  
Executive Committee 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 62
Board and Committees
Board and Committees structure
It is the Board’s responsibility to ensure that there is an effective 
organisational and reporting structure in place such that there 
are clear reporting lines within the Group and well defined roles and 
responsibilities. This is to ensure that the right decisions are being 
made with involvement from the right people.
The Board is assisted by various standing Committees of the Board 
which report regularly to the Board. In undertaking its duties, the 
Board delegates certain authorities and decisions to its Committees. 
The Board committee structure, including a summary of the roles and 
composition of the Committees, is outlined in the diagram on page 63. 
The membership of these Committees is regularly reviewed by the 
Board. When considering Board Committee membership and 
chairmanship, the Board aims to ensure that undue reliance is not 
placed on particular Directors.
These Board Committees all have clearly defined terms of reference. 
The terms of reference of the Audit and Compliance Committee, 
the Brand and Values Committee, the Nominations Committee, 
the Remuneration Committee and the Valuations Committee are 
available at www.3i.com. 
Day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility of the 
Chief Executive. To assist him in this role, the Chief Executive has 
established a number of additional Committees. These are also 
outlined in the diagram on page 63. 
As part of the new strategy announced in June last year , the Group’s 
organisational structure has been simplified and processes have been 
streamlined. A number of committee structures were rationalised in 
order to reduce organisational complexity and to enable better and 
more efficient decision-making. A new leadership team, the Executive 
Committee, was established by the Chief Executive as the principal 
day-to-day decision-making body for the management of the Group.
A new Group Investment Committee was also put in place, responsible 
for the acquisition, management and disposal of investments.
How the Board operates
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring 
its effectiveness. He is also responsible for organising the business of 
the Board and setting its agenda. In addition to the Chairman, there 
are currently five independent non-executive Directors who have 
a range of strong and complementary skills. 
The table set out on page 69 provides details of attendance at full 
meetings of the Board and its Committees during the last year .  
In addition to those full meetings, a number of ad hoc meetings 
were held to deal with specific items as they arose. 
Prior to each full meeting of the Board and its Committees, and as 
required for ad hoc meetings, relevant reports and papers, including 
financial performance data and detailed updates on the progress and 
implementation of the strategic plan where appropriate, are circulated 
to Directors.
The Board has the opportunity to discuss these reports and updates 
and to challenge directly the Executive Directors and other senior 
management, who attend all or part of the Board meetings.
The key responsibilities and areas of focus for the Board are:
n n Strategy – contribute to the development of, and agree, the Group’s 
strategy. This includes through review and discussion of reports 
and updates at Board meetings as well as through the annual 
strategy review meeting which is attended by the Board and 
members of the Executive Committee.
n n Group financial and operational performance – review and 
monitor the performance of the Group, including through regular 
reporting and discussions with the Executive Committee and other 
senior management.
n n Senior management – ensure that the Executive Committee has 
the skills and resources to deliver the strategy and that appropriate 
succession and contingency planning is in place.
n n Evaluation and composition – review the performance of the Board 
and its Committees to ensure that they are effective. Ensure that 
the Board and its Committees comprise competent and capable 
individuals with a range of skills and experience who bring 
independent views to the decisions being made.
n n Internal controls – maintain an appropriate internal control 
framework.
n n Risk – ensure that there are effective risk management policies 
and processes in place and an appropriate governance structure. 
To help the Board discharge its duties, it has approved a formal 
schedule of matters reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees 
for decision. This is described on page 69 . Matters delegated by the 
Board to management include implementation of the Board approved 
strategy, day-to-day management and operation of the business,  
the appointment and remuneration of all staff below the Executive 
Committee and the formulation and implementation of risk 
management policies and processes. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 63
Governance
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Committees
Executive Committee Investment Committee Group Risk Committee Conflicts Committee
Principal decision-making body in 
respect of managing the business
Acquisition, management 
and disposal of investments
Oversees the Group’s risk 
management framework
Independent review 
of conflict issues
Simon Borrows (Chairman)
Julia Wilson
Menno Antal
Kevin Dunn
Jeremy Ghose
Alan Giddins
Cressida Hogg
Ben Loomes
Simon Borrows (Chairman)
Julia Wilson
Menno Antal
Alan Giddins
Cressida Hogg
Ben Loomes
Ian Lobley (Senior Private 
Equity Partner)
Simon Borrows (Chairman)
Julia Wilson
Menno Antal
Kevin Dunn
Jeremy Ghose
Alan Giddins
Cressida Hogg
Ben Loomes
Director , Group Compliance
Director , Internal Audit
Kevin Dunn (Chairman)
Julia Wilson
Ben Loomes
3i Group plc Board
Board level Committees
Audit and Compliance 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Brand and Values 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Valuations  
Committee
Financial reporting, 
risk and internal controls
Director and senior 
management 
remuneration and Group 
remuneration structure
Corporate values, 
ethical approach, 
brand and reputation
Board appointments, 
and size, balance 
and composition 
of the Board
Valuation policy and 
investment valuations
Richard Meddings 
(Chairman)
Jonathan Asquith
Alistair Cox
Martine Verluyten
Jonathan Asquith 
(Chairman) 
Alistair Cox 
Willem Mesdag
Sir Adrian Montague 
(Chairman)
Simon Borrows
Kevin Dunn
All non-executive Directors 
are invited to attend and 
participate in the 
Committee’s meetings.
Sir Adrian Montague 
(Chairman) 
Jonathan Asquith 
Simon Borrows 
Alistair Cox 
Richard Meddings 
Willem Mesdag 
Martine Verluyten
Willem Mesdag 
(Chairman) 
Sir Adrian Montague 
Simon Borrows 
Julia Wilson
Overview of Committees of the Board and Chief Executive 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 64
Effectiveness
During the year , the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors. 
The process was led by the Chairman and externally facilitated 
by Dr T racy Long of Boardroom Review Limited. The results of the 
evaluation process were reported to, and discussed by, the Board.
The Board performance evaluation considered the overall functioning 
of the Board including how discussion on key topics could most 
effectively be encouraged and managed, the culture of the 
organisation, and how non-executive Directors could both further 
increase their knowledge of the Group’s investments and engage 
further with the Group’s investment business without impinging on 
areas delegated to management. Recent enhancements to regular 
Board reports were agreed to have improved the Board’s insight into 
day-to-day performance of portfolio companies, and it was decided 
all non-executive Directors would attend each year a number of 
management’s regular internal in-depth review discussions on 
individual portfolio companies. Further opportunities were identified 
for non-executive Directors to engage with the teams which manage 
the Group’s investments.
The Board evaluation process also included consideration of the size, 
balance and composition of the Board, including its diversity, including 
as to gender . 
In his role as Senior Independent Director , Mr R H Meddings led 
a review by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and 
subsequently reported back to the Board.
Division of responsibilities
The table below summarises the division of responsibilities between the Directors, including the Chairman and 
Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Role of non-executive Directors
n n Leads the Board in setting its agenda, 
agreeing strategy, monitoring financial 
and operational performance, and 
establishing the Group’s risk appetite.
n n Responsible for organising the business 
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, 
and maintaining an effective system of 
internal controls.
n n Ensures that non-executive Directors 
receive relevant and accurate information 
to facilitate an open and effective 
discussion. This includes ensuring that the 
non-executive Directors receive regular 
reports on shareholders’ views on 
the Group.
n n Responsible for the composition of the 
Board and facilitates the effective 
contribution of non-executive Directors and 
constructive relations between Executive 
and non-executive Directors.
n n Direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day 
basis and is accountable to the Board for 
the financial and operational performance 
of the Group.
n n Leads the Executive Committee to develop 
and implement the Group’s strategy and 
manage risk and the internal control 
framework.
n n Reports to the Board on financial and 
operational performance and progress 
in delivering the strategic objectives.
n n Regularly engages with shareholders 
and other key stakeholders on the Group’s 
activities and progress.
n n Scrutinise the performance of 
management in meeting agreed objectives 
and monitor the reporting of performance.
n n Seek assurance on the integrity of the 
financial information and that financial 
controls and systems of risk management 
are robust and defensible. 
n n Determine appropriate levels of 
remuneration for Executive Directors and 
have a prime role in appointing Directors 
and in succession planning. 
n n Constructively challenge and help develop 
proposals on strategy; this occurs at 
meetings of the Board, and in particular at 
the annual review meeting to discuss 
ongoing strategy, the most recent of which 
took place in December 201 2. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 65
Governance
Principal activity of the Group
The Group is an international investor focused on private equity, 
infrastructure and debt management, investing in Europe, Asia 
and the Americas.
Group investment policy
3i’s investment policy, which as a closed-ended investment fund 
it is required to publish, is as follows:
n n 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its shareholders 
with quoted access to private equity, infrastructure and debt 
management investment returns. Currently, its main focus is on 
making quoted and unquoted equity and/or debt investments in 
businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and the Americas.  
The geographies, economic sectors, funds and asset classes in 
which 3i invests continue to evolve as opportunities are identified. 
Proposed investments are assessed individually and all significant 
investments require approval from the Group’s Investment 
Committee. Overall investment targets are subject to periodic 
reviews and the investment portfolio is also reviewed to monitor 
exposure to specific geographies, economic sectors and 
asset classes.
n n 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion of 
investments by geography, economic sector , asset class and size 
as well as through the maturity profile of its investment portfolio. 
In addition, although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits for 
asset allocations, no more than 1 5% by value of 3i’s portfolio can 
be held in a single investment.
n n Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt and 
shareholders’ funds with a view to maximising returns to 
shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base. 3i’s gearing 
depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact of 
market movements and other factors on the value of its 
investments. The Board takes this into account when, as required, 
it sets a precise maximum level of gearing. The Board has therefore 
set the maximum level of gearing at 1 50% and has set no minimum 
level of gearing. If the gearing ratio should exceed the 1 50% 
maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce the gearing ratio 
to below that limit as soon as practicable thereafter . 3i is committed 
to achieving balance sheet efficiency.
During the year , the Company has continued its approach of 
conservative balance sheet management. The Board recognises  
the current need to manage liquidity and gross and net debt levels  
on a conservative basis such that the Company should be well-placed 
to deal with external events, take advantage of opportunities and 
manage its investment and divestment activities in a flexible manner . 
The Board has decided that net debt should not currently exceed 
£1 billion and may at times be significantly below this limit.  
As a consequence, gearing, which is a function of both net debt  
and asset values, is expected to be in the range of 0%–30% for the 
immediate future. It should be noted that (subject always to the  
formal gearing limit in the Company’s investment policy statement set 
out above) the actual gearing level at any point in time will fluctuate, 
since it is a function of, among other things, asset valuations and the 
timing of investment and realisation cash flows. The Board anticipates 
that the Company may be in a net cash position during certain periods 
(for example during periods of high valuations where realisations 
might be expected to exceed investment) but may have net debt in 
other periods (for example where valuations are relatively low or after 
periods of low return flows).
T ax and investment company status 
The Company is an investment company as defined by section 833 
of the Companies Act 2006. HM Revenue & Customs has approved 
the Company as an investment trust under section 1 1 58 of the 
Corporation T ax Act 2010 and the Company directs its affairs to  
enable it to continue to remain so approved.
Regulation
3i Investments plc, 3i Debt Management Investments Limited, 
3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic plc, subsidiaries of the Company, are 
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority under 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Where applicable, 
certain Group subsidiaries’ businesses outside the United Kingdom 
are regulated locally by relevant authorities.
Management arrangements
3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the Company 
and certain of its subsidiaries. Contracts for these investment 
management and other services, for which regulatory authorisation 
is required, provide for fees based on the work done and costs 
incurred in providing such services. These contracts may be 
terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and administrative 
services, for which no regulatory authorisation is required, under 
contracts which provide for fees based on the work done and costs 
incurred in providing such services together with a performance fee 
based on realised profits on the sale of assets.
Results and dividends
Total comprehensive income for the year was £373 million (201 2:  
£(656) million). An interim dividend of 2.7p per ordinary share in 
respect of the year to 31 March 201 3 was paid on 9 January 201 3.  
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.4p per ordinary share 
be paid in respect of the year to 31 March 201 3 to shareholders on the 
Register at the close of business on 21 June 201 3.
The trustee of The 3i Group Employee T rust (“the Employee T rust”) 
has waived (subject to certain minor exceptions) dividends declared by 
the Company after 26 May 1 994 on shares held by the Employee T rust.
Business review
The Group’s development during the year to 31 March 201 3, its 
position at that date and the Group’s likely future development are 
detailed in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review 
and the Business review.
Statutory and corporate governance information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 66
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 201 3 
comprised 971,405, 1 27 ordinary shares of 73 19 /22p each and 
4,635,018 B shares (cumulative preference shares of 1p each), 
representing 99.99% and 0.01 % respectively of the Company’s 
issued share capital by nominal value.
Ordinary shares
The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 201 2 
was 971,069,281 ordinary shares and increased over the year to 
31 March 2013 by 335,846 ordinary shares on the issue of shares 
to the trustee of the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan. At the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) on 29 June 2012, the Directors were 
authorised to repurchase up to 97 ,000,000 ordinary shares in the 
Company (representing approximately 10% of the Company’s issued 
ordinary share capital as at 16 May 2012) until the Company’s AGM 
in 2013 or 28 September 2013, if earlier. This authority was not 
exercised in the year.
B shares
The issued B share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2012 was 
4,635,018 B shares. No B shares were issued in the year to 31 March 
2013. At the AGM on 29 June 2012, the Directors were authorised 
to repurchase up to 4,635,018 B shares in the Company until 
the Company’s AGM in 2013 or 28 September 2013, if earlier. 
This authority was not exercised in the year.
Directors’ interests
In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)(1 ), interests of Directors 
and their connected persons in the shares of the Company (in respect 
of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under FCA 
Disclosure and T ransparency Rule 3. 1.2(R)) as at 31 March 201 3 are 
shown below:
Ordinary shares B shares
Sir Adrian Montague 70,772 0
J P Asquith 5,000 0
S A Borrows 8,238,245 0
A R Cox 17,400 0
R H Meddings 20,960 0
W Mesdag 339,053 0
M G Verluyten 2,500 0
J S Wilson 65,949 1,038
The share interests shown for Mrs J S Wilson include shares held 
in the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan. The share interests shown 
exclude share option and long-term share awards detailed in the 
Directors’ remuneration report. From 1 April 201 3 to 10 May 201 3,  
Mrs J S Wilson became interested in an additional 1 1 1 ordinary shares 
and there were no other changes to Directors’ share interests.
Debentures
As detailed in note 21 to the Accounts, as at 31 March 2013  
the Company had in issue Notes issued under the 3i Group plc  
£2,000 million Note Issuance Programme.
Directors’ conflicts of interests 
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the 
Company. The Company’s Articles of Association enable Directors 
to approve conflicts of interest and include other conflict of interest 
provisions. The Company has implemented processes to identify 
potential and actual conflicts of interest. Such conflicts are then 
considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to 
appropriate conditions.
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association, the Company 
has maintained Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions  
(as defined under relevant legislation) for the benefit of the  
Company’s Directors throughout the year .
Employment
The policy of the Group is one of equal opportunity in the selection, 
training, career development and promotion of employees, regardless 
of age, gender , sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether 
disabled or otherwise.
3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities equally and fairly 
and provides facilities, equipment and training to assist disabled 
employees to do their jobs. Arrangements are made as necessary 
to ensure support to job applicants who happen to be disabled and 
who respond to requests to inform the Company of any requirements. 
Should an employee become disabled during their employment, 
efforts would be made to retain them in their current employment 
or to explore the opportunities for their retraining or redeployment 
within 3i. Financial support is also provided by 3i to support disabled 
employees who are unable to work, as appropriate to local 
market conditions.
3i’s principal means of keeping in touch with the views of its 
employees is through employee appraisals, informal consultations, 
team briefings, and staff conferences. Managers throughout 3i  
have a continuing responsibility to keep their staff fully informed  
of developments and to communicate financial results and other 
matters of interest. This is achieved by structured communication 
including regular meetings of employees.
3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear grievance and 
disciplinary procedures in place. 3i also has an employee assistance 
programme which provides a confidential, free and independent 
counselling service and is available to all staff and their families 
in the UK.
3i’s employment policies are designed to provide a competitive reward 
package which will attract and retain high quality staff, whilst ensuring 
that the relevant costs remain at an appropriate level.
Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i Group plc Remuneration 
Committee, comprising 3i Group plc non-executive Directors.
3i’s remuneration policy is influenced by 3i’s financial and other 
performance conditions and market practices in the countries in 
which it operates. All employees receive a base salary and are  
also eligible to be considered for a performance-related annual 
variable incentive award. For those members of staff receiving  
higher levels of annual variable incentive awards, a proportion of such 
awards are delivered in 3i shares, vesting over a number of years. 
Statutory and corporate governance information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 67
Governance
Where appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in 3i share 
schemes to encourage employees’ involvement in 3i’s performance. 
Investment executives in the Private Equity business line may also 
participate in carried interest schemes, which allow executives  
to share directly in any future profits on investments. Similarly, 
investment executives in the Infrastructure and Debt Management 
business lines may participate in asset-linked and/or fee-linked 
incentive arrangements. Employees participate in local state or 
company pension schemes as appropriate to local market conditions.
Charitable and political donations
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year to 31 March 201 3 
amounted to £1 97 ,500. Of this approximately 30% was to match staff 
charitable giving and fundraising activities and approximately 70% 
was devoted to charities supporting the young, the disadvantaged 
and education. 
In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March 201 3 no 
donations were made to political parties or organisations, or 
independent election candidates, and no political expenditure 
was incurred.
Policy for paying creditors
The Group became a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code in  
the year and its policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the relevant markets in which it operates. 
Expenses are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of 
business. The Company had no trade creditors outstanding at 
the year end. The Group had trade creditors outstanding at the 
year end representing on average 18.9 days’ purchases.
Significant agreements
As at 31 March 201 3 the Company was party to the following 
agreements that are subject to a renegotiation period on a change  
of control of the Company following a takeover bid:
(a)  £450 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement 
dated 30 June 2011, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc, 
Lloyds TSB Bank plc and 1 2 other banks. Under this agreement,  
the Company would be required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc,  
as agent for the banks, within five days, of any change of control. 
This would open a 20-day negotiation period to determine whether 
the Majority Lenders (as defined in the agreement) would be willing 
to continue to make available the facility and, if so, on what terms. 
Failing agreement and if so required by the Majority Lenders, 
amounts outstanding would be repayable and the facility 
cancelled; and 
(b)  £50 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement 
dated 29 September 201 1, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc 
and Nordea Bank Finland PLC London Branch. Under this 
agreement, the Company would be required to notify the lender , 
within five days, of any change of control. This would open a 20-day 
negotiation period to determine whether the lender would be 
willing to continue the facility and, if so, on what terms. Failing 
agreement, and if so required by the lender amounts outstanding 
would be repayable and the facility cancelled.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and  
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) which have been adopted by the European Union.
Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly 
the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the 
Group for that period. In preparing the Group financial statements 
the Directors:
(a)  select suitable accounting policies in accordance with International 
Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently;
(b)  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
(c)  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the Group’s financial position and financial performance;
(d)  state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
(e) make judgements and estimates that are reasonable. 
The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that proper 
accounting records are kept which are sufficient to show and explain 
the Group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that 
the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and 
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. In accordance 
with the FCA’s Disclosure and T ransparency Rules, the Directors 
confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
(a)  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
(b)  the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed in the 
Board of Directors and Executive Committee section. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 68
Going concern
The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation 
to the financial statements for the year to 31 March 201 3.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Business review section. The financial position of the Group, 
its capital structure, gearing and liquidity positions are described 
in the Financial review section. The Group’s policies on risk 
management, including treasury and funding risks, are contained 
in the Risk section. Further details are contained in the financial 
statements and notes including, in particular , details on financial 
risk management and derivative financial instruments.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 
business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic 
outlook. The Directors have considered the uncertainties inherent 
in current and expected future market conditions and their possible 
impact upon the financial performance of the Group. After 
consideration, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has 
and will maintain sufficient financial resources to enable it to continue 
operating in the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
Audit information
Pursuant to section 4 18(2) of the Companies Act 2006, each of the 
Directors confirms that: 
(a)  so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
(b)  they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
such information.
Appointment of auditors
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a 
resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the 
Company’s auditors will be put to members at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate governance statement
This section of the Directors’ report contains the corporate 
governance statement required by FCA Disclosure and T ransparency 
Rule 7 .2. 
Corporate governance
Throughout the year , the Company complied with the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in May 2010.
The Company’ s approach to corporate governance
The Company seeks to comply with established best practice in the 
field of corporate governance. The Board has adopted core values 
and global policies which set out the behaviour expected of staff 
in their dealings with shareholders, customers, colleagues, suppliers 
and others who engage with the Company.
The Board’ s responsibilities and processes 
The Board’s key responsibilities are described on page 62. It is 
responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group 
and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the 
provisions of relevant statutes, the Company’s Articles of Association 
and any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders. 
The Articles of Association empower the Board to offer, allot, grant 
options over or otherwise deal with or dispose of the Company’s 
shares as the Board may decide. The Companies Act 2006 
authorises the Company to make market purchases of its own 
shares if the purchase has first been authorised by a resolution 
of the Company.
At the AGM in June 201 2, shareholders renewed the Board’s authority 
to allot ordinary shares and to repurchase ordinary shares on behalf 
of the Company subject to certain limits and also renewed the Board’s 
authority to repurchase B shares on behalf of the Company subject  
to certain limits. Details of the authorities which the Board will be 
seeking at the 201 3 AGM are set out in the 201 3 Notice of AGM.
The Articles of Association also specifically empower the Board to 
exercise the Company’s powers to borrow money and to mortgage 
or charge the Company’s assets and any uncalled capital and to issue 
debentures and other securities.
Statutory and corporate governance information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 69
Governance
Matters reserved for the Board 
The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to 
it and its duly authorised Committees for decision. These include:
n n Approval of the Group’s overall strategy, strategic plan and 
annual operating budget;
n n Approval of the Company’s half-yearly and annual financial 
statements and changes in the Group’s accounting policies 
or practices;
n n Changes relating to the capital structure of the Company 
or its regulated status;
n n Major capital projects;
n n Major changes in the nature of business operations;
n n Investments and divestments in the ordinary course of business 
above certain limits set by the Board from time to time;
n n Adequacy of internal control systems;
n n Appointments to the Board and the Executive Committee;
n n Principal terms and conditions of employment of members 
of the Executive Committee; and
n n Changes in employee share schemes and other long-term 
incentive schemes.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include 
implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day operation 
of the business, the appointment and remuneration of all executives 
below the Executive Committee and the formulation and execution 
of risk management policies and procedures.
A succession and contingency plan for executive leadership is 
prepared by management and reviewed periodically by the Board. 
The purpose of this plan is to identify suitable candidates for 
succession to key senior management positions, agree their training 
and development needs, and ensure the necessary human resources 
are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Meetings of the Board
The principal matters considered by the Board during the year 
(in addition to matters formally reserved to the Board) included:
n n The appointment of the new Chief Executive;
n n The strategic review and cost reduction plans;
n n The revised strategic model and related KPIs;
n n Resolutions proposed by shareholders for the 201 2 AGM;
n n The budget, financial resources and FX hedging strategy;
n n Regular reports from the Chief Executive;
n n Regular reports from the Board’s committees;
n n The recommendations of the Valuations Committee on valuations 
of investments; and
n n The business model and its application by different business lines.
Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner 
in preparation for Board and Committee meetings. These papers are 
supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors 
from time to time.
Performance evaluation
During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its 
own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors. 
Further details are given on page 64.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings
The table below shows the number of full meetings of the Board and its committees attended by Directors during the year to 31 March 201 3 
and, in brackets, the number of such meetings they were eligible to attend. In addition to these meetings a number of ad hoc meetings were held 
to deal with specific items as they arose.
Board
Audit and 
Compliance 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Valuations 
Committee
Brand and 
Values 
Committee
Total meetings held 12 6 3 8 4 3
Number attended:
Sir Adrian Montague 12 (12) – 3 (3) – 4 (4) 3 (3)
S A Borrows
1
12 (12) – 1 (1) – 3 (3) 3 (3)
J S Wilson 12 (12) – – – 4 (4) –
J P Asquith 12 (12) 6 (6) 3 (3) 8 (8) – 3 (3)
3
A R Cox 12 (12) 6 (6) 3 (3) 8 (8) – 3 (3)
3
R H Meddings 12 (12) 6 (6) 3 (3) – – 3 (3)
3
W Mesdag 10 (12) – 2 (3) 8 (8) 4 (4) 3 (3)
3
M G Verluyten 12 (12) 6 (6) 3 (3) – – 3 (3)
3
M J Queen
2
2 (3) – – – 1 (1) –
1 Appointed to Valuations Committee and Nominations Committee upon becoming Chief Executive on 17 May 2012.
2 Resigned on 16 May 2012.
3 Although not members of the Brand and Values Committee each of these non-executive Directors was invited to attend and participate in the Committee’s meetings. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 70
Appointment and re-election of Directors 
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, the Companies 
Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive 
Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years. Before 
the third and sixth anniversaries of a non-executive Director’s first 
appointment, the Director discusses with the Board whether 
it is appropriate for a further three-year term to be served.
Under the Company’s Articles of Association the minimum number of 
Directors is two and the maximum is 20, unless otherwise determined 
by the Company by ordinary resolution. Directors are appointed by 
ordinary resolution of the Company’s shareholders or by the Board.
Directors retire by rotation at an AGM if they were appointed 
by the Board since the preceding AGM, they held office during the 
two preceding AGMs but did not retire at either of them, not being 
Chairman of the Board, they held non-executive office for a continuous 
period of nine years or more at the date of that AGM, or they choose 
to retire from office. Shareholders have the power to remove any 
Director by special resolution.
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, retiring Directors are 
eligible for reappointment. The office of Director shall be vacated if the 
Director resigns, becomes bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being 
a Director or where the Board so resolves following the Director 
suffering from mental ill-health or being absent from Board meetings 
for 1 2 months without the Board’s permission.
In accordance with the Code all Directors choose to submit to 
reappointment every year . Accordingly at the AGM to be held on 
18 July 201 3 all the Directors will retire from office. All the Directors 
are eligible for and seek reappointment. The Board’s recommendation 
for the reappointment of Directors is set out in the 201 3 Notice of AGM.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and 
Senior Independent Director
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board 
and the Chief Executive is clearly defined and has been approved 
by the Board. Their roles are described on page 64.
Mr R H Meddings has served as Senior Independent Director since 
October 2010, to whom, in accordance with the Code, concerns can 
be conveyed.
Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five independent 
non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors. Biographical 
details for each of the Directors are set out in the Board of Directors 
and Executive Committee section. Sir Adrian Montague served 
as Chairman and Mr J P Asquith, Mr S A Borrows, Mr A R Cox, 
Mr R H Meddings, Mr W Mesdag, Ms M G Verluyten and Mrs J S Wilson 
served as Directors throughout the year under review. Mr M J Queen 
served as a Director until 1 6 May 201 2.
In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as Directors, non-
executive Directors are expected to bring an independent judgement 
to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards 
of conduct, and to help the Board provide the Company with effective 
leadership. They are also expected to ensure high standards of 
financial probity on the part of the Company and to monitor the 
effectiveness of the Executive Directors. Directors are expected 
to make available sufficient time to meet the requirements of the 
appointment. The average time commitment for a non-executive 
Director is expected to be around 1 5 days a year together with 
additional time for serving on the Board’s committees.
The Board’s discussions, and its approval of the Group’s strategic 
plan and annual budget, provide the non-executive Directors with 
the opportunity to contribute to and validate management’s plans 
and assist in the development of strategy. The non-executive Directors 
receive regular management accounts, reports and information 
which enable them to scrutinise the Company’s and management’s 
performance against agreed objectives.
Further details of the role and responsibilities of non-executive 
Directors are set out on page 64.
Statutory and corporate governance information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 71
Governance
Directors’ independence
All the non-executive Directors (other than the Chairman, who was 
independent on appointment) were considered by the Board to be 
independent for the purposes of the Code in the year to 31 March 201 3.
The Board reviews the independence of non-executive Directors at 
least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and materiality 
of a Director’s interests and relationships rather than applying rigid 
criteria in a mechanistic manner . No Director was materially 
interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during 
or at the end of the financial period that was significant in relation 
to the business of the Company.
Directors’ employment contracts
Details of Executive Directors’ employment contracts are set out 
in the Directors’ remuneration report.
T raining and development
The Company has developed a training policy which provides 
a framework within which training for Directors is planned with 
the objective of ensuring Directors understand the duties and 
responsibilities of being a director of a listed company. All Directors 
are required to update their skills and maintain their familiarity with 
the Company and its business continually. Presentations on different 
aspects of the Company’s business are made regularly to the Board. 
On appointment, all non-executive Directors have discussions with the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive following which appropriate 
briefings on the responsibilities of Directors, the Company’s business 
and the Company’s procedures are arranged. The Company provides 
opportunities for non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough 
understanding of the Company’s business by meeting members 
of the senior management team who in turn arrange, as required, 
visits to investment or support teams.
The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal 
or other professional advice about the performance of their duties.
The Board’ s Committees
As described on page 63, the Board is assisted by various standing 
committees of the Board which report regularly to the Board. 
The Board’s Committees are described below and on the next page.
Audit and Compliance Committee
The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises Mr R H Meddings 
(Chairman), Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox and Ms M G Verluyten, all of 
whom are independent non-executive Directors and served throughout 
the year. The Board is satisfied that the Committee Chairman, 
Mr R H Meddings, has recent and relevant financial experience.
During the year , the Committee:
n n Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control 
environment of the Group and the Group’s compliance with 
its regulatory requirements;
n n Reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting 
disclosures comprised in the half-yearly and annual financial 
statements of the Company and reviewed the scope of the annual 
external audit plan and the external audit findings;
n n Received the reports of the Valuations Committee on the valuation 
of the Group’s investment assets and recommended valuations 
to the Board; 
n n Reviewed portfolio management processes and tax compliance 
arrangements;
n n Received regular reports and updates on the audit plan from the 
Group’s internal audit function, monitored its activities and reviewed 
its effectiveness;
n n Received regular reports from Group Risk Committee and 
the Group’s regulatory compliance function; 
n n Oversaw the Company’s relations with its external auditors 
including assessing auditor performance, independence and 
objectivity, recommending the auditors’ reappointment and 
approving the auditors’ fees;
n n Met separately with the Finance Director , the Director , Internal Audit, 
the Director , Group Compliance and the external auditors in the 
absence of management; and
n n Received regular reports on litigation involving the Group, on the 
Group’s regulatory capital position, on developments in regulation and 
accounting standards, on bank covenants and third-party liabilities, 
and on Directors’ and Executive Committee members’ expenses.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr J P Asquith (Chairman), 
Mr A R Cox and Mr W Mesdag, all of whom are independent 
non-executive Directors and served throughout the year .
The work of the Remuneration Committee is described in the 
Directors’ remuneration report. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 72
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague 
(Chairman), Mr S A Borrows, Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox, 
Mr R H Meddings, Mr W Mesdag and Ms M G Verluyten, all of whom 
served throughout the year , save for Mr S A Borrows who served from 
his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 7 May 201 2. Mr M J Queen was 
a member of the Committee until he ceased to be Chief Executive on 
1 6 May 201 2, although he did not attend meetings which considered 
the appointment of his successor . 
During the year , the Nominations Committee:
n n Considered candidates for appointment as Chief Executive and 
recommended to the Board the appointment of Mr Borrows; and 
n n Considered the size, balance, diversity (including gender) and 
composition of the Board and put in train arrangements for 
selecting further candidates for recommendation to the Board 
for appointment as non-executive Director .
The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent process 
for the appointment of Directors with the objective of identifying 
the skills and experience profile required of new Directors and 
identifying suitable candidates. The procedure includes the 
appraisal and selection of potential candidates by the Committee, 
including (in the case of non-executive Directors) whether they 
have sufficient time to fulfil their roles. Specialist recruitment 
consultants assist the Committee to identify suitable candidates 
for appointment. The Committee’s recommendations for 
appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
Further to the publication of the Davies Report on Women on Boards, 
and Code Provision B.2.4 which will take effect for financial years 
commencing on or after 1 October 201 2, the Board strongly supports 
the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one important 
aspect. The Board’s aim is to have a broad range of approaches, 
backgrounds, skills and experience represented on the Board and to 
make appointments on merit and against objective criteria, including 
diversity. Search agents engaged by the Company are instructed to 
put forward for all Board positions a diversity of candidates including 
women candidates.
Valuations Committee
The Valuations Committee comprises Mr W Mesdag (Chairman), 
Sir Adrian Montague, Mr S A Borrows and Mrs J S Wilson, all of whom 
served throughout the year except Mr Borrows who served from his 
appointment as Chief Executive on 1 7 May 201 2. Mr M J Queen was 
a member of the Committee until he ceased to be Chief Executive 
on 1 6 May 201 2.
During the year , the Valuations Committee considered and made 
recommendations to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the 
Board on the quarterly valuations of the Group’s investments.
Brand and Values Committee
The Brand and Values Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague 
(Chairman), Mr S A Borrows and Mr K J Dunn, all of whom served 
throughout the year , save for Mr S A Borrows who served from 
1 7 May 201 2. Mr M J Queen served as a member of the Committee 
until 1 6 May 201 2. In addition, all of the Company’s non-executive 
Directors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee and 
participate in its discussions.
During the year, the Brand and Values Committee considered and 
made recommendations on a range of matters pertaining to the Group’s 
reputation, and its approach as a responsible investor and a responsible 
business. The Committee considered reports on Responsible 
Investment policy, the environmental, social and governance risks 
identified through the Company’s portfolio company review process 
and specific reputational risk incidents arising from investments. 
The Company Secretary 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the General 
Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the 
Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters. The Company’s 
Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the 
Board or its duly authorised committees for decision provide that the 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for 
the full Board.
Major interests in ordinary shares 
Notifications of the following major voting interests in the Company’s 
ordinary share capital (which are notifiable in accordance with 
Chapter 5 of the FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules and 
section 793 Companies Act 2006) had been received by the Company 
as at 31 March 2013 and 10 May 2013 as shown in the table below. 
Major interests in ordinary shares 
As at 31 
March 2013
% of issued 
share capital
As at 10 May 
2013
% of issued 
share capital
Nature of 
holding
BlackRock, Inc 107,675,564 11.08 106,956,376 11.01 Indirect 
UBS Global Asset Management 46,794,770 4.82 46,526,752 4.79
Artemis Investment Management LLP 44,857,331 4.62 45,186,900 4.65
Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) B Limited 43,179,838 4.44 47,915,366 4.93
Legal and General Group plc and/or its subsidiaries 29,204,206 3.00 30,591,441 3.15 Direct
Statutory and corporate governance information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 73
Governance
Holders of B shares are entitled, out of the profits available for 
distribution in any year and in priority to any payment of dividend 
or other distribution to holders of ordinary shares, to a cumulative 
preferential dividend of 3.75% per annum calculated on the amount 
of 1 27p per B share (“the Return Amount”). On a return of capital (other 
than a solvent intra-group reorganisation) holders of B shares are 
entitled to receive in priority to any payment to holders of ordinary 
shares payment of the Return Amount together with any accrued 
but unpaid dividends but are not entitled to any further right of 
participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
Holders of B shares are not entitled to notice of or to attend, speak 
or vote at general meetings save where the B share dividend has 
remained unpaid for six months or more or where the business of 
the meeting includes consideration of a resolution for the winding-up 
of the Company (other than a solvent intra-group reorganisation) in 
which case holders of B shares shall be entitled to attend, speak and 
vote only in relation to such resolution and in either case shall, on 
a poll, be entitled to one vote per B share held.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid shares in 
the Company, save as follows. The Board may decline to register: 
a transfer of uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in 
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 ; a transfer to more 
than four joint holders; a transfer of certificated shares which is 
not in respect of only one class of share; a transfer which is not 
accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates; a 
transfer which is not duly stamped in circumstances where a duly 
stamped instrument is required; or a transfer where in accordance 
with section 794 of the Companies Act 2006 a notice (under section 
793 of that Act) has been served by the Company on a shareholder 
who has then failed to give the information required within the 
specified time. In the latter circumstances the Company may make 
the relevant shares subject to certain restrictions (including in respect 
of the ability to exercise voting rights, to transfer the shares validly 
and, except in the case of a liquidation, to receive the payment of  
sums due from the Company). Since 14 July 2009 , the Company has 
been entitled to appoint a person to execute a transfer on behalf of 
all holders of B shares in acceptance of an offer , paying the holders 
such amount as they would have been entitled to on a winding-up 
of the Company.
There are no shares carrying special rights with regard to control 
of the Company. There are no restrictions placed on voting rights 
of fully paid shares, save where in accordance with Article 1 2 of the 
Company’s Articles of Association a restriction notice has been served 
by the Company in respect of shares for failure to comply with 
statutory notices or where a transfer notice (as described below) has 
been served in respect of shares and has not yet been complied with.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful 
relationship with the Company’s shareholders. The Chief Executive 
and the Finance Director meet with the Company’s principal 
institutional shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise. 
The Chairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, 
corporate governance and Directors’ remuneration as required.
The Board receives reports from the Company’s brokers on 
shareholder issues and non-executive Directors are invited to 
attend the Company’s presentations to analysts and are offered 
the opportunity to meet shareholders.
The Company’s major shareholders are offered the opportunity 
to meet newly-appointed non-executive Directors.
The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to communicate 
with its shareholders. At the Meeting, business presentations 
are generally made by the Chairman and the Chief Executive. 
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, 
and Nominations Committees are generally available to answer 
shareholders’ questions.
The 201 2 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less 
than 20 working days before the Meeting. At that Meeting, voting 
on each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were 
made available on the Company’s website.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares 
A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to shares as at 
31 March 201 3 is set out below.
The Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders in general meeting. Holders of ordinary 
shares and B shares enjoy the rights set out in the Articles of 
Association of the Company and under the laws of England and Wales. 
Any share may be issued with or have attached to it such rights and 
restrictions as the Company by ordinary resolution (or failing such 
resolution) the Board may decide.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote 
at general meetings and to appoint proxies and, in the case of 
corporations, corporate representatives to attend, speak and vote at 
such meetings on their behalf. To attend and vote at a general meeting 
a shareholder must be entered on the register of members at such 
time (not being earlier than 48 hours before the meeting) as stated in 
the notice of general meeting. On a poll, holders of ordinary shares are 
entitled to one vote for each share held. Holders of ordinary shares  
are entitled to receive the Company’s Annual Report and accounts,  
to receive such dividends and other distributions as may lawfully  
be paid or declared on such shares and, on any liquidation of the 
Company, to share in the surplus assets of the Company after 
satisfaction of the entitlements of the holders of the B shares or such 
other shares with preferred rights as may then be in issue. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 74
In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the Company’s Articles 
of Association the Company may serve a transfer notice on holders 
of shares. The relevant circumstances relate to: (a) potential tax 
disadvantage to the Company, (b) the number of “United States 
Residents” who own or hold shares becoming 75 or more, or (c) the 
Company being required to be registered as an investment company 
under relevant US legislation. The notice would require the transfer 
of relevant shares and pending such transfer the rights and privileges 
attaching to those shares would be suspended.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders 
of its securities that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise 
of voting rights.
Portfolio management and voting policy 
In relation to unquoted investments, the Group’s approach is to seek 
to add value to the businesses in which the Group invests through the 
Group’s extensive experience, resources and contacts. In relation to 
quoted investments, the Group’s policy is to exercise voting rights on 
matters affecting its interests.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and reviews its effectiveness at least annually. Such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of 
matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees for 
decision, the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over 
appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly 
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority. The Board 
considers and approves a strategic plan and budget on an annual 
basis and receives regular updates. In addition, there are established 
procedures and processes for planning and controlling expenditure 
and the making of investments. There are also information and 
reporting systems for monitoring the Group’s businesses and 
their performance.
The Group Risk Committee is a management committee formed 
by the Chief Executive and its purpose is to review the business 
of the Group in order to ensure that business risk is considered, 
assessed and managed as an integral part of the business. There 
is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
Group’s significant risks. This process was in place for the year  
to 31 March 201 3 and up to the date of this report. Details of the 
risk management framework can be found in the Risk section.
The overall internal control process is regularly reviewed by the 
Board and the Audit and Compliance Committee and complies with 
the internal control guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the 
T urnbull Committee. The process established for the Group includes:
Policies
n n Core values and global policies together comprising the Group’s 
high level principles and controls, with which all staff are expected 
to comply;
n n Manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business units, 
with procedures for reporting weaknesses and for monitoring 
corrective action; and
n n A code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting 
compliance therewith.
Processes
n n Appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by 
recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to fulfil 
their allotted responsibilities;
n n A planning framework which incorporates a Board approved 
strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit;
n n Formal business risk reviews performed by management which 
evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood of identified 
risks and possible new risk areas; 
n n The setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and 
the review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learnt;
n n A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based 
on an annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, 
analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance indicators 
and regular re-forecasting;
n n Regular reports to the Board, which analyse funding requirements, 
track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity, 
measure the Group’s exposure to exchange rate movements and 
record the level of compliance with the Group’s funding objectives;
n n A Group Compliance function whose role is to integrate regulatory 
compliance procedures and best practices into the Group’s 
systems; and
n n Well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval 
of investments, including detailed investment and divestment 
approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority 
and regular post-investment reviews.
Statutory and corporate governance information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 75
Governance
Verification
n n An Internal Audit function which undertakes periodic examination 
of business units and processes and recommends improvements 
in controls to management;
n n The external auditors who are engaged to express an opinion 
on the annual financial statements; and
n n An Audit and Compliance Committee which considers significant 
control matters and receives reports from Internal Audit, the 
external auditors and Group Compliance on a regular basis.
The internal control system is monitored and supported by Internal 
Audit and Group Compliance, which operate on an international basis 
and report to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee 
on the Group’s operations. The work of Internal Audit is focused 
on the areas of greatest risk to the Group determined with reference 
to the Group’s risk management process.
The external auditors independently and objectively review the 
approach of management to reporting operating results and financial 
condition. In co-ordination with Internal Audit, they also review and 
test the system of internal financial control and the information 
contained in the annual financial statements to the extent necessary 
for expressing their opinion.
Financial reporting
In the context of the above internal control framework, there are 
specific processes in place in relation to Financial Reporting, including:
n n Comprehensive system of key control and oversight processes, 
including regular reconciliations, line manager reviews and 
systems’ access controls;
n n Updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance Committee 
of accounting developments, including draft and new accounting 
standards and legislation;
n n A separate Valuations Committee which considers the Group’s 
investment valuation policies, application and outcome;
n n Approval of the Group’s budget by the Board and regular updates 
on actual and forecast financial performance against budget;
n n Reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to the financial 
reporting process, including periodic assessments of internal 
controls, processes and fraud risk;
n n Independent updates and reports from the external auditors 
on accounting developments, application of accounting standards, 
key accounting judgements and observations on systems and 
controls; and
n n Regular risk reviews, including an assessment of risks to reliable 
financial reporting covering people, processes and systems, and 
updates on the management of identified risks or actual incidents.
Auditors’ independence and objectivity 
Subject to annual appointment by shareholders, auditor performance 
is monitored on an ongoing basis and formally reviewed every five 
years, the last review being held during the year to 31 March 2009. 
Following this review the Audit and Compliance Committee concluded 
that Ernst & Young LLP’s appointment as the Company’s auditors 
should be continued.
The Audit and Compliance Committee recognises the importance of 
ensuring the independence and objectivity of the Company’s auditors. 
It reviews the nature and extent of the services provided by them, 
the level of their fees and the element comprising non-audit fees.
The Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman is notified of all 
assignments allocated to Ernst & Young over a set threshold, other 
than those related to due diligence within the Group’s investment 
process where the team engaged would be independent of the audit 
team. Safeguards have been put in place to reduce the likelihood  
of compromising auditor independence, including the following 
principles which are applied in respect of services provided by 
the auditors and other accounting firms and monitored by the Audit 
and Compliance Committee:
n n Services required to be undertaken by the auditors, which include 
regulatory returns, formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder 
and other circulars. This work is normally allocated directly 
to the auditors;
n n Services which it is most efficient for the auditors to provide. In this 
case, information relating to the service is largely derived from the 
Company’s audited financial records; for example, corporate tax 
services. This work is normally allocated to the auditors subject 
to consideration of any impact on their independence; and
n n Services that could be provided by a number of firms including 
general consultancy work. All significant consultancy projects 
are normally put out to tender and work would be allocated to 
the auditors only if it did not present a potential threat to the 
independence of the audit team. Included in this category is due 
diligence work relating to the investment process. If this service 
were to be provided by the auditors, the specific team engaged 
would be independent of the audit team.
Details of the fees paid to the auditors are disclosed in note 6 
to the financial statements.
By order of the Board
K J Dunn 
Company Secretary 
1 5 May 201 3
Registered Office:  
1 6 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 76
The Committee has worked to align future rewards  
more closely with shareholder returns and to tailor 
performance measures to reflect progress in 
implementing Group strategy.
Jonathan Asquith  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Statement by the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
As Remuneration Committee Chairman, I am pleased to introduce 
the Directors’ remuneration report for the financial year 1 April 201 2 
to 31 March 201 3 (“the year”) and to provide some details of the 
background against which the Committee’s decisions have been taken 
in the year . References to “the current year” relate to the financial year 
1 April 201 3 to 31 March 2014.
Background
Mr Borrows was appointed Chief Executive on 1 7 May 201 2 and in 
June 201 2, following a strategic review, announced 3i’s future strategy 
including a major restructuring and cost reduction programme. 
As part of the restructuring programme, management and the 
Committee undertook a review of 3i’s remuneration arrangements, 
including those of the Executive Directors. 
Remuneration review objectives
The key objectives of the remuneration review were to ensure:
n n a fair and transparent split of returns between our key stakeholders, 
including between shareholders and employees;
n n closer alignment of remuneration arrangements with our key 
strategic objectives; 
n n clearer links between shareholder returns and compensation, 
including a greater proportion of compensation in shares; and
n n greater differentiation between individuals based on their relative 
personal performance and contribution. 
As part of the review, the Board wished to ensure that the Group’s  
new strategic objectives were clearly supported by a set of incentives, 
including measures and targets, that related directly to those 
objectives. 
Remuneration Committee
Committee members during the year
Meetings 
attended in 
the year
Meetings 
eligible to 
attend in 
the year
J P Asquith (Chairman) 8 8
A R Cox 8 8
W Mesdag 8 8
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website.
Advice received by the Committee during the year
During the year , the Committee received external, independent 
advice from Kepler Associates, who did not provide any 
services to the Group during the year other than to the 
Remuneration Committee. Kepler Associates is a signatory 
to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants. 
The Committee also received advice from Mr S A Borrows (Chief 
Executive from 1 7 May 201 2) and Mr M J Queen (Chief Executive 
until 1 6 May 201 2), neither of whom advised the Committee on 
their own remuneration.
Directors’ remuneration report 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 77
Governance
Outcome of the review
Following the Group-wide remuneration review, the following 
principles were adopted:
n n align employees’ interests with those of shareholders and fund 
investors – including encouraging staff share ownership and 
introducing shareholding targets for senior staff;
n n support key strategic objectives – it needs to be clear to employees 
what they need to deliver and what they will be paid for doing so;
n n attract, retain and motivate the right talent throughout the 
organisation;
n n ensure affordability in the short and long term – ensuring the 
economics of the business drive total reward;
n n promote sound risk management practices; and
n n arrangements to be simple and cost effective to administer .
Whilst this review did not result in the Committee proposing any 
changes to the quantum of the short- and long-term incentives for 
Executive Directors, it led to a refocusing of the measures attached to 
long-term incentives to support the Group’s strategy and to a change 
in the policy on deferring bonus into shares. Going forward:
n n Performance share awards to be granted in calendar year 201 3 
onwards will vest based on three-year performance against a 
combination of stretching absolute total shareholder return targets 
and the achievement of a balanced scorecard of measures linked 
closely to our stated strategic objectives, including covering 
operating costs with annual cash income.
n n 40% of Executive Directors’ annual bonuses will be deferred into 
shares vesting in equal instalments over four years, compared to 
the current policy (which applies to the year just ended) of deferring  
the excess of bonus over 100% of base salary into shares vesting 
after three years. This principle will also be applied to all other 
members of the Executive Committee. 
n n Higher-earning members of staff below Executive Committee will 
also have a portion of their bonus deferred into shares vesting in 
equal instalments over a three-year period, compared to the 
current policy where such bonuses are paid 100% in cash.
n n Shareholding targets for staff have been extended or , for some staff 
members, introduced for the first time. The share ownership and 
retention policy will require affected staff to build up over time,  
and thereafter maintain, a shareholding in the Company’s shares 
equivalent to at least three times salary for the Chief Executive,  
one and a half times salary for the Finance Director and all other 
members of the Executive Committee and one times salary for staff 
designated as “partners” in the Group’s businesses.
This report will be the subject of a resolution at our forthcoming AGM 
which I hope you will support.
 
Jonathan Asquith 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
1 5 May 201 3
Remuneration Policy for the 
current and future years
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive 
Directors for the current year is as set out below.
Remuneration 
type
Benchmarking Policy objective
Directors’ fees Competitive with fees 
paid by companies 
of comparable size and 
by listed financial 
services companies.
To attract and retain 
Directors of the 
calibre required.
In line with best practice the Chairman  
and non-executive Directors are not 
eligible for bonuses, long-term incentives, 
pensions or performance-related 
remuneration.
To preserve 
independence.
No changes to remuneration policy for the Chairman and  
non-executive Directors are expected for subsequent years.
Chairman and non-executive Director annual fees are as set 
out below.
Chairman fee £265,000 plus £30,000 
of 3i shares
Non-executive Directors:
– Board membership fee
– Senior Independent Director fee
£50,000 plus 2,500 3i shares 
£10,000
Committee fees:
– Chairman 
– Member
£20,000 
£4,000
Committee fees are payable in respect of the Audit and 
Compliance Committee, Remuneration Committee and 
Valuations Committee.
The fees shown above took effect from 1 April 201 1 and are 
to remain unchanged for the current year. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 78
As part of the Group-wide remuneration review referred to above, and following consultation with shareholders, the Committee adopted 
a new remuneration policy for Executive Directors for the current year as set out in the summary table below. 
Remuneration element Operation for the current year to 31 March 2014 Objective
Base salary
At 1 April 2013, Mr Borrows’ annual base salary was £550,000 
and Mrs Wilson’s was £400,000. These have not increased since 
their appointments to their current positions, being May 2012  
for Mr Borrows and October 2008 for Mrs Wilson.
Base salaries are to remain unchanged for the year to  
31 March 2014.
To provide the basis for 
a competitive package.
Pension
Employer contribution of 12% of pensionable base salary pa 
or a cash allowance in lieu.
To provide the basis for 
a competitive package.
Annual bonus
Maximum bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 400% 
of base salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of base salary 
for the Finance Director.
The Committee retains discretion to make adjustments to bonus 
arrangements in appropriate circumstances.
40% of any bonus earned in respect of performance in the 
current year will be deferred into shares vesting in equal 
instalments over four years. Deferred shares carry the right 
to receive dividends or other distributions. Deferred elements 
are subject to clawback as summarised in Clawback policy 
on page 80.
Bonus is assessed against a balanced scorecard agreed by the 
Committee at the start of each financial year.
Alignment with Group strategic 
objectives and performance.
Deferral into shares to balance 
delivery of short-term results 
with long-term value creation 
and to create alignment 
with shareholders.
Long-term incentive plan
Annual performance share awards with a face value of up to 
400% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of base 
salary for the Finance Director. 
Awards will be subject to a three-year performance condition. 
To the extent shares vest, they will be released six months 
following the end of the performance period together with 
a sum equivalent to dividends or other distributions.
In appropriate exceptional circumstances the Committee can  
also grant restricted shares, with no performance condition  
but subject only to leaver conditions. A one-off award was 
made to Mr Borrows on his appointment as a Director in 
recognition of awards forfeited on leaving previous employment. 
This award is detailed on page 82.
Alignment of reward with long-
term, sustainable company 
performance.
The combination of strategic 
performance measures and 
absolute total shareholder 
return targets balance 
internal and external 
perspectives of performance, 
and align participants with 
shareholders’ interests.
As outlined above, variable remuneration comprising annual bonus and long-term incentives is intended to form a substantial proportion 
of Executive Directors’ total potential remuneration. 
Pay and employment conditions of other employees in the Group is one of the factors taken into account in determining the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration including base pay increases, if any, and the quantum of annual bonus and long-term incentive awards. During 
the year, the Committee’s decisions on Executive Directors were informed by a comprehensive Group-wide remuneration review.
No changes to remuneration policy for the Executive Directors are expected for subsequent years although the scorecard for assessing 
performance for annual bonus and the performance condition attached to long-term incentive awards will be reviewed at the start of each 
cycle to ensure it continues to reflect strategic priorities. Details of any future changes to the scorecard will be disclosed in future Directors’ 
remuneration reports. 
Executive Directors
Directors’ remuneration report 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 79
Governance
Base salary
Executive Director base salaries are as shown in the table opposite. 
For the current year , Executive Director base salaries will remain 
frozen at these levels, following a review by the Committee and taking 
into account pay and conditions across the Group as a whole.
Annual bonus
The final bonuses for Executive Directors for the year were awarded 
against a balanced scorecard agreed by the Committee following  
Mr Borrows’ appointment as Chief Executive which is described below.
% of bonus 
opportunity Measure
22% n n Undertaking strategic review of the business.
n n Announcement and implementation of new strategy.
n n Reduction in complexity of organisation.
n n Improving engagement with shareholders.
n n Reducing discount to NAV from 31 March 2012 level.
22% Achievement of targets announced to the market 
on 29 June 2012 relating to headcount, operating 
costs and gross debt reduction.
22% Implementation of the six asset management 
initiatives announced on 29 June 2012 and of the 
Group-wide compensation review.
34% Deliverables relating to the Private Equity, 
Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses.
The Committee uses the scorecard as a prompt and guide to 
judgement and considers it in the wider context of risk, market 
and other factors.
In determining bonus levels for the year the Committee determined 
the level of achievements against the measures contained in the 
balanced scorecard as well as other matters, including risk and 
market factors, which it considered relevant. As can be seen from the 
information set out on page 1 9, the Group’s progress during the year 
has been exceptional, with all targets in the first three categories 
noted above in the balanced scorecard used for the year having 
been met or exceeded. The Committee also concluded that the year 
demonstrated strong performance in both the Private Equity and the 
Debt Management businesses, with the Infrastructure business also 
performing well. 
The individual performances of both Executive Directors were judged 
by the Committee to be exceptional, with each of them scoring highly 
against the measures and factors in the balanced scorecard.  
Mr Borrows was judged to have made a very strong start as Chief 
Executive, having announced on 29 June 201 2 a clear strategy and 
immediate priorities for the Group, and subsequently ensuring the 
Group delivered exceptionally against those priorities. The Committee 
considered that he has shown very strong leadership of the Group 
through the year since his appointment as Chief Executive. As a result 
of this assessment, Mr Borrows was awarded a bonus of 360%  
of base salary being 90% of his maximum bonus opportunity.  
The Committee considered that Mrs Wilson had also demonstrated 
exceptional performance during the year , particularly in her 
contributions to the extensive organisational changes, and in her 
management of the Group’s initiatives to achieve the gross debt and 
gearing targets and funding cost reductions announced on 29 June 
201 2. Accordingly, and as a result of the Committee’s assessment 
of her performance in the year , Mrs Wilson was awarded a bonus of 
200% of base salary being 80% of her maximum bonus opportunity. 
In accordance with the bonus deferral policy applicable to the year , 
which was set out in the 201 2 Directors’ remuneration report, bonus 
in excess of 100% of base salary is deferred into shares vesting after 
three years.
For the current year to 31 March 2014, Executive Directors’ 
annual bonuses will be determined on the following revised 
balanced scorecard: 
% of bonus 
opportunity Measure
50% Targets relating to: 
n n operating costs; 
n n gross interest costs; 
n n annual operating cash profit; 
n n Private Equity realisations; and
n n shareholder distributions.
30% n n deliverables relating to the Private Equity, 
Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses.
20% n n developing the strategic vision for the Group; 
n n transformation of the Group’s culture; 
n n  re-articulating people strategy; and
n n maintaining good engagement with investors and 
maintaining the quality of the shareholder register.
The Committee uses the scorecard as a prompt and guide to 
judgement and considers it in the wider context of risk, market 
and other factors. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 80
Long-term incentives
The performance condition attached to Performance Share awards 
made in the year which were granted in July 201 2 is set out in note 4 
to the Long-term share awards table on page 82. The performance 
condition was chosen so as to align Executive Directors with 
shareholders’ interests by linking a significant part of their potential 
remuneration to Total Return on Equity measured over three years.
As part of its remuneration review, the Committee adopted a new 
performance condition to apply to Performance Share awards to 
be granted in 201 3 and amended the vesting arrangements so that 
to the extent shares vest they will be released in full six months 
following the end of the three year performance period. 
Category and weighting Performance measure
Absolute TSR 50% Absolute TSR measured over three 
years from 1 April 2013: 
n n 0% vesting below 10% pa TSR 
n n 20% vesting at 10% pa TSR 
n n Straight-line vesting between 
10% and 18% 
n n 100% vesting at 18% pa TSR 
Aligning costs with 
income and 
improving capital 
allocation
25% Progress achieved towards 
strategic objective of covering 
the Group’s operating costs with 
annual cash income.
25% Progress achieved towards 
specified target relating to 
reducing remuneration costs 
relative to fee income.
Remuneration Committee can reduce any award which would 
otherwise vest if gross debt or gearing targets are missed.
This scorecard has been chosen so as to link half of the Executive 
Directors’ longer term incentives to total shareholder return whilst at 
the same time linking half of it to strategic objectives set by the Board. 
No executive share options have been granted since calendar 
year 2010.
Performance graphs
TSR graph:
This graph compares the Company’s total shareholder return for the 
five financial years to 31 March 201 3 with the total shareholder return 
of the FTSE All-Share Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is a widely used 
performance comparison for UK companies.
3i total shareholder return versus FTSE All-Share 
total return (cumulative)
FTSE All-Share Rebased at 100 at 1 April 2008 3i
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
Diluted NAV graph:
This graph compares percentage changes in the Company’s diluted 
net asset value (“NAV”) per share over each of the last five financial 
years (with dividends reinvested) with the FTSE All-Share Index total 
return over the same periods. NAV prior to June 2009 has been 
adjusted to reflect the rights issue in June 2009 .
 
3i diluted NAV versus FTSE All-Share total return
% (non-cumulative)
FTSE All-Share 3i diluted NAV (with dividends reinvested)
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
Directors’ remuneration report
 
Clawback policy
The Committee has agreed a “clawback” policy, which applies to 
long-term incentive awards and share bonus awards made during 
the year to Executive Directors (and certain other senior executives). 
Under this policy awards are subject to forfeiture or reduction  
(prior to vesting) in such exceptional circumstances as the 
Committee considers fair , reasonable and proportionate. This would 
include material misstatement of Group financial statements, 
dismissal for cause, or cases where an individual is deemed to  
have caused a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, 
negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour . 
 
Promoting share ownership
The Company’s share ownership and retention policy requires 
Executive Directors to build up over time, and thereafter maintain,  
a shareholding in the Company’s shares equivalent to at least  
3.0 times salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 1.5 times 
salary for the Finance Director . In addition, shareholding targets 
have been introduced for other members of Executive Committee at 
the 1.5 times salary level and for partners in the Group’s businesses 
at 1.0 times salary. Details of Directors’ interests in the Company’s 
shares are shown in the Directors’ report on page 66. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 81
Governance
Directors’ remuneration during the year
Salary  
and fees 
£’000
Cash 
Bonus for 
the year 
£’000
(note 1) 
 
Deferred 
share 
bonus  
£’000
(note 2) 
 
 
Cash 
benefits 
£’000
(note 3) 
 
 
Benefits  
In kind 
£’000
Pay in  
lieu of  
notice  
£’000
Total 
remuneration 
year to 
31 March 
2013  
£’000
Total 
remuneration 
year to 
31 March  
2012  
£’000
Executive Directors
S A Borrows 541 550 1,430 28 3 – 2,552 444
J S Wilson 400 400 400 14 2 – 1,216 732
Chairman and non-executive Directors  
(note 5)
Sir Adrian Montague (Chairman) 295 – – – – – 295 295
J P Asquith 81 – – – – – 81 77
A R Cox 65 – – – – – 65 62
R H Meddings 87 – – – – – 87 85
W Mesdag 81 – – – – – 81 79
M G Verluyten 61 – – – – – 61 13
Former Directors
M J Queen (until 16 May 2012) (note 4) 113 – – 39 2 275 429 640
Total 1,724 950 1,830 81 7 275 4,867 2,427
Notes: 
1. Deferred share bonuses relating to the year to 31 March 2013 will be paid in ordinary shares of the Company deferred for three years. 
2. “Cash benefits” for Mr Borrows included car allowance (£12k) and salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions (£14k). Cash benefits for Mrs Wilson included 
car allowance (£12k). Cash benefits for Mr Queen included car allowance (£7k) and salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions (£30k).
3. “Benefits in kind” relate to the provision of health insurance.
4. On ceasing to be a Director and an employee on 16 May 2012 Mr Queen received pay in lieu of his six months notice period as shown in the table above. 
In December 2012 3i Investments plc entered into a consultancy agreement with Thames Bridge Capital Limited, a company associated with Mr Queen, pursuant 
to which that company provided reports to 3i’s Board of Directors concerning areas relevant to the Group’s business and in which Mr Queen had particular 
knowledge and expertise. Thames Bridge Capital Limited completed the consultancy work during the year and was paid a total of £293k, comprising a fee 
of £240k plus VAT and out-of-pocket expenses. It is not anticipated that any further work will be commissioned from Thames Bridge Capital Limited. 
5. Salary and fees for the Chairman and non-executive Directors include fees used to purchase 3i shares.
6. In addition to the fees shown above, Mrs Wilson retained director’s fees of £65k from Legal & General Group Plc and Mr Borrows retained director’s fees of £61k 
from The British Land Company PLC and £60k from Inchcape plc. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 82
Long-term share awards held by Directors during the year
Date of award
Held at 
1 April
2012
Granted 
during the 
period
Lapsed during 
the period
Released 
during the 
period
Held at 
31 March
2013
(or cessation 
if earlier)
Market price 
on date of 
grant
£
Date of  
vesting
S A Borrows 15.11.11
30.11.11
10.07.12
823,917
513,261
–
–
–
1,116,751
–
–
–
–
171,087 
–
823,917
342,174
1,116,751
2.02
1.90
1.97
15.11.14–16
17.10.12–14
10.07.15–17
1,337,178 1,116,751 – 171,087 2,282,842
J S Wilson 15.06.09
17.06.10
28.07.11
10.07.12
147,058
203,389
360,724
–
–
–
–
507,614
147,058
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
203,389
360,724
507,614
2.72
2.95
2.77
1.97
15.06.12
17.06.13
28.07.14–16
10.07.15–17
711,171 507,614 147,058 1,071,727
M J Queen
(until 16 May 2012)
15.06.09
17.06.10 
28.07.11
202,205
540,677
793,593
–
–
–
202,205
540,677
793,593
–
–
–
–
–
–
2.72
2.95
2.77
15.06.12
17.06.13
28.07.14–16
1,536,475 – 1,536,475 – –
Notes:
1. The above awards are Performance Shares granted subject to performance 
conditions save for the 30 November 2011 award to Mr Borrows which was  
a recruitment award in recognition of awards forfeited on leaving previous 
employment. Vesting is subject to continued service and to the clawback 
policy, but is not subject to a performance condition. The award vested as to 
one-third on 17 October 2012 (when the price of a share was £2.22) and will 
vest as to a further one-third on 17 October 2013 and as to the balance on  
17 October 2014. The gains on long-term share awards made by the highest 
paid Director and by the Directors in aggregate in the year were £380k  
(2011: £nil). 
2. Save to the extent they lapsed earlier in the year awards held by Mr Queen 
lapsed on the cessation of his employment on 16 May 2012. 
3. The performance condition for Performance Shares granted in 2009 and  
2010 compares the growth in value of a shareholding in the Company over 
three years (averaged over a 60-day period) with the FTSE 100 Index (both  
with dividends re-invested) as shown in the table below. This performance 
condition was chosen to align executive Directors’ longer-term incentives 
to the Company’s share price performance compared to the FTSE 100 Index.  
Growth in value for Company versus FTSE 100 
(as described above) % of award vesting
Below the FTSE 100 Zero
Same as the FTSE 100* 35%
8% p.a. above the FTSE 100* 100%
* Between these levels, awards vest pro rata.
4. The performance condition for Performance Shares granted in 2011 and 2012 
is measured over a three-year performance period and is based on annualised 
three-year Total Return on Equity as shown in the table below. Total Return 
on Equity is equivalent to growth in net asset value with dividends deemed 
reinvested. This performance condition was chosen to align executive 
Directors’ longer-term incentives to growth in the Company’s net assets 
recognising that this is a key driver of shareholder return.
Annualised three year total return on equity % of award vesting
Below 10% pa 0.0%
10% 20.0%
11% 27.5%
12% 35.0%
13% 45.0%
14% 60.0%
15% 75.0%
16% 85.0%
17% 92.5%
18% 100.0%
 Between these levels awards vest pro rata. 
 To the extent the performance condition is satisfied, then subject to continued 
service and the clawback policy, shares are released as to 50% on the  
third anniversary of grant, 25% on the fourth anniversary and 25% on the  
fifth anniversary.
5. The Committee determines the fulfilment of the performance conditions based 
on calculations designed to be appropriate to the particular condition.
Directors’ remuneration report 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 83
Governance
Share options held by Directors during the year
Date of grant
Held at 
1 April
2012
Lapsed during 
the period
Held at 
31 March
2013 
(or cessation 
if earlier)
Exercise
price
£
Earliest 
normal 
exercise date
Expiry 
date 
J S Wilson 11.01.06
15.06.09
17.06.10
21,057*
288,808
406,779
–
288,808
–
21,057*
–
406,779
5.58
2.77
2.95
11.01.09
15.06.12
17.06.13
10.01.16
14.06.19
16.06.20
716,644 288,808 427,836
M J Queen
(until 16 May 2012)
27.06.02
25.06.03
23.06.04
21.06.05
09.02.09
15.06.09
17.06.10
211,337
91,884
143,808
71,835
1,503,371
595,667
1,118,644
211,337
91,884
143,808
71,835
1,503,371
595,667
1,118,644
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
4.19
3.54
3.76 
4.32
2.18
2.77
2.95
27.06.05
25.06.06
23.06.07
21.06.08
31.03.12
15.06.12
17.06.13
26.06.12
24.06.13
22.06.14
 20.06.15
08.02.19
14.06.19
16.06.20
3,736,546 3,736,546 –
* Awarded before appointment as a Director.
Notes:
1. No options were granted to or exercised by Directors during the year. Options were granted for nil consideration. The market price of ordinary shares in the 
Company at 31 March 2013 was £3.16 and the range during the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 was £1.69 to £3.25. No gains were made by the highest paid 
Director (2011: nil) or by the Directors in aggregate (2011: nil).
2. Save to the extent they lapsed earlier in the year options held by Mr Queen lapsed on the cessation of his employment on 16 May 2012.
3. Options were granted subject to a three-year performance condition relating to annual percentage compound growth in net asset value per share with dividends 
re-invested, relative to the annual percentage change in RPI, as shown below. The performance conditions were chosen to align executive Directors’ longer term 
incentives to shareholders’ interest in net asset value growth and was altered over time to reflect changing market conditions. The Committee determines the 
fulfilment of the performance conditions based on calculations designed to be appropriate to the particular condition. 
Award granted
NAV growth required  
for minimum vesting % vesting
NAV growth required  
for maximum vesting % vesting
For NAV growth between  
minimum and maximum  
vesting levels
Since 31 March 2005 RPI + 3 percentage points 30% RPI + 8 percentage points 100% The grant vests pro rata
In year to 31 March 2005 RPI + 3 percentage points 50% RPI + 8 percentage points 100% The grant vests pro rata
Before 31 March 2004 RPI + 5 percentage points 50% RPI + 10 percentage points 100% The grant vests pro rata
Share Incentive Plan 
Participants in the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”) invest up to £1 25 per month from pre-tax salary in ordinary shares (“Partnership 
Shares”). For each Partnership Share the Company grants two free ordinary shares (“Matching Shares”) which are normally forfeited if 
employment ceases (other than on retirement or for other “qualifying reasons”) within three years of grant. Dividends are reinvested in further 
ordinary shares (“Dividend Shares”).
Held at  
31 March 2012:
Partnership Shares
Held at  
31 March 2012:
Matching Shares
Held at  
31 March 2012:
Dividend Shares
Held at  
31 March 2013  
(or cessation  
if earlier):
Partnership Shares
Held at
31 March 2013  
(or cessation
 if earlier): 
Matching Shares
Held at  
31 March 2013  
(or cessation  
if earlier): 
Dividend Shares
Ord B Ord B Ord B Ord B Ord B Ord B
J S Wilson 2,347 344 4,694 690 256 4 3,030 344 6,060 690 549 4
M J Queen  
(until 16 May 2012) 3,038 975 6,074 1,998 704 20 3,105 975 6,208 1,998 704 20
Notes:
1. From 1 April 2013 to 1 May 2013, Mrs Wilson acquired a further 37 Partnership and 74 Matching ordinary shares.
2. Ordinary shares were awarded in the year at prices between £1.72 and £3.13 per share, with an average price of £2.27 per share. B shares held within the plan 
result from the bonus issues of B shares in 2006 and 2007. Shares within the SIP are held by a nominee on behalf of participants. The nominee exercises the votes 
on such shares on the participants’ instructions. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 84
Pension arrangements
Mrs Wilson was a member of the 3i Group Pension Plan, a defined benefit contributory scheme, in the year to 31 March 201 3. Pension accrual 
ceased for all members with effect from 5 April 201 1 although a link to final salary is maintained for existing accrual up to the date of leaving the 
Company. Further details of the Plan are set out in note 9 to the financial statements on pages 102 to 104.
(note 1) (note 2) (note 3) (note 1) (note 2) (note 4) (note 4)
Difference 
between 
transfer 
values at 
start and 
end of the 
accounting 
year, less 
Director’s 
contribution
£’000 
Transfer 
value at the 
end of the 
year of the 
increase in 
accrued 
benefits 
during the 
year less 
Director’s 
contribution
£’000
Age at 
31 March 
2013
Complete 
years of 
pensionable 
service at 
31 March 
2013
Increase in 
accrued 
pension 
(excluding 
inflation) 
during the 
year to 
31 March 
2013
£’000 p.a.
Total 
accrued 
pension at
31 March 
2013
£’000 p.a.
Director’s own 
contributions 
(excluding 
AVCs) paid 
into the plan 
during the 
year to 
31 March 
2013
£’000 p.a.
Increase in 
accrued 
pension 
(including 
inflation) 
during the 
year to 
31 March 
2013
£’000 p.a.
Transfer 
value of the 
accrued 
benefits at 
31 March 
2013 
£’000 
Transfer 
value of the 
accrued 
benefits at 
31 March 
2012 
£’000
J S Wilson 45 5 0.5 14.3 0.0 0.8 387.3 360.6 26.7 10.5
Notes: 
1. The Plan closed to future accrual on 5 April 2011 and pensionable service ceased at this date. No member contributions were paid into the Plan during the year.
2. The increase in accrued pension shown reflects the difference between deferred pensions on leaving, payable from age 60.
3. The pension shown is a deferred pension payable from the Normal Retirement Age of 60.
4. The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with regulations 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Values) Regulations 1996.
5. Additional voluntary contributions are excluded from the above table.
Mrs Wilson joined the 3i Retirement Plan, a defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme, with effect from 6 April 201 1. During the year 
the Company made contributions of £55k to this plan in respect of Mrs Wilson.
Directors’ service contracts
The main terms of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served in the year were as follows:
Dates of 
contracts
Mr S A Borrows: 
Mrs J S Wilson: 
Mr M J Queen: 
17 May 2012
1 October 2008
31 March 2009
Notice period – by the Director
– by the Company
– Six months
– 12 months
Company policy is that Executive Directors’ notice periods should not normally exceed 
one year . Save for these notice periods the contracts have no unexpired terms.
Termination 
payments
There were no provisions for compensation of Executive Directors on early termination save that: 
(a) Mr Borrows’ and Mr Queen’s contracts entitle the Company to terminate employment without notice 
subject to making 12 monthly payments thereafter equivalent to monthly basic pay and benefits less 
any amounts earned from alternative employment; and (b) all Directors’ contracts entitle the Company 
to give pay in lieu of notice.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services. Their appointment letters provide for  
no entitlement to compensation or other benefits on ceasing to be a Director .
Directors’ remuneration report 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 85
Governance
Arrangements relating to Mr Queen’s previous responsibilities
Mr Queen, who resigned as Chief Executive on 1 6 May 201 2, had interests in arrangements relating to his previous roles as Managing Partner , 
Infrastructure and Managing Partner , Growth Capital. 
M J Queen
Until 16 May 2012 Amounts co-invested
Scheme interests, being the percentage of the relevant pool of 
investments in respect of which the participant is entitled to  
participate in the realised profits
 
Invested 
during the 
period  
£’000
Total 
invested to 
16 May 2012 
£’000
As at 
1 April 2012
(%)
Awarded in 
period
(%)
Forfeited in 
period
(%)
As at 
16 May 2012
(%)
End of 
period over 
which 
interests 
may vest
Amounts 
receivable in 
respect of 
scheme 
interests in 
period
£’000
Accrued 
value of 
scheme 
interests 
as at 
16 May 2012
£’000
Global Growth 
Co-invest  
2006–08 plans – 97 0.023 – – 0.023 31.07.08 nil nil
Pan-European 
Growth Capital 
2005–06 – – 0.44 – – 0.44 31.03.10 nil 268
Infrastructure 
2005–06 – – 0.69 – 0.69 – 16.05.10 nil nil
Primary 
Infrastructure 
2005–06 – – 0.53 – – 0.53 19.08.10 nil 161
Global Growth 
2006–08 plans – – 0.34 – 0.34 – 31.03.11 nil nil
Global Growth 
08–10 – 18 0.03 – 0.01 0.02 31.03.13 nil nil
India Infrastructure 
07–10 – 285 1.00 – 0.10 0.90 30.09.12 nil nil
Notes: 
1. As a result of the cessation of his employment on 16 May 2012, a proportion of Mr Queen’s interest in the Global Growth 08–10 and India Infrastructure 07–10 plans 
was forfeited. As the Infrastructure 2005–06 and Global Growth 2006–08 plans were liquidated during the year, Mr Queen’s entire interests in these plans 
terminated. During the year but after the termination of his employment Mr Queen received £27k from the Pan-European Growth Capital Fund and £5k from 
the Infrastructure 2005–06 Fund. It is anticipated that in the current year Mr Queen will receive a payment of £171k (less termination expenses) plus a return of 
a capital commitment of £5k in relation to the Primary Infrastructure 2005–06 Fund, which will represent his entire interest in that fund which will then terminate. 
2. Accrued values of plan interests are calculated on the basis set out in note 5 on page 99. Accrued values can increase and decrease with investment valuations 
and other factors and will not necessarily lead to an actual payment to the participant. Accrued values as at 16 May 2012 shown above are the same as the 
accrued values as at 31 March 2012 since as at 16 May 2012 no revaluation of the scheme interests had taken place. 
Audit
The tables in this report (including the notes thereto) on pages 81 to 85 have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP . 
By Order of the Board
Jonathan Asquith 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
1 5 May 201 3 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 86
Financial statements
Statement of comprehensive income
for the year to 31 March
Notes
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments 2 195 23
Unrealised profits/(losses) on the revaluation of investments 3 250 (498)
445 (475)
Portfolio income
 Dividends 43 47
 Income from loans and receivables 54 95
 Fees receivable 4 4 4
Gross portfolio return 1 546 (329)
Fees receivable from external funds 1 71 89
Carried interest
 Carried interest receivable from external funds 5 4 (15)
 Carried interest and performance fees payable 5 (19) 10
Operating expenses 6 (170) (180)
Net portfolio return 1 432 (425)
Interest receivable 10 6 12
Interest payable 10 (97) (103)
Movement in the fair value of derivatives 11 (6) (19)
Exchange movements (143) (243)
Other (loss)/income (3) 1
Profit/(loss) before tax 189 (777)
Income taxes 12 (6) (6)
Profit/(loss) for the year 183 (783)
Other comprehensive income 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 173 194
Actuarial gain/(loss) 9 17 (67)
Other comprehensive income for the year 190 127
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (“Total return”) 373 (656)
Earnings per share
Basic (pence) 27 19.5 (82.8)
Diluted (pence) 27 19.4 (82.8) Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 87
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year to 31 March
2013 Group
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Share-
based
payment
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Revenue
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Own
shares
£m
Total
equity
£m
Total equity at the start 
of the year 717 780 43 11 457 233 491 – (105) 2,627
Income/(loss) for the year 107 76 183
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations 173 173
Actuarial gain 17 17
Total comprehensive  
income for the year – – – – 173 124 76 – – 373
Share-based payments 9 9
Release on forfeiture 
of share options (3) 3 –
Loss on sale of own shares (1) 1 –
Ordinary dividends (76) (76)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 1
Total equity at the end 
of the year 718 780 43 17 630 356 494 – (104) 2,934
2012 Group
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Share-
based
payment
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Revenue
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Own
shares
£m
Total
equity
£m
Total equity at the start 
of the year 717 779 43 17 263 1,093 526 5 (86) 3,357
(Loss)/income for the year (786) 3 (783)
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations 194 194
Actuarial loss (67) (67)
Total comprehensive  
income/(loss) for the year – – – – 194 (853) 3 – – (656)
Release on lapse of equity 
settled call options 5 (5) –
Share-based payments 5 5
Release on forfeiture 
of share options (11) 11 –
Purchase of own shares (31) (31)
Loss on sale of own shares (12) 12 –
Ordinary dividends (49) (49)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 1
Total equity at the end 
of the year 717 780 43 11 457 233 491 – (105) 2,627 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 88
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year to 31 March
2013 Company
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Share-
based
payment
reserve
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Revenue
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Total
equity
£m
Total equity at the start of the year 717 780 43 11 936 232 – 2,719
Profit for the year 400 (15) 385
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 400 (15) – 385
Share-based payments 9 9
Release on forfeiture of share options (3) 3 –
Ordinary dividends (76) (76)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 1
Total equity at the end of the year 718 780 43 17 1,336 144 – 3,038
2012 Company
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Share-
based
payment
reserve
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Revenue
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Total
equity
£m
Total equity at the start of the year 717 779 43 17 1,614 291 5 3,466
Loss for the year (683) (21) (704)
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – – (683) (21) – (704)
Release on lapse of equity settled call options 5 (5) –
Share-based payments 5 5
Release on forfeiture of share options (11) 11 –
Ordinary dividends (49) (49)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 1
Total equity at the end of the year 717 780 43 11 936 232 – 2,719 Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 89
Statement of financial position
as at 31 March
Notes
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments
 Quoted equity investments 431 535 243 392
 Unquoted equity investments 1,566 1,392 798 299
 Loans and receivables 1,250 1,242 645 179
Investment portfolio 13 3,247 3,169 1,686 870
Carried interest receivable 20 36 9 24
Interests in Group entities 14 – – 1,681 2,324
Intangible assets 16 32 17 – –
Retirement benefit surplus 9 120 56 – –
Property, plant and equipment 17 7 13 – 4
Derivative financial instruments 20 – 6 – 6
Deferred income taxes 12 3 2 – –
Total non-current assets 3,429 3,299 3,376 3,228
Current assets
Traded portfolio 13 48 35 – –
Other current assets 18 85 102 118 105
Derivative financial instruments 20 4 7 4 7
Deposits 90 441 90 441
Cash and cash equivalents 656 718 573 541
Total current assets 883 1,303 785 1,094
Total assets 4,312 4,602 4,161 4,322
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Carried interest and performance fees payable (39) (45) (9) –
Loans and borrowings 21 (855) (1,358) (855) (1,152)
B shares (6) (6) (6) (6)
Retirement benefit deficit 9 (14) (10) – –
Derivative financial instruments 20 (55) (41) (55) (41)
Deferred income taxes 12 (3) (5) – –
Provisions 23 (8) (2) – –
Total non-current liabilities (980) (1,467) (925) (1,199)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (192) (225) (193) (173)
Carried interest and performance fees payable (29) (40) – –
Loans and borrowings 21 (164) (231) – (231)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (5) – (5) –
Current income taxes 12 (2) (3) – –
Deferred income taxes 12 (1) (1) – –
Provisions 23 (5) (8) – –
Total current liabilities (398) (508) (198) (404)
Total liabilities (1,378) (1,975) (1,123) (1,603)
Net assets 2,934 2,627 3,038 2,719
Equity
Issued capital 24 718 717 718 717
Share premium 780 780 780 780
Capital redemption reserve 25 43 43 43 43
Share-based payment reserve 25 17 11 17 11
Translation reserve 25 630 457 – –
Capital reserve 25 356 233 1,336 936
Revenue reserve 25 494 491 144 232
Own shares 26 (104) (105) – –
Total equity 2,934 2,627 3,038 2,719
Sir Adrian Montague 
Chairman
1 5 May 201 3 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 90
Cash flow statement 
for the year to 31 March
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Purchase of investments (149) (447) (259) (704)
Proceeds from investments 606 771 639 828
Net (purchase)/proceeds from traded portfolio (23) (17) – –
Portfolio interest received 15 9 5 3
Portfolio dividends received 43 44 30 24
Portfolio fees received 4 7 (1) –
Fees received from external funds 70 91 – –
Carried interest received 20 30 19 29
Carried interest and performance fees paid (30) (40) – –
Operating expenses (190) (240) (53) (85)
Interest received 7 12 7 11
Interest paid (118) (101) (114) (97)
Income taxes paid (7) (7) – –
Net cash flow from operating activities 248 112 273 9
Cash flow from financing activities
Purchase of own shares – (31) – –
Dividend paid (76) (49) (76) (49)
Repayment of short-term borrowings (304) – (253) –
Repayment of long-term borrowings and convertible bond – (169) – (169)
Repurchase of long-term borrowings (267) (201) (267) (184)
Net cash flow from derivatives 11 (5) 11 (5)
Net cash flow from financing activities (636) (455) (585) (407)
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of management contracts and other Debt Management business development (18) – – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1) (2) – –
Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 1 1 1 –
Net cash flow from deposits 351 119 351 119
Net cash flow from investing activities 333 118 352 119
Change in cash and cash equivalents (55) (225) 40 (279)
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year 718 961 541 836
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations (7) (18) (8) (16)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 656 718 573 541 Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 91
Significant accounting policies 
3i Group plc (the “Company”) is a company registered in England and Wales. The consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 201 3 
comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”). Separate financial statements of the 
Company are also presented.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as for the Group except where separately disclosed.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 1 5 May 201 3.
A Statement of compliance
These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, 
International Accounting Standards and their interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted 
for use in the European Union (“IFRS”).
These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies Act 2006.
New standards and interpretations not applied
The IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the 
following dates:
Effective for period beginning on or after
IFRS 7 Amendment to offsetting financial assets and liabilities 1 January 2013
IFRS 9 Financial instruments – classification and measurement 1 January 2015
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2014
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2014
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities 1 January 2014
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013
IAS 19 Amendment to employee benefits 1 January 2013
IAS 27 Amendment to separate financial statements 1 January 2014
IAS 28 Amendment to Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 January 2014
IAS 32 Amendment to offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 1 January 2014
With the exception of IFRS 10, 1 1, 1 2 and IAS 27 and 28 the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will 
have a material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application and have decided not to adopt early.
The initial application of IFRS 10 and 1 2 could have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group.  The principle potential impact is 
the consolidation of the portfolio investments and funds managed by 3i in the Group financial statements.  In October 201 2 the IASB announced 
amendments to these standards.  The amendments define an Investment Entity and require a parent that is an investment entity to measure its 
investments in particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments instead of consolidating 
those subsidiaries in its consolidated and separate financial statements. As currently drafted, we expect that 3i Group plc will qualify as an 
Investment Entity. However we will not be able to adopt this standard until it has been endorsed by the EU. 
B Basis of preparation
The financial statements are presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest million pounds (£m) except 
where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. The most significant estimates relate to the fair valuation of the investment portfolio and the actuarial valuation 
of the defined benefit pension scheme. These are further disclosed in accounting policies C, E and K and notes 9 and 1 3. The actual results may 
differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both 
current and future periods.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. 
The statement of comprehensive income of the Company has been omitted from these financial statements in accordance with section 408 
of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across all Group entities for the purposes of producing these consolidated 
financial statements. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 92
Significant accounting policies 
C Basis of consolidation 
(i) Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Company has the power , directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. 
(ii) Associates 
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Investments 
that are held as part of the Group’s investment portfolio are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value even though the Group may 
have significant influence over those companies. This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates, which requires investments held 
by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value 
through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 , with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period of the change. The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries on its business. 
(iii) Joint ventures 
Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of the Group’s investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. This treatment 
is permitted by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, which requires venturer’s interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from 
its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss are accounted for in accordance 
with IAS 39 , with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period of the change. 
D Exchange differences 
(i) Foreign currency transactions 
T ransactions in currencies different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering into the transaction are translated at the exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are 
translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date. 
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling using exchange rates 
ruling at the date the fair value was determined. 
(ii) Financial statements of non-sterling operations 
The assets and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to sterling 
at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated within a separate component of equity, the T ranslation reserve, and are released upon disposal 
of the non-sterling operation. 
In respect of non-sterling operations, cumulative translation differences on the consolidation of non-sterling operations are being accumulated 
from the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2004, and not from the original acquisition date. 
E Investment portfolio 
(i) Recognition and measurement 
Investments are recognised and de-recognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require 
the delivery or settlement of the investment. The Group manages its investments with a view to profiting from the receipt of investment income 
and capital appreciation from changes in the fair value of equity investments. 
Quoted investments are designated at fair value through profit and loss and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Fair value 
is measured using the closing bid price at the reporting date, where the investment is quoted on an active stock market. 
Unquoted equity investments are designated at fair value through profit and loss and are subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value. 
Fair value is measured using the International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines (IPEV), details of which are in the section 
called Portfolio valuation – an explanation. 
Other investments includes loan investments, bonds and fixed income shares. Loans, bonds and fixed income shares are carried in the balance 
sheet at amortised cost less impairment. For more detail see the section called Portfolio valuation – an explanation. The fair value of loans and 
receivables is not anticipated to be substantially different to the holding value.  Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 93
The traded portfolio includes investments in loans and associated investments which are traded on a regular basis within Palace Street I, the 
Credit Opportunities Fund. These loans are measured at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and classified as held for trading 
in accordance with IAS 39. 
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair 
value on a different basis, applying 3i Group’s valuation policies. 
Interest bearing loans accrue interest which is either settled in cash or capitalised on a regular basis and included as part of the principal loan 
balance. The capitalisation of accrued interest is treated as part of investment additions during the year . If the fair value of an investment is 
assessed to be below the principal value of the loan the Group recognises a provision against any interest income accrued from the date of the 
assessment going forward. “Capitalisation at nil value” is the term used to describe the capitalisation of accrued interest which has been fully 
provided for . These transactions are disclosed as additions to portfolio cost with an equal reduction in portfolio value. 
(ii) Income
Gross portfolio return is equivalent to “revenue” for the purposes of IAS 1. It represents the overall increase in net assets from the investment 
portfolio net of deal-related costs but excluding exchange movements. Investment income is analysed into the following components:
(a) Realised profits or losses over value on the disposal of investments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration received less 
any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity, traded loans and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its carrying value at the start 
of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal.
(b) Unrealised profits or losses on the revaluation of investments are the movement in the carrying value of investments between the start 
and end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of the movement.
(c) Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments. It is recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured. The following specific recognition criteria must 
be met before the income is recognised:
n n Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders’ rights to receive 
payment have been established.
n n Income from loans and receivables and the traded portfolio is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the 
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the 
financial asset to the asset’s carrying value. When the fair value of an investment is assessed to be below the principal value of a loan the 
Group recognises a provision against any interest accrued from the date of the assessment going forward until the investment is assessed 
to have recovered in value.
n n Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment. Fees that 
are earned on a financing arrangement are considered to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss and are 
recognised when that investment is made. Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to the investee company are 
recognised as that service is provided.
F Fees receivable from external funds
(i) Fund management fees
The Group manages private equity, infrastructure and debt management funds. Fees earned from the ongoing management of these funds 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
(ii) Advisory fees
The Group acts as investment adviser to private equity and infrastructure funds. Fees earned from the provision of investment advisory 
services are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant investment advisory agreement.
(iii) Performance fees
The Group earns a performance fee from funds to which it provides investment advisory services where specified performance targets 
are achieved. Performance fees are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can 
be reliably measured.
(iv) Support services fees
The Group provides support services to external funds, including accounting, treasury management, corporate secretariat and investor 
relations. Fees earned from the provision of these support services are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant 
support services agreement. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 94
Significant accounting policies 
G Carried interest
(i) Carried interest receivable
The Group earns a share of profits (“carried interest receivable”) from funds which it manages on behalf of third parties. These profits are earned 
once the funds meet certain performance conditions.
Carried interest receivable is only accrued on those managed funds in which the fund’s performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet 
date, would be achieved if the remaining assets in the fund were realised at fair value. Fair value is determined using the Group’s valuation 
methodology and is measured at the balance sheet date. An accrual is made equal to the Group’s share of profits in excess of the performance 
conditions, taking into account the cash already returned to fund investors and the fair value of assets remaining in the fund.
(ii) Carried interest payable
The Group offers investment executives the opportunity to participate in the returns from successful investments. “Carried interest payable” 
is the term used for amounts payable to executives on investment-related transactions.
A variety of asset pooling arrangements are in place so that executives may have an interest in one or more carried interest scheme. 
Carried interest payable is only accrued on those schemes in which the scheme’s performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet date, 
would be achieved if the remaining assets in the scheme were realised at fair value. An accrual is made equal to the executive’s share of profits 
in excess of the performance conditions in place in the carried interest scheme.
H Intangible assets
Fund management contracts, such as those acquired by the Group in connection with the acquisition of a subsidiary, are stated at their fair value 
at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive 
income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the fund management contract, typically five to 10 years.
I Property, plant and equipment 
(i) Land and buildings 
Land and buildings are carried in the balance sheet at fair value less depreciation and impairment. Fair value is determined at each balance 
sheet date from valuations undertaken by professional valuers using market-based evidence. Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and credited to the Capital reserve except to the extent that it reverses a previous valuation deficit on the same asset 
recognised in profit or loss in which case the surplus is recognised in profit or loss to the extent of the previous deficit. 
Any revaluation deficit that offsets a previously recognised surplus in the same asset is directly offset against the surplus in the Capital reserve. 
Any excess valuation deficit over and above that previously recognised in surplus is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged in the statement of comprehensive income over their estimated useful life, generally over 50 years. 
(ii) Vehicles and office equipment 
Vehicles and office equipment are depreciated by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives as follows: office equipment 
five years; computer equipment three years; computer software three years; motor vehicles four years. 
(iii) Assets held under finance leases 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful life on the same basis as owned assets or , where shorter , the lease 
term. Assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the agreement and 
represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 
(iv) Leasehold improvements
Leasehold improvements are depreciated by equal annual instalments, over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and the lease term. 
Assets are reviewed for impairment where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
J T reasury assets and liabilities 
Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used in order to manage cash flows and overall costs of borrowing. 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. De-recognition occurs when rights to cash flows from a financial asset expire, or when a liability is extinguished.  Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 95
(i) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above 
and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, net 
of bank overdrafts. 
(ii) Deposits 
Deposits in the balance sheet comprise longer term deposits with an original maturity of greater than three months. 
(iii) Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings 
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings. 
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue 
costs and any discount or premium on settlement. 
(iv) Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations of the investment portfolio and 
changes in interest rates on its borrowings. This is achieved by the use of foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps. 
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value at each 
reporting date. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of currency swaps and interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current 
interest and exchange rates. All changes in the fair value of financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income. 
K Employee benefits
(i) Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged to the statement of comprehensive income as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit method with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each balance sheet date. Current service costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Actuarial gains or losses 
are recognised in full as they arise in other comprehensive income.
A retirement benefit deficit is recognised in the balance sheet to the extent that the present value of the defined benefit obligations exceeds 
the fair value of plan assets.
A retirement benefit surplus is recognised in the balance sheet where the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined 
benefit obligations limited to the extent that the Group can benefit from that surplus.
(ii) Share-based payments
The costs of share based payments made by the Company in respect of subsidiaries’ employees are treated as additional investments 
in those subsidiaries.
The Group has equity-settled and cash settled share-based payment transactions with certain employees. Equity settled schemes are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant, which is then recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value is measured by use of an appropriate model. 
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares 
of 3i Group plc. The charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the actual number of forfeitures, cancellations and leavers during 
the period. The movement in cumulative charges since the previous balance sheet is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, 
with a corresponding entry in equity.
Liabilities arising from cash settled share based payment transactions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the 
vesting period. They are fair valued at each reporting date. The cost of cash settled share based payment transactions is adjusted for the 
forfeitures of the participants rights that no longer meet the plan requirements as well as for early vesting. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 96
Significant accounting policies 
L Other assets
Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses. They are reviewed at 
each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount 
is estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows. Any change in the level of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of 
comprehensive income. An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent balance sheet dates to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does 
not exceed its carrying value had no impairment been recognised.
M Other liabilities
Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be 
payable in respect of goods or services received up to the balance sheet date.
N Share capital
Ordinary shares issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds or fair value received with the excess of the amount received over nominal 
value being credited to the share premium account. Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from equity.
O Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of uncertain timing or amount as a result of past events, and it is probable 
that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made. The provisions are measured 
at the Directors’ best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value if the effect 
is material. Changes in provisions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for the period.
P Income taxes
Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax. T ax is charged or credited in the 
statement of comprehensive income, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt 
with in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year . This may differ from the profit included in the statement of comprehensive 
income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit (“temporary differences”), and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Where there are taxable differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax liabilities are recognised except where the Group is able to control 
reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. However , where there are deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, 
branches and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that both the 
temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can 
be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill and other assets 
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax 
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 97
Notes to the financial statements
1 Segmental analysis
Operating segments are components of the entity whose results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision-maker to make 
decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance. The chief operating decision-maker for the Group is 
considered to be the Chief Executive Officer . The Group’s operating segments have been defined as the Group’s business lines, namely Private 
Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management. The business lines are determined with reference to market focus, geographic focus, and 
investment funding model. 
The performance of operating segments is assessed based on the net portfolio return, principally comprising gains and losses on investments 
and investment income, fees received from management of external funds and the associated costs of the business line. Segmental assets are 
represented by the investment portfolio value for each business line.
Year to 31 March 2013
Private
Equity
1
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Debt
Management
£m
Total
£m
Gross portfolio return
Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments 190 – 5 195
Unrealised profits/(losses) on the revaluation of investments 250 (2) 2 250
Portfolio income
 Dividends 22 18 3 43
 Income from loans and receivables 52 – 2 54
 Fees receivable/(payable) 4 – – 4
518 16 12 546
Net portfolio return
Fees receivable from external funds 19 21 31 71
Carried interest receivable from external funds 4 1 (1) 4
Carried interest and performance fees payable (11) (2) (6) (19)
Operating expenses (114) (24) (32) (170)
416 12 4 432
Net divestment/(investment)
Realisations 575 31 – 606
Cash investment (121) (5) (46) (172)
454 26 (46) 434
Balance sheet
Value of investment portfolio at the end of the year 2,707 507 81 3,295
1 The Private Equity business line now includes Non-core investments which were previously disclosed separately.
Year to 31 March 2012
Private
Equity
1
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Debt
Management
£m
Total
£m
Gross portfolio return
Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments 22 – 1 23
Unrealised losses on the revaluation of investments (488) (7) (3) (498)
Portfolio income
 Dividends 27 18 2 47
 Income from loans and receivables 94 – 1 95
 Fees receivable/(payable) 4 – – 4
(341) 11 1 (329)
Net portfolio return
Fees receivable from external funds 32 25 32 89
Carried interest receivable from external funds (13) (14) 12 (15)
Carried interest and performance fees payable 13 8 (11) 10
Operating expenses (132) (17) (31) (180)
(441) 13 3 (425)
Net divestment/(investment)
Realisations 770 1 – 771
Cash investment (377) (70) (17) (464)
393 (69) (17) 307
Balance sheet
Value of investment portfolio at the end of the year 2,634 528 42 3,204
1 The Private Equity business line now includes Non-core investments which were previously disclosed separately. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 98
Notes to the financial statements
1 Segmental analysis (continued)
Year to 31 March 2013
UK
£m
Continental
Europe
£m
The 
 Americas
£m
Asia
£m
Rest of 
World
£m
Total
£m
Gross portfolio return
Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments 56 30 107 3 (1) 195
Unrealised profits/(losses) on the revaluation of investments 86 197 27 (61) 1 250
Portfolio income 44 40 14 2 1 101
186 267 148 (56) 1 546
Net divestment/(investment)
Realisations 150 231 222 3 – 606
Cash investment (4) (102) (61) (5) – (172)
146 129 161 (2) – 434
Balance sheet
Value of investment portfolio at the end of the year 1,048 1,542 262 437 6 3,295
Year to 31 March 2012
UK
£m
Continental
Europe
£m
The  
Americas 
£m
Asia
£m
Rest of  
World
£m
Total
£m
Gross portfolio return
Realised (losses)/profits over value on the disposal of investments (19) 40 1 1 – 23
Unrealised losses on the revaluation of investments (36) (351) (4) (107) – (498)
Portfolio income 66 59 21 – – 146
11 (252) 18 (106) – (329)
Net divestment/(investment)
Realisations 76 670 9 16 – 771
Cash investment (55) (373) (18) (18) – (464)
21 297 (9) (2) – 307
Balance sheet
Value of investment portfolio at the end of the year 1,029 1,421 278 470 6 3,204
2 Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments
2013
Unquoted
equity
£m
2013
Quoted
equity
£m
2013
Loans and
receivables
£m
2013
Traded
portfolio
£m
2013
Total
£m
Realisations 351 120 135 – 606
Valuation of disposed investments (166) (113) (133) 5 (407)
Investments written off (4) – – – (4)
181 7 2 5 195
2012
Unquoted
equity
£m
2012
Quoted
equity
£m
2012
Loans and
receivables
£m
2012
Traded
portfolio
£m
2012
Total
£m
Realisations 557 1 213 – 771
Valuation of disposed investments (517) (2) (197) 1 (715)
Investments written off – – (33) – (33)
40 (1) (17) 1 23 Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 99
3 Unrealised profits/(losses) on the revaluation of investments
2013
Unquoted
equity
£m
2013
Quoted
equity
£m
2013
Loans and
receivables
£m
2013
Traded
portfolio
£m
2013
Total
£m
Movement in the fair value of equity and traded loans 215 11 – (1) 225
Provisions recovered, loan impairments and other movements – – 25 – 25
215 11 25 (1) 250
2012
Unquoted
equity
£m
2012
Quoted
equity
£m
2012
Loans and
receivables
£m
2012
Traded
portfolio
£m
2012
Total
£m
Movement in the fair value of equity and traded loans (160) (20) – (1) (181)
Provisions, loan impairments and other movements (64) – (253) – (317)
(224) (20) (253) (1) (498)
Provisions have been recognised only on investments where it is considered there is a greater than 50% risk of the Group’s investment failing. 
All other equity value movements are included within the movement in the fair value of equity.
4 Fees receivable
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fees receivable 6 12
Deal-related costs (2) (8)
4 4
Fees receivable include fees arising from the ongoing management of the portfolio together with fees arising from making investments. 
Deal-related costs represent fees incurred on aborted deals and fees incurred in the process of acquiring an investment.
5 Carried interest and performance fees payable
2013
£m
2012
£m
Carried interest receivable from external funds 4 (15)
Carried interest and performance fees payable (19) 10
(15) (5)
Carried interest receivable represents the Group’s share of profits from external funds. Each fund is reviewed at the balance sheet date and 
income is accrued based on fund profits in excess of the performance conditions within the fund, taking into account cash already returned 
to fund investors and the fair value of assets remaining in the fund.
Carried interest and performance fees payable represents the amount payable to executives from the Group’s carried interest schemes and 
also includes the fees payable to Infrastructure and Debt Management executives that are based on fund performance. As with carried interest 
receivable, each scheme is separately reviewed at the balance sheet date, and an accrual made equal to the executives’ share of profits once 
the performance conditions in the scheme have been met.
6 Operating expenses
Operating expenses include the following amounts:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1 3
Amortisation of fund management contracts 6 4
Audit fees 2 2
Staff costs (note 7) 84 98
Restructuring and redundancy costs 30 9 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 100
Notes to the financial statements
6 Operating expenses (continued)
Services provided by the Group’ s auditors
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors, Ernst & Young LLP:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Audit services
Statutory audit – Company 1.3 1.2
 – UK subsidiaries 0.5 0.5
 – Overseas subsidiaries 0.2 0.2
Audit-related regulatory reporting – 0.1
2.0 2.0
Non-audit services
Other assurance services 0.2 0.1
Investment due diligence 0.1 0.4
Tax services (compliance and advisory services) 0.1 0.2
2.4 2.7
Non-audit services
These services are services that could be provided by a number of firms and include general consultancy work. Work is allocated to the auditors 
only if it does not impact the independence of the audit firm.
In addition to the above, Ernst & Young LLP has received fees from investee companies. It is estimated that Ernst & Young LLP receive less than 
20% of the total investment-related fees paid to the four largest accounting firms.
Ernst & Young LLP also acts as auditor to the 3i Group Pension Plan. The appointment of the auditors to this Plan and the fees paid in respect of 
the audit are agreed by the trustees who act independently from the management of the Group. The aggregate fees paid to the Group’s auditors 
for audit services to the pension scheme during the year were less than £0. 1 million (201 2: less than £0. 1 million).
7 Staff costs
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 66 72
Social security costs
1
9 12
Share-based payment costs (note 8) 4 6
Pension costs 5 8
84 98
1 Excludes £4m of social security cost included in restructuring and redundancy costs.
The average number of employees during the year was 358 (201 2: 472).
Wages and salaries shown above include salaries paid in the year , bonuses and portfolio incentive schemes relating to the year . These costs are 
included in operating expenses. The table below analyses these costs between fixed and variable elements.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fixed staff costs 52 69
Variable staff costs 32 29
84 98
8 Share-based payments 
The total cost recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Share options
1
(1) (1)
Share awards included as operating expenses
1
4 6
Share awards included as carried interest
1
6 –
Share incentive plan – 1
Cash settled share awards 1 (1)
Accrual for share-based bonus – 1
10 6
1 Credited to equity.
The features of the Group’s share schemes are set out on pages 1 01 and 1 02. For legal, regulatory or practical reasons certain participants may 
be granted “phantom awards” under these schemes, which are intended to replicate the financial effects of a share award without entitling the 
participant to acquire shares. The carrying amount of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions at 31 March 201 3 is £2 million (201 2: 
£1 million). The intrinsic value of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions which have vested by 31 March 201 3 is £nil (201 2: £nil).  Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 101
8 Share-based payments (continued)
The following information shows details of the share-based payment awards made during the year . 
Share awards Cash settled share awards
Grant date
June 2012,  
July 2012,  
August2012
July 2012,  
August 2012
Vesting period 2–3 years 2–3 years
Life of the award 10 years 10 years
Valuation methodology Share price at grant Share price at grant
Weighted average fair value of awards granted 2.01 2.11
Share options
Options granted under the 3i Group Discretionary Share Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date 
of grant to the extent a performance condition has been met over a performance period of three years from the date of grant. Details of the 
performance conditions to which unvested options are subject are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
Details of share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2013
Number
of share
options
2013
Weighted 
average
exercise price
(pence)
2012
Number
of share
options
2012
Weighted 
average
exercise price
(pence)
Outstanding at the start of the year 9,739,142 341 15,608,993 366
Lapsed (5,577,357) 308 (5,869,851) 408
Expired (589,204) 416 – –
Outstanding at the end of year 3,572,581 380 9,739,142 341
Exercisable at the end of year 3,165,802 391 5,063,933 395
Included within the total number of share options are no options over shares that were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and therefore have 
not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2. (201 2: 1 million options).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end was:
Grate date:  
year to 31 March
2013
Weighted 
average
exercise price
(pence)
2013
Number
2012
Weighted 
average
exercise price
(pence)
2012
Number
2003 – – 417 819,294
2004 356 813,203 355 1,068,850
2005 372 1,206,616 373 1,652,911
2006 435 1,145,983 434 1,522,878
2007 – – – –
2008 – – – –
2009 – – – –
2010 – – 277 3,149,786
2011 295 406,779 295 1,525,423
380 3,572,581 341 9,739,142
Options are exercisable at a price based on the market value of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. 
No options were exercised during the year (201 2: nil). The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average contractual life of 2.02 years 
(201 2: 4.6 7 years). The cost of share options has been spread over the vesting period of three to five years. No options were granted during the year . 
Share awards
Details of share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
2013 2012
Outstanding at the start of the year 16,698,893 9,867,630
Granted 2,746,884 12,341,866
Exercised (171,087) (2,859,857)
Lapsed (5,500,856) (2,650,746)
Outstanding at the end of year 13,773,834 16,698,893
The awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average contractual life of 6.95 years (201 2: 8.84 years). The cost of share awards 
is spread over the vesting period of two to three years.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 102
Notes to the financial statements
8 Share-based payments (continued)
A summary of the vesting conditions of share awards is as follows:
Performance share awards (market condition)
The performance condition for Performance shares issued before July 201 1 is based on the outperformance of the theoretical growth in value 
of a shareholding in the Company (with dividends reinvested) for the three year performance period from grant (averaged over a 60-day period) 
compared to the growth in value of the FTSE 100 Index (with dividends reinvested) adjusted for mergers, demergers and de-listings over that 
period.
Performance share awards (non market condition)
Performance shares issued after June 201 1 will vest, subject to a vesting scale, if the annualised growth of the Group’s return on opening equity 
during the three year performance period equals or exceeds 10% per annum.
Performance-based awards
Performance-based share awards are made to certain investment executives. These plans operate in a similar format to a carry scheme where 
a percentage of shares will vest once a realised profit hurdle has been achieved on a defined group of assets.
Deferred share bonus
Certain employees receive an element of their bonus as a conditional award of shares which vest after two or three years. The awards 
are not subject to a performance condition. The fair value of the deferred shares is the share price at the date of the award.
Deferred share awards
Certain employees receive awards of deferred Shares which vest after two or three years subject to continued service for that period. 
These awards are not subject to a performance condition. The fair value of the deferred shares is the share price at the date of the award.
Share incentive plan
Eligible UK employees may participate in a HM Revenue and Customs approved Share Incentive Plan intended to encourage employees to invest 
in the Company’s shares. Accordingly it is not subject to a performance condition. During the year participants invested up to £1 25 per month from 
their pre-tax salaries in the Company’s shares (referred to as partnership shares). For each share so acquired the Company grants two free 
additional shares (referred to as matching shares) which are normally subject to forfeiture if the employee ceases to be employed (other than 
for certain permitted reasons) within three years of grant. 
Employee T rust
The Group has established the 3i Group Employee T rust which holds shares in 3i Group plc which can be used to meet its obligations under 
certain share schemes. The T rustee has full discretion as to the application of trust assets. However , in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated 
and Separate Financial Statements, 3i Group plc is considered the ultimate controlling party for accounting purposes and the operations 
of the 3i Group Employee T rust are fully consolidated by the Group.
9 Retirement benefits
Retirement benefit plans
(i) Defined contribution plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution retirement benefit plans for qualifying employees throughout the Group. The assets of 
these plans are held separately from those of the Group. The employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in France are members of a state managed 
retirement benefit plan operated by the country’s government. 3i Europe plc’s French branch is required to contribute a specific percentage 
of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund these benefits.
The total expense recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is £4 million (201 2: £4 million), which represents the contributions 
payable to these plans. There were no outstanding payments due to these plans at the balance sheet date.
(ii) Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a final salary defined benefit plan for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in the UK (“the Plan”). The Plan has not been 
offered to new employees joining 3i since 1 April 2006. The Plan was closed to the future accrual of benefits by members with effect from 
5 April 201 1, although the final salary link will be maintained on existing accruals. Members of the Plan have been invited to join the Group’s 
defined contribution plan with effect from 6 April 201 1. The defined benefit plan is a funded scheme, the assets of which are independent 
of the Company’s finances and are administered by the T rustees. As the fund is now closed to future accrual, measures have been taken  
to de-risk the fund through changes to its investment policy. Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 103
9 Retirement benefits (continued)
The last full actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2010 was updated on an IAS 1 9 basis by an independent qualified actuary as at 31 March 201 3. 
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries and used for the purpose of the year end valuation of the Plan were as follows:
2013 2012
Discount rate 4.4% 4.6%
Expected rate of salary increases 5.8% 5.7%
Expected rate of pension increases 3.4% 3.4%
Retail Price Index (RPI) inflation 3.3% 3.2%
Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation 2.6% 2.5%
Expected return on the Plan assets n/a 4.6%
IAS 1 9 (Revised) will be implemented by 3i from 1 January 201 3. The main effect will be that the expected returns on pension scheme assets will 
no longer be recognised in the income statement. Expected returns will be replaced by income calculated using the same discount rate as that 
used to measure the pension obligations.
The post-retirement mortality assumption used to value the benefit obligation at 31 March 201 3 is 80% of the PNA00 tables allowing for 
improvements from 2000 in line with the CMI 2009 core projections with a long-term annual rate of improvement of 1.5% (31 March 201 2: 80% 
of the PNA00 tables allowing for improvements from 2000 in line with the CMI 2009 core projections with a long-term annual rate of future 
improvement of 1.5%). The life expectancy of a male member reaching age 60 in 2033 (201 2: 2032) is projected to be 33.2 (201 2: 33. 1 ) years 
compared to 30.7 (201 2: 30.6) years for someone reaching 60 in 201 3.
The amount recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Present value of funded obligations 720 693
Fair value of the Plan assets (904) (798)
Asset restriction 64 49
Retirement benefit surplus in respect of the Plan (120) (56)
Retirement benefit deficit in respect of other defined benefit schemes 14 10
The asset restriction relates to tax that would be deducted at source in respect of the Plan surplus together with the surplus that arises from the 
present value of supplementary contributions to the Plan agreed by the Plan trustees.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the Plan are as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Included in operating costs
 Current/past service cost – 2
Included in interest payable (note 10)
 Expected return on the Plan assets (38) (40)
 Interest on obligation 31 32
Included in other comprehensive income
 Actuarial (gain)/loss (35) 56
 Asset restriction 15 10
 Total actuarial (gain)/loss and asset restriction (20) 66
Total (27) 60
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation 693 587
Current/past service cost – 2
Interest cost 31 32
Actuarial loss 33 90
Benefits paid (37) (18)
Closing defined benefit obligation 720 693 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 104
Notes to the financial statements
9 Retirement benefits (continued)
Changes in the fair value of the Plan assets were as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening fair value of the Plan assets 798 670
Expected returns 38 40
Actuarial gain 68 34
Contributions 37 72
Benefits paid (37) (18)
Closing fair value of the Plan assets 904 798
Contributions paid to the Plan are related party transactions as defined by IAS 24 Related party transactions.
The fair value of the Plan assets at the balance sheet date is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Equities 318 272
Corporate bonds 235 193
Gilts 341 332
Other 10 1
904 798
The actual return on the Plan assets for the year was a gain of £106 million (201 2: £7 4 million).
The Plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own equity instruments nor any property in use by the Group. The expected rate of returns 
of individual categories of the Plan assets is determined by reference to individual indices.
The history of the Plan is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation 720 693 587 593 437
Fair value of the Plan assets (904) (798) (670) (587) (419)
Asset restriction 64 49 39 22 –
(Surplus)/deficit (120) (56) (44) 28 18
Experience adjustments on the Plan liabilities – 1% (2)% 2% 2%
Experience adjustments on the Plan assets 8% (4)% – 16% (26)%
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income are £147 million (201 2: £1 68 million). This includes £64 million (201 2: 
£49 million) in respect of the asset restriction.
As the Plan was closed to future accrual of benefits by members with effect from 5 April 201 1 the Group ceased to make regular contributions 
to the Plan in the year to 31 March 201 2. The triennial actuarial funding valuation as at 30 June 2010 was completed in September 201 1. 
This resulted in an actuarial deficit of £1 30 million. The Group has paid contributions to the Plan to fund this deficit. Under an agreed schedule 
of contributions, the Group paid contributions of £36 million (201 2: £72 million) during the year , included within operating expenses in the Group 
cash flow statement. In addition a contingent asset arrangement was entered into during the period, details of which are provided in note 31. 
No more additional contributions are due in relation to the funding of the deficit. The next triennial actuarial funding valuation exercise will 
commence shortly, based on the financial position as at 30 June 201 3.
Other retirement schemes
Employees in Germany and Spain are entitled to a pension based on their length of service. 3i Deutschland GmbH and the German and Spanish 
branches of 3i Europe plc contribute to individual investment policies for their employees and have agreed to indemnify any shortfall on an 
employee’s investment policy should it arise. The total value of these investment policies intended to cover pension liabilities is £3 million 
(201 2: £4 million) and the future liability calculated by German and Spanish actuaries is £1 7 million (201 2: £14 million). The Group has recognised 
cumulative actuarial losses of £3 million (201 2: £1million) and £1 million (201 2: £1 million) in the statement of comprehensive income in respect 
of these schemes.  Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 105
1 0 Net interest payable
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest receivable
Interest on bank deposits 6 12
6 12
Interest payable
Interest on loans and borrowings (103) (109)
Interest on convertible bonds – (1)
Amortisation of convertible bonds – (1)
Net finance (expense)/income on pension plan 6 8
(97) (103)
Net interest payable (91) (91)
1 1 Movement in the fair value of derivatives
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest-rate swaps (8) (19)
Call options – (1)
Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 1
(6) (19)
Exchange movements in relation to forward foreign exchange contracts are included within exchange movements in the statement of 
comprehensive income. During the year , an £1 1 million loss (201 2: £1 6 million gain) was recognised in exchange movements in relation to forward 
foreign exchange contracts.
1 2 Income taxes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current taxes
Current year (9) (8)
Deferred taxes
Deferred income taxes 3 2
Total income taxes in the statement of comprehensive income (6) (6)
Reconciliation of income taxes in the statement of comprehensive income
The tax charge for the year is different to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, currently 24% (201 2: 26%), and the differences are 
explained below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit before tax 189 (777)
Profit before tax multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24% (2012: 26%) (45) 202
Effects of:
 Permanent differences (9) 12
 Short-term timing differences – (12)
 Non-taxable dividend income 10 2
 Foreign tax (4) (4)
 Capital losses/profits 67 (206)
 Excess tax losses arising in the period (25) –
Total income taxes in the statement of comprehensive income (6) (6)
The Group’s realised profits, fair value adjustments and impairment losses are primarily included in the Company, the affairs of which are 
directed so as to allow it to be approved as an investment trust. An investment trust is exempt from tax on capital gains, therefore the Group’s 
capital return will be largely non-taxable. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 106
Notes to the financial statements
1 2 Income taxes (continued)
Deferred income taxes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening deferred income tax liability
Tax losses 10 25
Income in accounts taxable in the future (12) (26)
Deferred tax recognised on acquisition (4) (5)
Other 2 –
(4) (6)
Recognised through statement of comprehensive income
Tax losses utilised – (15)
Income in accounts taxable in the future – 14
Amortisation of intangible asset 1 1
Other 2 2
3 2
Closing deferred income tax liability
Tax losses 10 10
Income in accounts taxable in the future (12) (12)
Deferred tax recognised on acquisition (3) (4)
Other 4 2
(1) (4)
At 31 March 201 3 the Company had tax losses carried forward of £1,084 million (201 2: £977 million). It is unlikely that the Group will generate 
sufficient taxable profits in the foreseeable future to utilise these amounts and therefore no deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect 
of these losses. Deferred income taxes are calculated using an expected rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% (201 2: 24%).
1 3 Investment portfolio
Non-current
Group
2013
Equity
investments
£m
Group
2013
Loans and
receivables
£m
Group
2013
Total
£m
Group
2012
Equity
investments
£m
Group
2012
Loans and
receivables
£m
Group
2012
Total
£m
Opening book value 1,927 1,242 3,169 2,539 1,454 3,993
Additions 89 173 262 98 512 610
– Of which loan notes with nil value – (75) (75) – (87) (87)
Disposals, repayments and write-offs (283) (133) (416) (519) (230) (749)
Revaluation 225 – 225 (180) – (180)
Provisions and loan impairments – 25 25 (64) (253) (317)
Other movements 39 18 57 53 (154) (101)
Closing book value 1,997 1,250 3,247 1,927 1,242 3,169
Quoted 431 – 431 535 – 535
Unquoted 1,566 1,250 2,816 1,392 1,242 2,634
Closing book value 1,997 1,250 3,247 1,927 1,242 3,169
The holding period of 3i’s investment portfolio is on average greater than one year . For this reason the portfolio is classified as non-current. 
It is not possible to identify with certainty investments that will be sold within one year .
Additions to loans and receivables includes £1 1 2 million (201 2: £1 63 million) in interest received by way of loan notes, of which £75 million (201 2: 
£87 million) has been written down in the year to nil. Included within the statement of comprehensive income is £54 million (201 2: £95 million) 
of interest income, which reflects the net additions after write downs noted above and £14 million of cash income, non-capitalised accrued 
income and the capitalisation of prior year accrued income £3 million (201 2: £1 9 million).
Other movements include foreign exchange and conversions from one instrument into another . 
Included within the statement of comprehensive income are foreign exchange losses of £143 million (201 2: £243 million loss). This includes 
exchange movements on non-monetary items (eg equity investment portfolio) and on monetary items (eg non-sterling loans and borrowings). 
Of this, foreign exchange losses on monetary items not measured at fair value total £35 million (201 2: £83 million).
Palace Street I was launched in August 201 1 and started trading loans on a regular basis. The investments within this fund are classified 
as current assets and held for trading and are included here as the T raded portfolio. Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 107
1 3 Investment portfolio (continued)
Current 
Group
2013
Traded
portfolio
£m
Group
2012
Traded
portfolio
£m
Opening book value 35 –
Additions 171 78
Disposals, repayments and write-offs (157) (42)
Revaluation (1) (1)
Other movements – –
Closing book value 48 35
Fair value hierarchy
The Group classifies financial instruments measured at fair value in the investment portfolio according to the following hierarchy:
Level Fair value input description Financial instruments
Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) from active markets Quoted equity instruments
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable 
either directly (ie as prices) or indirectly (ie derived from prices)
Level 3 Inputs that are not based on observable market data Unquoted equity instruments and loan instruments included in the 
traded portfolio (Palace Street I)
Unquoted equity instruments and debt instruments included in the traded portfolio are measured in accordance with the International Private 
Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines with reference to the most appropriate information available at the time of measurement. Further 
information regarding the valuation of unquoted equity instruments can be found in the section Portfolio valuation – an explanation.
The Group’s investment portfolio for equity instruments and traded portfolio through Palace Street I are classified by the fair value hierarchy 
as follows:
Group
2013
Level 1
£m
Group
2013
Level 2
£m
Group
2013
Level 3
£m
Group
2013
Total
£m
Group
2012
Level 1
£m
Group
2012
Level 2
£m
Group
2012
Level 3
£m
Group
2012
Total
£m
Quoted equity 431 – – 431 535 – – 535
Unquoted equity – – 1,566 1,566 – – 1,392 1,392
Traded portfolio – – 48 48 – – 35 35
Total 431 – 1,614 2,045 535 – 1,427 1,962
Company
2013
Level 1
£m
Company
2013
Level 2
£m
Company
2013
Level 3
£m
Company
2013
Total
£m
Company
2012
Level 1
£m
Company
2012
Level 2
£m
Company
2012
Level 3
£m
Company
2012
Total
£m
Quoted equity 243 – – 243 392 – – 392
Unquoted equity – – 798 798 – – 299 299
Total 243 – 798 1,041 392 – 299 691
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 during the year .
This disclosure only relates to the investment portfolio. The fair value hierarchy also applies to derivative financial instruments, see note 20 
for further details.
Level 3 fair value reconciliation
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Opening book value 1,427 2,139 299 589
Additions 249 143 514 40
Disposals, repayments and write-offs (327) (559) (84) (288)
Revaluation 214 (225) 55 (69)
Other movements 51 (71) 14 27
Closing book value 1,614 1,427 798 299
Unquoted equity investments valued using Level 3 inputs also had the following impact on the statement of comprehensive income; realised 
profits over value on disposal of investment of £1 79 million (201 2: £40 million), dividend income of £23 million (201 2: £29 million) and foreign 
exchange losses of £37 million (201 2: £48 million).
Level 3 inputs are sensitive to assumptions made when ascertaining fair value as described in the Portfolio valuation – an explanation section. 
A reasonable alternative assumption would be to apply a standard marketability discount of 5% for all assets rather than the specific approach 
adopted. This would have a positive impact on the unquoted equity portfolio of £1 25 million (201 2: £100 million) or 8% (201 2: 7%). 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 108
Notes to the financial statements
1 4 Interests in Group entities
Company
2013
Equity
investments
£m
Company
2013
Loans and
receivables
£m
Company
2013
Total
£m
Opening book value 51 2,273 2,324
Additions 285 272 557
Share of profits – 374 374
Disposals and repayments (49) (2,165) (2,214)
Impairment (9) 771 762
Exchange movements – (122) (122)
Closing book value 278 1,403 1,681
Details of significant Group entities are given in note 33.
Company
2012
Equity
investments
£m
Company
2012
Loans and
receivables
£m
Company
2012
Total
£m
Opening book value 95 2,619 2,714
Additions 37 873 910
Share of profits – 112 112
Disposals and repayments (76) (852) (928)
Impairment (5) (377) (382)
Exchange movements – (102) (102)
Closing book value 51 2,273 2,324
1 5 Business combination 
On the 28 September 201 2 3i Debt Management US LLC, a newly formed entity (“3i DM US”), entered into a strategic transaction with WCAS Fraser 
Sullivan Investment Management (“FSIM”) to set up a US debt management platform. At the time of the transaction FSIM, a specialist US debt 
management company, was managing US$2.5 billion of AUM, comprising six CLO funds, one credit opportunity fund and one senior loan fund. 
Following completion of the transaction, the fund management of the Senior Loan Fund and the Credit Opportunities Fund transferred across 
to 3i DM US. The senior loan fund was renamed 3i US Senior Loan Fund. FSIM continued to manage the existing CLO funds until investor approval 
was granted to change the fund manager to 3i DM US in March 201 3. As part of the strategic transaction the FSIM team were initially employed 
by both FSIM and by 3i DM US, following the transfer of all FSIM funds to 3i DM US all employees are now employed solely by 3i DM US. 
3i DM US has acquired certain of the assets and liabilities of FSIM. 3i DM US entered into a services agreement with FSIM which was classified 
as an intangible asset. Following the transfer of existing CLO fund management to 3i DM US in March 201 3 this agreement has been replaced 
and 3i DM US will now directly manage the CLO funds. 
This strategic transaction is judged to have key features of a business combination and accordingly has been classified as a business 
combination under IFRS3: Business Combinations. The Group subscribed for 80% of the equity of 3i DM US for cash consideration of £8 million. 
The management team of FSIM subscribed for the remaining 20% of the equity of 3i DM US. The Group has entered into agreements to purchase 
this remaining 20% from the management team by March 201 6, with the price subject to the performance of 3i DM US. 
The purchase of the management team’s equity holding or “earn-out” is made up of two parts: 
n n £2 million deferred consideration, for the transfer of the remaining 20% of the shares held by FSIM management by March 201 6. This has been 
recognised on acquisition and will be carried as a liability on the Group balance sheet. 
n n The remaining amount is contingent on the management team remaining in employment with 3i DM US and raising new funds. The amount 
will be determined by the performance of 3i DM US during the three year period and will be recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income as carried interest and performance fees payable.  Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 109
1 5 Business combination (continued)
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of FSIM as at the date of entering into the strategic transaction and the consideration 
paid were:
Fair value 
recognised 
£m
Fair value of assets received
Intangible assets (fund management contracts and service agreement) 2
Total fair value of assets received 2
Fair value of liabilities assumed
Creditors (1)
Total fair value of liabilities assumed (1)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 1
Consideration
Cash 8
Deferred consideration 2
Total consideration 10
Goodwill 9
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration paid (8)
Cash and cash equivalents acquired –
Net cash flow on acquisition (8)
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 201 3, 3i DM US contributed £3 million to management fees, and incurred operating expenses and 
amortisation of the fund management contracts of £2 million, which resulted in an overall profit of £1 million to the net profit before tax of the Group.
1 6 Intangible assets 
Fund management contracts
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Opening cost 22 22
Acquisitions 12 –
Closing cost 34 22
Opening accumulated amortisation 5 1
Charge for the year 6 4
Closing accumulated amortisation 11 5
Net book amount 23 17
The amortisation charge for the year of £6 million (201 2: £4 million) has been recognised in operating expenses in the statement 
of comprehensive income.
The acquisitions in the year relate to the purchase of five European CLO management contracts from Invesco Asset Management Limited, 
acquired on 30 August 201 2 and the fair value attributed to the management contracts acquired as part of the strategic transaction with 
Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC.
Goodwill
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Opening value – –
Acquisitions 9 –
Closing value 9 –
1 7 Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Opening cost or valuation 4 5 4 4
Additions at cost – – – –
Disposals (4) (1) (4) –
Revaluation – – – –
Closing cost or valuation – 4 – 4
Net book amount – 4 – 4
Depreciation charged in the year on buildings was £nil (201 2: £nil) following the sale of an administrative office property in Birmingham, held by 
the company, in December 201 2. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 110
Notes to the financial statements
1 7 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Plant and equipment
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Opening cost or valuation 33 32 – –
Additions at cost 1 2 – –
Disposals (7) (1) – –
Closing cost or valuation 27 33 – –
Opening accumulated depreciation 24 22 – –
Charge for the year 1 3 – –
Disposals (5) (1) – –
Closing accumulated depreciation 20 24 – –
Net book amount 7 9 – –
The Group’s freehold properties and long leasehold properties are revalued at each balance sheet date by professional valuers. The valuations 
were undertaken in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors in the United Kingdom. 
1 8 Other current assets
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Prepayments 4 6 – –
Other debtors 81 96 15 24
Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 103 81
85 102 118 105
1 9 Financial risk management
Introduction
A review of the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing and monitoring risk is set out in the Risk section. This note provides 
further detail on financial risk management, cross-referring to the Risk section where applicable, and includes quantitative data on specific 
financial risks.
The Group is a highly selective investor and each investment is subject to a risk assessment through an investment approval process. The Group’s 
Investment Committee is part of the overall risk management framework set out in the Risk section.
Capital structure
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, including cash held on deposit, long term borrowing and shareholders’ equity. The type 
and maturity of the Group’s borrowings are analysed further in note 21 and the Group’s equity is analysed into its various components in the 
statement of changes in equity. Capital is managed with the objective of maximising long-term return to shareholders, whilst maintaining a capital 
base to allow the Group to operate effectively in the marketplace and sustain future development of the business.
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Cash, deposits and derivative financial assets 750 1,172
Borrowings and derivative financial liabilities
1
(1,085) (1,636)
Net debt (335) (464)
Total equity 2,934 2,627
Gearing (net debt/total equity) 11% 18%
1 Includes £60 million of derivative financial liabilities.
Capital constraints
The Group is generally free to transfer capital from subsidiary undertakings to the parent company subject to maintaining each subsidiary with 
sufficient reserves to meet local statutory/regulatory obligations. No significant constraints have been identified in the past and the Group has 
been able to distribute profits in a tax-efficient manner . 
The Group’s regulated capital requirement is reviewed regularly by the Board of 3i Investments plc, an investment firm that is regulated by 
the FSA (which has since changed to the Financial Conduct Authority). The last submission to the FSA demonstrated a significant consolidated 
capital surplus in excess of the FSA’s prudential rules. The Group’s capital requirement is updated annually following approval of the Group’s 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) report by the Board of 3i Investments plc. The Group complies with the Individual Capital 
Guidance as agreed with the FSA and remains at a significant regulatory capital surplus. The Group’s Pillar 3 disclosure document can be found 
on www.3i.com. Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 111
1 9 Financial risk management (continued)
Financial risks
Concentration risk
The Group’s exposure to and mitigation of concentration risk is explained within the “investment” and “treasury and funding” sections in the Risk 
section. Quantitative data regarding the concentration risk of the portfolio across geographies can be found in note 1, segmental analysis.
Credit risk
The Group is subject to credit risk on its loans, traded portfolio, receivables, derivatives cash and deposits. The Group’s cash and deposits are 
held with a variety of counterparties with circa 72% of the Group’s surplus cash held on demand in AAA Liquidity funds. The balance is held on 
short-term deposit with 3i’s relationship banks. The credit quality of loans and receivables within the investment portfolio is based on the financial 
performance of the individual portfolio companies. For those assets that are not past due it is believed that the risk of default is small and that 
capital repayments and interest payments will be made in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of the Group’s investment. Where 
the portfolio company has failed or is expected to fail in the next 1 2 months, the Group’s policy is to record a provision for the full amount of the 
loan. Loan impairments are made when the valuation of the portfolio company implies non-recovery of all or part of the Group’s loan investment. 
In these cases an appropriate loan impairment is recorded to reflect the valuation shortfall. Further information on how credit risk is managed is 
given in the Risk section. In accordance with IFRS 7 , the amounts shown as past due represent the total credit exposure, not the amount actually 
past due.
Credit risk
As at 31 March 2013
Group 
not past due 
£m
Group up to 
12 months 
past due 
£m
Group more  
than 12 months 
past due 
£m
Group 
Total 
£m
Company 
not past due 
£m
Company 
up to 
12 months 
past due 
£m
Company 
more than 
12 months 
past due 
£m
Company 
Total 
£m
Loans and receivables and Traded 
Portfolio before provisions and 
impairments 1,847 90 85 2,022 981 90 84 1,155
Provisions on investments that have 
failed or are expected to fail in the 
next 12 months (99) – (22) (121) (44) – (22) (66)
Impairments where the valuation of 
the portfolio company implies 
non-recovery of all or part of the 
Group’s loan investment (537) (7) (59) (603) (379) (7) (58) (444)
Total 1,211 83 4 1,298 558 83 4 645
As at 31 March 2012
Group 
not past due 
£m
Group up to 
12 months 
past due 
£m
Group more  
than 12 months 
past due 
£m
Group 
Total 
£m
Company 
not past due 
£m
Company 
up to 
12 months 
past due 
£m
Company 
more than 
12 months 
past due 
£m
Company 
Total 
£m
Loans and receivables and Traded 
Portfolio before provisions and 
impairments 1,841 104 27 1,972 213 – 8 221
Provisions on investments that have 
failed or are expected to fail in the 
next 12 months (142) – – (142) (34) – – (34)
Impairments where the valuation of 
the portfolio company implies 
non-recovery of all or part of the 
Group’s loan investment (436) (90) (27) (553) – – (8) (8)
Total 1,263 14 – 1,277 179 – – 179
The credit quality of the traded portfolio is based on the credit rating of the loans traded. Credit risk is carefully managed with the aim of 
generating profits from market opportunities. At 31 March 201 3 the value of the traded portfolio was £48 million (201 2: £35 million) and was 
invested in non-investment grade loans in the range BB to B- (201 2: B+ to B-). 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 112
Notes to the financial statements
1 9 Financial risk management (continued)
Movements on loan impairment and provisions are shown below:
Group 
provisions 
£m
Group
impairments
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company
provisions
£m
Company
impairments
£m
Company
Total
£m
Balance as at 31 March 201 1 (110) (396) (506) (41) (16) (57)
Other movements 36 29 65 22 20 42
Charged to income statement in the year
1
(68) (186) (254) (15) (12) (27)
Balance as at 31 March 2012 (142) (553) (695) (34) (8) (42)
Other movements 17 (70) (53) (38) (493) (531)
(Charged)/credited to income statement in the year 4 20 24 6 57 63
Balance as at 31 March 2013 (121) (603) (724) (66) (444) (510)
1 Included within impairments for the Group and Company is a £1 million value decrease in relation to the traded portfolio (2012: £1 million decrease).
Liquidity risk
Further information on how liquidity risk is managed is provided in the Risk section. The table below analyses the maturity of the Group’s gross 
contractual liabilities.
Financial liabilities (excluding forward foreign exchange contracts)
As at  
31 March 2013
Group
due
within
1 year
£m
Group
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Group
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Group
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company
due
within
1 year
£m
Company
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Company
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Company
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Company
Total
£m
Gross 
commitments:
Fixed loan notes 51 51 417 967 1,486 51 51 417 967 1,486
Committed 
multi-currency 
facility 167 2 2 – 171 2 2 2 – 6
Interest rate 
swaps 5 5 40 – 50 5 5 40 – 50
Carried interest 
payable within 
one year 29 – – – 29 – – – – –
Trade and other 
payables 192 – – – 192 193 – – – 193
Total 444 58 459 967 1,928 251 58 459 967 1,735
Forward foreign exchange contracts
As at  
31 March 2013
Group
due
within
1 year
£m
Group
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Group
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Group
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company
due
within
1 year
£m
Company
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Company
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Company
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Company
Total
£m
Gross amount 
receivable from 
forward foreign 
exchange 
contracts 319 152 – – 471 325 153 – – 478
Gross amount 
payable for 
forward foreign 
exchange 
contracts (321) (160) – – (481) (327) (161) – – (488)
Total amount 
payable (2) (8) – – (10) (2) (8) – – (10) Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 113
1 9 Financial risk management (continued)
Financial liabilities (excluding forward foreign exchange contracts)
As at  
31 March 2012
Group
due
within
1 year
£m
Group
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Group
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Group
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company
due
within
1 year
£m
Company
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Company
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Company
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Company
Total
£m
Gross 
commitments:
Fixed loan notes 53 54 456 1,080 1,643 53 54 456 1,080 1,643
Variable loan 
notes 249 262 – – 511 249 262 – – 511
Committed 
multi-currency 
facility 9 9 218 – 236 – – – – –
Interest rate 
swaps 5 5 13 26 49 5 5 13 26 49
Carried interest 
payable within 
one year 40 – – – 40 – – – – –
Trade and other 
payables 225 – – – 225 173 – – – 173
Total 581 330 687 1,106 2,704 480 321 469 1,106 2,376
Forward foreign exchange contracts
As at  
31 March 2012
Group
due
within
1 year
£m
Group
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Group
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Group
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company
due
within
1 year
£m
Company
due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Company
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Company
due
more
than 5
years
£m
Company
Total
£m
Gross amount 
receivable from 
forward foreign 
exchange 
contracts 301 263 – – 564 307 269 – – 576
Gross amount 
payable for 
forward foreign 
exchange 
contracts (293) (256) – – (549) (299) (262) – – (561)
Total amount 
payable 8 7 – – 15 8 7 – – 15
Market risk
The valuation of the Group’s investment portfolio is largely dependent on the underlying trading performance of the companies within the 
portfolio but the valuation and other items in the financial statements can also be affected by interest rate, currency and quoted market 
fluctuations. The Group’s sensitivity to these items is set out below.
(i) Interest rate risk
Further information on how interest rate risk is managed is provided in the Risk section. The direct impact of a movement in interest rates 
is relatively small. An increase of 100 basis points, based on the closing balance sheet position over a 1 2 month period, would lead to an 
approximate increase in total comprehensive income of £21 million (201 2: £21 million increase (restated)) for the Group and £22 million (201 2: 
£21 million increase (restated)) for the Company. This increase arises principally from changes in interest receivable and payable on floating rate 
instruments, including cash, deposits and floating rate debt, and change in fair value of the interest rate swap. In addition the Group and Company 
have indirect exposure to interest rates through changes to the financial performance and valuation of portfolio companies caused by interest 
rate fluctuations. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 114
Notes to the financial statements
1 9 Financial risk management (continued)
(ii) Currency risk
The Group’s net assets in euro, US dollar , Swedish krona, Indian rupee, Chinese renminbi and all other currencies combined is shown in the table 
below. This sensitivity analysis is performed based on the sensitivity of the Group and Company’s net assets to movements in foreign currency 
exchange rates assuming a 10% movement in exchange rates against sterling. The figures presented as at 31 March 201 2 have been restated 
to reflect a change in the sensitivity assumption from 5% to 10%, which provides a more appropriate assessment of the sensitivity given the 
market fluctuations in the year .
The Group manages currency risk on a consolidated basis. Further information on how currency risk is managed is provided in the Risk section.
As at 31 March 2013
Group
sterling
£m
Group
euro
£m
Group
US
dollar
£m
Group
Swedish
krona
£m
Group
Indian
rupee
£m
Group
Chinese
renminbi
£m
Group
Other
£m
Group
Total
£m
Net assets 870 871 863 14 78 62 176 2,934
Sensitivity analysis
Assuming a 10% movement in 
exchange rates against sterling:
Impact on exchange 
movements in the statement 
of comprehensive income n/a 19 69 35 – – 15 138
Impact on the translation 
of foreign operations in other 
comprehensive income n/a 43 (25) (25) 7 5 – 5
Total n/a 62 44 10 7 5 15 143
As at 31 March 2013
Company
sterling
£m
Company
euro
£m
Company
US
dollar
£m
Company
Swedish
krona
£m
Company
Indian
rupee
£m
Company
Chinese
renminbi
£m
Company
Other
£m
Company
Total
£m
Net assets 1,642 445 541 206 27 – 177 3,038
Sensitivity analysis
Impact on exchange movements 
in the statement of comprehensive 
income assuming a 10% movement 
in exchange rates against sterling n/a 10 34 25 2 – 18 89
Total n/a 10 34 25 2 – 18 89
As at 31 March 2012
Group
sterling
£m
Group
euro
£m
Group
US
dollar
£m
Group
Swedish
krona
£m
Group
Indian
rupee
£m
Group
Chinese
renminbi
£m
Group
Other
£m
Group
Total
£m
Net assets 1,174 643 532 16 103 74 85 2,627
Sensitivity analysis
Assuming a 10% movement in 
exchange rates against sterling:
Impact on exchange 
movements in the statement 
of comprehensive income n/a 142 46 32 – – (16) 204
Impact on the translation 
of foreign operations in other 
comprehensive income n/a (102) (26) (22) 10 8 24 (108)
Total n/a 40 20 10 10 8 8 96 Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 115
1 9 Financial risk management (continued)
As at 31 March 2012
Company
sterling
£m
Company
euro
£m
Company
US
dollar
£m
Company
Swedish
krona
£m
Company
Indian
rupee
£m
Company
Chinese
renminbi
£m
Company
Other
£m
Company
Total
£m
Net assets 1,097 1,006 382 131 25 – 78 2,719
Sensitivity analysis
Impact on exchange movements 
in the statement of comprehensive 
income assuming a 10% movement 
in exchange rates against sterling n/a 40 12 22 2 – 10 86
Total n/a 40 12 22 2 – 10 86
(iii) Price risk – market fluctuations
Further information about the management of price risk, which arises principally from quoted and unquoted equity investments, is provided in 
the Risk section. A 1 5% change in the fair value of those investments would have the following direct impact on the statement of comprehensive 
income:
2013
Quoted
equity
£m
2013
Unquoted
equity
£m
2013
Traded
portfolio
£m
2013
Total
£m
2012
Quoted
equity
£m
2012
Unquoted
equity
£m
2012
Traded
portfolio
£m
2012
Total
£m
Group 65 235 7 307 80 209 5 294
Company 36 120 – 156 59 45 – 104
The figures presented as at 31 March 201 2 have been updated to reflect a change in the sensitivity assumption from 5% to 1 5%, which provides 
a more appropriate assessment of the sensitivity given the market fluctuations in the year .
In addition, other price risk arises from carried interest balances.
20 Derivative financial instruments
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Non-current assets
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 6 – 6
– 6 – 6
Current assets
Forward foreign exchange contracts 4 7 4 7
4 7 4 7
Non-current liabilities
Forward foreign exchange contracts (7) (1) (7) (1)
Interest rate swaps (48) (40) (48) (40)
(55) (41) (55) (41)
Current liabilities
Forward foreign exchange contracts (5) – (5) –
(5) – (5) –
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The contracts entered into by the Group are principally denominated in the currencies of the geographic areas in which the Group operates. 
The fair value of these contracts is recorded in the balance sheet and is determined by discounting future cash flows at the prevailing market 
rates at the balance sheet date. No contracts are designated as hedging instruments, as defined in IAS 39 , and consequently all changes in fair 
value are taken to profit and loss.
The Group continues its use of derivatives to hedge exchange movements on its US dollar and euro portfolio during the year although the hedging 
policy has been reviewed and the use of derivatives will reduce during the course of the next financial year .
At the balance sheet date, the notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts was £481 million (201 2: £549 million). 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 116
Notes to the financial statements
20 Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate swaps
The Group has one interest rate derivative. The fair value of this contract is recorded in the balance sheet and is determined by discounting future 
cash flows at the prevailing market rates at the balance sheet date. This contract is not designated as a hedging instrument, as defined in IAS 39 , 
and consequently all changes in fair value are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
At the balance sheet date, the notional amount outstanding of the fixed rate to variable rate swap was £1 50 million.
The Group does not trade in derivatives. In general, derivatives held hedge specific exposures and have maturities designed to match the 
exposures they are hedging. It is the intention to hold both the financial instruments giving rise to the exposure and the derivative hedging them 
until maturity and therefore no net gain or loss is expected to be realised.
The derivatives are held at fair value which represents the replacement cost of the instruments at the balance sheet date. Movements in the fair 
value of derivatives are included in the statement of comprehensive income. In accordance with the fair value hierarchy described in note 1 3, 
derivative financial instruments are measured using Level 2 inputs.
21 Loans and borrowings
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Loans and borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
1
164 231 – 231
In the second year – 250 – 250
In the third year – 50 – –
In the fourth year 280 – 280 –
In the fifth year – 448 – 292
After five years 575 610 575 610
1,019 1,589 855 1,383
Principal borrowings include:
Rate Maturity
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Issued under the £2,000 million note issuance programme
Fixed rate
£200 million notes (public issue) 6.875% 2023 200 200 200 200
£400 million notes (public issue) 5.750% 2032 375 375 375 375
€350 million notes (public issue) 5.625% 2017 280 292 280 292
Other – 35 – 35
Variable rate
€500 million notes (public issue)
EURIBOR 
+0.200% 2012 – 231 – 231
Other – 250 – 250
855 1,383 855 1,383
Committed multi-currency facilities
£200 million LIBOR+3.75% 2014 – 50 – –
£50 million LIBOR+1.50% 2016 – – – –
£450 million
1
LIBOR+1.00% 2016 164 156 – –
164 206 – –
Total loans and borrowings 1,019 1,589 855 1,383
1 Repaid on 18 April 2013.
The £200 million multi-currency facility was cancelled in March 201 3.
The Group is subject to a financial covenant on its committed multi-currency facilities, the Asset Cover Ratio, defined as total assets (including 
cash) divided by loans and borrowings plus derivative financial liabilities. The Asset Cover Ratio limit is 1.45 at 31 March 201 3 (201 2: 1.45), the 
Asset Cover Ratio at 31 March 201 3 is 4.00 (201 2: 2.82).
All of the Group’s borrowings are repayable in one instalment on the respective maturity dates. None of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group. The fair value of the loans and borrowings is £1,087 million (201 2: £1,581 million), determined 
where applicable with reference to their published market price. Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 117
22 T rade and other payables
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Other accruals 192 225 30 46
Amounts due to subsidiaries – – 163 127
192 225 193 173
23 Provisions
Group
2013
Property
£m
Group
2013
Redundancy
£m
Group
2013
Restructuring
£m
Group
2013
Total
£m
Opening balance 4 6 – 10
Charge for the year 3 19 8 30
Utilised in the year – (21) (6) (27)
Closing balance 7 4 2 13
Group
2012
Property
£m
Group
2012
Redundancy
£m
Group
2012
Restructuring
£m
Group
2012
Total
£m
Opening balance 7 1 – 8
(Release)/charge for the year (2) 11 – 9
Utilised in the year (1) (6) – (7)
Closing balance 4 6 – 10
The provision for redundancy relates to staff reductions announced prior to 31 March 201 3. More detail on the Group restructuring is discussed 
in the Chief Executives statement on page 1 1. Most of the provision is expected to be utilised in the next year .
The Group has a number of leasehold properties whose rent and unavoidable costs exceed the economic benefits expected to be received. 
These costs arise over the period of the lease, and have been provided for to the extent they are not covered by income from subleases. 
The leases covered by the provision have a remaining term of up to 1 3 years.
24 Issued capital
Issued and fully paid
2013
Number
2013
£m
2012
Number
2012
£m
Ordinary shares of 73 19/22p
Opening balance 971,069,281 717 970,650,620 717
Issued under employee share plans 335,846 1 418,661 –
Closing balance 971,405,127 718 971,069,281 717
During the year to 31 March 201 3, no options to subscribe for ordinary shares were exercised (201 2: nil). 
25 Equity
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve is established in respect of the redemption of the Company’s ordinary shares.
Share based payment reserve
The share based payment reserve is a reserve to recognise those amounts in retained earnings in respect of share-based payments.
T ranslation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of international operations.
Capital reserve
The capital reserve recognises all profits that are capital in nature or have been allocated to capital. Following changes to the Companies Act the 
Company amended its Articles of Association at the 201 2 Annual General Meeting to allow these profits to be distributable by way of a dividend.
Revenue reserve
The revenue reserve recognises all profits that are revenue in nature or have been allocated to revenue. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 118
Notes to the financial statements
26 Own shares
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening cost 105 86
Additions – 31
Disposals (1) (12)
Closing cost 104 105
Own shares consists of shares in 3i Group plc held by the 3i Group Employee T rust. As at 31 March 201 3 the T rust held 31,395,645 shares 
in 3i Group plc (201 2: 32,968,465 ). The market value of these shares at 31 March 201 3 was £103 million (201 2: £71 million). The T rust is funded 
by an interest-free loan from 3i Group plc.
27 Per share information
The earnings and net assets per share attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company are based on the following data:
As at 31 March 2013 2012
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 19.5 (82.8)
Diluted 19.4 (82.8)
Earnings (£m)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 183 (783)
As at 31 March 2013 2012
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Ordinary shares 971,257,376 970,832,567
Own shares (31,582,481) (25,156,748)
939,674,895 945,675,819
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares
 Share options and awards 3,253,409 2,245,376
Diluted shares 942,928,304 947,921,195
As at 31 March 2013 2012
Net assets per share (£)
Basic 3.12 2.80
Diluted 3.11 2.79
Net assets (£m)
Net assets attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,934 2,627
As at 31 March 2013 2012
Number of shares in issue
Ordinary shares 971,405,127 971,069,281
Own shares (31,395,645) (32,968,465)
940,009,482 938,100,816
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares
 Share options and awards 3,613,318 2,827,365
Diluted shares 943,622,800 940,928,181
28 Dividends
2013
pence per share
2013
£m
2012
pence per share
2012
£m
Declared and paid during the year
Ordinary shares
Final dividend 5.4 51 2.4 23
Interim dividend 2.7 25 2.7 26
8.1 76 5.1 49
Proposed final dividend 5.4 51 5.4 51 Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 119
29 Operating leases
Leases as lessee
Future minimum payments due under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are as follows:
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Less than one year 7 9 – –
Between one and five years 24 26 – –
More than five years 21 27 – –
52 62 – –
The Group leases a number of its offices under operating leases. None of the leases include contingent rentals.
During the year to 31 March 201 3 £1 1 million (201 2: £10 million) was recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income 
in respect of operating leases. Income recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of subleases was £nil (201 2: £nil). 
The total future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is £7 million (201 2: £3 million).
30 Commitments
Group
2013
due
within
1 year
£m
Group
2013
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Group
2013
due
over 5
years
£m
Group
2013
Total
£m
Group
2012
due
within
1 year
£m
Group
2012
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Group
2012
due
over 5
years
£m
Group
2012
Total
£m
Equity and loan investments 6 12 – 18 38 13 – 51
Company
2013
due
within
1 year
£m
Company
2013
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Company
2013
due
over 5
years
£m
Company
2013
Total
£m
Company
2012
due
within
1 year
£m
Company
2012
due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Company
2012
due
over 5
years
£m
Company
2012
Total
£m
Equity and loan investments 5 8 – 13 38 8 – 46
For commitments to funds managed and advised by the Group refer to pages 31, 36 and 42.
31 Contingent liabilities
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees available to third parties 
in respect of investee companies 4 37 4 10
The Company has guaranteed the payment of principal and interest on amounts drawn down by 3i Holdings plc under the committed 
multi-currency facilities. At 31 March 201 3, 3i Holdings plc had drawn down £1 64 million (201 2: £206 million) under these facilities. This has since 
been repaid by 3i Holdings plc in April 201 3.
The Company has provided a guarantee to the T rustees of the 3i Group Pension Plan in respect of liabilities of 3i plc to the Plan. 3i plc is the 
sponsor of the 3i Group Pension Plan. On 4 April 201 2 the Company transferred eligible assets (£1 50 million of ordinary shares in 3i Infrastructure 
plc as defined by the agreement) to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group. The Company will retain all income and capital rights in relation to 
the 3i Infrastructure plc shares, as eligible assets, unless the Company becomes insolvent or fails to comply with material obligations in relation 
to the agreement with the T rustees, all of which are under its control. The fair value of eligible assets at 31 March 201 3 was £1 60 million 
(201 2: £1 50 million). 
3i Corporation, a 3i Group subsidiary, has provided an indemnification against an existing personal guarantee by the management of Fraser 
Sullivan Investment Management on the lease of a New York office taken over by 3i DM US LLC, a subsidiary of 3i Corporation. 3i Corporation 
is in the process of taking over this guarantee. The guarantee covers lost rental income the landlord would suffer if 3i DM US LLC reneged 
on its lease obligations.
The current lease runs to October 2014 and the maximum exposure that 3i Corporation could be exposed to is US$900k.
At 31 March 201 3, there was no material litigation outstanding against the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 120
Notes to the financial statements
32 Related parties
The Group has various related parties stemming from relationships with limited partnerships managed by the Group, its investment portfolio, 
its advisory arrangements and its key management personnel. In addition the Company has related parties in respect of its subsidiaries.
Limited partnerships
The Group manages a number of external funds which invest through limited partnerships. Group companies act as the general partners 
of these limited partnerships and exert significant influence over them. The following amounts have been included in respect of these 
limited partnerships:
Statement of comprehensive income
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Carried interest receivable 6 (24) 4 (24)
Fees receivable from external funds 25 41 – –
Statement of financial position
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Carried interest receivable 10 27 9 27
Investments 
The Group makes minority investments in the equity of unquoted and quoted investments. This normally allows the Group to participate in the 
financial and operating policies of that company. It is presumed that it is possible to exert significant influence when the equity holding is greater 
than 20%. These investments are not equity accounted for (as permitted by IAS 28) but are related parties. The total amounts included for these 
investments are as follows:
Statement of comprehensive income
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Realised profit/(loss) over value on the disposal of investments 118 (4) 42 15
Unrealised profits/(losses) on the revaluation of investments 299 (370) 134 (57)
Portfolio income 82 122 44 37
Statement of financial position
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Quoted equity investments 398 480 239 377
Unquoted equity investments 1,087 853 584 169
Loans and receivables 1,159 1,141 591 121
From time to time transactions occur between related parties within the investment portfolio that the Group influences to facilitate 
the reorganisation or recapitalisation of an investee company. These transactions are made on an arm’s length basis.
Advisory arrangements
The Group acts as an adviser to 3i Infrastructure plc, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The following amounts have been included 
in respect of this advisory relationship:
Statement of comprehensive income
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments 24 22 15 22
Fees receivable from external funds 15 17 – –
Carry receivable from external funds 1 – 1 –
Dividends 18 18 18 18 Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 121
32 Related parties (continued)
Statement of financial position
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
Company
2012
£m
Quoted equity investments 398 375 239 375
Key management personnel
The Group’s key management personnel comprise the members of the Executive Committee, which replaced the Leadership Team in July 201 2, 
and the Board’s non-executive Directors. The following amounts have been included in respect of these individuals:
Statement of comprehensive income
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Salaries, fees, supplements and benefits in kind 6 7
Bonuses and deferred share bonuses
1
4 3
Increase in accrued pension – –
Carried interest and performance fees payable 5 6
Share based payments 2 3
Termination benefits
2
1 1
1 For further detail, see Directors’ remuneration report. 
2 No termination benefits were paid to Executive Directors during the year.
Statement of financial position 
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Bonuses and deferred share bonuses 7 4
Carried interest and performance fees payable within one year 2 4
Carried interest and performance fees payable after one year 11 11
Deferred consideration included within trade and other payables
1
11 11
1 Deferred consideration relates to the acquisition of Mizuho Investment Management Limited on 15 February 201 1.
Carried interest paid in the year to key management personnel was £6 million (201 2: £6 million).
Subsidiaries
T ransactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, are eliminated on consolidation. 
Details of related party transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are detailed below.
Management, administrative and secretarial arrangements
The Company has appointed 3i Investments plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company incorporated in England and Wales, as investment 
manager of the Group. 3i Investments plc received a fee of £23 million (201 2: £23 million) for this service.
The Company has appointed 3i plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company incorporated in England and Wales, to provide the Company 
with a range of administrative and secretarial services. 3i plc received a fee of £105 million (201 2: £86 million) for this service.
Investment entities
The Company makes investments through a number of subsidiaries by providing funding in the form of capital contributions or loans depending 
on the legal form of the entity making the investment. The legal form of these subsidiaries may be limited partnerships or limited companies or 
equivalent depending on the jurisdiction of the investment. The Company receives interest on this funding, amounting in the year to 31 March 201 3 
to £nil (201 2: £nil).
Other subsidiaries
The Company borrows funds from certain subsidiaries and pays interest on the outstanding balances. The amounts that are included in the 
Company’s statement of comprehensive income are £nil (201 2: £nil). 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 122
Notes to the financial statements
33 Group entities
Significant subsidiaries
Name Country of incorporation Issued and fully paid share capital Principal activity Registered office
3i Holdings plc England and Wales 1,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 Holding company 16 Palace Street  
London SW1E 5JD
3i International Holdings England and Wales 2,715,973 ordinary shares of £10 Holding company
3i plc England and Wales 1 10,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 Services
3i Debt Management Limited England and Wales 1,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 Holding company
3i Debt Management 
Investments Limited
England and Wales 12,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 Investment manager
3i Investments plc England and Wales 10,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 Investment manager
3i Europe plc England and Wales 500,000 ordinary shares of £1 Investment adviser
3i Nordic plc England and Wales 500,000 ordinary shares of £1 Investment adviser
Gardens Pension Trustees 
Limited
England and Wales 100 ordinary shares of £1 Pension fund trustee
3i Corporation USA 15,000 shares of common stock 
(no par value)
Investment manager Suite 9C 
401 Madison Avenue 
New York 
NY 10017
3i Debt Management US LLC USA 100 shares of common stock 
(no par value)
Investment manager
3i Deutschland Gesellschaft 
für Industriebeteiligungen 
GmbH
Germany €25,564,594 Investment manager Bockenheimer  
Landstrasse 2-4 60306 
Frankfurt am Main,  
Germany
The list above comprises the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 201 3 all of which were wholly-owned, with the exception of 3i Debt 
Management Limited, which is 60% owned and is in turn the 100% owner of 3i Debt Management Investments Limited and 3i Debt Management 
US LLC which is 80% owned. The Group has entered into agreements to purchase the remaining 40% of the equity of 3i Debt Management 
Limited and 20% of 3i Debt Management US LLC, currently owned by management, over the next four years. They are incorporated in Great 
Britain and registered in England and Wales unless otherwise stated.
Each of the above subsidiary undertakings is included in the consolidated accounts of the Group.
As at 31 March 201 3, the entire issued share capital of 3i Holdings plc, 60% of the issued share capital of 3i Debt Management Limited was held 
by the Company. The entire issued share capital of all the other principal subsidiary undertakings and 80% of 3i Debt Management US LLC listed 
above was held by subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
The Directors are of the opinion that the number of undertakings in respect of which the Company is required to disclose information under 
Schedule 4 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is such that compliance would 
result in information of excessive length being given. Full information will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return.
Advantage has been taken of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 from the requirements 
to deliver to the Register of Companies and publish the accounts of those limited partnerships included in the consolidated accounts of the Group. Financial statements
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 123
Independent auditor’ s report to the members of  
3i Group plc
We have audited the financial statements of 3i Group plc for the year 
ended 31 March 201 3 which comprise the Statement of comprehensive 
income, the Group and parent company Statement of changes in equity, 
the Group and parent company Statement of financial position, the 
Group and parent company Cash flow statements and the related notes 
1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as regards 
the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 1 6 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 67 the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
n n the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 201 3 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
n n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
n n the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
n n the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
n n the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
n n the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
n n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
n n the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
n n certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
n n we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
n n the Directors’ statement, set out on page 68, in relation 
to going concern;
n n the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and
n n certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board 
on Directors’ remuneration.
Andrew McIntyre (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London 
1 5 May 201 3
Independent auditor’s report 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 124
Policy
The valuation policy is the responsibility of the Board, with additional 
oversight and annual review from the Valuation’s Committee. Our policy 
is to value 3i’s investment portfolio at fair value and we achieve this 
by valuing investments on an appropriate basis, applying a consistent 
approach across the portfolio. The policy ensures that the portfolio 
valuation is compliant with the fair value guidelines under IFRS and, 
in so doing, is also compliant with the guidelines issued by the 
International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation board 
(the “IPEV guidelines”). The policy covers the Group’s Private Equity, 
Infrastructure and Debt Management investment valuations.
Fair value is the underlying principle and is defined as “the price that 
would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date” (IPEV guidelines, 
December 201 2). Fair value is therefore an estimate and, as such, 
determining fair value requires the use of judgement.
Private Equity valuation
Determining enterprise value
To arrive at the fair value of the Group’s Private Equity investments, 
we first estimate the entire value of the company we have invested 
in – the enterprise value. This enterprise value is determined using 
one of a selection of methodologies depending on the nature, facts 
and circumstances of the investment.
Where possible, we use methodologies which draw heavily on 
observable market prices, whether listed equity markets or reported 
merger and acquisition transactions.
The quoted assets in our portfolio are valued at their closing bid price 
at the balance sheet date.
The majority of the rest of our portfolio, however , is represented 
by unquoted investments. These are valued, in the vast majority 
of cases, with reference to market comparables, or to recent 
reported relevant transactions. 
As unquoted investments are not traded on an active market, the 
Group adjusts the estimated enterprise value by a marketability or 
liquidity discount. The marketability or liquidity discount is applied 
to the total enterprise value and we apply a higher discount rate 
for investments where there are material restrictions on our ability 
to sell at a time of our choosing.
The table on the opposite page outlines in more detail the range 
of valuation methodologies available to us, as well as the inputs 
and adjustments necessary for each.
Apportioning the enterprise value between 3i, 
other shareholders and lenders
Once we have estimated the enterprise value, the following steps 
are taken:
1  We subtract the value of any claims, net of free cash balances, 
that are more senior to the most senior of our investments.
2  The resulting attributable enterprise value is apportioned to the 
Group’s investment, and equal ranking investments by other parties, 
according to contractual terms and conditions, to arrive at a fair value 
of the entirety of the investment. The value is then distributed amongst 
the different loan, equity and other financial instruments accordingly. 
3  If the value attributed to a specific shareholder loan investment in a 
company is less than its par or nominal value, a shortfall is implied, 
which is recognised in our valuation. In exceptional cases, we may 
judge that the shortfall is temporary; to recognise the shortfall in 
such a scenario would lead to unrepresentative volatility and hence 
we may choose not to recognise the shortfall.
Other factors
In applying this framework, there are additional considerations that 
are factored into the valuation of some assets. 
Impacts from structuring
Structural rights are instruments convertible into equity or cash at 
specific points in time or linked to specific events. For example, where 
a majority shareholder chooses to sell, and we have a minority interest, 
we may have the right to a minimum return on our investment.
Debt instruments, in particular , may have structural rights. In the 
valuation, it is assumed third parties, such as lenders or holders of 
convertible instruments, fully exercise any rights they might have 
if they are “in the money”, and that the value to the Group may 
therefore be reduced by such rights held by third parties. The 
Group’s own rights are valued on the basis they are exercisable on 
the reporting date.
Assets classified as “terminal”
If we believe an investment has more than a 50% probability of failing 
in the 1 2 months following the valuation date, we value the investment 
on the basis of its expected recoverable amount in the event of failure. 
It is important to distinguish between our investment failing and the 
business failing; the failure of our investment does not always mean 
that the business has failed, just that our recoverable value has 
dropped significantly. This would generally result in the equity and 
loan components of our investment being valued at nil. Value 
movements in the period relating to investments classified as 
terminal are classified as provisions in our value movement analysis.
Infrastructure valuation
The primary valuation methodology used for infrastructure 
investments is the discounted cash flow method (“DCF”). Fair value 
is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment using 
reasonable assumptions of expected future cash flows and the 
terminal value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted discount 
rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the investment. The discount 
rate is estimated with reference to the market risk-free rate, a risk 
adjusted premium and information specific to the investment or 
market sector.
Debt Management valuation
The Group’s Debt Management business line typically invests in 
traded debt instruments and the subordinated notes that it is required 
to hold in the debt funds which it manages. The traded debt 
instruments and the subordinated notes are valued using an average 
of broker quotes available, reflecting the best available market 
observable data.
Where broker quotes are unavailable or deemed unreliable for 
subordinated notes, in the absence of an orderly market or where 
transactions take place in a market where the motivations of buyers 
and sellers is not fully transparent, then the fair value of the 
instrument is determined with reference to the performance of the 
underlying portfolio of the fund, typically with reference to the original 
arranging bank’s models.
Portfolio and other information
Portfolio valuation – an explanation 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 125
Portfolio and  
other information
Methodology Description Inputs Adjustments
% of portfolio 
valued on this basis
Earnings  
(Private Equity)
Most commonly used 
Private Equity valuation 
methodology 
Used for investments 
which are profitable 
and for which we can 
determine a set of listed 
companies and precedent 
transactions, where 
relevant, with similar 
characteristics
Earnings multiples are applied to the earnings of 
the company to determine the enterprise value 
Earnings 
Reported earnings adjusted for non-recurring 
items, such as restructuring expenses, for 
significant corporate actions and, in exceptional 
cases, run-rate adjustments to arrive at 
maintainable earnings 
Most common measure is earnings before interest, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”) 
Earnings used are usually the management 
accounts for the 12 months to the quarter end 
preceding the reporting period, unless data from 
forecasts or the latest audited accounts provides 
a more reliable picture of maintainable earnings 
Earnings multiples 
The earnings multiple is derived from comparable 
listed companies or relevant market transaction 
multiples 
We select companies in the same industry and, 
where possible, with a similar business model 
and profile in terms of size, products, services and 
customers, growth rates and geographic focus 
We adjust for changes in the relative performance 
in the set of comparables
A marketability or liquidity 
discount is applied to the 
enterprise value, typically 
between 5% and 15%, 
using factors such as 
our alignment with 
management and other 
investors and our 
investment rights 
in the deal structure
67%
Quoted 
(Infrastructure/
Private Equity)
Used for investments 
in listed companies
Closing bid price at balance sheet date No adjustments or  
discounts applied
13%
Imminent sale 
(Infrastructure/
Private Equity)
Used where an asset 
is in a sales process, 
a price has been agreed 
but the transaction has 
not yet settled
Contracted proceeds for the transaction, or best 
estimate of the expected proceeds
A discount of typically 2.5% 
is applied to reflect any 
uncertain adjustments 
to expected proceeds
2%
Fund  
(Infrastructure/
Private Equity/ 
Debt Management)
Used for investments in 
unlisted funds
Net asset value reported by the fund manager Typically no further 
discount applied in 
addition to that applied 
by the fund manager
1%
Specific industry 
metrics  
(Private Equity)
Used for investments in 
industries which have well 
defined metrics as bases 
for valuation – eg book 
value for insurance 
underwriters, or regulated 
asset bases for utilities
We create a set of comparable listed companies 
and derive the implied values of the relevant metric 
We track and adjust this metric for relative 
performance, as in the case of earnings multiples 
Comparable companies are selected using 
the same criteria as described for the  
earnings methodology
An appropriate discount is 
applied, depending on the 
valuation metric used
5%
Discounted  
Cash Flow 
(Infrastructure/ 
Private Equity)
Appropriate for businesses 
with long-term stable cash 
flows, typically in 
infrastructure
Long-term cash flows are discounted at a rate 
which is benchmarked against market data, where 
possible, or adjusted from the rate at the initial 
investment based on changes in the risk profile 
of the investment
Discount already implicit in 
the discount rate applied to 
long-term cash flows – no 
further discounts applied
7%
Broker quotes  
(Debt Management/
Infrastructure)
Used to value traded debt 
instruments
Broker quotes obtained from banks which trade 
the specific instruments concerned
No discount is applied 2%
Other  
(Private Equity)
Used where elements 
of a business are valued 
on different bases
Values of separate elements prepared on one 
of the methodologies listed above
Discounts applied to 
the separate elements, 
as above
3%
For a small proportion of our smaller investments (less than 1 % of the portfolio value), the valuation is determined by a more mechanical 
approach using information from the latest audited accounts. Equity shares are valued at the higher of an earnings or net assets methodology. 
Fixed income shares and loan investments are measured using amortised cost and any implied impairment, in line with IFRS.
Consistent with IPEV guidelines, all equity investments are held at fair value using the most appropriate methodology and no investments are 
held at historical cost.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 126
Fifty large investments
The list below provides information on 50 of our largest investments in respect of the Group’s holding, excluding any managed or advised external funds.  
These do not include seven investments that have been excluded for commercial reasons. 
Investment Description of business Business line Geography
First  
invested in
Valuation 
 basis
Proportion  
of equity  
shares held  
%
Residual cost  
March 2012  
£m
Residual cost  
March 2013  
£m
Valuation  
March 2012  
£m
Valuation  
March 2013  
£m
3i Infrastructure plc Quoted investment company, investing in infrastructure Infrastructure UK 2007 Quoted 34.1% 302 302 375 398
Action Non-food discount retailer Private Equity Benelux 2011 Earnings 21.1% 115 107 143 280
ACR Pan-Asian non-life reinsurance Private Equity Singapore 2006 Industry metric 23.9% 105 105 118 121
Element Materials Technology Testing and inspection Private Equity Benelux 2010 Earnings 42.8% 63 70 90 112
Foster + Partners
1
Architectural services Private Equity UK 2007 Other 40.0% 112 108
Hilite International Fluid control component supplier Private Equity Germany 2011 Earnings 25.4% 99 54 115 107
Quintiles Clinical research outsourcing solutions Private Equity North America 2008 Earnings 4.9% 74 74 86 103
Mayborn Manufacturer and distributor of baby products Private Equity UK 2006 Earnings 44.7% 103 87 105 97
Mémora Funeral service provider Private Equity Spain 2008 Earnings 34.7% 116 128 74 90
Civica Public sector IT and services Private Equity UK 2008 Earnings 40.2% 92 93 68 84
46% of 
total portfolio
 1,069  1,049  1,286  1,500 
AES Engineering Manufacturer of mechanical seals and support systems Private Equity UK 1996 Earnings 39.5% 30 30 63 79
Eltel Networks Infrastructure services for electricity and telecoms networks Private Equity Finland 2007 Earnings 42.6% 85 87 68 74
Tato
2
Manufacture and sale of speciality chemicals Private Equity UK 1989 Earnings 26.1% 2 2 59 63
Amor Distributor and retailer of affordable jewellery Private Equity Germany 2010 Earnings 42.1% 46 49 55 57
Phibro Animal Health Corporation Animal healthcare Private Equity North America 2009 Earnings 29.9% 89 89 41 57
Trescal Calibration services Private Equity France 2010 Earnings 23.5% 31 35 38 51
Palace Street I Debt management (Credit Opportunities Fund) Debt Management UK
3
2011 Broker quotes 100.0% 36 50 35 48
Hobbs Retailer of women’s clothing and footwear Private Equity UK 2004 Earnings 47.0% 74 79 49 47
OneMed Group Distributor of consumable medical products, devices and technology Private Equity Sweden 2011 Earnings 30.5% 93 113 46 47
Hyperion Insurance Group Specialist insurance intermediary Private Equity UK 2008 Imminent sale 19.1% 21 21 34 43
63% of 
total portfolio
 1,576  1,604  1,774  2,066
Geka Manufacturer of brushes, applicators and packaging systems for the cosmetics industry Private Equity Germany 2012 Earnings 45.7% n/a 57 n/a 39
Lekolar Distributor of pedagogical products and educational materials Private Equity Sweden 2007 Earnings 33.3% 30 33 36 36
Etanco Designer, manufacturer and distributor of fasteners and fixing systems Private Equity France 2011 Earnings 30.3% 72 74 67 34
LHI Technology Medical cable assemblies Private Equity China 2008 Earnings 37.5% 16 16 30 32
Krishnapatnam Port India port Infrastructure India 2009 DCF 3.0% 24 24 31 32
Inspecta Supplier of Testing, Inspection and Certification (TIC) services Private Equity Finland 2007 Earnings 39.2% 51 63 13 31
Blue Interactive Cable TV and broadband provider Private Equity Brazil 2012 Industry metric 44.0% n/a 29 n/a 29
BVG India Business services Private Equity India 2011 Earnings 19.6% 21 21 25 27
Refresco Manufacturer of private label juices and soft drinks Private Equity Benelux 2010 Earnings 10.7% 46 46 17 27
Azelis Distributor of specialty chemicals, polymers and related services Private Equity Benelux 2007 Earnings 47.5% 51 66 56 27
TouchTunes Interactive Networks Out of home interactive media and entertainment network Private Equity North America 2011 Earnings 9.4% 18 18 22 27
Navayuga Engineering and construction Private Equity India 2006 DCF/Earnings 10.0% 23 23 61 26
Polyconcept Supplier of promotional products Private Equity Benelux 2005 Earnings 13.0% 43 48 29 24
Agent Provocateur Women’s lingerie and associated products Private Equity UK 2007 Earnings 34.5% 49 49 13 24
SLR Management Specialist environmental consultancy Private Equity UK 2008 Earnings 25.9% 23 23 23 23
MKM Building Supplies Builders’ merchant Private Equity UK 1998 Earnings 30.3% 15 16 21 23
Loxam Professional equipment rental Private Equity France 2011 Earnings 4.9% 21 21 23 21
Consultim Finance Wholesaler of rental real estate Private Equity France 2007 Earnings 20.0% 24 12 20 20
John Hardy Designer jewellery business Private Equity China 2007 Earnings 23.5% 15 15 9 20
Soya Concept Fashion design company Private Equity Denmark 2007 Earnings 45.0% 13 13 23 20
UFO Moviez Provider of digital cinema services Private Equity India 2007 Earnings 27.6% 11 11 14 19
KMC Roads Road BOT project construction Infrastructure India 2011 DCF 6.9% 15 15 16 17
Adani Power Power generation Infrastructure India 2007 Quoted 1.6% 26 26 28 17
Environmental Scientifics Group (ESG) Testing, inspection and compliance Private Equity UK 2007 Earnings 38.0% 32 40 21 16
GVK Energy Power generation Infrastructure India 2010 DCF 2.8% 23 23 22 15
Joyon Southside Real estate Private Equity China 2007 DCF 49.9% 8 8 20 15
Óticas Carol Designer sunglasses business Private Equity Brazil 2013 Earnings 39.0% n/a 14 n/a 14
Indiareit Offshore Fund Indian real estate fund Private Equity India 2006 Fund 20.0% 13 13 12 12
Gain Capital Retail online forex trading Private Equity North America 2008 Quoted 14.0% 24 23 13 12
GO Outdoors Retailer of outdoor equipment, tents, clothing and footwear Private Equity UK 2011 Earnings 16.5% 17 17 13 12
84% of 
total portfolio
 2,299  2,460  2,452  2,757
1 The residual cost of this investment cannot be disclosed per a confidentiality agreement in place at investment. 
2 Previously disclosed as non-core. 
3 Managed in the UK, but has investments in Europe, North America and the UK.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 127
Portfolio and  
other information
The list below provides information on 50 of our largest investments in respect of the Group’s holding, excluding any managed or advised external funds.  
These do not include seven investments that have been excluded for commercial reasons. 
Investment Description of business Business line Geography
First  
invested in
Valuation 
 basis
Proportion  
of equity  
shares held  
%
Residual cost  
March 2012  
£m
Residual cost  
March 2013  
£m
Valuation  
March 2012  
£m
Valuation  
March 2013  
£m
3i Infrastructure plc Quoted investment company, investing in infrastructure Infrastructure UK 2007 Quoted 34.1% 302 302 375 398
Action Non-food discount retailer Private Equity Benelux 2011 Earnings 21.1% 115 107 143 280
ACR Pan-Asian non-life reinsurance Private Equity Singapore 2006 Industry metric 23.9% 105 105 118 121
Element Materials Technology Testing and inspection Private Equity Benelux 2010 Earnings 42.8% 63 70 90 112
Foster + Partners
1
Architectural services Private Equity UK 2007 Other 40.0% 112 108
Hilite International Fluid control component supplier Private Equity Germany 2011 Earnings 25.4% 99 54 115 107
Quintiles Clinical research outsourcing solutions Private Equity North America 2008 Earnings 4.9% 74 74 86 103
Mayborn Manufacturer and distributor of baby products Private Equity UK 2006 Earnings 44.7% 103 87 105 97
Mémora Funeral service provider Private Equity Spain 2008 Earnings 34.7% 116 128 74 90
Civica Public sector IT and services Private Equity UK 2008 Earnings 40.2% 92 93 68 84
46% of 
total portfolio
 1,069  1,049  1,286  1,500 
AES Engineering Manufacturer of mechanical seals and support systems Private Equity UK 1996 Earnings 39.5% 30 30 63 79
Eltel Networks Infrastructure services for electricity and telecoms networks Private Equity Finland 2007 Earnings 42.6% 85 87 68 74
Tato
2
Manufacture and sale of speciality chemicals Private Equity UK 1989 Earnings 26.1% 2 2 59 63
Amor Distributor and retailer of affordable jewellery Private Equity Germany 2010 Earnings 42.1% 46 49 55 57
Phibro Animal Health Corporation Animal healthcare Private Equity North America 2009 Earnings 29.9% 89 89 41 57
Trescal Calibration services Private Equity France 2010 Earnings 23.5% 31 35 38 51
Palace Street I Debt management (Credit Opportunities Fund) Debt Management UK
3
2011 Broker quotes 100.0% 36 50 35 48
Hobbs Retailer of women’s clothing and footwear Private Equity UK 2004 Earnings 47.0% 74 79 49 47
OneMed Group Distributor of consumable medical products, devices and technology Private Equity Sweden 2011 Earnings 30.5% 93 113 46 47
Hyperion Insurance Group Specialist insurance intermediary Private Equity UK 2008 Imminent sale 19.1% 21 21 34 43
63% of 
total portfolio
 1,576  1,604  1,774  2,066
Geka Manufacturer of brushes, applicators and packaging systems for the cosmetics industry Private Equity Germany 2012 Earnings 45.7% n/a 57 n/a 39
Lekolar Distributor of pedagogical products and educational materials Private Equity Sweden 2007 Earnings 33.3% 30 33 36 36
Etanco Designer, manufacturer and distributor of fasteners and fixing systems Private Equity France 2011 Earnings 30.3% 72 74 67 34
LHI Technology Medical cable assemblies Private Equity China 2008 Earnings 37.5% 16 16 30 32
Krishnapatnam Port India port Infrastructure India 2009 DCF 3.0% 24 24 31 32
Inspecta Supplier of Testing, Inspection and Certification (TIC) services Private Equity Finland 2007 Earnings 39.2% 51 63 13 31
Blue Interactive Cable TV and broadband provider Private Equity Brazil 2012 Industry metric 44.0% n/a 29 n/a 29
BVG India Business services Private Equity India 2011 Earnings 19.6% 21 21 25 27
Refresco Manufacturer of private label juices and soft drinks Private Equity Benelux 2010 Earnings 10.7% 46 46 17 27
Azelis Distributor of specialty chemicals, polymers and related services Private Equity Benelux 2007 Earnings 47.5% 51 66 56 27
TouchTunes Interactive Networks Out of home interactive media and entertainment network Private Equity North America 2011 Earnings 9.4% 18 18 22 27
Navayuga Engineering and construction Private Equity India 2006 DCF/Earnings 10.0% 23 23 61 26
Polyconcept Supplier of promotional products Private Equity Benelux 2005 Earnings 13.0% 43 48 29 24
Agent Provocateur Women’s lingerie and associated products Private Equity UK 2007 Earnings 34.5% 49 49 13 24
SLR Management Specialist environmental consultancy Private Equity UK 2008 Earnings 25.9% 23 23 23 23
MKM Building Supplies Builders’ merchant Private Equity UK 1998 Earnings 30.3% 15 16 21 23
Loxam Professional equipment rental Private Equity France 2011 Earnings 4.9% 21 21 23 21
Consultim Finance Wholesaler of rental real estate Private Equity France 2007 Earnings 20.0% 24 12 20 20
John Hardy Designer jewellery business Private Equity China 2007 Earnings 23.5% 15 15 9 20
Soya Concept Fashion design company Private Equity Denmark 2007 Earnings 45.0% 13 13 23 20
UFO Moviez Provider of digital cinema services Private Equity India 2007 Earnings 27.6% 11 11 14 19
KMC Roads Road BOT project construction Infrastructure India 2011 DCF 6.9% 15 15 16 17
Adani Power Power generation Infrastructure India 2007 Quoted 1.6% 26 26 28 17
Environmental Scientifics Group (ESG) Testing, inspection and compliance Private Equity UK 2007 Earnings 38.0% 32 40 21 16
GVK Energy Power generation Infrastructure India 2010 DCF 2.8% 23 23 22 15
Joyon Southside Real estate Private Equity China 2007 DCF 49.9% 8 8 20 15
Óticas Carol Designer sunglasses business Private Equity Brazil 2013 Earnings 39.0% n/a 14 n/a 14
Indiareit Offshore Fund Indian real estate fund Private Equity India 2006 Fund 20.0% 13 13 12 12
Gain Capital Retail online forex trading Private Equity North America 2008 Quoted 14.0% 24 23 13 12
GO Outdoors Retailer of outdoor equipment, tents, clothing and footwear Private Equity UK 2011 Earnings 16.5% 17 17 13 12
84% of 
total portfolio
 2,299  2,460  2,452  2,757
1 The residual cost of this investment cannot be disclosed per a confidentiality agreement in place at investment. 
2 Previously disclosed as non-core. 
3 Managed in the UK, but has investments in Europe, North America and the UK.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 128
Information for shareholders
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 19 June 2013
Record date 21 June 2013
Annual General Meeting* 18 July 2013
Final dividend to be paid 26 July 2013
Half-year results (available online only) November 2013
Interim dividend expected to be paid January 2014
*  The 2013 Annual General Meeting will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 18 July 2013 at 1 1.00am. For 
further details please see the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2013.
Information on ordinary shares
Shareholder profile: Location of investors at 31 March 201 3
UK 76.9%
North America 12.9%
Continental Europe 7.5%
Other international 2.7%
Share price
Share price at 31 March 2013 316.0p
High during the year (18 March 2013) 324.6p
Low during the year (24 May 2012) 168.8p
Dividends paid in the year to 31 March 201 3
201 1/2012 Final dividend, paid 20 July 2012 5.4p
2012/2013 Interim dividend, paid 9 January 2013 2.7p
Balance analysis summary
Number of holdings
Individuals
Number of holdings 
Corporate Bodies
Balance as at
31 March 2013 %
1 – 1,000 15,510 601 7,540,020 0.78
1,001 – 10,000 5,911 1,115 16,847,417 1.73
10,001 – 100,000 194 399 18,583,797 1.91
100,001 – 1,000,000 23 279 104,634,179 10.77
1,000,001 – 10,000,000 0 117 329,288,913 33.90
10,000,001 – highest 0 20 494,510,801 50.91
Total 21,638 2,531 971,405,127 100.00
The table above provides details of the number of shareholdings within each of the bands stated in the register of members at 31 March 201 3.
In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited 
telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters 
from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have 
some connection with the Company. These are typically from 
overseas based “brokers” who target UK shareholders offering to  
sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in  
UK or overseas investments. Shareholders are advised to be very 
wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount 
or offers of free reports into the Company. These approaches are 
operated out of what is more commonly known as a “boiler room”.  
You may also be approached by brokers offering to purchase your 
shares for an upfront payment in the form of a broker fee, tax 
payment or de-restriction fee. This is a common secondary scam 
operated by the boiler rooms.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
n n always ensure the firm is on the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) 
Register and is allowed to give financial advice before handing over 
your money. You can check at www.fca.org.uk/register;
n n double-check the caller is from the firm they say they are – ask for  
their name and telephone number and say you will call them back. 
Check their identity by calling the firm using the contact number 
listed on the FCA Register . This is important as there have been 
instances where an authorised firm’s website has been cloned but 
with a few subtle changes, such as a different phone number or 
false email address;
n n check the FCA’s list of known unauthorised overseas firms.  
However , these firms change their name regularly, so even if a firm 
is not listed it does not mean they are legitimate. Always check that 
they are listed on the FCA Register;
n n if you have any doubts, call the Financial Conduct Authority 
Consumer Helpline on 0800 1 1 1 6768. If you deal with an 
unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment  
under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.  Directors’ report
Pages 2 to 75 comprise the Directors’ report and pages 
76 to 85 comprise the Directors’ remuneration report, 
both of which are presented in accordance with English 
company law. The liabilities of Directors in connection 
with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law. These reports are 
intended to provide information to shareholders and are 
not designed to be relied upon by any other party or for 
any other purpose.
Disclaimer
This Annual report and accounts may contain state-
ments about the future, including certain statements 
about the future outlook for 3i Group plc and its 
subsidiaries (“3i”). These are not guarantees of future 
performance and will not be updated. Although we 
believe our expectations are based on reasonable 
assumptions, any statements about the future outlook 
may be influenced by factors that could cause actual 
outcomes and results to be materially different.
View online
For more information on 3i’s business,  
its portfolio and the latest news, please visit:
Register online
To receive shareholder communications 
electronically, including annual reports and 
notices of meetings, please register at:
Sign up for 3i news
To be kept up-to-date with 3i’s latest financial 
news and press releases, sign up for alerts at:
www.3i.com
www.3i.com/investor-relations
www.3i.com/investor-relations
Annual and reports and Half-yearly reports online
If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications 
electronically in future, including annual reports and notices 
of meetings, please visit our Registrars’ website at  
www.shareview.co.uk/clients/3isignup and follow the 
instructions there to register . 
The 201 3 half-yearly report will be available online only.  
Please register to ensure you are notified when it becomes available.
More general information on electronic communications is available 
on our website at 
www.3i.com/investor-relations/shareholder-information
Investor relations and general enquiries
For all investor relations and general enquiries about 3i Group plc, 
including requests for further copies of the Report and accounts, 
please contact:
Investor relations 
3i Group plc 
1 6 Palace Street 
London SW1E 5JD 
Telephone +44 (0)20 7975 31 31 
email IRTeam@3i.com
or visit the Investor relations section of our website at 
www.3i.com/investor-relations, for full up-to-date investor relations 
information, including the latest share price, results presentations and 
financial news.
Registrars
For shareholder administration enquiries, including changes 
of address please contact:
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Telephone 0871 384 2031
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, 
other telephony provider costs may vary. Lines are open from 8.30am 
to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. 
(International callers +44 1 21 4 1 5 7183)
3i Group plc
Registered office: 
1 6 Palace Street, 
London SW1E 5JD, UK
Registered in England No. 1 142830
An investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
Printed by Pureprint Group who are a CarbonNeutral® printer certified 
to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS 
the Eco Management Audit Scheme. Printed using vegetable oil based inks.
The report is printed on Amadeus 50% Silk which is FSC® certified 
and contains 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre.
FSC – Forest Stewardship Council
This ensures that there is an audited 
chain of custody from the tree in the 
well-managed forest through to the 
finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001
A pattern of control for an 
environmental management system 
against which an organisation can 
be accredited by a third party.
CarbonNeutral®
The CO
2
 emissions associated with 
the production and distribution of 
our Annual Report and accounts 2012 
have been measured and reduced 
to net zero through the Renew Portfolio 
of 100% renewable energy projects. 3i Group plc 
Annual report and 
accounts 201 3
Debt Management Infrastructure Private Equity
Register online
To receive shareholder 
communications electronically, 
including annual reports and notices 
of meetings, please register at:  
www.3i.com/investor-relations/shareholder-information
Sign up for 3i news
To be kept up-to-date with 3i’s latest 
financial news and press releases, 
sign up for alerts at: 
www.3i.com/investor-relations/financial-news/email-alerts
Website www.3i.com
3i Group plc
1 6 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD, UK 
Telephone +44 (0)20 7975 31 31
M72791 3 May 201 3
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
