 We aspire to be the 
most influential life 
sciences company for 
researchers worldwide
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ICC/IF image of antibody (ab208080) 
staining Actin in HeLA cells Delivering strong 
revenue performance 
whilst investing in 
the next chapter 
of Abcam’s growth.
We are committed to serving life science researchers to achieve 
their mission faster. We continue to identify the biological pathways 
of greatest interest to our consumers and continuously strive to 
provide products of the highest quality with increased specificity, 
reproducibility and sensitivity. At the same time, through investment 
and acquisition, we are expanding into new markets, identifying 
new technologies and applications while moving into new 
geographic regions, thereby driving sustainable growth.
Strategic report
2 Highlights of our year
3 Abcam at a glance
4 Chairman’s introduction
6 Our business model
7  CEO’s review and 
operational report
10 Our markets
11 Our strategic priorities
13 Our KPIs
14 Our risks
20  Corporate social 
responsibility (CSR)
21	 Our	financials
Corporate governance
25  Chairman’s governance overview
26  Directors and Company Secretary
28  Corporate governance report
33 Audit and Risk Committee
36 Nomination Committee
37 Remuneration report
50 Directors’ report
Financial statements
54 Independent auditors’ report
61 Consolidated income statement
61  Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
62 Balance sheets
63  Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
64  Company statement 
of changes in equity
65  Cash flow statements
66	 	 Notes	to	the	financial	statements
99 Technical glossary
101 Corporate directory
101 Shareholder information
Contents
View the technical glossary on pages 99 and 100
1 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report Abcam is successfully transitioning from a small high growth company to a 
substantial, sustainable growth business. This has been achieved by continuing 
to leverage our market leadership position in core primary antibody products, 
while increasing market share in non-antibody products. We have experienced 
a period of significant financial and operational growth as we deliver against 
our challenging goals. Our success gives us confidence in our strategy and in 
the long-term future of Abcam.
* CER calculated assuming that exchange rates for the currencies in which the Group trades had remained unchanged from FY 2015.
**  Excluding acquisition costs, acquisition integration costs, the initial incremental costs associated with the investment in systems and processes and prior year 
R&D tax credits. In the case of diluted earnings per share also excluding acquisition-related amortisation, the expense related to the unwinding of the discount 
applied on deferred consideration for AxioMx and the associated tax effects of adjusting items. See the section below headed Our Financials for more detail.
Financial highlights
Operational highlights
•  Product revenue increased by 17.4% on a reported 
basis to £159.0m (FY 2015: £135.4m). On a constant 
exchange rate (CER)* basis the increase was 14.4%
•  Total revenue increased on a reported basis by 
19.2% to £171.7m (FY 2015: £144.0m). On a CER 
basis the increase was 15.9%
•  Slight reduction in gross margin at 70.2% due to 
exchange rates (FY 2015: 70.5%)
•  Reported EBITDA margin was 33.6% (FY 2015: 37.3%). 
Adjusted EBITDA margin
**
 was 34.9% (FY 2015: 37.6%), 
the movement in which reflects the expected 
operational investment in Firefly and AxioMx and 
the impact of foreign exchange rate movements
•  Reported diluted earnings per share (EPS) was 
18.53 pence (FY 2015: 18.57 pence), reflecting 
previously announced investment in systems and 
processes and acquisition and integration costs. 
Adjusted EPS
**
 increased by 13.1% to 22.35 pence 
(FY 2015: 19.76 pence)
•  Closing cash and term deposits were £70.7m 
(30 June 2015: £58.7m)
•  Proposed full year dividend increased by 8.5% 
to 8.91 pence per share (FY 2015: 8.21 pence)
•  RabMAb
®
 primary antibody and non-primary 
antibody revenues grew on a CER basis by 29.5% 
and 30.3% respectively, demonstrating progress in 
executing our strategy, delivering at the top end 
of our key performance indicator (KPI) targets
•  Acquisition of AxioMx completed and integration 
of its technology platform progressing well
•  Introduced direct service in Singapore to provide 
technical support and customer services, expanding 
the Group’s presence in the Asia Pacific region
•  Signed a licence and supply agreement with 
Horizon Discovery Group plc for knockout cell lines, 
raising antibody validation standards to improve 
quality for researchers
•  Expanded existing facility in Boston, USA, with new 
laboratory space and relocated and integrated 
the Firefly team
•  Relocated the Hangzhou team to a new production 
facility to increase handling capacity
•  Our step change investment in systems and 
processes to scale the business for future sustained 
growth is underway
2 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Highlights of our year Mission
To serve life scientists 
to achieve their 
mission, faster
Vision
To be the most influential 
life sciences company 
for researchers worldwide
We are a global life sciences company providing highly validated antibodies 
and other binders and assays to the research and clinical communities to help 
advance the understanding of biology and causes of disease.
Headquartered in Cambridge, UK, we employ 
over 900 people across twelve locations serving 
researchers in more than 100 countries.
By listening to our consumers and advancing our 
product portfolio to meet their needs, we have 
become a leader in primary antibodies worldwide 
with over 21% of the primary antibodies market. 
We are also growing our market share across 
all other categories.
100+
countries delivered 
to worldwide
900+
employees
3 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
Abcam at a glance Reflecting on the performance over the year, I am delighted to say 
that the business has performed very well, meeting both its strategic 
and financial objectives.
Strategic execution
Over the past three years we have been reshaping our business 
and believe the results we report this year show that our strategic 
direction is the right one. We have grown in all of our geographic 
regions and product categories, whilst continuing progress against 
each of our strategic goals.
Abcam is a rapidly growing organisation which places new 
demands on our existing systems and processes. We are investing 
in new capabilities in order to support continued growth and realise 
the opportunities in the markets in which we operate. In particular, 
we are investing in scalable and flexible IT systems and have chosen 
a cloud-based enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform, as well 
as a primary implementation partner.
We believe our strategy is strengthening Abcam’s position at the heart 
of life science research worldwide. We expect to continue to grow 
organically and, where we see technologies and businesses that fit 
our business model, through partnering and acquisition. Our recent 
acquisition of AxioMx is a good example of where we identified 
a company with a new technology that potentially allows us to 
add further value to the research, diagnostic and therapeutic 
communities. This technology has the potential to produce highly 
validated recombinant monoclonal antibodies within weeks – a 
significantly shorter timeframe than is possible with current in vivo 
technology. The Board is pleased with the progress being made 
and the first AxioMx products are already on Abcam’s catalogue.
Our strategy is designed to increase revenue growth and improve 
the long-term financial performance of the business, in support of 
our ambition to become the most influential life sciences company 
supporting researchers. Each year we set ourselves challenging 
targets and, once again, we have achieved results at the top 
end of these targets.
Abcam has reported 
another year of strong 
revenue growth and the 
Board believes the Group is 
well positioned to continue 
delivering sustainable 
returns as it continues to 
invest to support the next 
chapter of growth.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
4 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Chairman’s introduction Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 6.556 pence per share 
(FY 2015: 5.92 pence per share). Added to the interim dividend of 
2.354 pence per share, this brings the total dividend for the financial 
year ended 30 June 2016 to 8.91 pence per share, representing an 
increase of 8.5% growth over the previous year. The dividend will 
be paid on 2 December 2016 to shareholders on the register 
on 11 November 2016. The associated ex-dividend date is 
10 November 2016.
Governance
Achieving high standards of governance is fundamental to the 
successful growth of our business. The establishment of a Company 
Secretariat has enabled additional focus to be given to corporate 
governance. Even though it is not a requirement for an AIM-listed 
company, we continue to comply in all material respects with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (Code).
As a Board, we have focused on enhancing our effectiveness 
and implementing the new requirements of the 2014 edition of the 
Code, which apply to us for the first time this year. These include 
defining our risk appetite and conducting a broader risk assessment 
in the context of assessing our longer-term financial viability.
We regularly review ways to improve the effectiveness of the Board 
and its Committees and a thorough and detailed internal evaluation 
was undertaken this year. A summary of the evaluation is on page 25.
Strong leadership and dedicated employees
Our Company has grown significantly over recent years and now 
employs over 900 people in twelve locations. During the year we 
have made key appointments across the business to broaden our 
product development and digital marketing expertise. We also 
expanded our legal and diagnostics teams, and appointed a global 
head of HR to ensure that we continue to attract and retain the 
best talent worldwide.
Our Board has also been strengthened with the addition 
of Mara Aspinall, who joined us in September 2015 as a  
Non-Executive Director, and she has already made significant 
contributions to the business. 
During the course of the year our Chief Operating Officer (COO), 
Jim Warwick, and our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Jeff Iliffe, 
announced their intention to leave Abcam and step down from 
the Board. Both have played a huge role in the Company’s success, 
with Jim being an integral part of the business for more than 15 years 
and Jeff similarly since being appointed CFO in 2007. I would like 
to thank them for all their hard work during their time at Abcam 
and their continued dedication to the business through an efficient 
transition. Jeff has ensured an orderly handover to Gavin Wood, who 
joined Abcam as CFO-elect on 18 July 2016, and will become CFO 
on 12 September. Jim is remaining with Abcam until the end of 2016 
to ensure that the initial build and design phase of our new ERP 
programme is completed.
In August 2016, Anthony Martin and Michael Ross advised the Board 
of their intention not to seek re-election as Directors at the forthcoming 
AGM. I would like to thank them both for the significant roles they 
have played during their service on the Board of Abcam. Their insight 
and support have been extremely valuable and we wish them well 
in their future endeavours.
The successful transformation of our business to date is a result of 
the hard work, enthusiasm and dedication of all of our employees. 
My thanks to them and to our shareholders, who have continued 
to support the business through a period of investment and growth. 
I would also like to thank my Board colleagues for their guidance 
and oversight of the business and the Executive Leadership Team 
for continuing to deliver strong business performance while 
successfully executing on the strategic priorities.
Creating future sources of value
We listen to our consumers and focus on identifying the biological 
pathways and targets of greatest interest to them, whilst working 
to ensure our products are of the highest quality, accompanied 
by relevant supporting data. This approach has resulted in Abcam 
remaining the leading primary antibody supplier to the life science 
research market. Favourable macroeconomic trends and our 
investment strategy combine to support the growth of our innovative 
products. While operating in a competitive marketplace, comprised 
of both private and public companies, we continue to gain 
market share.
We are making good progress against long term strategic priorities 
and growth objectives. We have a strong history of growth through 
acquisition and our most recent company acquisitions, Firefly BioWorks 
and AxioMx, whilst still in an investment stage, are beginning to deliver 
results. We will continue our programme of investment in our systems 
and processes, as well as in our facilities, to ensure that we have the 
infrastructure to support the growth of the business and we are 
confident that we can continue to build significant value for all 
of our stakeholders.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
5 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report Pathway
AAAI
Binder Peptides
Proteins
Cellular 
assays
Matched 
pairs
Direct 
conjugates
Multiplex 
assays
Singleplex 
assays
Learning from 
consumer interaction 
and improving 
offering as a result
Core purpose
At Abcam we are focused on providing research antibodies 
and other research tools to serve life scientists and enable 
our consumers to achieve their mission faster. These products 
allow research into the role of signalling and regulatory 
molecules and proteins in biological pathways, ultimately 
leading to treatments for diseases such as cancer and 
immune deficiency disorders. Our catalogue includes 
approximately 128,000 diverse products and, including 
our revenues from custom products and licensing, 41.5% 
of our total revenue is now derived from our in-house 
manufactured products and innovation.
Creating value
From Abcam’s inception, we have increased the value 
of our products by adding performance data that is readily 
accessible to our consumers. We are now expanding how 
we add value by increasing the feedback mechanisms for 
consumers, acting on these insights and providing 
products for difficult targets.
Broadening our offering
We constantly review opportunities to expand our 
offering to consumers by broadening our product 
range, improving speed to market and accessing 
underpenetrated consumer groups in the markets 
we serve. One area that has become increasingly 
attractive to us is broadening Abcam’s offerings as 
a development and supply partner in the diagnostics 
market. Although nascent, we have seen some 
exceptional success partnering with major diagnostic 
companies, particularly with an emerging therapeutic 
target, PD-L1.
Our business model is designed to 
deliver sustainable long-term value 
for all our stakeholders.
Gain insights into how researchers work 
and what they need
1
Prioritise high-value pathways and targets 
and tailor and extend product portfolio
2
Quickly offer what consumers need through 
digital and offline channels
3
6 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Our business model Alan Hirzel
Chief	Executive	Officer
We are building Abcam for success in the life science market 
of today and tomorrow by creating a scalable platform that 
will enable us to continue to grow over the long term.
The Company has transitioned from being a small high growth 
company to being a significant player in our core markets, with 
future expansion potential through targeted investment. Abcam is 
the market leader in primary antibodies for use in research. It is our 
goal to continue to grow the Company and create value for all 
of our stakeholders. We have a strong track record of delivering 
on our promises and we will continue to focus on understanding 
our customers, delivering high quality products, and being the 
innovation partner of choice for the researchers we serve globally.
A clear direction
In 2014 we laid out the strategy that has subsequently seen Abcam 
become increasingly successful, bearing testament to the hard 
work of all our employees across the Company. Each year we set 
ourselves challenging goals and I am pleased to say that in FY 2016 
the achievement against our KPI targets was at the top end of the 
target range, or above, in each category.
Strategic KPI FY 2016 target
FY 2016 
performance Importance
Growth in constant 
currency revenue 
from RabMAb
®
 primary 
antibody range
15%–20% 29.5% Abcam is the leading supplier of recombinant monoclonal antibodies. RabMAb
®
 
primary antibodies are increasing their market share and are valuable tools for life 
science researchers, who are looking for more specific and sensitive antibodies 
that give repeatable results. With almost 9,000 RabMAb
®
 primary antibodies in our 
catalogue, we expect them to continue to play an important part in our growth.
Growth in constant 
currency revenue 
from non-primary 
antibody products
25%–30% 30.3% Driving growth by expanding into new areas is a focus for our business. 
Non-primary antibody products now comprise over 18% of our total revenue.
Net Promoter Score (NPS) 22%–28% 26% The NPS measures how our consumers perceive our brand.
#1 market position 
in primary antibodies
Gain market share 
in at least two other 
product categories
#1 primary 
antibodies
Gained market  
share across all  
other categories
Market research has confirmed that we remain the #1 brand for research 
antibodies and we continue to gain market share across all other categories.
7 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
CEO’s review and operational report Our strategic priorities
Our strategy is designed to generate sustainable sales and earnings 
growth and improved returns to shareholders.
We have five strategic priorities:
• to grow our core reagents business faster than the market;
• establish new growth platforms;
• scale organisation capabilities;
• sustain attractive economics; and
• selectively pursue partnerships and acquisitions.
Read more about our achievements against these priorities 
on pages 11 and 12.
Innovation and future growth
We continue to focus on our broad portfolio of tools to enable 
research into the role of signalling and regulatory molecules 
and proteins in biological pathways.
We analyse data and research trends to develop products that fit 
the requirements of our consumers. We package these products in 
a format that suits their needs, making it easier and faster for them 
to complete their work. This approach is driving new product sales.
Our proprietary, high quality RabMAb
®
 technology continues to be 
an important differentiator for the business. We increased our ranges 
of RabMAb
®
 antibodies and SimpleStep ELISA
®
 assay kits which contain 
RabMAb
®
 antibodies.
During the year we also launched a suite of matched antibody 
pairs in a standalone format. These products provide greater 
flexibility to researchers and allow cost-effective drug discovery.
Expanding the global reach of our products is fundamental to 
our organic growth plans. In addition to extending our geographic 
outreach in China, during the year we have also introduced 
a direct supply model in Singapore.
The diagnostics market is an area where we see an opportunity for 
expansion and is one where we have seen success. Abcam’s work 
with global pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies to develop 
and produce companion diagnostic antibodies to targets such as 
PD-L1, is a prime example.
PD-L1 is an important target in difficult to treat cancers such as 
melanoma and lung cancer and Abcam’s RabMAb
®
 technology has 
played a key role in helping diagnostic companies to offer specific 
diagnostic antibodies targeting PD-L1 to the clinic. Abcam worked 
on several bespoke projects in partnership with large pharmaceutical 
companies to develop highly specific RabMAb
®
 antibodies to the 
target. In addition to these clinical uses, PD-L1 RabMAb
®
 product 
(clone 28–8) is now also available on our website for research use and 
in its first year has become one of the most cited antibodies of its type.
Creating value through acquisition and partnering
Abcam has a strong track record of delivering growth through 
acquisition and partnership deals. The Company actively seeks 
to partner with entities that offer complementary products or 
capabilities in the life science market.
We have clear criteria when considering opportunities. In addition 
to being able to generate an appropriate return on investment for 
our shareholders, we look for new innovative growth platforms and/or 
new expertise that we can leverage.
The acquisitions of MitoSciences and Epitomics gave us an 
enhanced immunoassay portfolio and intellectual property 
for RabMAb
®
 production capacity respectively, both of which 
have made significant contributions to Abcam’s growth.
Our more recent acquisitions, whilst both still in an investment stage, 
are already beginning to deliver results. We acquired Firefly BioWorks 
in January 2015 and, later that year, launched microRNA (miRNA) 
assays using the Firefly
®
 technology. These allow measurement of 
multiple miRNA assays with fewer steps than conventional assays. 
This technology is starting to deliver, largely through our sample 
testing services, and is also in use in customers’ own laboratories. 
We have already seen several publications using the technology, 
including a paper describing the development of miRNA biomarkers 
for cardiac toxicity in drug development. We are also developing 
multiplex immunoassays using the Firefly
®
 technology and are beta 
testing these products with researchers. The Firefly
®
 multiplex 
immunoassays, enabling efficient measurement of multiple proteins, 
will complement our SimpleStep ELISA
®
 and Matched Antibody Pair 
product lines, which offer rapid testing and a flexible format respectively. 
Our RabMAb
®
 antibodies are incorporated in all of these products 
and they are developed at our Eugene, Oregon site, which was 
added in the MitoSciences acquisition in 2011.
AxioMx, which we acquired in November 2015, offers in vitro 
recombinant monoclonal antibody technology which complements 
Abcam’s existing antibody and immunoassay capabilities by targeting 
attractive and growing markets that traditional in vivo antibody 
production methods struggle to address. In addition to opening new 
markets, AxioMx capabilities have the potential to deliver high quality 
antibodies within weeks, which is significantly faster than is possible 
using in vivo methods. The team has made good progress since 
the acquisition from both a commercial and technical perspective, 
with new AxioMx technology-based developments for SimpleStep 
ELISA
®
 with matched antibody pair and conjugated product lines 
all being initiated. The plan for additional products focusing on new 
targets is in progress and the first AxioMx developed products are 
now on the catalogue.
It is part of our strategy to pursue further acquisitions and 
collaborations where they will create additional value for 
the business and our stakeholders.
Investing for the future
Abcam is a rapidly growing organisation and it is important that we 
have the infrastructure to support this growth both from a systems 
and processes perspective. Key to this is the implementation of a 
comprehensive ERP system. During the period, we have gone through 
an extensive selection process both of the platform and for an 
implementation partner. We have chosen Oracle Fusion as the 
core cloud-based ERP software provider and have also appointed 
our primary implementation partner. The detailed design phase 
of the project is nearing completion and we have already begun 
to build certain modules in line with a phased approach to roll-out.
We believe the investment will give us multiple advantages, including 
allowing us to scale the business without increasing the headcount 
by as much as would otherwise be the case; improving consumer 
interaction and conversion; better information for decision making 
and a significant improvement in integrating and delivering value 
from any future strategic acquisitions or investments.
Additionally, we have made enhancements to some of our facilities 
to fit the needs of our growing organisation. We have increased 
handling capacity through our investment in the relocation of our 
Hangzhou production facility and have integrated the Firefly team 
into the same building as our existing facility in Boston, USA.
8 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
CEO’s review and operational report continued Our headquarters in Cambridge, UK, are currently spread across 
three sites. In August 2016, outline planning permission was obtained 
for a new building on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, which 
would enable us to consolidate into a single site, with sufficient 
space to accommodate our current and future needs.
Markets
The global life science research tools market is estimated to be $2.7bn 
and we continue to be the leader in the estimated $900m primary 
research antibodies market segment, supported by strong growth 
in RabMAb
®
 antibodies. We have also been successful in delivering 
significant revenue growth from our non-antibody products.
The table below shows our revenues from a geographical point of 
view based on the location of our customers. It shows strong revenue 
growth, and further information about our markets can be found on 
page 10 of this report.
Revenue
FY 2016
£000
Revenue
FY 2015
£000
Increase in
reported
revenue
CER
growth
The Americas 68,800 58,535 17.5% 10.6%
EMEA 47,686 43,343 10.0% 12.4%
Japan 12,321 11,148 10.5% 7.2%
China 18,844 12,912 45.9% 43.0%
Rest of Asia Pacific 11,310 9,444 19.8% 16.5%
Catalogue revenue 158,961 135,382 17.4% 14.4%
Custom products 
and licensing
1
12,712 8,651 46.9% 39.2%
Total reported 
revenue 171,673 144,033 19.2% 15.9%
1  Custom products and licensing revenues were previously known as non-product 
revenues but have been re-named to better reflect the nature of this income. This 
includes revenues from custom services, IVD and licences.
Values and our people
Abcam is a rapidly growing company and key to our success is 
the quality of our people and the way we conduct our business. 
Our global headcount has increased to over 900 employees 
and we have attracted strong talent to the Company and built 
solid capabilities which are underpinning the long-term growth 
of the business.
Outlook
To ensure we are able to capitalise fully on the opportunities 
available to us, we continue to work closely with our consumers 
and invest in R&D, our employees, our IT and our infrastructure 
to provide innovative, trusted and improved solutions.
Supported by a clear purpose and strategy we believe that 
Abcam is well positioned to continue delivering long-term value 
for our stakeholders.
Alan Hirzel
Chief Executive Officer
9 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report Our marketplace
Antibodies and associated life science research reagents have a 
broad range of commercial applications. A full glossary of technical 
terminology is on pages 99 and 100.
The global life science research tools market is estimated to 
be $2.7bn from which the primary antibody research sector 
is estimated at $900m and where Abcam continues to retain 
market leadership.
The pharmaceutical industry continues to invest in vitro diagnostics 
(IVD) and we plan to invest more resources into IVD.
Main geographic markets
As with the overall global economy, there are some pockets of 
funding challenges in the life sciences sector, although this varies 
regionally. Our approach is to understand the drivers for research 
and development (R&D) funding across the different regions, so 
we can provide the most efficient and effective solutions that 
best serve consumer needs.
Key markets and trends
The Americas
For the US government fiscal year 2016, NIH funding 
was increased by $2bn or 6.6% from $30.bn to $32.1bn, 
the largest increase in twelve years. Regionally, this 
was partially offset by reduced government funding 
for research in Canada and Latin America. Abcam’s 
revenue from the Americas market grew in double 
digits aided by double-digit growth in the US and 
Latin America, mid to high single-digit growth in 
primary antibodies and an increase in consumer 
spend on non-antibody products.
Japan
The fifth Science and Technology Basic Plan was 
adopted at the end of 2015 and the ‘Grants-in-Aid 
for Scientific Research’ government funding 
remained flat for the fiscal year starting April 2016. 
However, we have achieved over 7% revenue 
growth as we continue to invest resource in 
building customer relationships.
China
China is a significant growth market for global R&D 
and saw considerable investment in the last five-year 
government funding plan. The 13th five-year plan, 
which covers 2016 to 2020, indicates there will be 
continued investment in the Life Sciences sector.
China has seen good growth particularly for RabMAb
®
 
antibodies, and kits and assays.
Asia Pacific
An increase in public and private healthcare 
spending has boosted the pharmaceuticals 
and biotech industry in Asia. We have seen strong 
double-digit growth in the region, reflecting our 
increased focus on Australia, New Zealand 
and Singapore.
EMEA
Over 2013–2015, Europe has seen only very modest 
increases in basic research funding. Despite a tight 
academic funding environment, Abcam continues 
to perform well in European regions. The UK is growing 
slower than mainland Europe, but we are seeing 
good growth in Germany and Switzerland, largely due 
to increasing industry demand and collaborations 
with academic institutes. Italy and Spain are also 
seeing positive growth as a result of EU funding.
Key growth drivers
• Demand for more accurate and reliable antibodies 
and research tools by the research community.
• Discovery of new antibody manufacturing technologies 
to speed up the pace of scientific research.
• Continuing basic research and R&D investment in new 
medicines and diagnostics by the pharmaceutical industry 
especially in the oncology field. 
• Collaborations between private and public organisations 
to improve health outcomes, e.g. the BRAIN Initiative, 
the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy and 
President Obama’s US Personalized Medicine Initiative.
• Companion diagnostics are becoming increasingly important 
to identify patients most suited to a therapeutic treatment, 
and for governments looking to streamline healthcare costs.
Global life science research  
tools market estimated to be worth
$2.7bn
10 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Our markets Our strategic priorities
What we promised  
for FY 2016 What we achieved Our next priorities
1
Grow our 
core reagents 
business faster 
than the market
Our aim is to generate 
above market revenue 
growth from our existing 
consumer base, as well 
as by attracting 
new consumers
Continue innovating to build portfolios 
of products around high value targets
Make further digital marketing 
improvements to provide a more 
personalised consumer experience
Continued focus on quality to ensure 
products are always specific, selective 
and reproducible in the context for 
which our consumers use them
Published directly conjugated 
RabMAb
®
 primary antibodies 
against high value targets 
Strong performance across 
our digital/eCommerce platforms 
and further investment in our 
mobile platform, as well as content 
marketing and marketing automation 
Delivered improvements to quality 
by continuing to implement knockout 
validation of antibodies using 
knockout cell lines
Continue to drive market share 
gain for primary antibodies (including 
rabbit monoclonal antibodies)
Retain existing consumers and attract 
new ones by continuing to improve 
our digital and offline experiences
Continue focus on high quality 
products which are specific, selective 
and reproducible in the context for 
which our consumers use them
2
Establish new 
growth platforms
Our aim is to deliver 
enhanced value by 
the addition of attractive 
new product ranges or 
services in either the same 
or adjacent segments 
and by extending our 
geographic penetration
Continue to strengthen our position 
in China
Build our kits and assays 
capabilities, leveraging our 
RabMAb
®
 and Firefly
®
 technologies
Continue to increase our share of 
underpenetrated segments/consumers
Increase number of strategically 
important accounts with eProcurement 
punch-out capability
Continued to grow the market 
in China
Integration and promotion of new 
kits and assays products such as 
Firefly
®
 MiRNA assays 
Focused on less penetrated, 
high potential consumer segments
Continued to make it easier 
for organisations to buy from 
us by increasing the number 
of accounts with eProcurement 
punch-out capabilities
Continue to strengthen our position 
in China
Continue to grow our kits and 
assays business further leveraging our 
RabMAb
®
 and Firefly
®
 technologies
Continue to increase share 
of unpenetrated segments 
Grow custom product and licensing
3
Scale organisation 
capabilities
Our aim is to attract 
and retain the best 
people, empower them 
to succeed and build the 
capabilities necessary to 
deliver our strategy
Complete move of Hangzhou 
production facility
Complete outline design and begin 
planning approval process for new 
head office in Cambridge, UK
Implement improvements to the Boston, 
USA, office and relocate Firefly team to 
integrate them into the same building
Complete strategic IT review 
and begin implementation
Roll out long-term leadership and 
development training programme 
for senior managers
Relocated the Hangzhou team to 
a new production facility to increase 
handling capacity
Obtained outline planning permission 
in August 2016 for a new head office
Expanded existing facility in Boston, 
USA with new laboratory space 
and relocated and integrated 
the Firefly team 
Completed IT review and chose 
Oracle Fusion as the core software 
for the enterprise-wide change to our 
systems and processes. The detailed 
design phase of the project is nearing 
completion and we have already 
begun to building certain modules 
in line with a phased approach 
to roll-out
Appointed new CFO and Global 
Head of HR
New leadership training programme 
rolled out
Finalise Executive Leadership Team 
hires and integrate and align teams 
Implement the Oracle Fusion modules 
successfully and in accordance with 
the implementation plan
Progress activities to consolidate 
our Cambridge UK facilities
Our strategy is designed to increase growth 
and improve our long-term financial performance, 
in support of our ambition to become the most 
recommended brand by life science researchers.
11 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
Our strategic priorities Our strategic priorities
What we promised  
for FY 2016 What we achieved Our next priorities
4
Sustain attractive 
economics
Our aim is to ensure 
operational efficiency 
and cost effectiveness 
to deliver sustainable, 
profitable growth 
Perform a detailed review of the 
cost base to maximise operational 
and capital spending efficiency
Establish a Singapore office to allow 
direct sales in this market
Review and optimise other global 
distribution arrangements
Enhance business planning 
and analysis capabilities
Restructuring of finance function 
to enhance planning capabilities 
and drive efficiencies
Reviewed existing global distribution 
agreements and introduced direct 
sales to Singapore 
Development of plans to transform 
systems and processes to underpin 
growth and improve efficiency
Optimise and further improve 
custom service role and economics 
Consolidate procurement 
and identify cost savings 
Scale-up of AxioMx production 
5
Selectively pursue 
partnerships and 
acquisitions
Our aim is to supplement 
the other components 
of our strategy by making 
acquisitions of and working 
with partners that add to 
our competitive advantage 
in the life science market
Continue to actively seek out and 
evaluate new partnerships, acquisitions, 
collaborations and investment opportunities 
that support our strategy and leverage our 
competitive advantage
Prepare analysis of markets  
under-represented in our current 
business model and establish prioritisation 
plan for exploiting opportunities identified
Acquisition of AxioMx which has the 
potential capability to deliver high 
quality antibodies significantly faster 
than is possible using in vivo methods
Signed a licence and supply 
agreement with Horizon Discovery 
Group plc for knockout cell lines
Continue to actively seek out 
and evaluate new partnerships, 
acquisitions, collaborations and 
investment opportunities that 
support our strategy and leverage 
our competitive advantage
12 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Our strategic priorities continued We measure our performance against a number of KPI targets. Success against these KPIs forms a component 
of the Executive Directors’ incentives, as outlined on pages 38 and 39.
Ongoing targets:
• Maintain #1 position in primary research antibodies
• Gain share in at least two other product categories
How we performed: Market research has confirmed that we remain the #1 company for research antibodies and that we continue to gain 
market share across all other categories.
Market position
#1in primary research antibodies
Strategic alignment:
1 2 5
Strategic alignment:
How we performed: At a constant exchange rate (CER) growth rate of 29.5%, our RabMAb
®
 revenues have outperformed our high 
expectations in the year.
1 4 5
RabMAb
®
 primary 
antibodies CER 
revenue growth
29.5%
18%–22% FY 2017 target
29.5% FY 2016
15%–20% FY 2016 target
24.2% FY 2015
17.1% FY 2014
33.5% FY 2013
How we performed: Led by our kits and assays business, non-primary antibody CER revenue growth was 30.3%, outperforming our 
high expectations.
Strategic alignment:
2 5
Non-primary 
antibody products 
CER revenue growth
30.3%
20%–25% FY 2017 target
30.3% FY 2016
25%–30% FY 2016 target
28.2% FY 2015
34.3% FY 2014
32.4% FY 2013
Strategic alignment:
1 2
Net Promoter Score (NPS)
26%
How we performed: We conducted several formal consumer surveys during the year to determine the likelihood of consumers 
recommending Abcam’s products and services to a colleague. The balance of promoter and detractors is then computed into an NPS using 
standard industry methods. Our NPS improved by two percentage points to 26%. We have moved from eighth to fifth ranked in market, and 
remain focused on further advancement.
FY 2017 target
26% FY 2016
24% FY 2015
18% FY 2014
19% FY 2013
FY 2016 target 22%–28%
2
24%–30%
13 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
Our KPIs Abcam’s risk management strategy is to identify, 
assess and mitigate any significant risks that it faces 
in accordance with the Group’s risk appetite. It is 
recognised, however, that no risk management strategy 
can provide absolute assurance against loss.
Risk management framework
The risk management framework provides the structure within 
which the principal risks affecting our business are managed, 
and sets the tone, culture and appetite for risk.
The Board is accountable for carrying out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those threatening its business 
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity. The Board, 
in conjunction with the Audit and Risk Committee, has performed 
a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, under 
four broad categories: business model/strategy risks, operational 
risks, financial risks and contextual risks. The principal risks form the 
backbone of the risk register, which is formally reviewed by the 
Board and the Audit and Risk Committee twice a year. The Audit 
and Risk Committee is tasked with reviewing and approving the 
adequacy and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls.
The Executive Leadership Team is responsible for maintaining 
the risk register, including the identification and evaluation of any 
newly recognised risks. It implements mitigating actions in relation 
to significant risks, embeds risk management in the internal controls 
system and sets the tone of an open and receptive approach to 
solving risk problems in the Group. Abcam has implemented policies 
and procedures intended to reduce risk. Our risk management 
policies are regularly reviewed, taking into account current market 
conditions and the Group’s activities.
Subsidiary companies and Group functions are responsible for 
identifying, assessing and managing risks within their office or function. 
The Group financial management team has added responsibilities 
to challenge and review the risks identified, maintaining a view on 
changes in the business that may give rise to new risks or risk areas 
and to ensuring that significant risks are escalated to the risk register.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite describes the types and amount of risk that the Board 
is willing to take or accept to achieve our strategic and operational 
objectives, and serves as a boundary to our strategy. Our culture 
is based on an entrepreneurial and collaborative spirit which has 
supported the rapid growth of the business to date. 
The Board aims to enable the scalability of the business by reinforcing 
appropriate controls without hindering its ability to continue to grow 
and take advantage of opportunities. In doing so, the Group has no 
appetite for significant reputational risk, for breaking laws of the regions 
in which we operate or for not providing appropriate facilities and 
tools for our staff to do this effectively.
The Board has spent considerable time during the year reviewing 
risk appetite both overall and in relation to each principal risk and 
mitigating actions. As a result, for each principal risk there is a risk 
appetite statement that has been approved by the Board and 
that has been embedded in the risk register, risk policy and the 
Group’s culture.
Principal risks
A summary of the principal risks, their linkage to our strategy and an 
explanation of how the Group mitigates each risk are set out in the 
table on pages 15 to 19. Whilst the Group is exposed to a number of 
risks, wider than those listed, these are currently of most concern to 
the business.
The Board determined that some of the risks previously reported in 
the 2015 Annual Report were no longer principal risks for the Group. 
Disruption to product supply has been reduced to a lower level risk 
as the revenue loss linked to a single supplier would be less than 3.5% 
of catalogue revenues. With regard to non-compliance with regulation, 
the removal of the specific reference to health and safety reflects 
that area being seen as low risk due to changes in risk management 
processes. Lastly, failure to protect intellectual property rights was 
no longer considered as a principal risk due to the diverse product 
range. The wording of the principal risks has been simplified and 
some of the previously reported risks have been amalgamated in 
order to fully and accurately reflect the nature of those risks today.
The Board discussed the Code requirements to give due regard 
to risks to the Group’s strategy. New risks ‘identification, valuation 
and pursuit of acquisitions and investments’ and ‘ERP project/IT 
infrastructure’ have been added to ensure that all the Group’s 
strategic priorities are given the correct focus. The Board also 
separately identified reputational risk, which was previously implicit in 
a number of the principal risks. This was not because of any change 
in the underlying risks of the Group or its environment but because 
business news during the year has heightened awareness of the 
breadth of this issue and its potential consequences.
There may be other risks and uncertainties which are unknown to 
the Group or which could become material in the future. These risks 
may cause the Group’s results to vary materially from historic and 
expected results.
Further additional information on the Group’s financial risk 
management strategy can be found in note 26 to the 
financial statements. 
14 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Our risks Brexit
The Board has evaluated the potential implications for Abcam 
of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. 
Whilst Brexit has created uncertainty and will potentially introduce 
complexity, the Board does not currently believe that Brexit will have 
a material adverse impact on the Group’s results or financial position, 
and as such is not considered as a principal risk for the Group.
Nevertheless, we will be monitoring the situation closely, including 
the following areas of potential impact on our business:
• Short-term volatility in exchange rates. Continued weakness 
of Sterling against the currencies in which the Group trades, 
such as that seen since the UK’s referendum vote to leave the EU, 
would be positive for revenues and profitability. Our policy is to 
hedge a material proportion of estimated net foreign currency 
cash flows, on a rolling basis. Consequently, the earnings benefit 
of weak Sterling will be limited in the 2017 financial year.
• Life science funding uncertainty in the UK. The UK currently 
accounts for around 7% of Group revenue. Funding uncertainty 
can slow demand until the outlook is more certain and it could 
be that we see slowdowns in the UK as scientists consider what 
this decision means for their funding. 
• Employment and immigration. We have many EU citizens in our 
UK offices. Whilst we are hopeful that future immigration policy 
will not impact on our ability to continue to draw on the EU as 
a talent pool for staff, until future arrangements are finalised, 
this remains an area of uncertainty for us.
Longer-term viability statement
A new requirement of the 2014 edition of the Code is to assess 
the future prospects of the Group over a period longer than the 
twelve months required by the going concern provisions of the 
Code, and issue a ‘viability statement’. The overriding aim is to 
encourage Directors of companies to focus on the longer term 
and be more actively involved in risk management and 
internal controls.
The Board selected a five-year assessment period for the viability 
statement as this aligns with our innovation pipeline and planning 
and covers the period of the capital outflows associated with the 
investment in the ERP system and relocation of the head office 
in Cambridge, UK.
The process adopted to assess the viability of the Company 
involved collaborative input from a number of functions across the 
business to model a series of theoretical ‘stress test’ scenarios linked 
to the Group’s principal risks, which are shown on pages 15 to 19. 
Consideration was also given to the impact of mitigating risk, as well 
as inevitable interdependencies. An overview of the process undertaken 
was reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee. The viability evaluation 
was then provided to the Board to assist in its assessment.
In assessing the Group’s prospects and resilience, the Directors have 
done so with reference to its current financial position and prospects, 
its recent and historical financial performance and forecasts, the 
Board’s risk appetite and the principal risks and mitigating factors 
described on pages 15 to 19. The Group is operationally and financially 
strong and has a track record of consistently generating profits 
and cash, which is expected to continue.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the next five years.
Table of principal risks
The direction of change during the year is illustrated by the arrow in the ‘Change’ column. Please note that this refers 
to the overall change in the risk to the Group, following mitigating actions.
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk
Inadequate integration or leverage of acquired businesses
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Misjudging key elements of an 
acquisition or failing to integrate 
in an efficient and timely manner 
would disrupt existing operations
• Detailed integration plan, informed 
by technical and financial diligence, 
is put in place prior to acquisition
• Dedicated integration project teams 
assigned with clear responsibilities for 
delivery post acquisition
• Regular communication on progress 
highlighting variations to the integration 
plan and remedial action taken
• Investment in the adaptability of our systems. 
Our ERP system is expected to enhance 
our ability to integrate systems
• Acquisition and integration of AxioMx  
on track
• Integration of Firefly into our Boston offices 
is complete, and product development is 
proceeding well
Acquisition  
of AxioMx
  4 5 5
15 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report Increased competition: specifically pinpointed to disruptive developments
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Whilst the market remains 
fragmented and competitive 
as the number of antibody 
suppliers is still growing, the area 
of focus is mainly new technologies, 
channels and workarounds. 
New growth opportunities are 
dependent on rapidly evolving 
technological developments 
and consumer needs. To maintain 
our position as the market leader 
in primary antibodies and to gain 
share in the other markets in 
which we operate, it is essential 
to stay at the forefront of 
industry developments
• Maintain market knowledge and monitor 
competitor developments and technologies
• Maintain large network of product suppliers
• Well-established and progressive product 
content, datasheets, supply channels and 
logistic network
• Maintain investment in R&D and consumer 
insight programmes
• Appropriate intellectual property 
registrations and enforcement
• Continuous improvement in product quality 
to better meet needs through strategic 
investment and QA processes
• Continue to invest in securing new products 
and in our website and logistics network
• Hiring and developing the right 
talented people
• Continuous commitment to product 
differentiation through innovation 
and product quality improvements
• Acquisition of AxioMx brings potential 
for rapid in vitro antibody development 
across a wider set of targets
• Further development of Firefly
®
 technology 
• Firefly
®
 Multiplex Immunoassay sample 
testing service launched giving results to 
customers in less than 15 business days
• miRNA assays launched on website
• Specialist reviews of technology 
developments in the market continue
   1 2 4 
5
Identification, valuation and pursuit of acquisitions and investments
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Abcam fails to acquire businesses 
which, if acquired, could have 
added value to Abcam
Abcam attempts to acquire too 
many businesses at the same time, 
leading to inadequate diligence/ 
integration planning, dilution of the 
Abcam brand and/or distraction 
of management from more 
valuable initiatives
Abcam does not identify risks in 
the acquired business that if known 
would have prevented any acquisition
The valuation of the acquired 
business is not justified through 
failure to hit technical targets, 
commercial underperformance  
and/or the absorption of resource 
which impacts on performance 
elsewhere in the Group
• External communications maintained with 
external advisors and owners/management 
of businesses to ensure Abcam achieves 
sufficient visibility of businesses/potential 
transactions across the market
• Potential targets clearly prioritised 
to ensure sufficient time and care spent 
on diligence of any acquisition
• Rigorous due diligence process 
conducted, with specific diligence 
requirements fulfilled, to ensure Abcam 
fully evaluates any business before sale
• Critical assessment of the costs 
and benefits expected to accrue 
from the acquisition undertaken 
and clearly articulated
• Key assumptions (financial, technical 
and operational) identified and 
stress-tested to ensure sufficient 
contingency in the acquisition process
• Expert reviews incorporated into 
the due diligence process for the 
acquisition of AxioMx
• Deferred consideration structure of the 
AxioMx acquisition mitigates the product 
development risk associated with an early 
stage technology
• Specialist reviews of technology 
developments in the market continue
  2 5
Table of principal risks continued
16 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Our risks continued Reputational risk
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Consumer demand is impacted 
because they no longer wish to 
buy from Abcam 
Increased cost of finance
Impact on staff retention
Potential difficulties in dealing 
with new and existing suppliers
• Adherence to ethical policy with regular 
supplier visits and training/sign-off of all 
staff for adherence to anti-bribery policy
• Continued drive for improved product 
quality e.g. product testing
• Consumer NPS regularly measured  
and Life Sciences Survey monitored
• Feedback from other consumer 
interactions (including surveys) 
is monitored and appropriately 
reported internally
• Consumer complaints and Abcam’s 
responses are monitored at an 
appropriately senior level
• External communications are reviewed  
at an appropriately senior level
• Continuation of the initiative to use the 
quality of products in the catalogue as a 
differentiator, such as the agreement with 
Horizon Discovery to provide knockout 
cell lines for improved antibody validation
   1 2 3  
4 5
Cyber-security risks including loss of data and website inaccessibility
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Abcam has exploited the use of 
online and eCommerce systems 
and relies on its website to attract 
consumers and make sales
• Continued extensive investment 
in IT systems and training
• Monitor evolving threats and anticipate 
risks. Regular security reviews including 
penetration testing by external experts
• Physical and software safeguards in place
• IT disaster recovery processes
• Cyber security insurance policy
• Website security penetration tested 
by a third party
• Regular public website failover drills
• Additional improved security measures
   1 2 3  
4
Loss of output at any Group manufacturing or logistics facility
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Loss of manufacturing or logistics 
output at any important facility 
risks disruption to sales operations
• Strategic location of the six manufacturing 
facilities across the world
• Business continuity planning and disaster 
recovery plans
• Saleable stocks of finished products held 
in logistics hubs globally (two years’ sales 
for bestselling lines). Back-up hybridomas 
are stored in more than one location
• Use of insurance audits/inspections 
and business interruption insurance
• Circa 60% of revenues comes from 
OEM suppliers
• Strict quarantine procedures for cell lines 
with tested procedures for responding to 
mycoplasma infection
• Cryogenic storage and refrigerators are 
covered by alarms
• Relocation of manufacturing 
facility in Hangzhou reduces risk 
of plant failure
• Better inventory balancing in Shanghai 
facility to service increased demand 
in China market
• Further progress in the initiative to better 
align inventory holdings to sales patterns
New 
Hangzhou 
facility 
decreases risk
   1 2 3  
4 
17 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report Business growth is constrained by not having appropriate people, resources and infrastructure in place 
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Abcam has enjoyed rapid 
growth both organically and 
through acquisition increasing 
the size of our operation and 
the number of people we 
employ. Our operational and 
IT infrastructure needs to be 
robust, efficient and scalable in 
order for the Group to continue 
to manage its growth; the 
contribution made by Abcam’s 
highly skilled and dedicated 
staff has been, and will continue 
to be, essential to Abcam’s 
future success
• Invest extensively in IT systems to maximise 
scalability, security and usability
• Global content delivery partner used 
to increase reliability and access speed 
for static website content
• Dynamic website content served from 
an external, fully supported data centre
• Invest in premises globally to ensure they 
are fit to support current operations as 
well as medium-term growth plans
• Open employee communication 
including quarterly Group-wide 
meetings and employee NPS 
monitoring and improvement
• Operation of share ownership schemes
• Provision of significant opportunities 
for learning and development
• Launched investment programme 
on processes and ERP system
• Moved to new manufacturing 
facility in Hangzhou
• Secured and fitted out premises 
in Boston to accommodate Firefly 
and expansion of that office
• Launched global learning 
management system
• Management and leadership 
training programme rolled out
Rapid growth 
in recent years 
has increased 
our risk of 
infrastructural 
constraints on 
future growth 
   1 2 3  
4 5
ERP project/IT infrastructure
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
ERP project costs more 
than planned
The project timetable slips 
and there is a knock-on effect 
in resourcing elsewhere in 
the business
Savings do not materialise
Staff morale falls
Consumer service levels fall
Unable to complete M&A
• The ERP project is closely aligned with 
the strategic objectives and appropriate 
resource is in place of business as usual 
and to handle training
• Ensure appropriate resource is committed 
to advisors and back-filling in-house staff 
who will work on the project
• Oracle Cloud means 
minimal customisation
• Ensure global design phase is 
sufficiently complete before 
beginning implementation
• Appropriate/best practice 
project management/governance 
structures in place
• Regular monitoring of progress 
and remedial action
• Established and resourced governance 
processes (design authority, change 
control and risk management) around 
ERP implementation
• Resourced specific Change Management 
work stream within ERP implementation team
• Backfilled staff within the business where 
ERP implementation required secondment
 Increased 
risk during 
implementation 
phase
   1 2 3  
4 5
Significant exchange rate movements
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
The Group reports its results 
and pays dividends in Sterling. 
Operating and manufacturing 
companies trade in local 
currency. Our particular 
exposures are against the 
US Dollar, Euro, Japanese 
Yen and Chinese Renminbi
• Clear communications strategy for 
results to ensure Group’s currency 
exposures and hedging policies
• Forward cover where appropriate and 
in line with the Group hedging policy
• Where possible create natural 
hedges matching sales and costs 
in the same currency
• Focus on reducing manufacturing costs
• Continued use of US Dollar, Euro 
and Japanese Yen forward contracts
• Implemented hedging of Chinese 
Renminbi versus Sterling
 Brexit 
increases 
volatility
  4 
Table of principal risks continued
18 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Our risks continued Availability of research funding
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
Any substantial reduction 
in funding as a response to  
a fiscal contraction in one of 
our significant territories could 
have an adverse effect on the 
demand for our products
• Mitigated to an extent given that Abcam 
trades globally and such issues are likely 
to be country specific
• Experience has shown that as a 
company selling consumables there 
is some defensibility for revenues when 
compared to, for example, vendors 
of large ticket laboratory equipment
• Review government spending plans to 
have foresight of such reductions and 
may join lobby groups to support funding 
if appropriate
• Further expansion into high growth 
markets and high margin products
• Increase market share of privately 
funded consumers
• Diversification of geographic 
reach, in particular through  
expanded penetration in China
• Growth of high margin RabMAb
®
 products
• Broadening of our customer base to 
include different customer segments  
with different funding sources
  1 2 3
Non-compliance with regulation or sudden changes in import/export regulations
Principal risk  
and why it is relevant Key mitigation Activity during the year Change
Alignment  
to strategy
We are unable to manufacture 
products or to ship them
May lead to the shutting down 
of a location
Inability to report externally, 
reputational impact and late 
filing penalties
• Compliance with legislation and codes 
of best practice
• Regular external health and safety audits, 
checks and reporting
• Subscription to available database 
and use of health and safety and  
import/export experts to ensure we 
are up to date
• Ongoing training
• Monitor changes to international  
import and export regulations
• Continued to monitor any changes in 
regulation to ensure continued compliance
  1 4
19 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report We endeavour to act ethically and be socially and 
environmentally responsible while conducting our business. 
Our CSR activities are around three key areas: our people, 
our communities, and health, safety and the environment.
Our communities
We play a positive role in our local communities through charitable 
donations, partnerships and sponsorships. 
Highlights
• Made charitable donations to local, national and 
international charities.
• Provided placement and internship opportunities to support 
young people in gaining the experience needed to further 
their careers.
• Employee participation in several community projects including 
a house building project, cleaning of river banks and distribution 
of food to those in need.
• Provided travel grants for researchers to attend scientific events.
• Supported scientific organisations with funding and expertise 
to help them disseminate their research including sponsorship 
of the Cambridge Immunology Network and Findacure.
Our people
Attracting and retaining the best talent is crucial to the success 
of our business. We provide employees with a positive and healthy 
work environment, where they are listened to and rewarded and 
recognised for their contributions. 
Highlights
• Fully implemented a learning management system providing 
accessible resources for employees globally to support their 
development needs.
• Invested in leadership training to provide leaders with the skills 
required to motivate and engage their teams.
• Ran our annual global staff survey and then followed up 
with focus groups to develop and implement action plans 
to address feedback.
We provide a safe work environment for employees and adhere to 
legal requirements and best practice standards. Global annual audits 
are undertaken at all sites using internal cross-site audit methodologies, 
supported, where appropriate, by external consultants. These audits 
ensure health and safety compliance, and we continue to make 
significant improvements to our offices to ensure all our employees 
have a safe and comfortable working environment. To minimise our 
environmental impact, we continually look at new ways to increase 
the sustainability of our processes.
Highlights
• All established Abcam offices are fully compliant with our global H&S 
standards, with particular progress being made in China with the 
new Hangzhou facility providing employees with more comfortable 
facilities and further improving the health and safety environment.
• Invested in improving the facilities at our newly acquired 
company, AxioMx.
• Refurbished sites in Bristol, UK, and Boston, USA.
• Implemented a ‘Digital First’ approach to increase online 
communication with consumers and reduce printing.
• Received a Silver Travel to Work Initiative Award for our investment 
in supporting sustainable travel at our sites in Cambridge, UK.
Health, safety and the environment
20 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) Reported revenues for the year increased by 19.2% to £171.7m. 
At constant exchange rates (CER) revenue growth was 15.9%, 
with sales from catalogue products 14.4%. Adjusted profit before tax, 
which includes the research and development activities of AxioMx, 
which was acquired during the period, and Firefly BioWorks, acquired 
in November 2015, increased by 8.5% to £53.8m (FY 2015: £49.6m). 
The reported profit before tax for the year fell by 1.5% to £45.4m 
(FY 2015: £46.1m), after costs of the previously announced investment 
in systems and processes, acquisition-related costs and prior year 
R&D credits. A reconciliation between these figures is given in 
the table below.
Revenue growth has continued to benefit from our strategy 
of supplying high quality products with clear, supporting data to 
our consumer insight to ensure product relevancy. This has been 
complemented by further investment to build our capabilities in 
regional commercial teams, IT and R&D in pursuit of our strategy.
The table below shows a reconciliation to IFRS measures for 
costs, expenses and profit for the last two years. These have 
been adjusted to exclude acquisition-related costs arising on 
the acquisitions of Firefly in FY 2015 and AxioMx in FY 2016, the 
amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets across the 
Group, the incremental costs associated with the improvement 
of systems and processes and R&D tax credits recognised in 
FY 2016 relating to prior years.
We believe that disclosing such non-IFRS measures enables a 
reader to isolate and evaluate the impact of the items detailed 
above on the financial performance of the Company. We believe 
that this provides valuable additional information and allows for a 
fuller understanding of performance from year to year.
Jeff Iliffe
Chief	Financial	Officer
Summary
• Reported revenues for the year increased 
by 19.2% to £171.7m 
• At constant exchange rates, product 
revenues grew by 14.4% and total 
revenues by 15.9%
• Strong cash generation with closing cash 
and term deposits of £70.7m
• Our step change investment in systems 
and processes to scale the business for 
future sustained growth is underway
21 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
Our financials Adjusted income statement
FY 2016 FY 2015
Adjusted
income
statement
£000
Acquisition-
related costs
(Note 1)
£000
Incremental
costs
associated
with the
systems and
improvements
£000
R&D tax
credit
relating to
prior year
 £000
Reported
IFRS income
statement
£000
Adjusted
income
statement
£000
Acquisition-
related costs
(Note 1)
£000
Reported
IFRS income
statement
£000
Revenue 171,673 — — — 171,673 144,033 — 144,033
Cost of sales (51,142) — — — (51,142) (42,507) — (42,507)
Gross profit 120,531 — — — 120,531 101,526 — 101,526
Administration and management expenses (55,231) (2,206) (3,955) — (61,392) (44,076) (1,804) (45,880)
Research and development expenses (11,662) (2,467) — 1,308 (12,821) (8,246) (1,673) (9,919)
Operating profit 53,638 (4,673) (3,955) 1,308 46,318 49,204 (3,477) 45,727
Finance income/(expense) 144 (1,050) — — (906) 372 — 372
Profit before tax 53,782 (5,723) (3,955) 1,308 45,412 49,576 (3,477) 46,099
Taxation (8,630) 994 791 (1,138) (7,983) (9,799) 1,084 (8,715)
Profit after tax 45,152 (4,729) (3,164) 170 37,429 39,777 (2,393) 37,384
Earnings per share (p)
Basic 22.45 (2.35) (1.57) 0.08 18.61 19.89 (1.20) 18.69
Diluted 22.35 (2.34) (1.56) 0.08 18.53 19.76 (1.19) 18.57
Note 1: Acquisition-related costs comprise costs of acquisition, acquisition-related intangible amortisation, acquisition integration costs and, in FY 2016, for AxioMx, the expense 
related to the unwinding of the discount applied on the deferred consideration.
Revenue
Reported revenues for the year increased by 19.2% to £171.7m. 
Overall, Sterling was weaker than last year against the currencies 
in which the Group trades. Adjusting for this, CER revenue growth 
was 15.9% (FY 2015: 12.6%).
Gross margins
Reported gross margin was down very slightly to 70.2% (FY 2015: 70.5%) 
due to exchange rate movements over the period.
Administration and management expenses
As indicated last year, FY 2016 has been a period of continued 
investment in our capabilities to drive medium and long-term 
growth and this has increased our cost base.
The adjusted administration and management expenses increased 
by £11.2m to £55.2m. The notable components of the increase are:
• the reported cost increases owing to the relative weakness 
of Sterling referred to above, together with net currency losses 
in the year including from forward selling contracts, contributed 
a £2.5m increase in reported costs;
• strengthening the commercial teams, with particular focus 
on under-penetrated consumer segments and local office 
costs to support geographic expansion, such as in Shanghai 
and Singapore together added £2.0m;
• IT-related costs to support business expansion added £1.4m; and
• the incremental costs from Firefly and AxioMx added a 
further £0.9m.
The remainder of the increase principally relates to supporting the 
growth in activity and the full year effect of costs incurred in FY 2015.
Research and development expenditure
Research and development (R&D) expenditure relates to the 
development of new products, as well as costs incurred in identifying 
and implementing production process improvements. These costs 
do not meet the requirements to be capitalised as an intangible 
asset and are therefore expensed through the income statement.
The reported level of R&D expenditure increased to £12.8m in FY 2016 
from £9.9m in FY 2015. After adjusting for a credit to costs from an 
R&D tax credit election relating to prior years, and the increase in 
amortisation charges of acquisition-related intangible assets, the 
level of R&D in the adjusted income statement grew from £8.2m 
in FY 2015 to £11.7m in FY 2016.
The main contributor to this £3.5m increase was £2.9m additional 
investment in the technology of AxioMx (acquired in November 2015), 
and Firefly BioWorks Inc. (acquired in January 2015). Both of these 
are relatively early stage businesses with technologies which we 
believe have the potential to be significant contributors to Abcam’s 
growth in future years. The remaining £0.6m includes an increase 
in costs of product validation chiefly attributable to investment in 
enhancing product quality, including in IVD-related and custom 
service activities.
Investing in systems and processes
The growth which has been delivered in recent years has placed 
new demands on the organisation, systems and processes that 
support our business. Consequently, as previously announced, we 
are investing in building enhanced capabilities and systems to realise 
the opportunities that we see to grow the business. The programme 
involves the deployment of enterprise-wide change to our systems 
and processes, with Oracle Fusion as the core software, and the 
reshaping of some of our internal functions.
22 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Our financials continued In FY 2016, we have incurred capital expenditure of £5.5m on the 
project and incremental revenue costs of £4.0m.
Earnings and tax
The adjusted profit before tax for the year was £53.8m, on which the 
effective tax rate was 16.0%. (FY 2015: £49.6m and 19.8% respectively). 
The tax charge includes prior year adjustments which reduced the 
charge for the year by £2.8m and the effective rate by 5.2%.
After taking into account the acquisition-related costs, incremental 
costs associated with the systems and processes improvements and 
the treatment of prior year R&D tax credits, the reported effective 
tax rate would be 17.6% (FY 2015: 18.9%).
Balance sheet
Goodwill and other intangibles
Goodwill at the year end was £112.5m (FY 2015: £85.2m after 
restatement following the finalisation of fair values of assets arising 
on the acquisition of Firefly). Of the increase, £11.8m arose on the 
acquisition of AxioMx and £15.4m from exchange rate movements 
due to the US Dollar being the predominant functional currency 
of the acquired companies to which the goodwill relates.
The acquisition of AxioMx did not give rise to an additional 
cash-generating unit (CGU) as acquired businesses are integrated 
into the Group operations and product portfolio. The goodwill 
resulting from the acquisition has been allocated to the CGU for 
the existing Abcam business. Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS 
but is subject to impairment review at least on an annual basis. 
Consequently, during the year, the Directors performed a review 
which involved making various assumptions regarding the future 
performance of the business. After considering various scenarios 
that could reasonably occur, the Directors concluded that no 
impairment was required. For more details, please see note 12 
to the financial statements.
Other intangible assets at 30 June 2016 were £70.2m (FY 2015: £44.8m). 
The increase primarily reflects the value attributed to patents, 
technology and know-how held by AxioMx and exchange rate 
movements arising because the functional currency of the related 
assets is predominately US Dollars.
The amortisation charge on acquisition-related intangible assets 
was £3.7m (FY 2015: £3.1m), the increase being partly because the 
functional currency of those assets is also predominantly US dollar, 
and from the acquisition of AxioMx during the period. The amortisation 
charge on the other intangible assets was £3.8m (FY 2015: £2.0m), 
including £1.3m of accelerated amortisation of existing software 
which is included within the incremental costs of system and 
process improvement.
Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives from 
the point at which commercial product is available for release to a 
wide customer base. The amortisation of acquisition-related intangible 
assets has been added back in arriving at adjusted profit, as 
outlined above.
The consideration arising on the acquisition of AxioMx includes an 
element of performance based payments, which are carried on 
the balance sheet as contingent consideration and fees of £10.9m 
(30 June 2015: £nil).
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets increased 
by £10.1m (FY 2015: £7.7m), in addition to the £5.5m arising from 
the investment in systems and processes referred to above and the 
acquisition of AxioMx. This includes the relocation of our production 
facility in Hangzhou, China, to a nearby site, and reflects continued 
investment in support of our organic growth strategy, to improve 
product characterisation and drive quality, both of which are 
long-term growth drivers.
As previously announced, we plan to lease a new purpose-built 
building on the Biomedical Campus in Cambridge, UK, and the 
capital expenditure figure in the year also includes £0.6m on the 
design and plans for this facility.
Cash flow
Our track record of strong cash generation continued in the year 
and the period ended with an increase in net cash and term deposits 
of £12.0m to £70.7m (FY 2015: £58.7m) after funding the acquisition 
of AxioMx for a cash investment of £6.3m and acquisition fees of £0.5m. 
There was no bank debt (30 June 2015: £nil).
Cash generated by operations was £56.8m (FY 2015: £48.9m), after 
a working capital outflow of £3.1m (FY 2015: £7.5m) which includes 
£1.5m paid to settle pre-acquisition liabilities of AxioMx. Also within 
this figure was a £1.3m reduction in inventories which was achieved 
as a follow-on to the initiative, which began last year, to more 
closely align inventory levels to customer demand. 
Looking forward
The revenue growth which the business has delivered in recent 
years is a measure of the continuing success of our strategy, and 
supports the underpinning capital and operational investments 
being made in capabilities, systems and process. This investment 
will provide the appropriate environment for the delivery of our 
strategy and enable operational efficiencies. We are confident 
that our strategy will continue to deliver both sustainable growth 
and value to our stakeholders.
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer
23 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report Corporate governance
25 Chairman’s governance overview
26 Directors and Company Secretary
28 Corporate governance report
33 Audit and Risk Committee
36 Nomination Committee
37 Remuneration report
50 Directors’ report
ICC/IF image of antibody (ab195887) 
staining alpha Tubulin in HeLa cells I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the 
year ended 30 June 2016.
The Board believes that good governance is fundamental to the 
successful growth of our business. The Board and its Committees 
play a central role in the Company’s governance by providing 
an external and independent perspective on matters material 
to Abcam’s stakeholders, and by seeking to ensure that effective 
internal controls and risk management measures are in place. 
The Board also promotes a culture of good governance throughout 
the Company by creating an environment of openness, transparency, 
accountability and responsibility.
This section of the Annual Report describes our corporate governance 
structures and processes and how they have been applied throughout 
the year ended 30 June 2016.
The UK Corporate Governance Code (Code)
The Code sets out the principles of good practice in relation to 
corporate governance which should be followed by companies with 
a full listing on the London Stock Exchange. As an AIM-listed company 
we are not required to comply with the Code. However, the Board has 
elected to comply with the Code insofar as is practicable given the 
Company’s size and the nature of its operations. A thorough review 
of Abcam’s compliance with the Code was undertaken by our 
Company Secretary earlier this year, and the results were discussed 
in detail by the Board. I am happy to report that the Company 
complied with the principles and provisions of the 2014 edition of 
the Code in all material respects during the 2015/16 financial year.
My role as Chairman
My role is to ensure that Abcam has an effective Board which is 
collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company. 
One of my most important jobs is to ensure that the Board and its 
Committees have the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge 
suitable for Abcam’s evolving strategy and growth aspirations as we 
progress through a new phase of our development.
Succession planning and Board changes
Succession planning and talent management have been areas of 
focus for the Board and the Nomination Committee over the last year 
and are detailed in the Nomination Committee report on page 36.
In succession planning for the Board and within the Group we take 
into account the need for diversity generally and support the principle 
of encouraging women to pursue careers within the Company. The 
Board has not set express diversity quotas or measurable objectives 
for implementing its policy as such, but female talent, as one element 
of diversity, is actively encouraged both at Board level and within the 
business. We are pleased that 30% of the Board are women, our 
Senior Independent Director and our Company Secretary are women 
and women chair the two key Board Committees (the Audit and 
Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee). Women comprise 
42% of senior management and we continue to work to improve the 
representation of women throughout all levels of management.
Board and Committee evaluation
Regular and appropriate Board and Committee evaluation is vital 
to improving Board effectiveness. This year I conducted a thorough 
evaluation process, which was discussed in detail by the Board. 
Overall, it was concluded that the Board and Committees functioned 
very well, with Directors feeling free to voice their differing opinions.
It was felt that the balance of time allocated to strategy, operations 
and functional areas and governance was broadly correct, although 
it was decided that the number of Board and Committee meetings 
should be reduced to improve efficiency. More detail about the Board 
evaluation and on some of the major matters considered by the 
Board and its Committees during the year can be found on 
pages 28 to 31.
Risk management and internal controls
A particular focus of the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee 
has been defining our risk appetite and conducting a broader risk 
assessment in the context of assessing our longer-term financial viability, 
to ensure that the way in which risks are managed and mitigated 
continues to be improved and adapted for our growing Company, 
and also to comply with the 2014 edition of the Code. To this end, the 
Board conducted a robust assessment of Abcam’s risk management 
and internal controls systems, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, and found them to be effective.
Longer-Term Viability Statement
The Company prepared a five-year plan which was reviewed and 
approved by the Board. The plan contained a sensitivity analysis which 
allowed the Board to assess Abcam’s viability under a range of stress 
tests against its principal risks. The Company remained viable under 
each scenario without recourse to debt funding. Further details are 
provided on page 15.
2015 Annual General Meeting
We were pleased that all resolutions were passed at the 2015 AGM. 
However, we were disappointed to receive a relatively low vote (68%) 
by shareholders in favour of the resolution to adopt the Abcam 2015 
Share Option Plan (2015 Plan) and to establish similar share option 
plans for employees outside of the UK. This result was not expected 
by the Board as the 2015 Plan replaced an existing all-employee share 
plan and had been drafted in accordance with good corporate 
governance. Two proxy reports had recommended a vote against, 
citing concerns with the absence of performance conditions and a 
lack of clarity on individual limits, the vesting period and whether the 
Directors would participate. However, the 2015 Plan complied with 
good corporate governance on these points and was subject to 
the same performance conditions, individual limits and three-year 
vesting period as per the previous plan. The Directors debated the 
result at the following Board meeting and concluded that there 
should have been a clearer explanation of the features of the 2015 
Plan in the Annual Report and Notice of AGM.
Over the forthcoming year, there are two major capital investment 
projects which we expect to be underway: the implementation of 
the Enterprise Resource Planning system and the design and build 
of the new headquarters in Cambridge. The Board will give special 
attention to these projects in the year ahead to ensure risks are 
appropriately discussed and mitigated. We will continue to focus 
on many of the same priorities as this year, putting particular focus 
on ensuring that there is an alignment between our strategy and 
aspirations on the one hand and our organisational capabilities 
on the other.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
25 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Chairman’s governance overview Abcam’s Board of Directors has the breadth and depth of skills necessary to guide 
the Group as it seeks to take full advantage of new opportunities and contend 
with new challenges.
Appointment: November 2011.
Background: After an early career as a management consultant in 
the London, Tokyo and Boston offices of Bain & Company, Murray held 
a number of senior positions in the restaurant industry with PepsiCo 
and Yum Brands and also led an internet start-up. Between 2001 and 
2004, Murray was the Commercial Director of John Lewis Department 
Stores, where he pioneered the store’s online presence, johnlewis.com. 
Following this, Murray became Chief Executive of Avis Europe plc, 
the car rental company, until 2008. Murray then took the role 
of Chief Executive of thetrainline.com, the online train ticket retailer, 
until June 2014.
Current external appointments: Murray is Chairman of TGIF UK (Thank 
God It’s Friday, UK), Non-Executive Director for SEDCO Holding Company 
(Saudi Arabia), an advisory board member for River Island, Chairman 
of Receipt Bank and a Non-Executive Director of Great Wolf Lodges.
Skills and experience: Murray has an impressive track record 
of working internationally in customer-facing industries, as well as 
significant experience of online businesses. His experience across 
various consumer-facing sectors where technology plays a key role 
is valuable to Abcam’s digital and customer-facing strategy and his 
background in management consulting and executive leadership 
positions supports Abcam’s strategy development.
Murray Hennessy MBA  Chairman
N
Appointment: March 2014.
Background: Having started her career in corporate and investment 
banking, Louise moved into management consultancy and became 
board Director for the Hilton Group. Since then she has served on 
a succession of multinational listed company boards for more than 
20 years as a Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of remuneration committee and company Chairman 
at companies including the retailers Marks & Spencer plc, GUS plc 
and Somerfield plc.
Current external appointments: Louise is currently a Non-Executive 
Director of the FTSE 100 property group Intu Properties plc, a senior 
advisor to Bain & Company and a Non-Executive Director to 
Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited.
Skills and experience: Louise’s highly recognised career in business, 
with her extensive board and corporate governance experience, 
brings Abcam the knowledge and proficiency required to support 
its strategic growth plans and, whilst doing this, ensures that the 
Abcam Board is led by a robust governance framework.
Louise Patten MA (Oxon)  Non-Executive and Senior Independent Director
N A R
Appointment: September 2015.
Background: Mara was the President and Chief Executive Officer 
of Ventana Medical Systems, the Tissue Diagnostics Division of the 
Roche Group. While at Ventana, she led the company to increased 
market leadership worldwide and primacy in companion diagnostics. 
Previously, Mara spent twelve years at Genzyme Corporation (now 
part of Sanofi) where she was the President of Genzyme Genetics and 
Genzyme Pharmaceuticals. She was also the founder and Chief Executive 
Officer of On-Q-ity, a circulating tumour cells company. Mara is 
co-founder of EPEMED (European Personalized Medicine Association) 
and the International School of Biomedical Diagnostics at Arizona 
State University and Dublin City University, the only school dedicated 
to the study of diagnostics as an independent discipline. She is a fellow 
of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering.
Current external appointments: Mara is the Chief Executive Officer 
of Health Catalysts, Executive Chairman of GenePeeks Inc., Director 
of Safeguard Scientifics Inc., Director of Castle Biosciences, Director 
of Blue Cross Blue Shield Arizona, Director of SenesTech Inc., Director 
of CA Therapeutics and is on the non-fiduciary advisory boards of 
ProMIS Neurosciences, Inc., Slone Partners and Greybird Ventures.
Skills and experience: Mara has considerable international experience 
in the biotechnology and diagnostics industries with public and 
private companies. Mara’s specific focus areas are in her operational 
expertise including acquisition integration, global manufacturing, 
quality systems and strategic marketing. Her knowledge of the 
diagnostics industry is helpful in establishing Abcam’s business 
in this sector.
Mara Aspinall MBA  Non-Executive Director
Appointment: January 2014.
Background: Prior to joining Abcam, Alan spent 14 years with Bain & 
Company helping companies grow organically and through acquisition. 
Earlier in his career, he led product innovation efforts for several brands 
at Kraft Foods. He was trained as a life scientist and published research 
in plant biochemistry. He also has a passion for social enterprise as a 
trustee and was founder of the Social Business Trust, providing advice on 
how to grow and succeed with these enterprises to social entrepreneurs 
and government organisations globally.
Current external appointments: Alan has no other 
external appointments.
Skills and experience: Alan brings the Abcam Board an impressive 
combination of a strong scientific background, global business and 
leadership experience as well as strong consumer knowledge. Alan has 
a keen focus on the consumer, helping Abcam’s strategic vision to 
be a successful global business by placing the customer at the heart 
of the business.
Alan Hirzel MS, MBA  Chief Executive Officer
Appointment: December 2014.
Background: A chemist by training, Sue began her career at 
Ford Motor Co. before moving to oil company Amerada Hess. 
She subsequently held senior executive roles at Marks & Spencer 
across finance, and latterly as head of corporate development 
and as corporate treasurer, and Standard Life, where she led the 
process to float the company in 2006. She then joined Lloyds Banking 
Group (LBG), where she was Finance Director of, respectively, 
Cheltenham and Gloucester, LBG’s Retail Bank and LBG Group 
Finance, and latterly Group Audit Director. Previously, Sue was a 
Non-Executive Director on the board of St. James’s Place (representing 
LBG) and a member of the audit and remuneration committees of 
the British Bankers’ Association. She was previously chair of trustees 
for KCP Youth and during a ten-year association with Mencap 
chaired both the finance and audit committees.
Current external appointments: Sue is an independent Non-Executive 
Director of Bank of Ireland UK, a member of the Audit and Assurance 
Council and the Codes and Standards Committee of the Financial 
Reporting Council, a Non-Executive Director of Schroder & Co. Limited 
and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee of Schroder Wealth 
Management Division.
Skills and experience: Sue has over 30 years of financial and commercial 
experience. Along with her corporate board experience and scientific 
background, Sue brings a wealth of finance and commercial skills 
that strengthens the Abcam Board in its current growth strategy 
and is the ideal person to chair the Audit and Risk Committee.
N R A
Sue Harris BSc, ACMA  Non-Executive Director
Key to Committees:   N  Nomination     A  Audit and Risk     R  Remuneration       Committee chair
The terms of reference of the Committees are available on the Company’s investor relations website at www.abcamplc.com.
26 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Directors and Company Secretary Jeff Iliffe ACA  Chief Financial Officer
Appointment: November 2007 (due to leave the Board 
on 12 September 2016).
Background: Jeff is a chartered accountant. He has extensive 
experience of the City industry and internet based businesses. Jeff 
was a corporate financier in life sciences at Panmure Gordon & Co. 
following which he held a number of financial positions at companies 
including the environmental consultancy Enviros Group Limited and 
Plethora Solutions plc. Prior to joining Abcam Jeff was the Chief 
Financial Officer at the e-commerce company St. Minver Ltd.
Current external appointments: Jeff is a Non-Executive Director 
of Treatt plc, a manufacturer and supplier of ingredient solutions 
for the flavour, fragrance and FMCG industries, and a trustee of the 
Cambridge Arts Theatre.
Skills and experience: Jeff’s broad financial experience, including his 
experience in acquisitions, business integration and investor relations, 
is of significant value to Abcam in supporting its strategy to grow the 
business. Jeff’s knowledge in e-commerce has enabled him to 
contribute to the ongoing development of e-commerce for Abcam.
Anthony Martin PhD  Non-Executive Director
Appointment: September 2011 (due to leave the Board 
on 31 October 2016).
Background: Anthony was most recently Non-Executive Chairman 
of Immunodiagnostics Systems Holdings plc and Sphere Medical 
Holding plc. His prior executive appointments include Chief Executive 
Officer of British Bio-Technology Products, AZUR Environmental, 
Molecular Probes Inc and Celsis International plc and President of 
Invitrogen Corporation. Anthony’s previous non-executive appointments 
include Prelude Trust plc, NeuTec Pharma plc and Molecular Insight 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. He has also served on the main board of Invitrogen 
Corporation and the strategic advisory board of Agilent Technologies.
Current external appointments: Anthony is currently Non-Executive 
Chairman of PhicoTherapeutics Ltd, Director of Bioconsult Ltd, 
Non-Executive Director of Orthofix N.V, Chairman and trustee for 
The Martin Reach Charity and a Chairman and Non-Executive Director 
of Peptinnovate Limited. He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine.
Skills and experience: Anthony has more than 25 years’ experience 
in managing the life sciences industry within the UK and US, in both 
executive and non-executive roles, which has brought strategic 
guidance and a wealth of knowledge to the Abcam Board. His 
experience of governance and responsibilities of board committees, 
both in UK AIM-listed companies and in US Nasdaq-listed corporations, 
is beneficial in ensuring the Board and the organisation are 
governed well.
R A
Jonathan Milner PhD  Deputy Chairman
Appointment: April 1998.
Background: Having worked in the life sciences industry for over 
ten years as an academic researcher, Jonathan identified the market 
opportunity for supplying high quality antibodies to support protein 
interaction studies and, in 1998, founded Abcam with David Cleevely 
and Professor Tony Kouzarides.
Current external appointments: Jonathan is a Non-Executive 
Director of Horizon Discovery Group plc, The Evolution Education 
Trust, GeoSpock Ltd and Sydicate Room Group Ltd. He is also 
Chairman of Axol Bioscience Ltd, PhoreMost Ltd, Repositive Limited,
Definigen Limited and Cambridge Allergy Ltd. Jonathan holds an 
Executive Director position at Meltwind Limited, being a designated 
member of Meltwind Advisory LLP.
Skills and experience: Jonathan is an experienced entrepreneur 
and investor and is passionate about supporting UK life science 
and high-tech start-ups. He has provided considerable investment 
and support to over 30 companies and has assisted three AIM IPOs.
Michael Ross MA (Cantab)  Non-Executive Director
Appointment: November 2011 (due to leave the Board 
on 31 October 2016).
Background: Having worked at McKinsey & Company, Michael 
co-founded the online retailer figleaves.com, where he was the 
Chief Executive Officer. Following that, he co-founded DynamicAction 
(previously eCommera), an e-commerce technology and advisory 
business where he is currently Chief Scientist.
Current external appointments: Michael is an Executive Director 
of DynamicAction, In Kind Direct, Ikdi and Maths & Magic Limited 
and a Non-Executive Director of Sainsbury’s Bank Plc.
Skills and experience: Michael has a high level of technical expertise 
when it comes to e-commerce; his passion for digital innovation 
has helped Abcam understand how to make best use of its data 
to enhance customer experience and assisted in creating efficiencies 
for the business.
N
Appointment: November 2000 (due to leave the Board 
on 31 December 2016).
Background: Jim started work at Analysys Limited, a Cambridge-based 
telecommunications consultancy, heading up its IT, software and 
web development initiatives. Jim then joined Abcam as a Technical 
Director, and took over the operational management of the UK 
office as Managing Director in June 2004, working on both cost 
saving and efficiency improvement projects. In 2009, Jim became 
Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for overseeing the 
operational strategy of the Group.
Current external appointments: Jim is a Director of Chesterton 
Community College, Chesterton Sports Centre Limited and 
Cambridge Nutraceuticals Limited. He has also taken up a 
non-executive position at Quartix Holdings Plc.
Skills and experience: Jim had over 15 years’ experience 
in developing and implementing IT systems and strategy before 
moving into a broader operational management role within 
Abcam. Here his skills have been particularly focused on 
developing a scalable operating model for Abcam which, 
supported by IT systems, has underpinned Abcam’s rapid 
growth over the past decade.
Jim Warwick MA (Cantab)  Chief Operating Officer
Appointment: July 2015.
Background: Before joining Abcam, Suzanne was Executive Director, 
Legal at Actavis plc where she was responsible for the leadership 
of the legal function internationally (ex-Americas). Previous positions 
include Legal Director at Genzyme Therapeutics Ltd, General 
Counsel and Company Secretary at Phoqus Pharmaceuticals plc 
and Group Legal Counsel and Company Secretary at LGC Ltd, 
together with positions at SmithKline Beecham and Aventis.
Skills and experience: Suzanne is a qualified solicitor with over 
20 years’ global legal, business and leadership experience within 
the life sciences industry. Her experience in legal and company 
secretarial roles brings Abcam additional knowledge and skills 
in corporate governance.
Suzanne Smith LLB, MBA  Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary
27 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance The role of the Board and its Committees
Board
Responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
It sets strategy and oversees implementation, ensuring 
only acceptable risks are taken. It provides leadership 
and direction and is also responsible for corporate 
governance and the overall financial performance 
of the Group.
Meet our Board of Directors on pages 26 and 27.
Executive Directors
Responsible for implementation of the Board’s 
strategy, day-to-day management of the 
business and all matters which have not been 
reserved for the Board.
Executive Leadership Team (ELT)
A team that operates under the direction and authority of the CEO and other 
Executive Directors and comprises the direct reports of the CEO. It assists the Executive 
Directors in implementing strategy and policies and managing the operational 
and financial performance of the Group.
Global Leadership Team (GLT)
Established in 2016 to facilitate communication across functions 
and geographies. The GLT comprises the ELT and other senior global leaders 
who meet as required in person and by telephone conference to support the 
delivery of Abcam’s strategic activities and the annual planning process. This 
enables the CEO and the ELT to hear from different areas of the business whilst 
providing the opportunity to communicate with and engage the GLT 
members on global initiatives.
Audit and Risk Committee
Reviews and is responsible for the oversight of the 
Group’s financial and reporting processes, the 
integrity of the financial statements, the external 
and internal audit processes, and the systems 
of internal control and risk management.
More details on pages 33 to 35.
Remuneration Committee
Reviews and recommends to the Board 
the executive remuneration policy and 
determines the remuneration packages of the 
Executive Directors and the Company Chairman. 
Has oversight of the remuneration packages 
of the Executive Leadership Team.
More details on pages 37 to 49.
Nomination Committee
Reviews and recommends to the Board 
the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and its Committees. It also has oversight 
responsibility for succession planning of the 
Board and senior management.
More details on page 36.
Matters reserved for the Board and delegated authorities
To retain control of key decisions, the Board has identified certain ‘reserved matters’ that only it can approve, with other matters, responsibilities 
and authorities delegated to its Committees, as above. The schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference for each 
of its Committees can be found on the Company’s investor relations website at www.abcamplc.com. Any matters outside of these fall within 
the CEO’s responsibility and authority. Accordingly, he reports on the activities of the ELT through monthly reports to the Board.
28 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report Board composition and roles
The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is the Deputy Chairman. 
Their key responsibilities are as set out in the table below:
Board composition and roles
Chairman Murray Hennessy Responsible for leading and managing the Board as well as its effectiveness and governance. 
Ensures Board members are aware of and understand the views of major shareholders and 
other key stakeholders. Helps the CEO and the Executive Directors set the tone from the top 
in terms of the purpose, goal, vision and values for the whole organisation.
CEO Alan Hirzel Responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, developing the Group’s strategic 
direction for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
CFO 
COO
Jeff Iliffe 
Jim Warwick
Support the CEO in developing and implementing strategy. Responsible for the financial and 
operational performance of the Group.
Deputy Chairman Jonathan Milner Responsible for bringing expert knowledge in the ever evolving field of protein research and its 
related science and technology. Provides entrepreneurial support to the Board to develop strategy 
to further exploit opportunities to enable Abcam to support scientists worldwide. Provides a 
technical sounding board to the Chairman and CEO. Represents Abcam at external events 
and forums worldwide and is an ambassador for Abcam in the scientific community.
Senior 
Independent 
Director
Louise Patten Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as a trusted intermediary for other Directors. 
Available to discuss any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the 
normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Independent 
NEDs
Sue Harris 
Anthony Martin 
Michael Ross 
Mara Aspinall
Assist in the development of strategy and monitor its delivery within the Company’s established 
risk appetite. Responsible for bringing sound judgement and objectivity to the Board’s deliberations 
and decision-making process, and constructively challenging and supporting the Executive Directors. 
They also review the performance of the Executive Directors.
Board and Committee meetings/attendance during the year
Director
Scheduled
Board
meetings
Ad hoc
Board
meetings
Audit
and Risk
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Murray Hennessy 11/11 1/1 n/a n/a 3/3
Alan Hirzel 11/11 1/1 n/a n/a n/a
Jeff Iliffe 11/11 1/1 n/a n/a n/a
Jim Warwick 11/11 1/1 n/a n/a n/a
Sue Harris 11/11 1/1 6/6 4/4 3/3
Anthony Martin 11/11 1/1 6/6 4/4 n/a
Jonathan Milner 11/11 1/1 n/a n/a n/a
Mara Aspinall
1
8/8 1/1 n/a n/a n/a
Louise Patten 11/11 1/1 5/6 4/4 3/3
Michael Ross 10/11 1/1 n/a n/a 1/3
1 Mara Aspinall was appointed to the Board on 14 September 2015. Her attendance relates to the period from that date until 30 June 2016.
Board meetings
The Board previously held full meetings every month, with 
attendance required in person one month and via conference 
call the following month. However, following the Board evaluation 
in April 2016 and considering benchmarking data for companies 
of a similar market capitalisation and complexity, it was agreed that 
this was no longer appropriate for Abcam, and that the meetings 
would be reduced to six ‘in-person’ meetings and two scheduled 
telephone conferences for the Board, and four meetings for both 
the Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee. 
Ad hoc meetings may be called to discuss urgent pertinent issues 
arising during the course of the year, or to approve the annual 
and interim accounts and dividends. A separate one-day strategy 
session will continue to be held once a year to discuss the longer-term 
aspirations of the Company.
The culture of our Board meetings is to encourage rigorous debate. 
The NEDs constructively challenge the performance of management 
in meeting agreed goals and objectives and help develop proposals 
on strategy, priorities and, indeed, on occasion, tactics. There is an 
opportunity for more informal and extended discussions on strategy 
before and after bi-monthly Board meetings.
The Directors have the benefit of directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, 
who is a qualified solicitor and acts as secretary to the Board 
and its Committees.
29 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance Board activity
The Board agenda focuses on the themes of driving our strategy, monitoring risk and execution against the strategy via regular business, 
financial and departmental updates, together with corporate governance and regulatory matters.
All employees
 Men  195 
 Women 217
Senior managers 
(grades 1–2)
 Men 7 
 Women 5
Board
 Men 7 
 Women 3
70%
30%
47%
53%
58%
42%
We have made excellent progress 
in the year in terms of gender 
diversity, with the percentage of 
women across the Board reaching 
30%. We have a high representation 
of women in senior management, 
and continue to seek to increase 
the pipeline of women into both the 
Board and senior management.
*  As at 30 June 2016, comprising Abcam 
plc only and excluding subsidiaries 
outside of the UK.
Strategy
• Reviewed the implementation progress 
against the multi-year strategic initiatives 
established in 2013/14 and the long-term 
strategy as part of the off-site strategy 
day, and decided the approach to 
diagnostics, custom products 
and licensing.
• Approved the acquisition of AxioMx 
Inc and the subsequent expansion 
of its facilities.
• Approved the business case for the 
implementation of a comprehensive 
Enterprise Resource Planning system.
• Discussed the potential investment 
for the new Abcam headquarters 
at Cambridge Biomedical Campus.
• Received various departmental 
updates to monitor progress against 
strategic goals.
Financial performance
• Considered the financial 
performance of the business 
and key performance targets.
• Approved the budget 
and five-year plan.
• Monitored the performance 
against budget by a presentation 
from the CFO.
• Reviewed the half-year and annual 
results and presentations to analysts 
and approved the Annual Report.
• Approved the interim and final 
dividend recommendations.
Governance, stakeholders 
and shareholders
• Reviewed the outcome of the Board 
evaluation and effectiveness.
• Reviewed the Company’s compliance 
with the Code and key developments 
in corporate governance.
• Received key regulatory updates 
such as the Market Abuse Regulation.
• Approved the establishment of a 
Disclosure Committee and a new 
Share Dealing Policy.
• Reviewed feedback from institutional 
shareholders and analysts following 
annual and interim results.
• Reviewed the terms of reference 
of Board Committees.
• Reviewed the Company policies, 
including health and safety and 
bribery and corruption.
Internal control 
and risk management
• Reviewed the approach to risk 
management and carried out a 
robust assessment of the Company’s 
principal risks.
• Approved the Company’s risk appetite, 
being the level of risk that the Company 
is willing to take in pursuit of its objectives.
• Approved the implementation of an 
Enterprise Resource Planning system 
which will improve and streamline the 
flow of information between all business 
functions and improve internal controls.
• Approved the appointment of a third 
party internal audit function.
• Reviewed the Company’s 
hedging arrangements and 
strategy, including approving 
the Company’s hedging policy.
Leadership and people
• Discussed the composition of the 
Board and its Committees.
• Approved the appointment of 
Mara Aspinall as a Non-Executive 
Director and the appointment of 
Gavin Wood as Chief Financial Officer 
and an Executive Director to 
commence on 12 September 2016 
following a handover period from 
Jeff Iliffe.
• Discussed the results of the employee 
engagement survey and the actions 
arising from it.
• Discussed the development of the 
People Strategy, which included the 
implementation of a clear reward 
strategy, a focus on development 
and ensuring good team leaders.
The Board
Strategy
Financial 
performance
Governance, 
stakeholders and 
shareholders
Internal control 
and risk 
management
Leadership 
and people
Gender diversity*
30 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness
Board composition
We have considered the overall balance between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors and believe that the structure of the Board 
and the integrity of each Director ensures that no one individual or 
group dominates the decision-making process. The Board reflects 
a good balance of skills from financial, operational, sector-specific 
and general business skills, with a highly experienced team leading 
the business in both Executive and Non-Executive roles.
Information and support
The Chairman, Executive Directors and Company Secretary are 
responsible for making sure the Board members are updated with 
information concerning the state of the business and its performance 
and information necessary for them to effectively discharge their 
duties and responsibilities, in a timely manner. The agenda for the 
following Board meeting is discussed at the end of each Board 
meeting so that Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity 
to influence agendas for Board discussions, ensuring the amount 
of time spent reviewing strategic and operational issues is 
appropriately balanced.
In the event that Directors are unable to attend a meeting or a 
conference call, they have the opportunity to relay their comments 
and, if necessary, to follow up with the Chairman or the CEO after 
the meeting.
Board development
On appointment to the Board, new Directors receive a comprehensive 
and tailored induction programme, the aim of which is to introduce 
them to key management and personnel across the business and 
to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Company’s 
business, strategy and governance structure, as well as their own duties 
and responsibilities. This includes time with each of the Executive 
Directors and the Company Secretary, and with a wide range of 
senior management from across the business. A thorough induction 
programme was developed for Gavin Wood that was tailored to 
his particular needs. Mara Aspinall also received a detailed induction 
when she joined the Board in September 2015.
Regular training is provided to the Board and, in particular, focus 
is given to explaining the complex and evolving science behind 
Abcam’s business, together with updates on corporate governance, 
including training on the new Market Abuse Regulation and changes 
to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Director independence
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to be independent 
within the meaning of the Code, with the exception of Jonathan Milner. 
Jonathan is a founder of Abcam and was an Executive Director of the 
Company until September 2014. Details of his interest in Abcam shares 
can be found on page 43. Mara Aspinall received an additional 
small consultancy fee of £6,000 on top of her Non-Executive Directorship 
fee until the year end, to reflect the fact that she provides support to the 
Company in the field of in vitro diagnostics. The Board did not consider 
this additional fee to affect her independence as a Non-Executive 
Director. This fee has been consolidated into Mara’s NED fee from 
1 July 2016.
All Directors maintain a conflicts of interest declaration and any 
planned changes to their interests, including directorships outside 
the Group, are notified to the Board. There were no relationships 
declared in the year which were considered to be of a material 
nature to Abcam’s business and therefore there was nothing that 
was deemed to impact on the independence of the Directors. 
While the obligation to notify the Company is immediate, the 
Conflicts of Interest Register is maintained by the Company 
Secretary and is formally reviewed at each Board meeting.
The beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors in the share 
capital of the Company, which are set out on page 43, do not, 
in the opinion of the Board, detract from their independent status, 
apart from Jonathan Milner, who is not considered to be an 
independent Non-Executive Director.
A review of the Non-Executive Directors’ fee structure was 
undertaken in September 2016 and it was agreed that, for the 
financial year 2015/16 onwards, the Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees would be delivered with two-thirds in cash and one-third 
in Abcam’s fully paid ordinary shares. More details are provided 
on page 41 of the Remuneration Report.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without 
the Executive Directors present, and the Non-Executive Directors, 
led by the Senior Independent Director, meet without the Chairman 
present at least annually to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
Board evaluation
The Board undertakes a regular evaluation of its own performance 
and the last formal review was undertaken earlier this year by the 
Chairman. The review concluded that the Board and its individual 
members continue to perform effectively in an environment where 
there is constructive challenge from the Non-Executive Directors, 
and operate within a framework of sound governance and practices 
which are consistent with the principles set out in the Code.
31 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance Accountability
Risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group 
maintains a sound system of risk management and internal control 
in accordance with the new 2014 Code provisions. Following the 
amendment of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee to 
include risk in August 2015, the name of the Committee was changed 
to the Audit and Risk Committee. This Committee has undertaken a 
thorough review of the Company’s risks and internal controls, with 
assistance from Deloitte LLP, and a number of measures have been 
implemented to ensure the risk management and internal control 
practices are strengthened to support the Company’s strategy and 
growth potential. A new risk appetite statement (page 14) has been 
approved by the Board and incorporated into the risk policy, the 
risk framework and the Company culture. The principal risks 
identified are set out on pages 15 to 19.
Financial reporting
The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and Accounts and the interim financial information and for 
ensuring that these reports present a balanced assessment of the 
Group’s position. Drafts of these reports are provided to the Board in 
a timely manner and Directors’ feedback is discussed and incorporated 
where appropriate, prior to publication.
In addition, the Board ensures controls over the financial reporting 
process and preparation of the consolidated accounts consists of 
extensive reviews by qualified and experienced individuals to ensure 
that all elements of the financial statements and appropriate 
disclosure are considered and accurately stated.
Whistleblowing procedures
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy which allows all employees 
to raise concerns to senior management in strict confidence about 
any unethical business practices, fraud, misconduct or wrongdoing. 
They can do so without fear of recrimination and the Audit and 
Risk Committee receives any such confidential reports.
Market Abuse Regulation
As a result of the new Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) which 
came into effect on 3 July 2016, the Company has established 
a Disclosure Committee. The role of the Disclosure Committee 
is to identify inside information, ensure the appropriate disclosure 
of inside information and maintenance of insider lists ensuring that 
effective internal controls are in place to keep any inside information 
confidential, in accordance with MAR and the AIM Rules.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is committed to maintaining an open and 
constructive dialogue with shareholders to ensure there is a 
common understanding of the strategic objectives, governance 
and performance of the Company.
The main points of contact for major shareholders are the CEO, the 
CFO, the Senior Independent Director (SID), the Chairman and the 
Head of Investor Relations. Following the announcement of the interim 
results there was an extensive roadshow over three weeks with most 
of the top shareholders of the Company, with the CEO and the 
CFO present. Any feedback gained from the roadshow is reported 
back to the Board to enable the Board to understand the views 
of major shareholders. During 2016 the major shareholders were 
contacted to have the opportunity to meet the Chairman or the 
SID to discuss Abcam’s strategy and governance arrangements.
Where appropriate, the Company consults with shareholders on 
significant issues. During 2016 major shareholders of the Company 
were consulted regarding the change in the CEO’s salary with an 
opportunity to be able to contact the SID or the Chairman regarding 
any questions or concerns they may have had.
In addition, following investment analyst meetings and investor 
roadshows, our financial public relations advisors consult such 
analysts, and our corporate brokers gather investor feedback 
which they relay to the Board. J.P. Morgan Cazenove continued 
to act as the Company’s nominated advisor and broker.
Annual General Meeting
The Chairman actively encourages the participation of all Directors 
in the AGM, which is the principal forum for dialogue with shareholders. 
A presentation is made outlining recent developments in the business, 
and a question and answer session follows to enable shareholders 
to ask about the business in general.
32 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report continued Committee members
-  Sue Harris  
(Chairman)
- Anthony Martin
- Louise Patten
and has assisted the Board in defining our risk appetite and 
conducting a broader risk assessment (see page 14), and in this 
context, assessing our longer-term financial viability (see page 15).
Key responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee’s principal duties are to:
• monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, including 
the review of significant financial reporting judgements;
• advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, the Annual Report 
and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable;
• advise the Board on principal risks, their mitigation and risk appetite;
• review and approve the robustness of our risk management 
and internal controls;
• oversee assurance work;
• oversee the Group’s external audit process, including 
monitoring the auditor’s independence, objectivity, 
effectiveness and performance;
• approve any engagement by the external auditor outside 
of the Group’s audit; and
• review and monitor the whistleblowing policy and activity.
Committee activities
The key areas of Committee activity during the year included:
Financial reporting
• reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts, the interim 
management statements, associated analyst presentations 
and press releases and challenging where appropriate, with 
particular consideration around key judgements;
• advising the Board that taken as a whole the Annual Report 
and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable;
• reviewing the basis for the Going Concern Statement in light of 
financial plans and reasonably likely scenarios and recommending 
to the Board that the Company is a going concern; and
• reviewing the Longer Term Viability Statement (LTVS), considering 
the appropriateness of the five-year time period on which the 
LTVS is based, linkage to strategy, principal risks, the assumptions, 
underlying stress-testing and scenario analysis.
Internal control
• considering the effectiveness and integrity of the 
internal controls framework underpinning the Annual Report 
and Accounts;
•  receiving appropriate management reports with emphasis 
on share-based payments and payroll controls; and 
• monitoring an upgrade of the legacy financial accounting 
system and design principles for the financial component 
of the strategic ERP investment.
Sue Harris
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, I am pleased to present 
our report for the year ended 30 June 2016. This report details the work 
of the Committee over the past year, fulfilling our responsibilities to 
provide effective governance over the Company’s financials.
Effective Committee governance
The Committee acts independently of management to ensure the 
interests of shareholders are appropriately protected in relation to 
financial reporting, internal control and risk management. All members 
of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors with a 
combination of accounting, financial and commercial experience 
in listed companies both inside and outside of the biotechnology 
sector. Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary 
(acting as secretary to the Committee), the Financial Controller and, 
where appropriate, other members of the Board. Representatives 
of the Group’s external auditor also attend by invitation and meet 
with the Committee at least twice a year without Executive Directors 
or Company management being present.
The Committee is required to include one financially qualified member. 
I currently fulfil this requirement being deemed by the Board to have 
recent and relevant financial experience as a qualified accountant 
with over 30 years’ financial and commercial experience in 
listed companies.
We continue to consider the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (Code) and the FRC Guidance on Audit 
Committees. The Committee has focused on implementing the 
new requirements introduced by the 2014 edition of the Code,
33 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Audit and Risk Committee Committee activities continued
Risk management
• undertaking significant work on principal risks and risk appetite to 
ensure effective and continual improvement in risk management, 
including advising on reporting in the context of compliance with 
the Code, which appears on pages 14 to 19;
• reviewing and challenging the assessment of business-wide risks 
and actions to mitigate;
• reviewing disaster recovery and business continuity plans;
• reviewing and approving an enhanced hedging strategy 
and policy; and
• reviewing the appropriateness of the tax and financing structure 
options following recent acquisitions and changes in the tax regimes 
in the countries in which we operate to ensure alignment with the 
Company’s tax strategy.
External audit
• approving the annual audit plan and risk identification;
• reviewing the findings of the auditor and management’s 
response and ensuring robust challenge;
• reviewing the independence, objectivity, performance 
and effectiveness of the auditor; and
• approving the level of fees paid to the auditor for audit 
and non-audit services.
Whistleblowing
• reviewing and considering the operation of the Group’s 
whistleblowing process.
External audit
Appointment and tendering
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has served as Abcam’s external 
auditor since September 2013, when a full tender process was carried 
out. The current audit partner has served since the firm’s appointment 
and is due for rotation after completion of the audit for the year ending 
30 June 2018. Following the review of PwC’s continued objectivity, 
independence and performance in respect of the 2015/16 financial 
year, and having received an expression of willingness to continue 
in office as external auditor, the Committee recommended to the 
Board the re-appointment of PwC as the Company’s external auditor 
for the 2016/17 financial year, subject to approval at the AGM. 
There were no contractual obligations that inhibited or influenced 
the Committee’s recommendation.
Effectiveness
The Committee undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness 
of the external auditor, taking into account the views of both financial 
and commercial management in addition to the Non-Executive Directors 
to facilitate continued improvement in the external audit process.
The assessment considers:
• delivery of a thorough, robust and efficient global audit 
in compliance with agreed plan and timescales;
• provision of accurate, robust and perceptive advice on 
key accounting and audit judgements, technical issues 
and best practice;
• a high level of professionalism and technical expertise 
consistently demonstrated by all audit staff;
• maintenance of continuity within the core audit team; and
• strict adherence to independence policies and other 
regulatory requirements.
The Committee concluded that the above factors had been 
met, with a constructive working relationship between the external 
auditor and members of management, and that the external auditor 
demonstrated continued commitment to the performance of 
high-quality audit work.
Independence and objectivity of external auditor
Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards in place 
to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, 
which were reviewed by the Committee and found to be satisfactory. 
The Committee has a policy for approving all non-audit services 
undertaken by the auditor to ensure that its objectivity is not 
compromised. The policy is to appoint the advisor in the best position 
to advise the Company on each matter and in some cases the 
external auditor may be used in preference to other service providers 
where its detailed knowledge of the business is deemed significant. 
Details of fees paid to PwC during the year are outlined in note 7 
of the financial statements. Non-audit fees were paid to PwC during 
the year, mainly in respect of its review of the Company’s interim 
results. As it is usual practice for these non-audit services to be 
provided by the auditor, the Committee does not consider that 
auditor independence has been impacted.
Internal controls framework and risk management
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management 
and financial controls framework. A rolling programme of assessing 
the effectiveness of key processes and controls globally has been 
implemented. The internal reviews carried out in the year highlighted 
no significant control failings. Further details on Abcam’s risk framework 
can be found on page 14.
Internal audit
The Committee concluded that given the size, complexity and 
global nature of the Group’s operations, it is now appropriate that 
the Group establishes dedicated internal audit resource, to enable 
assurance activities to be appropriately extended. After discussions 
with external experts it was decided that engaging an external 
professional firm to provide such services was the best way forward 
for a company of our scale. A tender process was carried out and 
KPMG was selected.
34 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Audit and Risk Committee continued Review of financial statements and audit findings
The Committee considered the following significant financial issues in relation to the Company’s financial statements and disclosures, 
with input from management and the external auditor:
Issue Assessment
Purchase accounting for the 
Group’s acquisition of AxioMx
The Committee reviewed and critiqued the critical accounting judgements and estimates 
used in accounting for the contingent consideration and in the purchase price allocations, 
particularly the valuation of acquired intangible assets, and satisfied itself that these were 
reasonable and appropriately applied. The Committee considered whether the acquisition 
should give rise to an additional cash-generating unit (CGU) for impairment testing purposes, 
and concluded that AxioMx is not a CGU (see note 12). These matters were addressed by 
the Committee through the review of reports from external valuation consultants and 
management, which discussed the assumptions used. In addition, as a principal area of 
audit focus, PwC provided detailed reporting to the Committee in respect of these matters. 
Further information is available in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Purchase accounting for the 
Group’s acquisition of Firefly 
Bioworks Inc
The Committee reviewed and challenged adjustments made to Firefly Bioworks Inc 
purchase accounting within the first year post the acquisition. In particular the treatment 
of Firefly Bioworks Inc tax losses was reviewed, including technical guidance from an 
external accounting firm.
Taxation The Committee reviewed a number of tax-related matters in connection with acquisitions, 
including the treatment of tax losses and the appropriateness of its financing structure 
post the acquisitions. The Committee reviewed elections in relation to R&D tax credits 
and transfer pricing.
Longer Term 
Viability Statement
The Committee reviewed the assessment of the viability of the Group. This assessment was 
based upon the Group’s financial and operating plans and risk assessment, and included 
appropriate scenario analysis. The Committee was satisfied that a period of five years was 
suitable and that the viability statement be provided.
Strategic IT investment Following a strategic review of the IT platforms, tools and business processes used across 
all functions and geographies of the Company, a decision was made to make significant 
investment in the Group’s systems and processes, covering all parts of the business. The project 
is complex with multiple phases, and implementation will extend into the next financial year. 
The Committee reviewed the proposed accounting treatment for all elements of project 
costs over the life of the project paying particular attention to the principles behind the 
capitalisation of costs and the reporting of non-capex elements.
Inventory and property, plant 
and equipment valuation for 
in-house manufactured items
Inventory manufactured in house is valued using a standard cost approach, on a first-in, 
first-out basis. The Group also capitalises, within property, plant and equipment, the costs 
of new hybridoma and assay development. As part of the standard costing an element 
of overheads is allocated to the valuation. The Committee discussed the calculation 
methodologies with management and also reviewed the report from the auditor on the 
results of its testing.
Inventory provisioning The calculation of the inventory provision includes a degree of judgement of the likelihood 
that individual products will be sold at some point in the future, at a value equivalent to or 
greater than cost. The Committee’s review included an assessment of the reasonableness 
of future sales forecasts (which are based on actual sales patterns in previous years) and 
the shelf life of those products.
Sue Harris
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
35 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance Jeff Iliffe resigned from the position of CFO on 14 September 2015 
and, after consideration of a number of candidates proposed 
by an external headhunting firm, Gavin Wood was appointed 
to succeed as CFO-elect on 18 July 2016 and will be appointed 
as an Executive Director of Abcam plc on 12 September 2016 
after a period of handover. Gavin brings directly relevant industry 
experience with a track record of financial control, systems 
implementation experience, market knowledge and transactional 
experience. As we look ahead to building our business, we are 
confident that Gavin has the skills and leadership to strengthen 
our team and deliver results.
Gender diversity
Following the appointment of Mara Aspinall as a Non-Executive 
Director on 14 September 2015, female representation on the Board 
rose to 30%, from 22% during the previous financial year. We have 
also made good progress in terms of gender diversity generally, with 
more women now filling senior management positions across the 
business and we continue to focus on this important area. More detail 
on gender diversity in the Company can be found on page 30 in 
the corporate governance section of the report.
Future changes to the Board
Jim Warwick has notified the Company of his intention to retire on 
31 December 2016 and, following the review of the size, structure 
and skills of the remaining Board, and the introduction of the Executive 
Leadership Team at the next level of management, it was decided 
that the Company will not appoint a successor at this point in time.
Michael Ross and Anthony Martin will be standing down from the 
Board shortly before the forthcoming AGM. The Nomination Committee 
will continue to review the composition of the Board and Committees 
to ensure that the requirements of the business can be met, and it 
is envisaged that an additional Non-Executive Director will be 
appointed in 2017.
Priorities for 2016/17
A key role of the Committee is to ensure that plans are in place for 
the orderly and progressive refreshing of the Board and to identify 
and develop individuals with potential for Board and senior leadership 
positions. In the coming year the Committee will focus in particular 
on coaching and mentoring the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) 
to maximise its effectiveness through a newly introduced mentoring 
programme and will also continue to review succession plans to 
ensure actions are in place in both the short and long term to 
address any gaps.
Murray Hennessy
Nomination Committee Chairman
Murray Hennessy
Nomination Committee Chairman
Committee members
-  Murray Hennessy 
(Chairman)
- Sue Harris
- Louise Patten
- Michael Ross
Key responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board composition and 
balance, considering the skills and capabilities required for each new 
Board appointment, leading the process for Board appointments, 
making recommendations to the Board in relation to new appointments, 
and reviewing succession planning.
Board diversity and  
appointments procedure
Abcam recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse 
Board, and sees diversity at Board level as an essential element in 
maintaining a competitive advantage. Board composition is central 
to the effective leadership of the Group and, therefore, prior to 
commencing any search for prospective Board members, the 
Committee draws up a specification, reflecting on the Board’s 
current balance of skills and experiences and those that would 
be conducive to the delivery of the Company’s strategy. Selection 
for Board appointments is made on merit against this specification 
and not by reference to a prescribed quota.
Board appointments in the year
Following a review of the structure, size and composition of 
the Board including skills, knowledge and diversity, Mara Aspinall 
was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 
14 September 2015 to strengthen the Company’s commercial 
experience of selling life science reagents into diagnostic and 
pharmaceutical markets. Mara’s experience of leading the 
world’s largest diagnostic company and also as president of a 
pharmaceutical company add considerable breadth and depth 
to the Board. Abcam’s largest market is the USA, and Mara’s 
extensive experience in that market has brought balance to a 
largely European-based Board. In addition, her appointment 
has served to increase further the gender diversity of the Board.
Nomination Committee
36 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance Louise Patten
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Committee members
-  Louise Patten 
(Chairman)
- Sue Harris
- Anthony Martin
Share ownership
In addition to the policy changes referred to above, the 
Committee has extended the shareholding policy to apply 
to all of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) to align them 
with our philosophy of executive share ownership.
Executive Director changes
As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, 2016/17 will see 
changes to the Executive Directors following the departure of the 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Jeff Iliffe, on 13 September 2016 and 
the retirement of the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Jim Warwick, 
on 31 December 2016. Details of their departure arrangements can 
be found on page 42.
Gavin Wood joined as CFO-elect on 18 July 2016, and he is due 
to be appointed as an Executive Director on 12 September 2016. 
Although Gavin Wood was not an Executive Director during the 
2015/16 financial year, we are providing a summary of his remuneration 
arrangements on page 47. It is not currently intended that the position of 
Chief Operating Officer (COO) will be replaced due to the introduction 
of the ELT at the next level of management.
Base salary for Executive Directors and the Company 
Chairman’s remuneration
Hiring and retaining key talent are essential to Abcam’s strategy 
as we invest to grow the business further. The Remuneration 
Committee’s policy is to offer remuneration which is competitive 
with comparable publicly listed companies, and to provide 
incentives which fairly and responsibly reward individuals for 
their contribution to the success of the Group.
• The Remuneration Committee decided to increase Alan Hirzel’s 
salary to £480,000 from £320,000 with effect from 1 July 2016 to 
address the current shortfall in his salary against external benchmarks 
where our research showed him to be below the market lower 
quartile, and to maintain a suitable pay differential with other 
senior roles in the Company. Alan was appointed as CEO in 
September 2014, and his salary had not been increased since 
then. Over the same period, the business has been undergoing 
a significant transformation and Abcam’s market capitalisation 
has increased from £0.9bn to around £1.5bn. The Remuneration 
Committee felt strongly that it is in the best interests of the Company 
for its CEO to be paid a base salary that recognises the market 
value of the role, and the performance of the Company under 
his leadership. 
• The CFO, Jeff Iliffe, and the COO, Jim Warwick, will not receive 
increases to their base salary in 2016/17 following their respective 
announcements of stepping down and planned retirement.
• Gavin Wood joined Abcam as CFO-elect on 18 July 2016 
and he is due to be appointed as an Executive Director on 
12 September 2016. His base salary has been set at £300,000 
by the Remuneration Committee, to recognise the market 
value of the role, and Gavin’s skills and experience. 
• No increase will be made to the Chairman’s remuneration 
in 2016/17.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present you with the 
Committee’s report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Following another year of significant growth, investment and 
continued change for Abcam, I would like to provide you with 
an overview of the Committee’s major decisions during 2015/16, 
together with the context in which these decisions were taken.
Although Abcam is not required by the AIM Listing Rules to provide 
all of the information detailed in this report, the Directors have chosen 
to do so in accordance with best practice and in order to provide 
greater transparency to shareholders. We were pleased to receive 
a high level of shareholder support for last year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration at the 2015 AGM, with 99.64% voting in support of the 
report. We will also put this Annual Report on Remuneration to an 
advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Strategic review of remuneration
As detailed in last year’s Annual Report, the Committee undertook 
a strategic review of the approach to remuneration in 2015, to ensure 
it was aligned with Abcam’s evolving strategy and growth aspirations, 
as it entered a new phase of its development. Deloitte assisted the 
Committee with the strategic review, and feedback was obtained from 
major shareholders. Although not required for an AIM-listed company, 
the Directors chose to put the resulting revised Remuneration Policy 
to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM, which was approved by 91.46% 
of shareholders. We believe that the Remuneration Policy continues 
to balance the particular requirements of our business with good 
practice and there are no proposed changes for this year. A vote 
on the Remuneration Policy is therefore not necessary this year, 
and a copy can be found on the Company’s investor relations 
website at www.abcamplc.com.
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and other related regulations.
37 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
Part 1a – Remuneration Committee Chairman’s statement 2015/16 remuneration out-turns for Executive Directors
• Annual Bonus Plan – the annual bonus out-turns in 2015/16 
were 100.0% and 137.9% of the target award for financial and 
strategic measures respectively, reflecting a good performance 
against stretching targets during the year. This year, as an 
exceptional measure, the personal objective for the entire 
Senior Leadership Team (including the Executive Directors) was 
the achievement of employee engagement targets. While out-turn 
against this personal objective was 50% of the target award, the 
specific target set was extremely stretching and delivery against 
it has made a measurable and continuing improvement to the 
business. Further details regarding achievement against each 
performance target are set out on page 40. 30% of Alan Hirzel’s 
total award will be deferred into shares for a further two years, 
in accordance with the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan.
• Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) – the annualised compounded 
EPS growth over the three-year performance period ended 
30 June 2016 was 4.3% against a minimum target of 10.5% and a 
maximum target of 15.0%; therefore, the awards granted under 
the LTIP on 25 November 2013 and 16 December 2013 will not vest.
 
Future review
The Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor the current 
arrangements to ensure they remain aligned with Abcam’s strategic 
goals and shareholder interests.
Louise Patten
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy
A new Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved in an advisory vote by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and is available on the Company’s 
investor relations website at www.abcamplc.com.
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration
AUDITED INFORMATION
a) 2015/16 single figure for total remuneration for Executive Directors
The aggregate remuneration provided to Directors who have served as Executive Directors in the year ended 30 June 2016 is set out below, 
along with comparatives for the prior year.
Single figure for total remuneration
Alan Hirzel
2
Jeff Iliffe Jim Warwick
2015/16
£000
2014/15
£000
2015/16
£000
2014/15
£000
2015/16
£000
2014/15
£000
Salary 320 306 265 265 265 265
Taxable benefits 2 1 2 2 2 2
Annual bonus 175 235 145 182 145 191
Deferred bonus 75 101 — 78 16 82
Long-term incentives — 5 — 24 — 25
Pension-related and other benefits
1
42 37 29 29 2 5
Total remuneration 613 685 441 580 429 570
1  In place of pension contributions that can no longer be contributed in a tax-efficient way, an additional cash allowance and/or provision of certain benefits have been 
provided to Jim Warwick since 6 April 2012 and to Jeff Iliffe from 6 April 2014. The value of these cash payments and benefits has been disclosed within pension-related 
and other benefits in the table above. Jim Warwick waived his entitlement to £30,000 (2014/15: £26,000) of these payments in lieu of retirement benefits. The Company 
made donations to charities of its choice amounting to the total amounts waived.
2  Alan Hirzel joined Abcam on 5 August 2014 on a base salary of £244,800. On his promotion to CEO on 9 September 2014 he received an increase in base salary to £320,000. 
He has not received an increase in base salary between that date and the end of the financial year, 30 June 2016.
38 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
Part 1a – Remuneration Committee Chairman’s statement continued AUDITED INFORMATION continued
a) 2015/16 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors continued
The figures in the single figure for total remuneration table on page 38 are derived from the following:
Salary The amount of base salary received in the year.
Taxable benefits The taxable value of benefits received in the year.
Annual bonus The value of the cash bonus earned in respect of the year under the Annual Bonus Plan (ABP). 
Deferred bonus The value of the bonus in respect of the year under the ABP, which will be deferred as a nil-cost 
option or conditional share award over Abcam plc shares, for at least two years from the date 
of award. The deferred element is not subject to further performance conditions, but vesting 
requires continuation of employment.
Long-term incentives The value of performance-related incentives whose performance targets relate to a period ending in 
the relevant financial year and the value of Free and Matching Shares granted in the year under the 
HMRC tax-advantaged SIP, based on the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
The values shown in the 2014/15 column relate to the LTIP award granted in 2011 and the LTIP award 
granted in 2012.
The 2011 LTIP was based 50% on TSR and 50% on EPS and was due to vest on 1 November 2014. This award 
meets neither the minimum performance conditions of a TSR above the median performance of FTSE 250 
companies over the three-year holding period nor an EPS growth in excess of 52.1%. This award 
therefore lapsed.
The 2012 award was based on compound EPS performance and vested on 1 November 2015, valued at 
the average mid-market closing share price over the last three months of the financial year.
The values shown in the 2015/16 column relate to the LTIP award made in 2013 based on compound EPS 
performance, which will not vest.
Pension-related 
and other benefits
The value of the employer contribution to the defined contribution pension plan (or the value of a salary 
or benefit supplement paid in lieu of a contribution to this pension plan).
Details of individual elements of remuneration
Base salary
There were no base salary increases for the Executive Directors in the year ended 30 June 2016.
Taxable benefits
Benefits comprise amounts in respect of life insurance, private medical cover and annual health screening.
Annual and deferred bonus
For the year ended 30 June 2016, the maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors was 150% of salary. The bonus under the ABP 
consisted of three elements: Group profit performance, achievement of specific Group strategic goals and individual performance targets. 
For Alan Hirzel, 30% of the bonus will be deferred into Abcam plc shares for a further two years from the date of approval of these audited 
financial statements, subject to continuation of employment.
For the year ended 30 June 2016, Jeff Iliffe will not receive a deferred share award as he will be leaving Abcam on 13 September 2016. 
Jim Warwick’s deferred share award for the year ended 30 June 2016 will be pro-rated to reflect that he will be staying with Abcam until 
his planned retirement on 31 December 2016. The deferred element is not subject to further performance conditions. 
The Committee exercised its discretion to exclude losses from AxioMx, which was acquired during the financial year, from the calculation of the 
Group’s adjusted profit before tax, in common with the approach taken last financial year following the acquisition of Firefly Bioworks Inc.
39 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance AUDITED INFORMATION continued
a) 2015/16 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors continued
Details of individual elements of remuneration continued
Annual and deferred bonus continued
The targets and performance outcomes which resulted in the annual bonus shown in the single figure for total remuneration table are as follows:
Annual Bonus Plan 
element Performance
Financial (50% 
of total bonus)
Financial performance 
is based on the Group’s 
adjusted profit before 
tax, AxioMx results, 
one-off items and cash 
bonuses on a budgeted 
exchange rate basis.
The table below shows the target ranges for 2015/16:
Adjusted PBT, at budgeted
exchange rates and before tax,
 AxioMx results, one-off items and
cash bonuses
% of
maximum
Threshold £53.0m–£55.0m 25%
Target £55.0m–£57.0m 50%
Exceed £57.0m–£59.0m 75%
Maximum >£59.0m 100%
Overall out-turn was in line with target.
Strategic (33% 
of total bonus)
The strategic goals’ 
performance measures 
are aligned to the 
Group’s four KPIs: 
RabMAb
®
 primaries 
revenue growth, 
non-primaries revenue 
growth, NPS and 
market position. Our 
performance in the 
year against these 
KPIs is presented 
on page 13.
The table below shows each strategic KPI measure, its relative weighting and an indication of the targets:
Strategic measure Weighting Threshold Target Exceed Maximum
RabMAb
®
 primaries CER revenue growth 13% 18%–23% 23%–26% 26%–28% >28%
Non-primaries CER revenue growth 7% 26%–32% 32%–34% 35%–36% >36%
NPS 10% 18%–26% 26%–28% 28%–30% >30%
Market position 3% Target to maintain #1 position in research primary 
antibodies as well as to improve market share in 
at least two other areas
Achievement was as follows:
Threshold Target Exceed Maximum
% of maximum 25% 50% 75% 100%
RabMAb
®
 primaries CER revenue growth   
Non-primaries revenue growth    
NPS   
Market position   
Overall out-turn was 137.9% of the target.
Personal (17% 
of total bonus)
The personal objective out-turn was 50% of the target for Executive Directors, reflecting the common 
personal objective shared across the Senior Leadership Team, as described above.
Long-term incentives
The values shown in the 2015/16 column in the single figure for total remuneration table relate to the 2013 LTIP award which will not vest. 
The award was based on compound EPS performance over the three years ended 30 June 2016 with an annual target of 10.5% for 
minimum vesting and 15.0% for maximum vesting.
The Company’s annualised, compounded unadjusted EPS growth over the three-year performance period ended 30 June 2016 is detailed 
on page 38.
Retirement benefits
The Company operates a flexible benefits scheme under which the Executive Directors are entitled to contributions to be made by the 
Company on their behalf equivalent to 12% of base salary. Each Executive Director can choose how to spend this contribution amongst 
the specific benefits available and also has the option to sacrifice an element of base pay to make additional pension contributions into 
the Company’s money purchase pension scheme or to purchase other benefits.
Where Executive Directors have elected to preserve their current lifetime allowance for pension contributions, meaning that no further 
pension contributions can be made into their pension schemes, they are entitled to draw a cash supplement or other benefits equivalent 
to the cost to the Company of their pension entitlement, as adjusted for employer’s NI contributions, such that the Company is in a neutral 
position. Where Executive Directors exceed their annual allowances, the Remuneration Committee has agreed that a cash supplement or 
other benefits equivalent to the cost to the Company of the balance of their pension entitlement may be made, as adjusted for employer’s 
NI contributions provided that the Company is in a neutral position. These amounts have been included within the pension-related benefits 
disclosed in the single figure for total remuneration table on page 38.
40 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued AUDITED INFORMATION continued
b) 2015/16 single figure for total remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors (NEDs)
During the year the Company extended its share ownership philosophy to the Chairman and NEDs by changing their fee structure so that 
part of their fees will be delivered as a fixed number of Abcam shares.
The fixed number of shares was determined following the announcement of the Company’s annual results for the 2014/15 financial year. 
This was calculated as one-third of their total fee for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 (including any payments for attendance at 
Committee meetings and Chairmanship fees) divided by £5.95, being the average share price for the ten dealing days following the 
announcement of the Company’s annual results for the 2014/15 financial year. The number of shares will be fixed until the year ended 
30 June 2018, when it will be reviewed. A net number of shares are delivered annually after normal PAYE and National Insurance deductions. 
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has committed not to transfer or sell the shares during the term of their non-executive directorship.
Single figure for total remuneration
Fees
2015/16 2014/15
Total fee
£000
Delivered
as cash
£000
To be
delivered as
 shares
4
Total fee
£000
Murray Hennessy
1
150 100 50 129
Jonathan Milner
2
70 47 23 57
Sue Harris 50 33 17 28
Anthony Martin 40 27 13 39
Louise Patten 50 33 17 50
Michael Ross 35 23 12 35
Mara Aspinall
2
32 21 11 —
Total remuneration 427 285 142 338
1   Murray Hennessy was appointed Chairman on 3 November 2014, having previously served as a Non-Executive Director. His fees disclosed in the table above include 
the total amount payable to him during the year in respect of each role.
2  Jonathan Milner transferred from CEO to Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on 9 September 2014. The 2014/15 fees in this table are those payable in his Non-Executive 
capacity only from that date.
3   Mara Aspinall was appointed to the Board of Directors on 14 September 2015. The fees in this table represent her annual non-executive fee of £34,400 and the 
annualised consultancy fee of £6,000 pro-rated from her date of appointment until 30 June 2016.
4  The fixed number of shares will be awarded at the beginning of the first open period following the announcement of the annual results in September 2016.
c) Executive Directors’ scheme interests awarded during 2015/16
Executive
Director
Type of
interest
awarded Award basis
Face value
 of award
 £000
4, 5
% vesting at
minimum
performance
requirements Retention period
Performance
period
Date of
award
Date of
vesting
Alan Hirzel
1
LTIP 125% of base salary 
(less the value of SIP Free 
and Matching awards) 
396 25% 40% on 6 Nov 18
20% on 6 Nov 19
20% on 6 Nov 20
20% on 6 Nov 21
1 Jul 15 – 
30 Jun 18
6 Nov 15 6 Nov 18
Jim Warwick
2
LTIP 100% of base salary 
(less the value of SIP Free 
and Matching awards)
261 25% 50% on 6 Nov 18
25% on 6 Nov 19
25% on 6 Nov 20
1 Jul 15 – 
30 Jun 18
6 Nov 15 6 Nov 18
Alan Hirzel SIP – Free 
Shares
Maximum award as per 
scheme rules
3 n/a n/a n/a 26 Oct 15 26 Oct 18
Jeff Iliffe 3
Jim Warwick 3
Alan Hirzel
SIP – 
Matching 
Shares
Maximum award 
as per scheme rules
2 n/a n/a n/a 26 Oct 15 26 Oct 18
Jeff Iliffe 2
Jim Warwick 2
Alan Hirzel ABP –
deferred
share
award
Up to 45% of base salary 100 n/a n/a n/a 26 Oct 15 26 Oct 17
Jeff Iliffe
3
39
Jim Warwick 82
1  Awards made under the LTIP to Alan Hirzel are in the form of conditional shares and will be subject to an additional retention period following vesting as set out in the 
table above.
2  Awards made under the LTIP to Jim Warwick are in the form of nil-cost options and will be pro-rated based on time and performance to reflect his planned retirement 
on 31 December 2016. They will be subject to the additional retention period following vesting as set out in the table above.
3  Jeff Iliffe received 50% of the deferred share award for the year ended 30 June 2015 that he would have been granted but for his resignation. He will not receive a deferred 
share award for the year ended 30 June 2016.
41 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance AUDITED INFORMATION continued
c) Executive Directors’ scheme interests awarded during 2015/16 continued
4  The share prices used to calculate the face value of the LTIP awards and the Free and Matching Shares under the SIP were the mid-market prices on the day prior 
to award date, being 598.50 pence for the 26 October 2015 awards and 598.00 pence for the 6 November 2015 awards.
5 The share price used to calculate the face value of the deferred share awards was the ten-dealing-day average share price prior to the date of award, being 595.00 pence.
The performance conditions for the 2015 LTIP awards are based 70% on target annualised compound EPS growth and 30% on strategic KPIs over the 
three-year period ending on 30 June 2018. In relation to EPS growth there will be 25% vesting at 8% compound growth and 100% vesting at 12% growth, 
with proportionate straight-line vesting between these two figures. The remaining performance measures are aligned to the Group’s four KPIs: RabMAb
®
 
primaries revenue growth, non-primaries revenue growth, net promoter score (NPS) and market position.
All ABP and LTIP targets will be fully disclosed after vesting, unless full disclosure would expose the business to a clear competitive risk.
d) Executive Director departure arrangements
Chief Financial Officer (Jeff Iliffe)
Jeff Iliffe served notice of his intention to step down from the position of Chief Financial Officer on 14 September 2015. The Committee considered the 
overall circumstances of his departure as an Executive Director, as well as performance, contractual obligations and plan rules. The Committee’s 
determinations, which were consistent with the Committee’s termination policy, are set out below.
Remuneration element Description
Payment in lieu of notice Jeff Iliffe will work and be paid for his full notice period, which expires on 13 September 2016, although 
he will step down from the Board on 12 September 2016. No payment in respect of salary or benefits 
(or compensation in lieu) in respect of any period after his departure date of 13 September 2016 
or compensation for loss of office will be made. 
Base salary No increase to base pay was awarded from 1 July 2015. 
Retirement and other benefits The benefits package will be maintained until his date of departure and not beyond.
ABP Jeff Iliffe is eligible for the 70% cash element of his 2015/16 bonus, whilst the deferred share element relating to 
2015/16 will not be granted. In respect of his 2014/15 bonus, only 50% of the deferred share award was made, 
which was a pro-rated amount to reflect his announced departure. Deferred share awards already accrued 
from previous years will vest at the normal time on the second anniversary of the date of grant.
For 2016/17, it has been agreed by the Remuneration Committee that he will receive the cash element of 
the bonus only at target, pro-rated to his date of departure. No deferred share award will be paid in respect 
of the 2016/17 plan year.
LTIP Unexercised but vested LTIP awards are capable of exercise within twelve months from the date of leaving. 
Unvested LTIP awards are subject to meeting the performance requirements and will be pro-rated for time 
and will be capable of being exercised within twelve months from their normal release dates. 
No LTIP award has been made following his resignation on 14 September 2015 and no LTIP award will be 
made in the financial year of his date of departure (2016/17).
Chief Operating Officer (Jim Warwick)
Jim Warwick will retire from the position of Chief Operating Officer on 31 December 2016. In line with the Committee’s policy, the Committee 
considered the overall circumstances of his departure as an Executive Director, as well as performance, contractual obligations and the plan rules. 
The Committee’s determinations, which were consistent with the Committee’s termination policy, are set out below:
Remuneration element Description
Payment in lieu of notice No payment will be made in respect of salary or benefits (or compensation in lieu) in respect of any 
period after his departure date of 31 December 2016.
Base salary No increase to base pay was awarded from 1 July 2016. 
Retirement and other benefits The benefits package will be maintained until his date of departure and not beyond.
ABP Jim Warwick is eligible for the 70% cash element of his 2015/16 bonus in the normal way and will receive 
25% of the deferred share award he would have been granted but for his retirement.
For 2016/17, he will receive a cash bonus of 35% of base salary, subject to continued satisfactory 
performance in his leadership of the implementation of the ERP system. No deferred share award 
will be paid in respect of the 2016/17 plan year.
LTIP Unexercised but vested LTIP awards are capable of exercise within twelve months from the date of leaving. 
Unvested LTIP awards are subject to meeting the performance requirements and will be pro-rated for time 
and will be capable of being exercised within twelve months from their normal release dates, subject 
to performance measures. 
No LTIP award will be made in the financial year of his retirement.
e) Payments to past Directors
There have been no payments to former Directors during the year.
42 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued AUDITED INFORMATION continued
f) Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The Committee introduced a shareholding guideline of two times salary for all Executive Directors from the date of the 2015 AGM. This level 
is to be built up over a period ending on the later of the fifth anniversary of appointment or the fifth anniversary of introduction of the policy, 
and ceases to apply after they cease to be an Executive Director of Abcam. Until their shareholding guideline is achieved, an Executive 
Director is prohibited from selling any shares they have acquired through a Company scheme. They will, however, be able to sell sufficient 
shares to satisfy any tax liability that may arise on the release or exercise of an award.
The extent to which each Executive Director has met the shareholding guideline as at 30 June 2016 is shown in the table below:
Executive Directors
Beneficial shareholding:
number of shares
1
 and as
a percentage of salary
2
Type
Owned
 outright
Outstanding scheme interests
3,4,5
Total of all-share
interests and
outstanding
scheme interests
Unvested,
subject to
performance
measures
Unvested,
not subject to
performance
measures
Vested but
unexercised
Alan Hirzel 26,900 Shares 26,900 — — — 26,900
65%
CSOP options — 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘A’ awards
6
— 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘B’ awards — 123,210 — — 123,210
Deferred awards — — 27,475 — 27,475
SIP Free — — 2,094 — 2,094
SIP Matching — — 1,047 — 1,047
26,900 136,140 30,616 — 193,656
Jeff Iliffe 329,831 Shares 329,831 — — — 329,831
958%
Unapproved options — — — 170,460 170,460
CSOP options — 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘A’ awards
6
— 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘B’ awards — 52,404 — 174,363 226,767
Deferred awards — — 18,996 12,262 31,258
SIP Free — — 2,094 — 2,094
SIP Matching — — 1,048 — 1,048
329,831 65,334 22,138 357,085 774,388
Jim Warwick 2,943,381 Shares 2,943,381 — — — 2,943,381
8,546% 
CSOP options — 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘A’ awards
6
— 6,465 — — 6,465
LTIP ‘B’ awards — 96,075 — 169,310 265,385
Deferred awards — — 26,192 12,931 39,123
SIP Free — — 2,094 — 2,094
SIP Matching — — 1,048 — 1,048
2,943,381 109,005 29,334 182,241 3,263,961
1 Interests in shares owned outright at 30 June 2016, including shares held by connected persons.
2 Based on share price of 770.00 pence and salary at 30 June 2016.
3  Outstanding scheme interests under the LTIP, SIP and ABP (deferred share awards) take the form of rights to receive shares (nil-cost share options or conditional share awards). 
Outstanding CSOP, unapproved and EMI options take the form of rights to receive shares on payment of the relevant exercise price.
4 Details of each scheme interest held by each Executive Director are set out on the following pages.
5 Outstanding scheme interests under the LTIP for which the performance conditions were not met have been excluded.
6  Part ‘A’ awards under the LTIP refer to the first £30,000 of LTIP value awarded at the date of grant for awards prior to 30 June 2014. A corresponding CSOP option was 
also granted, with an exercise price equal to the share price at the date of grant, and subject to the same performance conditions. In respect of the LTIP Part ‘A’ award, 
subject to achievement of the relevant performance conditions, the participant will receive the lower of the number of shares with an aggregate value of £30,000 at the 
date of release and the number of shares originally subject to the award. Thus, £30,000 of gain will be subject to income tax/NI and any increase in value between the 
date of grant of the award and the date at which the shares are sold is delivered through the CSOP option and is subject to capital gains tax.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Company’s share schemes. Their beneficial shareholdings as at 30 June 2016 
were as follows:
Beneficial
shareholding
Non-beneficial
shareholding
Total
shareholding
Murray Hennessy 26,975 — 26,975
Jonathan Milner 23,274,966 28,300 23,303,266
Sue Harris — — —
Anthony Martin — — —
Louise Patten 24,883 — 24,833
Michael Ross — — —
Mara Aspinall — — —
43 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance AUDITED INFORMATION continued
f) Directors’ shareholdings and share interests continued
There have been no changes in the interests of the Executive Directors or NEDs between 30 June 2016 and the date of approval of the 
2015/16 Annual Report and Accounts. With effect from 1 July 2015 it was agreed that the Non-Executive Directors would receive a portion 
of their fees as a fixed number of fully paid ordinary shares. These shares will be delivered as soon as practicable in the first open period 
following the announcement of the preliminary results in September 2016.
Reconciliations of the opening scheme interests to those at the end of the year are provided in the tables below, including grants, 
awards, exercises and lapses.
Details of scheme interests exercised in the year
Scheme
Type of
award
Number of
shares
Exercise price
pence
Market price
on date
of exercise
pence
Gain on
exercise
£
Jim Warwick
LTIP ‘B’ Unapproved 72,000 0.2 578.50 416,376
Details of outstanding scheme interests
LTIP and CSOP awards
Details of LTIP and CSOP awards outstanding for Directors who served during the year are as follows:
Name of Director
Type of
award
Exercise
price
pence
Number of
awards at
30 June 2015 Awarded
1
Exercised Lapsed
Number of
awards at
30 June 2016
Number of
vested awards at
30 June 2016
2
Alan Hirzel CSOP 464 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
LTIP ‘A’ award 0.2 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
LTIP ‘B’ award 0.2 56,998 66,212 — — 123,210 —
69,928 66,212 — — 136,140 —
Jeff Iliffe CSOP 464 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
LTIP ‘A’ award 0.2 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
LTIP ‘B’ award 0.2 251,644 — — (24,877) 226,767 174,363
264,574 — — (24,877) 239,697 174,363
Jim Warwick CSOP 464 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
LTIP ‘A’ award 0.2 6,465 — — — 6,465 —
LTIP ‘B’ award 0.2 319,992 43,671 (72,000) (26,278) 265,385 169,310
332,922 43,671 (72,000) (26,278) 278,315 169,310
667,424 109,883 (72,000) (51,155) 654,152 343,673
1 The market price at the date of award for all awards made during the year was 598.00 pence.
2 These relate to the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2012 awards and are included in the number of awards at 30 June 2016.
Annual Bonus Plan deferred share awards
Deferred share awards made under the ABP which remain outstanding at 30 June 2016 are outlined below:
Executive Directors
Nil-cost options
or conditional
shares held as
at 30 June 2015
1
Nil-cost options
or conditional
shares awarded
 during the year
 ended
30 June 2016
2
Award date
Market price per
share at award
Planned
vesting
date
Maximum
nil-cost options
or conditional
shares held as
at 30 June 2016
Alan Hirzel 10,538 16,937
26 Oct 15 595 pence 26 Oct 17
27,475
Jeff Iliffe 24,715 6,543 31,258
Jim Warwick 25,384 13,739 39,123
60,637 37,219 97,856
1  These options relate to the awards made in September 2013 and November 2014 under the ABP for financial years 2012/13 and 2013/14 respectively. The 2012/13 award 
vested on 10 September 2015. The 2013/14 award will vest on 23 September 2016, following satisfactory completion of the two-year holding period.
2  These options relate to the awards made in September 2015 under the ABP for financial year 2014/15. Jeff Iliffe received 50% of the nil-cost options he would have 
received were it not for his resignation, so they would be pro-rated to reflect that he would be employed by the Company for approximately half of the two-year 
retention period.
44 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued AUDITED INFORMATION continued
f) Directors’ shareholdings and share interests continued
SIP
Abcam operates an HMRC tax-advantaged SIP for all UK employees. Under the SIP, awards are made as follows:
Free Share awards
Annual awards are made to UK-based staff, with a market value up to the HMRC limit, which in 2015/16 was £3,600 each (2014/15: £3,600). 
Awards take the form of a conditional entitlement to shares and will vest after three years’ continuous employment with the Company.
Partnership and Matching Share awards
All UK-based employees are given the opportunity to invest up to the HMRC limit, which in 2015/16 was £1,800 per annum (2014/15: £1,800), 
to acquire new ‘partnership’ shares in the Company at market value. If these shares are held for three years and the employee remains 
employed by the Company during that time, then they will also receive an additional ‘matching’ share for each share acquired.
Dividend shares
Shares conditionally and beneficially held in the SIP are entitled to earn dividends in the form of shares. These are immediately beneficially 
owned and can be removed from the SIP by the participant with no penalty.
The following table sets out the shares purchased and awarded under the SIP in respect of each of the Executive Directors during the year.
Executive Director Type of award
Conditionally awarded shares
1
Beneficially owned shares
Number
conditionally
awarded as at
30 June 2015
Number
conditionally
awarded
during the year
Number
transferred
to beneficial
ownership
during the year
Number
conditionally
awarded as at
30 June 2016
Number
beneficially
owned as at
30 June 2015
Number
purchased/
acquired/
transferred
to beneficial
ownership
during the year
Number
beneficially
owned as at
30 June 2016
Jeff Iliffe and 
Jim Warwick
Free 2,280 601 (787) 2,094 6,639 787 7,426
Partnership — — — — 4,306 301 4,607
Matching 1,140 301 (393) 1,048 3,166 393 3,559
Dividend — — — — 1,311 278 1,589
3,420 902 (1,180) 3,142 15,422 1,759 17,181
Alan Hirzel Free 1,493 601 — 2,094 — — —
Partnership — — — — 746 301 1,047
Matching 746 301 — 1,047 — — —
Dividend — — — — 69 59 128
2,239 902 — 3,141 815 360 1,175
1 Conditionally awarded shares are dependent upon three years’ continuous employment from the date of award.
The award/purchase of free, matching and partnership shares in the year took place on 26 October 2015, at a price of 598.50 pence per share.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 June 2016 was 770 pence and the range during the year was 499 pence to 770 pence.
Non-executive appointments at other companies
The following Executive Directors served as NEDs elsewhere and received and retained fees for the period covered by this report as follows:
Executive Director Company
Fees
£
Jeff Iliffe Treatt plc 37,762
Jim Warwick Quartix Holdings plc 35,000
Jeff Iliffe also serves on the board of trustees of a charity and does not receive fees for this appointment. Jim Warwick also serves on the 
board of Directors of an academy school and does not receive fees in respect of this position. Alan Hirzel was a Non-Executive Director 
of the UK National Citizen Service Trust until June 2016, for which he did not receive fees.
45 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance UNAUDITED INFORMATION
The Company’s TSR performance over the previous six years compared to a broad equity market is shown in the graph below. The FTSE 250 
index has been chosen as the comparator index because Abcam would sit within this index if it was a Main Market-listed company and the 
Committee considers the relatively complex international nature of this index to be comparable to the Company’s business operations where 
a large proportion of revenues are generated outside the UK.
g) TSR performance graph – rebased to 1.0
CEO remuneration
The table below shows the historic total remuneration for the person undertaking the role of CEO:
Financial year
CEO single figure of
total remuneration
£000
Annual bonus
awarded against
maximum opportunity
Long-term incentive
vesting rates against
maximum opportunity
2015/16 Alan Hirzel 613 52.0% n/a
1
2014/15 Alan Hirzel 685 73.3% n/a
1
2013/14 Jonathan Milner 642 56.8% 0%
2012/13 Jonathan Milner 821 71.2% 16.9%
2011/12 Jonathan Milner 739 60.0% 96.3%
2010/11 Jonathan Milner 805 62.7% 100%
2009/10 Jonathan Milner 716 100.0% n/a
1  Vesting of long-term incentives is measured over a three-year performance period. Since Alan Hirzel has been employed by Abcam for less than three years, 
no long-term incentives have yet vested.
h) Percentage change in CEO remuneration
Abcam has an international workforce of more than 920 in seven countries. Due to the differing local pay levels across each of our 
overseas offices, the Committee considers the most meaningful comparator group to be the average remuneration of UK employees.
The following table shows the percentage change in remuneration between the years ended 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016 for the CEO 
and this comparator group.
Salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus
3
CEO percentage change
1
4.7% 175% 6.1%
Comparator group percentage change
2
3.5% 3.5% (5.4)%
1 In 2015/16 Alan Hirzel elected to receive Company-funded private medical insurance in addition to his existing benefits.
2 The comparator group is inclusive of promotions in the period.
3  The annual bonus scheme was extended to a wider employee population with effect from 1 January 2016. The average salary, target and maximum bonus potential 
of those employees added was lower than the comparator group for the prior year.
01/07/2009 30/06/2010 30/06/2011 30/06/2012 30/06/2013 30/06/2014 30/06/2015 30/06/2016 
Abcam (TSR) FTSE250 (TSR)
7.00
6.50
6.00
5.50
5.00
4.50
4.00
3.50
3.00
2.50
2.00
1.50
1.00
0.50
46 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
i) Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows Abcam’s dividend payout increased by 9.4% versus the total Group employee pay expenditure increase of 28.8% 
for the financial years ended 30 June 2016 and 2015.
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000 % increase
Dividend
1
18.1 16.5 9.4%
Total employee pay
2
43.7 33.9 28.8%
1  Dividends are the interim and final dividends paid in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2015 and the interim dividend paid and the final dividend recommended 
in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2016.
2 Total employee pay includes bonuses, employer social security, pension contributions, redundancies and share-based charges.
j) Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2016/17
The following sections outline how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2016/17.
Appointment of CFO
Gavin Wood joined Abcam as CFO-elect on 18 July 2016, and he is due to be appointed as an Executive Director on 12 September 2016. 
Although he was not an Executive Director during the 2015/16 financial year nor at the date of the publication of the Annual Report, in the 
interests of transparency, we are including details of his remuneration arrangements for 2016/17: 
• His base salary was set at £300,000 by the Remuneration Committee, and recognises the market value of the role and Gavin’s skills 
and experience. 
• Gavin will be eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP, in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
• In order to secure the appointment of Gavin Wood, the Remuneration Committee offered a one-off LTIP award equal to 100% of base 
salary, to be made to him in the first open period following his commencement of employment. Whilst this was not a buy-out of awards 
forfeited, as provided for under our Remuneration Policy, the Committee believed the LTIP award was necessary to address the competitive 
nature of the market and the need to secure a high calibre candidate from the small pool of talent with the international experience 
and expertise required for the role. The award aligns the interests of the CFO-elect with those of the shareholders immediately from his 
date of appointment. The award will be made at the same time as the 2016/17 LTIP award and 75% of the LTIP will be subject to the 
same performance conditions as the 2016/17 LTIP award. The remaining 25% will not be subject to performance conditions but will 
be released on the third anniversary of his appointment date subject to his continued employment.
Executive Directors’ base salaries
The base salary of the CEO was increased to £480,000 from 1 July 2016 for the reasons discussed on page 37. There was no change to the 
base salaries of the COO and the CFO for the 2016/17 financial year.
Salary 2015/16
£000 Change
Salary as at
1 July 2016
£000
Alan Hirzel CEO 320 50% 480
Jeff Iliffe CFO (resigned) 265 0% 265
Jim Warwick COO (retiring) 265 0% 265
Gavin Wood CFO-elect — — 300
Annual incentive, deferred bonus and LTIP awards
The overall performance framework for 2016/17 for Executive Directors remains unchanged and is as follows:
Maximum % of salary 2016/17 measures Weighting
Annual Bonus Plan 150%, of which 30% is deferred
into shares
Profit growth 50%
Strategic targets 33%
Personal objectives 17%
Long Term Incentive Plan 125% for CEO
100% for other Executive Directors
Three-year EPS growth 70%
Three-year strategic targets 30%
47 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
j) Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2016/17 continued
Annual incentive, deferred bonus and LTIP awards continued
The strategic targets for the ABP and LTIP awards are measurable and quantifiable and aligned with the Group’s KPIs as set out on page 13.
The EPS growth targets for the forthcoming LTIP award will be 8% growth per annum for threshold vesting and 12% growth per annum for 
maximum vesting. These targets are considered to be appropriately stretching and incentivising in the context of our business strategy.
The strategic targets for the forthcoming LTIP award will be based on:
• CER growth in revenue from the RabMAb
®
 primary antibody range;
• CER growth in revenue from non-primary antibody products;
• net promoter score (NPS) – Abcam’s vision is to be the brand most recommended by life science researchers; and
• market position – relative market position in each of the main markets in which we operate.
The Annual Bonus Plan targets and the strategic targets for the LTIP will not be disclosed in advance as they are deemed by the 
Committee to be commercially sensitive. The nature of these targets relies upon the use of internal budgets and strategic plans which 
would be inappropriate to disclose ahead of time. Appropriate retrospective disclosure of targets will be provided when these are no 
longer considered commercially sensitive.
The Committee introduced a performance cross-underpin to the Annual Bonus Plan in 2015. At the Committee’s discretion, vesting may 
be restricted if any of the three performance elements (financial, strategic or personal) show serious underperformance, or if the Committee 
determines that there has been underperformance on the part of an Executive Director in his role.
The CFO, Jeff Iliffe, and the COO, Jim Warwick, will each be eligible for a payment in relation to the cash element only of the 2016/17 
Annual Bonus Plan following their departure from the Company.
Neither Jeff Iliffe nor Jim Warwick will be entitled to participate in the 2016/17 LTIP award.
Pension
The Company retains its policy of contributing 12% of base salary (prior to any voluntary waivers) into each Executive Director’s pension 
scheme. For further details, please refer to the ‘retirement benefits’ section on page 40. 
Non-Executive Directors
During 2015/16 the Company put in place fee arrangements for all NEDs where a portion of their fees will be delivered as a fixed number 
of fully paid ordinary shares. There will be no increase in fees paid to NEDs in 2016/17, other than the fee payable to Mara Aspinall. Mara’s 
total remuneration was increased from £40,400 per annum (comprising a fee for her services as a NED of £34,400 per annum and an additional 
consultancy fee of £6,000 per annum) to a flat fee of £50,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2016, with no consultancy fee.
k) Remuneration Committee
The Committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy. It also determines, on behalf of the Board, and with the benefit of advice 
from external consultants and the SVP, Human Resources, the remuneration of the Executive Directors and proposes a fee for the Chairman 
of the Board of Directors.
The Committee formulates and applies the policy with consideration to the prevailing economic climate in the major economies in which the 
Group operates. It also observes the spirit of the Group’s core values, including responsible leadership in the external and internal social 
environment. Consequently, the Committee closely considers the Company’s performance in building both shareholder value and a 
secure future for all stakeholders.
The Committee currently comprises three NEDs, each of whom the Company deems to be independent: Louise Patten (Chairman), 
Sue Harris and Anthony Martin. Murray Hennessy, the Company’s Chairman, will replace Anthony Martin on the Remuneration Committee 
when Anthony Martin steps down from the Board and its Committees on 31 October 2016. This is permitted by the Code as Murray was 
independent on his appointment as Chairman. He will leave the meeting when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Company’s Chairman, Company Secretary and SVP, Human Resources, attend the Committee meetings by invitation and assist the 
Committee in its execution of its objectives, except when issues relating to their own compensation are discussed. No Director is involved 
in deciding his or her own remuneration.
48 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Remuneration report continued
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration continued UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
k) Remuneration Committee continued
While it is the Committee’s responsibility to exercise independent judgement, the Committee does request advice from management 
and professional advisors, so as to be informed given the internal and external environment.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the Committee. 
The three independent members of the Committee have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships. Members of the Committee 
have no day-to-day involvement in the running of the Company. The Committee met five times during the year. Details of attendance 
can be found in the Corporate Governance Report (see page 29).
External advisors to the Committee
The following table sets out the details of external advisors who provided material assistance to the Committee during the year in its 
consideration of matters related to Directors’ remuneration:
Advisors Appointment and selection Other services provided to the Company Fees for Committee assistance
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) Appointed to provide ongoing 
advice to the Committee on 
various matters including compliance 
with Directors’ remuneration 
reporting regulations, shareholder 
communication and other 
governance matters.
Advice on risk management £30,375
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to 
executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The Committee is satisfied that advice received from Deloitte during the year was objective 
and independent.
During the year, the Committee also sought input from the SVP of Human Resources on various subjects, including the remuneration 
of senior management.
Statement of voting at general meeting
The table below shows the voting outcome at the November 2015 AGM for the approval of the 2014/15 Remuneration Report and the 
Remuneration Policy as laid out in the 2014/15 Annual Report:
Votes for Votes against
Votes total
Votes 
withheld Number % Number %
Remuneration Policy 140,865,445 91.46% 13,160,891 8.54% 154,026,336 691,369
Remuneration Report 153,465,753 99.64% 560,818 0.36% 154,026,571 691,134
The Committee believes the 91.46% and 99.64% votes, respectively, in favour of the Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Report show 
very strong shareholder support for the Group’s remuneration arrangements.
Approval
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Louise Patten
Remuneration Committee Chairman
49 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance The Directors present their report together with the audited 
consolidated financial statements, along with the Auditor’s 
Report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Pages 1 to 52 inclusive (together with sections of the Annual Report 
incorporated by reference) consist of a Directors’ Report that has 
been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance 
upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of Directors 
in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law.
The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with 
the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (Code).
Likely future developments
The outlook for the business and likely future developments are 
outlined in the CEO’s review and operational report, Our Markets 
and Our Strategic Priorities sections of the Strategic Report on 
pages 7 to 12 and are incorporated in the Directors’ Report 
by cross-reference.
Post-balance sheet events
There have been no important events affecting the Company 
or the Group since the year end, with the exception of a successful 
milestone that was achieved as part of the AxioMx acquisition (see 
note 33 of the financial statements).
Research and development activities
A description of the Group’s R&D activities is given in Our Financials on 
page 22.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.556 pence 
(2014/15: 5.92 pence) per ordinary share to be paid on  
2 December 2016 to shareholders on the register on 11 November 2016. 
The associated ex-dividend date will be 10 November 2016. 
Together with the interim dividend of 2.354 pence per share paid 
on 15 April 2016, this brings the total dividend for the financial year 
ended 30 June 2016 to 8.91 pence per share (2014/15: 8.21 pence), 
representing an increase of 8.5% over the previous year.
Disabled employees
Abcam is an equal opportunities employer and ensures that 
applications for employment from people with disabilities and 
other under-represented groups are given full and fair consideration. 
Such individuals are given the same training, development and job 
opportunities as other employees. Every effort is also made to retain 
and support employees who have a disability during their employment, 
including flexible working to assist their re-entry into the workplace 
and making alternative suitable provisions.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policy 
for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which 
hedge accounting is used, and the Group’s exposure to price risk, 
credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given in note 26 to 
the financial statements.
Information on the Group’s risk appetite, principal risks and 
uncertainties and how they are managed by the Group is 
included in the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 19.
Control and share structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year are shown in note 24 to the financial statements. 
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no right 
to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one vote at general 
meetings of the Company.
Other than specific lock-ins and orderly marketing provisions 
negotiated with vendors in connection with acquisitions made 
by the Company, there are no specific restrictions on the size of 
a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed 
by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between 
the holders of the Company’s shares that may result in a restriction 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has any 
special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all 
issued shares are fully paid.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27 to the 
financial statements. Shares held by the Abcam Employee Share 
Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
Agreements affected by change of control
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover. 
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors 
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment (whether 
through resignation, redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because 
of a take-over bid. However, members of the Executive Leadership 
Team, excluding the Executive Directors, are entitled to an agreed 
sum equal to six months’ basic salary in the event of a dismissal for 
any reason other than misconduct (including constructive dismissal 
by reason of a fundamental breach of contract by Abcam or a 
successor employer) within twelve months following a change of 
control, provided that the individual enters into a settlement agreement 
and agrees to certain obligations regarding confidentiality, intellectual 
property and restrictive covenants. The agreed sum is payable in 
addition to any pay in lieu of notice, but includes any entitlement 
to statutory redundancy pay.
Major interest in shares
As at 31 August 2016, the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the voting 
rights as a shareholder of the Company as set out below (excluding 
Directors’ interests, which are set out on page 43).
Fund Manager
Number of
ordinary shares
held
Percentage of
issued share
 capital
Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 16,802,650 8.29%
Select Equity Group Inc 14,698,136 7.25%
Wasatch Advisors Inc 12,051,315 5.95%
T. Rowe Price Group 10,809,084 5.33%
OppenheimerFunds Inc 8,970,450 4.43%
50 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Directors’ report Purchase of own shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the 
shareholders resolutions of 5 November 2015, to purchase through the 
market 20,105,000 of the Company’s ordinary shares, provided that:
(i)  the amount paid for each share (exclusive of expenses) shall 
not be more than the higher of: (1) 5% above the average market 
value for the five business days before the date on which the 
contract for the purchase is made; and (2) an amount equal 
to the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the 
current independent bid as derived from the AIM Appendix to 
the Daily Official List of the London stock Exchange or less than 
0.2 pence per share; and
(ii)  the authority herein contained shall expire at the conclusion 
of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, the date 15 months 
after the date of passing this resolution (provided that the Company 
may, before such expiry, make a contract to purchase its own 
shares which would or might be executed wholly or partly after 
such expiry, and the Company may make a purchase of its own 
shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority hereby 
conferred had not expired).
No shares were purchased under the above authority during the 
year under review.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year 
and up to the date of signing the financial statements and, brief 
biographical descriptions of the Directors are set out on pages 26 
and 27. The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors 
in the Company’s ordinary shares of 0.2 pence are disclosed in 
the Remuneration Report.
Re-election of Directors
Following performance evaluation, the Chairman has determined 
that each individual continues to demonstrate commitment to his 
or her role and to display effective performance; he is therefore 
recommending the re-election of all Directors seeking to remain on 
the Board. Abcam has elected to comply with Code Provision B.7.1 
and all Directors shall retire and stand for re-election at the AGM 
to be held on 2 November 2016, other than Anthony Martin and 
Michael Ross who have decided to step down from the Board 
in advance of the AGM.
Appointment of Directors
Abcam shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint any person 
to be a Director. Abcam must have not less than three and no more 
than twelve Directors holding office at all times. Abcam may by 
ordinary resolution from time to time vary the minimum and/or 
maximum number of Directors.
The Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an 
additional Director to hold office until the next AGM, who shall 
then be eligible for election. As previously stated, the Directors 
have resolved that Gavin Wood shall replace Jeff Iliffe as Chief 
Financial Officer and Executive Director on 12 September 2016.
Articles of Association
Abcam’s Articles of Association may be amended only by special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Powers of Directors
Abcam’s Articles of Association confer the following powers 
on Directors:
• to manage the business of the Group;
• to establish any local boards or agencies for managing any 
of the affairs of the Group;
• to appoint an attorney of the Company;
• to authorise all payments and other negotiable or transferable 
instruments, and all receipts for moneys paid to the Company;
• to establish any schemes or funds for providing pensions, 
annuities, sickness or compassionate allowance, life assurance 
benefits, donations, gratuities or other benefits for employees 
and to make contributions out of the Company’s money to 
such schemes or funds;
• to support any institutions, associations, clubs, funds or trusts 
calculated to be for the benefit of employees;
• to sanction the exercise of any power conferred upon the 
Company by section 247 of the Companies Act 2006;
• to make payments to charities; and
• to restrict borrowings of the Group to an amount not exceeding 
three times the ‘adjusted capital and reserves’ as defined within 
the Articles of Association.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the reporting 
period and these remain in force at the date of this report.
Directors’ and officers’ insurance
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the 
financial year directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect 
of itself and for its Directors and Officers; this gives appropriate 
cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be 
found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 28 to 32. The 
Corporate Governance Report forms part of this Directors’ Report.
Going concern
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial 
statements, the Directors have considered the business activities 
and reviewed the Group forecasts and budgets as well as the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 15 to 19.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue to operate for the next twelve months. For this reason, 
the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
its financial statements.
Longer-Term Viability Statement
In accordance with the Code, the Directors have assessed the 
prospects of the Company over a five-year period to 30 June 2021 
(see page 15 for more details). This has taken into account the business 
model, strategic aims, risk appetite and principal risks, along with the 
Company’s current financial position. Based on these assessments, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the five-year period under review.
51 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Corporate governance Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 330 Cambridge Science Park, 
Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FL, UK on 2 November 2015 at 
10.30am. A presentation will be made at this meeting outlining the 
recent developments in the business. All voting at the meeting will 
be conducted by show of hands where every shareholder present 
in person or by proxy will have one vote, unless a poll is requested 
by a shareholder for which each shareholder present or by proxy 
will have one vote for each share of which they are the owner.
The Group will convey the results of the votes on the website after the 
AGM. Shareholders are invited to submit written questions in advance 
of the meeting. Questions should be sent to The Company Secretary, 
Abcam plc, 330 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge 
CB4 OFL, UK.
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
independent auditor to the Group will be proposed at the AGM. 
Details of the other resolutions to be proposed at the meeting 
are set out in the Circular and Notice of AGM 2016, which will be 
made available to all shareholders together with a proxy card.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under the applicable law and regulations, the Directors are 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance 
Statement which all comply with the relevant law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed 
in the biographies on pages 26 and 27, confirm that, to the best 
of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group;
• the Directors’ Report on pages 50 to 52 and the Our Financials 
on pages 21 to 23 and Our Risks sections on pages 21 to 23 and 
pages 14 to 19 of the Strategic Report include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces; and
• the Company’s 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position, performance, business model and strategy.
Auditor
Each Director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is approved 
confirms that:
(a)   so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
(b)  he/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken 
as Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor 
is aware of that information.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has expressed its willingness 
to continue in office as auditor.
On behalf of the Board
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
Suzanne Smith
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary
9 September 2016
52 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Directors’ report continued Financial statements
54 Independent auditors’ report
61 Consolidated income statement
61  Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
62 Balance sheets
63  Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
64  Company statement  
of changes in equity
65 Cash flow statements
66 Notes to the financial statements
99 Technical glossary
101 Corporate directory
101 Shareholder information
ICC/IF image of antibody (ab207014) 
staining STAT6 in HeLA cells Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Abcam plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial 
statements (the financial statements) give a true and fair view 
of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 
30 June 2016 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and the 
Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2016 (the Annual Report), comprise:
• the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 
30 June 2016;
• the consolidated income statement and the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• the consolidated and Company cash flow statements for the year 
then ended;
• the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity 
for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and applicable law and, as regards the 
Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for 
example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating 
whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented 
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, 
are identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also 
set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit.
• Overall Group materiality: £2,270,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax.
• We conducted audits of the complete financial information of Abcam plc 
and Abcam Inc.
• The Group engagement team performed all audit procedures, with the exception 
of specified procedures performed over certain account balances and transactions 
by a component auditor in China.
• Taken together the Group companies over which we performed our audit procedures 
accounted for 80% of the absolute profit before tax (i.e. the sum of the numerical values 
without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant reporting units) and 
86% of revenue.
• Acquisition of AxioMx Inc.
• Classification of costs associated with process and system improvements.
• Inventory provisioning.
• Costing of inventory manufactured in house and hybridomas included within property, 
plant and equipment.
• Valuation of deferred tax assets arising on acquisitions.
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of focus
Our audit approach
Overview
54 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Abcam plc Report on the financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Acquisition of AxioMx Inc.
During the year the Group acquired AxioMx Inc. 
(AxioMx) for consideration of £22,210,000, including 
£9,579,000 of contingent consideration (see notes 4 
and 29 of the financial statements and page 35 
of the Audit and Risk Committee Report).
The Directors performed a purchase price allocation 
exercise that involved fair valuing the assets and liabilities 
acquired, including separately identifiable intangible 
assets, namely know-how and licence agreements. 
The Directors estimated the fair value of contingent 
consideration at both the acquisition date and the 
year end by assessing the likelihood of the contingent 
consideration becoming payable under different 
scenarios. The valuation of the intangible assets and 
contingent consideration involved significant judgement 
and the Directors used external valuation experts in 
their calculation.
In order to test the valuation of intangible assets 
and contingent consideration, we focused on 
the reasonableness of the assumptions used and 
judgements taken as part of the valuation exercise.
With the assistance of our internal valuation specialists, we assessed 
the assumptions used and judgements taken in determining the fair 
value of the acquired intangibles, being know-how and licence 
agreements. In particular:
In particular, in relation to the fair value of intangible assets:
• we recalculated the discount rate used by the external valuation 
specialists, to assess whether the rate used was appropriate;
• we assessed the reasonableness of the cash flows that are forecast to 
arise from the use of the technology by comparing them to cash flows 
and growth rates which have been seen historically for similar products 
launched by the Group;
• we assessed specifically the cash flows due under the licensing 
agreement and challenged management on the completeness 
of future receipts; and
• we assessed the completeness of identified intangible assets, considering 
whether customer relationships and in-process R&D should be recognised, 
given that AxioMx had generated small amounts of revenue and had 
employees working on R&D.
We considered the approach to valuing intangible assets to be 
appropriate, and the assumptions used therein to be reasonable.
We assessed the assumptions used and judgements taken in determining 
the fair value of the contingent consideration.
In particular, in relation to the valuation of contingent consideration:
•  we understood the contractual thresholds triggering the payment 
of the contingent consideration and assessed the probabilities of 
such thresholds being met;
•  we compared the maximum amount payable under the agreement 
to the undiscounted pay-out assumed by the Directors, in order to 
assess the reasonableness of the amount recorded;
•  we challenged the external valuation experts on whether the discount 
rate used in the calculation was appropriate comparing a rate we had 
recalculated to that used by the experts; and
•  we reperformed the Directors’ calculation of the weighted average 
contingent consideration and its resulting fair value.
Whilst recognising that valuing such assets and liabilities is inherently 
judgemental, we determined that the assumptions used and judgements 
taken by the Directors were reasonable.
55 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements Report on the financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Classification of costs associated with 
process and system improvements
During the year the Group capitalised £5,501,000 of 
costs in relation to the implementation of its new ERP 
system. Further amounts in relation to process and system 
improvements have been expensed to the income 
statement and, to the extent this is incremental, included 
in the reconciliation of consolidated adjusted 
financial measures.
The Directors have assessed whether the costs incurred 
in relation to the implementation of the Group’s new ERP 
system meet the criteria for capitalisation and, if not, 
whether the costs were incremental to the ongoing 
costs of the Group.
The adjusted profit before tax, which is considered by 
management to be a key metric and discussed in the 
review of operations, is directly impacted by the amount 
of costs capitalised and the amounts included in the 
reconciliation of the statutory measures to adjusted 
measures. We focused on whether the costs capitalised 
met the criteria for capitalisation, and whether, for those 
costs expensed, they were indeed incremental.
We vouched a sample of the costs capitalised in relation to the new 
ERP system to invoices from suppliers.
We agreed a sample of the internal staff costs capitalised to supporting 
calculations and time records.
In both cases, we considered whether the nature of the costs met the 
criteria for the costs to be capitalised.
For costs expensed to the income statement and included within the 
reconciliation of adjusted financial measures we considered whether 
the Directors’ policy for the treatment of such costs was reasonable 
and, on a sample basis, assessed whether the costs included in the 
reconciliation were in line with the Directors’ policy.
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
Inventory provisioning
The Group had inventory of £19,675,000 as at 
30 June 2016. Inventory principally comprises antibodies 
and reagents that bear a natural risk of obsolescence. 
Furthermore, owing to the low incremental cost of 
in-house production of antibodies, the Group often 
produces surplus inventories that are at risk of expiring 
before a sale can be achieved (see note 4 and page 35 
of the Audit and Risk Committee Report).
For new products, the Directors apply a fixed percentage 
provision against the inventory levels held at the year 
end, unless they believe that there are specific reasons 
that no provision is required.
For all other products the Directors calculate a specific 
provision for obsolescence by comparing inventories on 
hand at year end with forecast sales volumes on a 
product-by-product basis, providing fully against 
inventories regarded as surplus.
There is therefore judgement in the valuation 
of inventories, owing to the estimation uncertainty 
that exists around future sales forecasts.
We understood and assessed the methodology utilised to estimate the Group’s 
inventory provision and checked that the calculation of the provision was 
mathematically accurate.
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
For new products against which the Directors had not recorded a provision, 
we assessed the Directors’ rationale as to why no provision was required. 
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
For the other products, we assessed the reasonableness of the Directors’ 
future sales forecasts by considering whether projected levels of sales 
growth were supported by historic trends or specific factors relevant to 
the product in question.
We considered both the risk of under and overstatement of the inventory 
provisions by:
• performing sensitivity analysis on the forecast future sales; and
• ascertaining the change that would be required to materially affect the 
determined provision. We assessed that the likelihood of such a change 
was low.
56 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of Abcam plc Report on the financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Costing of inventory manufactured  
in house and hybridomas included 
within property, plant and equipment
The Group capitalises within property, plant and 
equipment (PPE) costs arising from the production of 
hybridoma cells, which are used to generate antibodies 
that the Group sells. During the year, £1,517,000 was 
capitalised as part of the total additions to hybridomas 
and assays and hybridomas under construction 
of £2,379,000 (see note 14 and page 35 of the 
Audit and Risk Committee Report).
The costs incurred both in producing the hybridomas 
(held in PPE) and in harvesting the antibodies (held in 
inventory) include a labour and overhead allocation. 
This allocation is capitalised into PPE and inventory on 
the basis of the proportion of batches that pass internal 
quality tests. No allocation is capitalised for the batches 
that do not pass the tests, and the labour and overhead 
element is instead written off in the income statement.
The nature of the manufacturing process is such 
that there are fluctuations in the proportion of batches 
of hybridomas and antibodies that pass quality 
tests, meaning that the total labour and overhead 
absorbed into PPE and inventory varies.
The relevant calculations are also performed manually, 
necessitating a substantive approach to testing that 
appropriate amounts of labour and overhead cost 
have been capitalised.
We evaluated whether appropriate costs had been capitalised as 
inventory and property, plant and equipment, including checking, 
on a sample basis, the labour costs capitalised.
We agreed, on a sample basis, the timesheet records used to allocate 
labour costs to the underlying system and, similarly, in the case of inventory 
manufactured in-house for the quality test results, we agreed a sample 
back to the underlying test results.
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
We also checked the mathematical accuracy of the calculations (taking 
into account the proportion of batches passing quality tests) and that only 
reasonable categories of overheads were absorbed into inventory and 
capitalised as property, plant and equipment. We found no material 
exceptions in our testing.
Valuation of deferred tax assets arising 
on acquisitions
During the year the Group completed its assessment 
of the fair values of assets and liabilities arising on the 
acquisition of Firefly BioWorks Inc (Firefly) during the 
previous year. Deferred tax assets of £1,882,000 relating 
to tax losses available within Firefly at the time of the 
acquisition have been recognised. Similarly as part of 
the purchase price allocation exercise for the current 
year acquisition of AxioMx £1,173,000 of deferred tax 
assets relating to tax losses have been recognised 
(see note 29 and page 35 of the Audit and Risk 
Committee Report).
Although both entities have historically been loss making, 
the intangible assets valued in the purchase price 
allocation exercise give rise to deferred tax liabilities. 
Deferred tax assets, including those on carried forward 
losses, should be recognised to offset deferred tax 
liabilities if they arise in the same jurisdictions.
The Directors used external advisors to assess whether 
the tax losses in both entities would be available to use 
going forward despite the change in control.
We focused on the reasonableness of the conclusion 
reached by the tax advisors as to the availability of tax 
losses going forward.
We obtained the report from the Group’s tax advisors who had been 
engaged to assess the availability of tax losses in both businesses and 
agree with the view taken as to the availability of the losses.
We compared the magnitude of the tax losses considered for use 
going forward to the latest submitted tax filings, and found them 
to be reasonable.
We assessed whether the recognition of the asset (being less than the 
level of deferred tax liabilities arising on the intangible assets) was in 
accordance with the requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes. We found 
no material exceptions in our testing.
57 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements Report on the financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the 
Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry 
in which the Group operates. 
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 16 reporting units, 
comprising the Group’s operating businesses and holding companies.
We performed audits of the complete financial information of 
Abcam plc and Abcam Inc reporting units, which were individually 
financially significant and accounted for 72% of the Group’s revenue 
and 57% of the Group’s absolute profit before tax (i.e. the sum 
of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits 
or losses for the relevant reporting units). We also performed specified 
audit procedures over goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as 
certain account balances and transaction classes that we regarded 
as material to the Group at four further reporting units, two based in 
China and two in the US (including AxioMx Inc acquired in the year due 
to the risk in relation to the valuation of intangible assets acquired).
All audit work in respect of the Group financial statements was 
performed by the Group engagement team, other than certain 
specified procedures over the Chinese operations, which were 
performed by a component auditor. The procedures performed 
over the US-based components were performed by the Group 
engagement team from the UK.
We held telephone calls with the component auditor in China both 
as part of planning and also following our review of the results of the 
work performed by them.
Taken together the Group companies over which we performed our 
audit procedures accounted for 80% of the absolute profit before 
tax (i.e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether 
they were profits or losses for the relevant reporting units) and 86% 
of revenue.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine 
the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and 
disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £2,270,000 (2015: £2,305,000).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders 
in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing 
benchmark. We considered whether the presentation of an adjusted profit before 
tax metric suggested that the adjusted profit before tax should be considered the key 
benchmark. However, because the management incentive scheme is based on EPS 
growth rather than adjusted EPS growth we have decided to continue to use the 
unadjusted profit before tax. If we had used adjusted profit before tax as the metric 
the materiality would have been £2,690,000.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would 
report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£114,000 (2015: £115,000) as well as misstatements below that 
amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
The Directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)(3)(a) 
of the Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement in relation 
to going concern, set out on page 51, required for companies with 
a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors have requested that we review the statement on 
going concern as if the Company were a premium listed company. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
The Directors have chosen to voluntarily report how they have applied 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) as if the Company 
were a premium listed company. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are 
required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to 
draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement about whether 
they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that 
the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain 
in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at 
least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. 
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use 
of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not 
all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements 
are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
58 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of Abcam plc Report on the financial statements continued
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
As a result of the Directors’ voluntary reporting on how they have applied the Code, under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group and the Company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
• The statement given by the Directors on page 52, in accordance with provision C.1.1 
of the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess 
the Group’s and the Company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
• The section of the Annual Report on pages 33 and 34, as required by provision C.3.8 of 
the Code, describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten 
the solvency or liquidity of the Group
As a result of the Directors’ voluntary reporting on how they have applied the Code, under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required 
to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• The Directors’ confirmation on page 52 of the Annual Report, in accordance with 
provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
• The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they 
are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
• The Directors’ explanation on page 51 of the Annual Report, in accordance 
with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be 
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
The Directors have voluntarily provided a statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group 
and a statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group and have requested that we review these statements as if the Company 
were a premium listed company. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering 
the Directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; 
and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
59 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements Report on the financial statements continued
Adequacy of accounting records and information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility. 
Other voluntary reporting
Opinion on additional disclosures
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Company voluntarily prepares a Directors’ Remuneration 
Report in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Directors have requested that we audit the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report specified by the Companies Act 2006 to be 
audited as if the Company were a quoted company.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Matter on which we have agreed 
to report by exception
Corporate governance statement
The Company voluntarily prepares a corporate governance 
statement in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The Directors have requested that we review 
the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten 
further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for auditor review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
as if the Company were a premium listed company. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statement and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 52, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain 
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Ormiston (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Cambridge
60 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of Abcam plc Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Profit for the year 37,429 37,384
Other comprehensive (losses)/gains that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years 
Movement on cash flow hedges (10,819) 1,068
Movement on net investment hedge 1,677 —
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23,903 7,583
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 1,995 (203)
Other comprehensive income for the year 16,756 8,448
Total comprehensive income for the year 54,185 45,832
.
Notes
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Revenue 5 171,673 144,033
Cost of sales (51,142) (42,507)
Gross profit 120,531 101,526
Administrative and management expenses before system and process improvement costs (57,437) (45,880)
System and process improvement costs (3,955) —
Administration and management expenses (61,392) (45,880)
Research and development expenses 6 (12,821) (9,919)
Operating profit 46,318 45,727
Finance income 9 146 372
Finance costs 9 (1,052) —
Profit before tax 45,412 46,099
Taxation 10 (7,983) (8,715)
Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent 6 37,429 37,384
Basic earnings per share (pence) 11 18.61 18.69
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 11 18.53 18.57
61 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 30 June 2016 Notes
Consolidated Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Restated
1
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Non-current assets     
Goodwill 12 112,462 85,200 7,658 7,658
Intangible assets 13 70,208 44,815 8,604 5,381
Property, plant and equipment 14 17,623 12,451 8,866 6,728
Investments 15 — — 93,961 88,306
Deferred tax asset 16 9,615 5,098 4,192 898
Loan receivable 19 — — 82,065 60,760
Term deposits — 1,636 — 1,000
Derivative financial instruments 21 — 224 — 224
  209,908 149,424 205,346 170,955
Current assets   
Inventories 17 19,675 19,803 13,532 17,090
Trade and other receivables 18 28,504 19,727 37,295 21,905
Cash and cash equivalents 68,919 57,059 60,953 49,931
Term deposits 1,748 — 1,000 —
Available-for-sale asset 20 797 678 — —
Derivative financial instruments 21 11 3,255 11 3,255
  119,654 100,522 112,791 92,181
Total assets  329,562 249,946 318,137 263,136
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 22 (20,078) (15,508) (38,486) (18,788)
Current tax liabilities (1,958) (4,813) (498) (5,987)
Contingent consideration and fees 26 (1,990) — — —
Derivative financial instruments 21 (9,267) (737) (9,267) (737)
Loans payable — — (6,801) (5,780)
  (33,293) (21,058) (55,052) (31,292)
Net current assets 86,361 79,464 57,739 60,889
Non-current liabilities   
Deferred tax liability 16 (22,938) (14,779) (119) (119)
Contingent consideration and fees 26 (10,910) — — —
Derivative financial instruments 21 (1,231) (5) (1,231) (5)
  (35,079) (14,784) (1,350) (124)
Total liabilities (68,372) (35,842) (56,402) (31,416)
Net assets 261,190 214,104 261,735 231,720
Equity   
Share capital 24 405 402 405 402
Share premium account 24 21,549 19,522 21,549 19,522
Merger reserve 24 61,560 56,513 61,560 56,513
Own shares 24 (3,231) (2,812) (3,231) (2,812)
Translation reserve 24 23,857 (1,266) — —
Share-based payments reserve 24 10,738 8,319 9,821 7,860
Hedging reserve 24 (7,066) 1,758 (7,066) 1,758
Tax reserve 24 1,845 585 1,860 562
Retained earnings 151,533 131,083 176,837 147,915
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 261,190 214,104 261,735 231,720
1 See note 3 for details.
The financial statements on pages 61 to 98 of Abcam plc, registered number 3509322, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised 
for issue on 9 September 2016.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Jeff Iliffe
Director
62 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
Balance sheets
As at 30 June 2016 Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
account
£000
Merger
reserve
£000
Own
shares
£000
Translation
reserve
1
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
2
£000
Hedging
reserve
3
£000
Tax
reserve
4
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2014 401 17,692 56,513 (2,143) (8,718) 6,441 893 (98) 109,919 180,900
Profit for the year — — — — — — — — 37,384 37,384
Other comprehensive income:
  Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations — — — — 7,452 131 — — — 7,583
  Movements on 
cash flow hedges — — — — — — 1,068 — — 1,068
  Tax relating to components 
of other comprehensive income — — — — — — (203) — — (203)
— — — — 7,452 131 865 — — 8,448
Total comprehensive income — — — — 7,452 131 865 — 37,384 45,832
Issue of share capital 1 1,830 — (1,001) — — — — — 830
Own shares disposed 
of on release of shares — — — 332 — — — — (332) —
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments — — — — — 1,747 — 683 — 2,430
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — — (15,888) (15,888)
Transactions with owners 
recognised directly in equity 1 1,830 — (669) — 1,747 — 683 (16,220) (12,628)
Balance as at 1 July 2015 402 19,522 56,513 (2,812) (1,266) 8,319 1,758 585 131,083 214,104
Profit for the year — — — — — — — — 37,429 37,429
Other comprehensive income:
  Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations — — — — 23,446 457 — — — 23,903
  Movements on 
cash flow hedges — — — — — — (10,819) — — (10,819)
  Movement on net 
investment hedge — — — — 1,677 — — — — 1,677
  Tax relating to components 
of other comprehensive income — — — — — — 1,995 — — 1,995
— — — — 25,123 457 (8,824) — — 16,756
Total comprehensive income — — — — 25,123 457 (8,824) — 37,429 54,185
Issue of share capital 3 2,027 5,047 (658) — — — — — 6,419
Own shares disposed 
of on release of shares — — — 239 — — — — (239) —
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments — — — — — 1,962 — 1,260 — 3,222
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — — (16,740) (16,740)
Transactions with owners 
recognised directly in equity 3 2,027 5,047 (419) — 1,962 — 1,260 (16,979) (7,099)
Balance as at 30 June 2016 405 21,549 61,560 (3,231) 23,857 10,738 (7,066) 1,845 151,533 261,190
1 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations and net foreign investment hedges.
2 IFRS 2 charge for fair value of equity-settled share-based options and awards.
3 Gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges.
4 Portion of tax asset arising on outstanding share options and share options exercised.
63 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2016  
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Merger
reserve
£000
Own
shares
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
1
£000
Hedging
reserve
2
£000
Tax
reserve
3
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2014 401 17,692 56,513 (2,143) 6,113 893 (121) 123,992 203,340
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 40,372 40,372
Other comprehensive income:
 Movements on cash flow hedges — — — — — 1,068 — — 1,068
  Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income — — — — — (203) — — (203)
— — — — — 865 — — 865
Total comprehensive income — — — — — 865 — 40,372 41,237
Issue of share capital 1 1,830 — (1,001) — — — — 830
Own shares disposed of on exercise 
of share options — — — 332 — — — (332) —
Share-based payments charge 
recognised on behalf of subsidiaries — — — — 529 — — — 529
Credit to equity for share-based payments — — — — 1,218 — 683 — 1,901
Arising on transfer of trade 
from subsidiary (note 30) — — — — — — — (229) (229)
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — (15,888) (15,888)
Transactions with owners recognised 
directly in equity 1 1,830 — (669) 1,747 — 683 (16,449) (12,857)
Balance as at 1 July 2015 402 19,522 56,513 (2,812) 7,860 1,758 562 147,915 231,720
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 45,901 45,901
Other comprehensive income:
 Movements on cash flow hedges — — — — — (10,819) — — (10,819)
  Tax relating to components 
of other comprehensive income — — — — — 1,995 — — 1,995
— — — — — (8,824) — — (8,824)
Total comprehensive income — — — — — (8,824) — 45,901 37,077
Issue of share capital 3 2,027 5,047 (658) — — — — 6,419
Own shares disposed of on exercise 
of share options — — — 239 — — — (239) —
Share-based payments charge 
recognised on behalf of subsidiaries — — — — 635 — — — 635
Credit to equity for
share-based payments — — — — 1,326 — 1,298 — 2,624
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — (16,740) (16,740)
Transactions with owners recognised 
directly in equity 3 2,027 5,047 (419) 1,961 — 1,298 (16,979) (7,062)
Balance as at 30 June 2016 405 21,549 61,560 (3,231) 9,821 (7,066) 1,860 176,837 261,735
1 IFRS 2 charge for fair value of equity-settled share-based options and awards.
2 Gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges.
3 Portion of tax asset arising on outstanding share options and share options exercised.
64 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2016 Notes
Consolidated Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
1
£000
Profit before tax 45,412 46,099 50,625 50,349
Finance income (146) (372) (4,832) (4,110)
Finance costs 1,052 — 310 —
Operating profit for the year 46,318 45,727 46,103 46,239
Adjustments for:   
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 3,879 2,934 2,105 1,312
 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 7,476 5,104 4,092 2,004
 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 2,404 325 2,404 326
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 — — —
 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 164 — 164 —
 Research and development expenditure credit (1,947) — (1,947) —
 Share-based payments charge 27 2,243 1,891 1,326 1,217
 Unrealised currency translation (gains)/losses (631) 375 (10,891) (2,184)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 59,908 56,356 43,356 48,914
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 1,261 (4,071) 3,558 (2,173)
Increase in receivables (4,562) (4,646) (15,363) (9,254)
Increase in payables 191 1,249 19,839 5,078
Cash generated from operations 56,798 48,888 51,390 42,565
Income taxes paid (9,477) (8,676) (8,406) (7,999)
Finance costs (7) — (7) —
Net cash inflow from operating activities 47,314 40,212 42,977 34,566
Investing activities   
Investment income 294 202 4,532 4,110
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (7,974) (6,501) (4,243) (4,070)
Purchase of intangible assets (7,608) (978) (7,479) (948)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash 
and cash equivalents acquired 29 (6,258) (17,333) — —
Increase in intercompany lending — — (9,394) (18,738)
Acquisition of trade from subsidiary, net of cash acquired — — — 54
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 — — —
Net cash outflow from investing activities (21,543) (24,610) (16,584) (19,592)
Financing activities   
Dividends paid 25 (16,740) (15,888) (16,740) (15,888)
Proceeds on issue of shares 1,483 1,832 1,483 1,832
Purchase of own shares (114) — (114) —
Net cash outflow from financing activities (15,371) (14,056) (15,371) (14,056)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 10,400 1,546 11,022 918
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 57,059 55,278 49,931 49,013
Effect of foreign exchange rates 1,460 235 — —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 68,919 57,059 60,953 49,931
1  Certain Company cash flow movements have been reallocated in order to provide consistency with current year presentation; £18,738k being reallocated 
from cash from operating activities to investing activities to better reflect the nature of cash flows.
Cash and term deposits at end of year comprise:
Consolidated Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 68,919 57,059 60,953 49,931
Term deposits (current) 1,748 — 1,000 —
Term deposits (non-current) — 1,636 — 1,000
Total cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 70,667 58,695 61,953 50,931
65 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Cash flow statements
For the year ended 30 June 2016 1. Presentation of the financial statements
a. General information
Abcam plc (the Company) is incorporated and domiciled in the UK under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered office 
is 330 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FL, UK. The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the 
London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market (AIM).
The Company and its subsidiaries (together the Group) produce and distribute high quality research-grade antibodies and associated 
protein research tools. The Group operates through its ultimate parent company Abcam plc and through a channel of wholly owned 
manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries mainly based in the US and Asia Pacific, which allows it to serve a global customer base 
of over 100 countries. A list of all subsidiaries is contained in note 15.
b. Basis of preparation
The annual financial statements of Abcam plc are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
and IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS, and comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. 
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation 
of the statements for the year ended 30 June 2015 except where disclosed otherwise in this note.
c. Fair value adjustment in respect of prior period acquisition
During the period a study was undertaken to assess the extent to which pre-acquisition tax losses of Firefly Bioworks Inc can be carried 
forward following the purchase of that company by the Group. Carried forward losses of $7.6m have been deemed available for future 
utilisation against the taxable profits of the consolidated US group with no restriction other than timing, resulting in a fair value deferred tax 
asset of £1.9m being recognised. The deferred tax asset has been recognised on the basis that the Directors are confident that there will 
be sufficient temporary differences against which these losses can be utilised. The deferred tax asset in relation to losses assessed within the 
measurement period has been recognised as if this position had been concluded at the date of acquisition, in line with the IFRS 3 requirements. 
This has meant a restatement of the Group’s balance sheet at 30 June 2015 to recognise the increase in deferred tax asset and corresponding 
decrease in goodwill. See note 29 for the restated acquired balance sheet.
d. Going concern
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements from the cash surpluses generated as a result of normal trading. The Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to 
operate within the limits of its available resources.
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in connection with the budget and forecast covering the next five years, the 
Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
2. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
New standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group and the Company
In the current year, the Group and the Company have adopted the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations 
which have been assessed as having no financial or disclosure impact on the numbers presented:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (Amendment)
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (Amendment)
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Amendment)
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (Amendments)
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (Amendment)
IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures (Amendment)
Improvements to IFRSs (September 2014)
66 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2016 2. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures continued
New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective, 
and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements:
 
Effective for
accounting periods
 beginning on or after
IFRS 2 (amendment) Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 10 (amendment) Sale of contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture
1
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 (amendment) Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
IAS 7 (amendment) Amendment regarding the disclosure initiative 1 January 2017
IAS 12 (amendment) Amendments to the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses 1 January 2017
IAS 28 (amendment) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
1
1  In December 2015 the IASB postponed the effective date of these amendments indefinitely pending the outcome of its research project on the equity 
method of accounting.
The standards and interpretations above have not been applied in preparing these financial statements and the Directors do not expect 
that their adoption in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group; with the exception of the potential 
impact of IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which the Directors are still assessing.
3. Significant accounting policies
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
made up to 30 June each year. Control is achieved when the Company has power over the entity and the ability to use its power 
to affect the returns it receives from its involvement with the entity.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the 
subsidiary. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies in line with 
those used by the Group. All intra-group transactions, balances, equity, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to 
the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the fair value cannot be reliably measured in which case the value 
is subsumed into goodwill. The consideration transferred for the acquisition includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement. Contingent consideration may include specific research and development or other operational 
milestones and/or financial targets. Each element is fair valued at the date of acquisition using actual and projected data and statistical 
techniques. Key inputs include probability of success and consideration of expected timing. Future internal forecasts may also be used to 
help determine any financial targets. 
Changes in the fair value of any contingent consideration from additional information obtained during the measurement period (up to a 
year from date of acquisition) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date are adjusted retrospectively against goodwill. 
Changes in the fair value that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are not recognised until settlement if the contingent 
consideration was classified as equity at acquisition or are recognised immediately in profit if it was classified as an asset or liability on 
the balance sheet. Unsettled amounts of consideration are held at fair value within the relevant category of the balance sheet.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed to the income statement in the period they are incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination that meet the recognition criteria 
under IFRS 3 (2008) are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, except that:
• deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured 
in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively;
• liabilities or equity instruments relating to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are measured 
in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; and
• assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale are measured in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment. Where applicable, cost is adjusted to reflect changes 
in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments.
67 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Where the fair value of the 
consideration is less than the fair value of the acquired net assets, the deficit is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase. 
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to an impairment review at least annually and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there 
is an indication that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the 
other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
In accordance with IAS 21 goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition of that foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and as 
such are translated at the relevant foreign exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include 
the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Revenue and income recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are dispatched and title has passed.
Custom service revenue is recognised proportionately when the outcome of each discrete stage of the contract can be estimated reliably 
and is based on the stage of completion of the contract activity per agreed milestones set out in the contract. Where the outcome cannot 
be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred where it is probable these will be recovered. In instances where 
it is probable that the costs will be in excess of the contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Licence fee income is recognised on delivery of the licensed technology where the Group’s continued performance or future research 
and development services are not required. Payments received prior to this are recorded as deferred income.
Royalty revenue is recognised on an accruals basis based on the contractual terms and the substance of the agreements with the counterparty, 
provided that the amount can be reliably measured and it is probable that the economic benefit will flow to the Group.
Grant income is recognised in the same period as the related R&D expenses are incurred and is recorded through the corresponding 
expense line of the income statement.
Revenue derived from the Company’s conferences is recognised when the conference is held; however, it is not material.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the 
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in 
Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Group company and the reporting currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency transactions in the individual companies are booked in the functional currency of that entity at the exchange rate ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated into their functional currency at the rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the income statement.
On consolidation, the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling using the average exchange rates during 
the period, and the balance sheets translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on this translation 
are classified as equity and recognised in the translation reserve.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when 
the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for:
• differences arising on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under financial instruments/hedge 
accounting) which are recognised through other comprehensive income; and
• differences arising on foreign currency assets or liabilities designated as a net investment hedge of the Group’s overseas operations 
which are recognised in the translation reserve.
68 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the nature of the Group’s obligations under 
the schemes is equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. The Group has no further obligations once 
the contributions have been paid.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes some items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are 
never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.
The benefit of UK research and development is recognised under the UK’s Research and Development Expenditure Credit (RDEC) scheme. 
The benefit is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted against research and development expenses as the RDEC is of the 
nature of a government grant.
Where the current tax deduction in respect of share option exercises exceeds the share option accounting charge for the period, 
the excess is recorded in the tax reserve rather than the income statement.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the 
initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised for deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The Group’s liability for deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date 
that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes the original 
purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is charged 
so as to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases:
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 2 to 5 years
Laboratory equipment 1 to 5 years
Computer equipment 3 years
Hybridomas and assays 3 to 8 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement. Residual values of assets and their useful lives are reviewed, 
and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. Assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
Intangible assets
Payments made to acquire software, distribution rights, capitalised development work and contract-based intangibles from third parties 
are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The principal expected useful lives used for 
this purpose are as follows:
Upfront licence fees 3 years
Distribution rights 1 to 10 years
Software 1 to 5 years
Contract based Term of contract
Customer relationships 7 to 10 years
Patents, technology and know-how 5 to 15 years
Trade names 8 years
69 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Intangible assets continued
Patents, technology and know-how assets are only amortised once the development is complete and meaningful revenue is being derived 
from the identified assets; until this point the asset is deemed to be in progress.
Expenditure on development activities including internally generated intangible assets is recognised as an asset if and only if it meets the 
recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which 
it is incurred. Intangible assets under construction are not amortised.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, a review of the carrying amounts of the Group’s and the Company’s tangible and intangible assets is performed 
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour 
costs and an attributable portion of production overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Cost is calculated using the standard cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated 
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective 
items where appropriate.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s and the Company’s balance sheets when the Group or the Company 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Where the Group holds an investment in shares which is classified as an available-for-sale financial asset it is stated at cost less any provision 
for impairment and estimated costs associated with sale, unless the investment is in relation to shares traded on an active market where 
a fair valuation for all the shares can be obtained. Such investments are held at fair value, taken as the closing market value of the shares 
except where the Directors believe there is significant measurement uncertainty in which case the fair value will be adjusted accordingly. 
Any revaluation gain or loss is recorded through equity.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost, less provision for impairment. Appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence that the asset 
is impaired. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off 
are credited to revenue. Changes in the carrying amount of receivables are recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Term deposits
Term deposits represent bank deposits and a charitable bond all with an original maturity of over three months.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group or the Company after deducting 
all of its liabilities. The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
Forward contracts are used by the Group and the Company to manage the exposure to foreign exchange rate risk associated with the 
variability in foreign currency rates and values in relation to both recognised assets or liabilities and forecast future transactions.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their 
fair value at each balance sheet date. A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a 
negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless 
the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement 
depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
70 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Derivative financial instruments continued
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than twelve months 
and it is not expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Hedge accounting
The Group and the Company designate certain derivatives as cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast foreign currency transactions. 
The Group and the Company have also designated contingent consideration payable as a hedge of their net investment in foreign operations.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the 
hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly 
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows or net investment of the hedged item.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is included in the 
‘administration and management expenses’ line of the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the 
same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, or it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in other comprehensive income at that time 
remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in other comprehensive income is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve. The gain 
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is included in the ‘administration and management 
expenses’ line of the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in the translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss in the same way as exchange differences relating to the 
foreign operation.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. In accordance with IFRS 1, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants 
of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 July 2006.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option, SIP, LTIP and Deferred Share Award schemes. Equity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair 
value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The grant date fair value of options issued under the Group’s share option schemes is measured by the use of the Monte Carlo simulation.
The grant date fair value of the awards under the Group’s LTIP is measured by the use of the Monte Carlo simulation for any market related 
performance conditions and the Black Scholes model for EPS and strategic performance conditions.
The grant date fair value of an equity-settled payment under the SIP is measured as the face value of the award on the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. Charges made to the income statement in respect of share-based payments are 
credited to the share-based payments reserve.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity.
A new scheme has been issued during the year to the Non-Executive Directors of the Group whereby the grant date fair value of options 
issued is measured by the use of the Black Scholes model.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a 
capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over 
the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent entity accounts.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs 
are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium.
The Group operates an employee share benefit trust as part of its incentive plans for UK-based employees. All assets and liabilities of the 
trust are recorded in the balance sheet as assets and liabilities of the Company until such time as the assets are awarded to the beneficiaries. 
All income and expenditure of the trust is similarly brought into the results of the Company.
71 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 3. Significant accounting policies continued
Own shares
Own equity instruments which are acquired are recognised at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount 
and the consideration is recognised in reserves.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, when paid.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and 
results may differ from those estimates.
The Directors regularly evaluate the estimates and judgements. Any revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which 
the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or prior periods, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods.
The key accounting judgements and estimates included in the Group’s financial statements are discussed below.
a. Critical accounting judgements
Valuation of intangibles
As part of the business combinations the Group has undertaken in the current and previous years, it has acquired the following types of 
intangible assets: software, contract based, licence fees, customer relationships, patents, trade names, technology and know-how. The 
Directors are required to make decisions on the fair values of the acquired assets, including identification and valuation of any separately 
identifiable intangible assets.
The Group obtains a third party valuation for any newly acquired intangible assets to ascertain the initial fair value and identifies a suitable 
useful life with reference to the third party guidance and the lives attributed to previous similar intangibles. The valuations include 
assumptions on future cash flows and discount rates based on expected contribution of the acquisition to the Group and are therefore 
inherently judgemental. The carrying value of the intangible assets may need to be reviewed if the expected benefit to the Group cannot 
be realised.
In addition to the acquired intangibles, the Group capitalises internal software development costs relating to the enhancement of the 
Group’s core IT systems architecture and developments, where the costs meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38. Judgement is required 
in applying the capitalisation criteria of IAS 38, differentiating between enhancements and maintenance, and in assessing an expected 
useful life of the resulting enhancement or development.
During the year £5.5m was capitalised, £4.3m within assets under construction and £1.2m within software assets, in relation to the Group’s 
system and process improvement project. The costs include external consultant costs and incremental staffing costs. In establishing the 
principles on which the costs are capitalised, the Directors have reviewed the nature of work being performed under the different phases 
of the project and the nature of the associated deliverables against the capitalisation criteria of IAS 38 and have identified the activities 
through the life of the project where the related costs should be expensed through the income statement.
Valuation of own manufactured inventory
The costs absorbed into the value of own manufactured inventory require a number of assumptions concerning the allocation of materials, 
labour and overheads. The assumptions have been made with reference to the requirements of IAS 2. Judgement is used mainly in the application 
of materials to products produced and in selecting the types of overhead and company personnel that are appropriate to be included in 
the valuation.
b. Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment
Goodwill is deemed to have indefinite life and so is not amortised. The Group tests whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual 
basis or more frequently when there are indications of possible impairment. The impairment review requires estimating the value in use 
of the Group’s cash generating unit which is based on expected future cash flows and selection of an appropriate discount rate in order 
to calculate present value. The assumptions used in the impairment test are set out in note 12. The valuations indicate that the Group has 
sufficient headroom and that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Other intangible assets are amortised. The Group reviews their carrying amount at each balance sheet date or if events occur which call 
into question the carrying values of the assets. 
The carrying value of the software asset may be unsupported where additional development work makes the predecessor development 
redundant if the full useful life has not already been reached. Due to the commencement of the Group’s system and process improvement 
project, a review of all software assets was conducted during the year and a revision made to the useful lives of any asset expected to be 
replaced. Additional amortisation of £1.3m has been recognised in the current year (2015: £nil) to accelerate the amortisation of these assets.
72 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
b. Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment continued
The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and therefore 
include an element of management judgement. Future events could cause the assumptions used in these impairment tests to change 
with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group and the Company.
Provision for slow-moving or defective inventory
The provision for slow-moving inventory is based on management’s estimation of the future sales of each of the Group’s products over the 
next five years (or period from the balance sheet date to the expiry date of the product, whichever is the shorter), taking into account actual 
sales of those products in previous years and applying an assumed growth rate based on historical trends where available.
If actual unit sales growth rates differ from those estimated by management, both the level of provision against existing inventory and the 
rates of provision applied to inventory in future periods would need to be revised. An increase or decrease of 5% on the projected unit sales 
growth on each product category would impact the provision required by +0.3% (£0.02m)/-0.4% (£0.03m). Applying no growth to all product 
categories would give a maximum impact of £0.5m increase in the provision.
Taxation
The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgement is employed to determine the income tax provision on 
a global basis. There are numerous transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary 
course of business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be 
due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters differs from amounts initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax 
and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
The Group has recognised significant deferred tax assets during the year in relation to tax losses. Third party experts have been used to 
assess the value of available losses and recognition of a deferred tax asset has only been made to the level that it is probable that future 
taxable profit will be available in the relevant jurisdictions to realise them. Future taxable profit is based on management forecasts and if 
actual profitability differs significantly in the future, this could impact the level of losses that it is possible to utilise.
Contingent consideration and fees
Contingent consideration liabilities are recorded at the fair value of the future expected payment assessed at the date of acquisition. 
The fair value recognised as part of the acquisition of AxioMx Inc, as detailed in note 26, is based on estimated future cash flows resulting 
from probability weighted outcomes of defined milestones, discounted using appropriate interest rates. The probabilities are management 
estimation of the likelihood of success using available scientific and legal knowledge and relevant historic trends. Actual amounts to be 
paid out in future periods may be different from the estimation and could consequently affect the future results of the Group where actual 
success of milestone achievement is different from the original estimation. The maximum additional liability if all milestones are met is $3.8m 
(£2.8m at the balance sheet rate of 1.3368).
5. Operating segments
Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues
The Directors consider that there are no identifiable business segments that are engaged in providing individual products or services or a 
group of related products and services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to the core business. The information reported 
to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, who is considered the chief operating decision maker, for the purposes of resource allocation and 
assessment of performance is based wholly on the overall activities of the Group. The Group has therefore determined that it has only one 
reportable segment under IFRS 8, which is ‘sales of antibodies and related products’. The Group’s revenue and results and assets for this one 
reportable segment can be determined by reference to the Group’s income statement and balance sheet.
The Group has no individual product or customer which comprises more than 10% of its revenues.
Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from external customers and information about its non-current segment assets (excluding deferred tax and derivative 
financial instruments) by geographical location is detailed below:
Revenue Non-current assets
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
As at
30 June 2016
£000
As at
30 June 2015
£000
US 76,817 62,332 171,228 122,273
China 18,844 13,077 3,912 1,976
Japan 12,321 11,282 57 55
UK 11,213 10,316 25,049 19,796
Germany 9,294 8,627 — —
Other countries 43,184 38,399 47 2
171,673 144,033 200,293 144,102
Revenues are attributed to countries on the basis of the customer’s location. No country included within ‘Other countries’ contributes more 
than 5% of the Group’s total revenue.
73 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 5. Operating segments continued
Geographical information continued
Revenue by type is shown below:
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Catalogue revenue 158,961 135,382
Custom products and licensing revenue
1
12,712 8,651
Total reported revenue 171,673 144,033
1 Includes custom services, IVD/IHC, royalties and licence income.
6. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Notes 
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 41,379 35,175
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense  1,536 1,262
R&D expenditure (including amortisation as detailed below) 12,821 9,919
Staff costs 8 41,492 33,410
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 23 3,369 2,822
Auditor’s remuneration 7 171 229
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 18 29 67
Foreign exchange differences arising on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 2,404 325
Other net foreign exchange differences (780) (108)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 3,879 2,934
Amortisation of intangible assets included within administration and management expenses 13 3,749 1,986
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets included within administration 
and management expenses 13 1,260 1,445
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets included within R&D expenditure 13 2,467 1,673
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 13 164 —
7. Auditor remuneration
A detailed analysis of the auditor remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the parent company and the consolidation 138 119
Total audit fees 138 119
Audit-related assurance services
1
23 20
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 10 10
Services relating to corporate finance transactions — 80
Total other services fees 33 110
Total auditor remuneration 171 229
1 This relates to the interim review.
Details of the Company’s policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit services are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee Report. 
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
8. Employees and remuneration
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
Group
Year ended
30 June 2016
Number
Year ended
30 June 2015
Number
Management, administrative, marketing and distribution 572 492
Laboratory 310 290
 882 782
74 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 8. Employees and remuneration continued
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Group
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Wages and salaries 35,090 27,018
Social security costs 4,086 3,286
Other pension costs 2,235 1,689
Charge in respect of share options and awards granted 2,243 1,891
Total staff costs 43,654 33,884
Staff costs capitalised
1
(2,162) (474)
Net staff costs 41,492 33,410
1  £2,162,000 (2015: £474,000) relates to Group staff costs directly attributable to system development, which include the implementation of a new ERP system, 
being capitalised as part of internally generated intangible software assets under IAS 38 (see note 13).
The remuneration of the Directors, and related share option grants, are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45.
9. Finance income and costs
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration (note 26) (1,050) —
Interest expenses (2) —
Finance costs (1,052) —
Interest income on cash and term deposits 146 372
Finance income 146 372
Net finance (costs)/income (906) 372
10. Taxation
Note
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Current tax 9,266 10,347
Deferred tax 16 (1,283) (1,632)
 7,983 8,715
UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.0% (2015: 20.8%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated 
at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The standard rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 21% to 20% on 1 April 2015. The 
Finance Act 2015, which received Royal Assent on 26 March 2015, states that this rate will not change for financial year 2016. Deferred tax 
has been calculated accordingly in these financial statements.
In the budget of 8 July 2015, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced tax rate changes, which will have an effect on the Company’s 
future tax position. These additional changes will reduce the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017, and 18% 
from 1 April 2020. These proposed changes were substantively enacted in the Finance Bill 2015 on 26 October 2015.
The above changes to the rate of corporation tax will impact the amount of future cash tax payments to be made by the Company and 
also the future valuation of any deferred tax liabilities or assets.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2016
%
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
%
Profit before tax 45,412 46,099 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.0% (2015: 20.8%) 9,082 20.0 9,566 20.8
Adjusted in respect of foreign tax rates 1,618 3.6 891 1.9
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 697 1.5 262 0.6
Additional relief in relation to overseas entities (1,390) (3.1) (1,266) (2.8)
R&D tax credit uplift (416) (0.9) (383) (0.8)
Recognition of deferred tax previously unrecognised (204) (0.4) — —
Adjustments in respect of prior year
1
(1,666) (3.7) (324) (0.7)
Effect of difference between closing deferred tax rate and current tax rate 262 0.6 (31) (0.1)
Tax expense and effective rate for the year 7,983 17.6 8,715 18.9
1  Adjustment includes an additional tax charge in relation to the Company’s election to move to the above the line research and development expenditure 
credit in relation to the years ended 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014, a tax credit in relation to the usual two year claim and elections made in the resubmission 
of the UK tax return for the year ended 30 June 2014, and credits related to changes in estimates of the prior year tax charges following receipt of refunds.
75 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 11. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS, shown below the income statement, is based on the following data:
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS, being net profit attributable to owners of the parent 37,429 37,384
Number Number
Number of shares  
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 201,147,931 199,978,991
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 
Share options 854,936 1,298,477
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 202,002,867 201,277,468
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the parent by the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated on the same basis as basic EPS but with a further adjustment for the weighted average shares in 
issue to reflect the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The number of dilutive potential ordinary shares is derived from the number 
of share-based options and awards granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s 
ordinary shares during the year and where it is considered performance conditions will be met.
Adjusted earnings per share
The calculation of adjusted EPS is based on adjusted profit after tax of:
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS, being net profit attributable to the owners of the parent 37,429 37,384
Acquisition costs 466 335
Integration costs 480 24
Non-recurring ERP system implementation costs 3,955 —
Unwinding of discount factor on contingent consideration and fees 1,050 —
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3,727 3,118
Prior years’ R&D tax credit (1,308) —
Tax effect of adjusting items (647) (1,084)
Adjusted profit after tax 45,152 39,777
The adjusted EPS information is provided to allow a clear method for year-on-year comparison. The denominators used are the same as 
those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share.
Year ended
30 June 2016
Year ended
30 June 2015
Basic EPS 18.61p 18.69p
Diluted EPS 18.53p 18.57p
Adjusted basic EPS 22.45p 19.89p
Adjusted diluted EPS 22.35p 19.76p
12. Goodwill
Group
£000
Company
£000
Cost  
At 1 July 2014 73,549 —
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (restated) 6,131 —
Acquired on transfer of trade from subsidiary (note 30) — 7,658
Exchange differences 5,520 —
At 1 July 2015 (restated) 85,200 7,658
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) 11,837 —
Exchange differences 15,425 —
At 30 June 2016 112,462 7,658
Accumulated impairment losses  
At 1 July 2014, 1 July 2015 and 30 June 2016 — —
Carrying amount  
At 30 June 2014 73,549 —
At 30 June 2015 85,200 7,658
At 30 June 2016 112,462 7,658
Goodwill is converted at the exchange rate on the date of acquisition and retranslated at the balance sheet date.
76 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 12. Goodwill continued
Group goodwill acquired in the year relates to the acquisition of AxioMx Inc on 11 November 2015. Note 29 contains further details of the 
transaction and resulting financial impact on the Group.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The Directors consider there to be one CGU as acquisitions are integrated into the Group’s operations and 
product portfolio; see note 5. Any discrete financial information which is available for an individual entity does not reflect the true substance 
of the performance of that entity or its value in use within the Group. There have been no changes to the Group organisation during the period 
which would require a reallocation of the goodwill balance. 
The Abcam Group CGU is tested for impairment on a Group-wide basis using the future forecast cash flows arising from the Abcam business 
as a whole.
The Group performs an annual test for goodwill impairment or more frequently if there are any indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions considered most sensitive for the 
value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates after five years.
Management has projected cash flows based on financial forecasts over a period of five years. A growth rate of 2.1% has been used in the 
extrapolation of cash flows beyond the five years based on expected inflationary increases of the economies in which the Group predominantly 
trades. A pre-tax discount rate of 8.2% has been estimated using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Management has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions mentioned above. Based on the results of this analysis, management 
is satisfied that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount. As such, no impairment of goodwill has been recognised 
at the balance sheet date.
Due to the headroom which exists between the recoverable amount and the carrying value there is currently no reasonable possible 
change in any of these key assumptions which would cause the CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Company goodwill
The Company goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are any indications that the goodwill might be 
impaired. The forecast cash flows arising in the Company have been projected using the same key assumptions as used for the Group testing.
Management has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions and, based on the results of this analysis, management is satisfied 
that the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying amount. As such, no impairment of goodwill has been recognised at the 
balance sheet date.
13. Intangible assets
Group
Upfront
licence fees
£000
Distribution
rights
£000
Software
£000
Contract
 based
£000
Assets under
construction
£000
Customer
relationships
£000
Patents,
technology
and know-how
£000
Trade
names
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2014 525 1,093 7,192 3,252 200 4,634 21,559 1,901 40,356
Additions 2 4 85 — 890 — — — 981
Transfer to asset in use — — 887 — (887) — — — —
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) — — 615 — — — 17,089 — 17,704
Exchange differences — — (20) 280 — 371 977 167 1,775
At 1 July 2015 527 1,097 8,759 3,532 203 5,005 39,625 2,068 60,816
Additions 30 259 566 — 6,753 — — — 7,608
Transfer to asset in use — — 2,653 — (2,653) — — — —
Reallocations — 209 132 — — — — — 341
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) — — — 485 — — 15,928 — 16,413
Disposals in year — — (231) — — — — — (231)
Exchange differences 1 — 132 685 — 800 9,023 365 11,006 
At 30 June 2016 558 1,565 12,011 4,702 4,303 5,805 64,576 2,433 95,953
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 July 2014 474 625 1,913 1,712 — 1,076 3,860 520 10,180
Charge for the year 40 384 1,806 462 — 482 1,673 257 5,104
Exchange differences — — — 187 — 116 367 47 717
At 1 July 2015 514 1,009 3,719 2,361 — 1,674 5,900 824 16,001
Charge for the year 13 149 3,781 248 — 544 2,468 273 7,476
Reallocations — 209 132 — — — — — 341
Disposals in year — — (67) — — — — — (67)
Exchange differences — — 49 433 — 308 1,028 176 1,994
At 30 June 2016 527 1,367 7,614 3,042 — 2,526 9,396 1,273 25,745
Carrying amount         
At 30 June 2015 13 88 5,040 1,171 203 3,331 33,725 1,244 44,815
At 30 June 2016 31 198 4,397 1,660 4,303 3,279 55,180 1,160 70,208
77 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 13. Intangible assets continued
Company
Upfront
licence fees
£000
Distribution
rights 
£000
Software 
£000
Assets under
construction
£000
Customer
relationships
£000
Patents,
technology
and know-how
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2014 525 1,488 7,103 200 — — 9,316
Additions 1 1 55 890 — — 947
Acquired on trade transfer from subsidiary (note 30) — — — — 190 412 602
Transfer to asset in use — — 887 (887) — — —
At 1 July 2015 526 1,489 8,045 203 190 412 10,865
Additions 1 259 466 6,753 — — 7,479
Disposals in year — — (218) — — — (218)
Reallocations — 209 132 — — — 341
Transfer to asset in use — — 2,653 (2,653) — — —
At 30 June 2016 527 1,957 11,078 4,303 190 412 18,467
Accumulated amortisation and impairment       
At 1 July 2014 472 1,130 1,878 — — — 3,480
Charge for the year 40 270 1,694 — — — 2,004
At 1 July 2015 512 1,400 3,572 — — — 5,484
Reallocations — 209 132 — — — 341
Charge for the year 13 149 3,517 — 60 353 4,092
Disposals in year — — (54) — — — (54)
At 30 June 2016 525 1,758 7,167 — 60 353 9,863
Carrying amount       
At 30 June 2015 14 89 4,473 203 190 412 5,381
At 30 June 2016 2 199 3,911 4,303 130 59 8,604
The amortisation period for the upfront licence fees, software and distribution rights is referred to in note 3.
Contract-based intangibles relates to:
• an agreement with the University of Oregon, under which the university supplies monoclonal antibodies to MitoSciences Inc, which has 
full rights and entitlement to commercially exploit these materials in exchange for an ongoing fee. The remaining amortisation period is 
eight years, being the remaining term of the agreement; and
• a support agreement with a third party acquired during the year as part of the AxioMx acquisition that had a remaining term of three 
years at acquisition which has been adopted as the asset’s useful life. The remaining amortisation period is two years and four months.
Assets under construction are software related. The costs capitalised relate to the development of the core IT systems architecture, including 
the build of the new ERP system. These are not amortised until available for use in the business.
Customer relationships mainly relates to access to new customers as part of the Epitomics acquisition, namely in the reagents and services 
business. The remaining amortisation period is six years in line with the history of the business. Customer relationships in the Company balance 
sheet have been acquired as part of the trade transfer of Ascent Scientific Ltd (Ascent) and represent access to new customers in the 
biochemical industry. The remaining amortisation period is one year.
Patents, technology and know-how relates to acquired technology as part of the Group’s acquisitions:
• RabMAb
®
 technology as part of the Epitomics business with a remaining amortisation period of eleven years, being the remaining term 
of the primary patent;
• multiplex and complex assay technology acquired as part of the Firefly BioWorks business. This has been held as in-progress R&D during 
the year and therefore not amortised. Development continued on the acquired platform during the year whilst continuing the sample 
testing services for customers, with the first wide-scale launch of products at the end of the year. Consequently amortisation will commence 
in July 2016. The amortisation period will be the remaining term on the primary patent, which is 14 years; and
• in-vitro monoclonal antibody production technology was acquired during the year with the acquisition of AxioMx Inc. The useful life was 
set in line with the remaining life on the patents existing at acquisition. The remaining amortisation period is 17 years.
The technology asset in the Company balance sheet was acquired as part of the trade transfer of Ascent and represents the cost to recreate unique 
production processes that was assessed during the original acquisition of Ascent by the Group. The remaining amortisation period is two months.
Trade names relate to RabMAb
®
 and Epitomics. The remaining amortisation period is four years.
78 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 14. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Computer
equipment 
£000
Laboratory
equipment 
£000
Office
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings 
£000
Hybridomas
and assays
£000
Hybridomas
under
construction
£000
Motor
vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost       
At 1 July 2014 1,865 9,367 3,004 4,313 944 138 19,631
Additions 643 2,049 1,077 2,148 759 — 6,676
Transfer to asset in use — — — 325 (325) — —
Disposals (109) (65) (6) — — — (180)
Exchange differences 30 210 102 99 — 12 453
At 1 July 2015 2,429 11,561 4,177 6,885 1,378 150 26,580
Additions 995 1,370 3,230 862 1,517 — 7,974
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) 1 109 5 — — — 115
Transfer to asset in use — — — 1,584 (1,584) — —
Transfers — (1,725) 1,745 539 — — 559
Disposals (41) (190) (1) — — — (232)
Exchange differences 133 562 624 621 12 13 1,965
At 30 June 2016 3,517 11,687 9,780 10,491 1,323 163 36,961
Accumulated depreciation       
At 1 July 2014 1,381 6,922 2,049 743 — 34 11,129
Charge for the year 385 1,192 481 860 — 16 2,934
Disposals (109) (63) (6) — — — (178)
Exchange differences 15 98 73 54 — 4 244
At 1 July 2015 1,672 8,149 2,597 1,657 — 54 14,129
Charge for the year 561 1,314 691 1,297 — 16 3,879
Transfers — (1,588) 1,608 539 — — 559
Disposals (40) (186) (1) — — — (227)
Exchange differences 103 331 298 260 — 6 998
At 30 June 2016 2,296 8,020 5,193 3,753 — 76 19,338
Carrying amount       
At 30 June 2015 757 3,412 1,580 5,228 1,378 96 12,451
At 30 June 2016 1,221 3,667 4,587 6,738 1,323 87 17,623
Company
Computer
equipment
£000
Laboratory
equipment
£000
Office
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings
£000
Hybridomas
and assays
£000
Hybridomas
under
construction
£000
Motor
vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2014 1,328 6,686 1,338 1,526 945 6 11,829
Additions 394 1,090 90 1,905 592 — 4,071
Transfer to asset in use — — — 291 (291) — —
Acquired on trade transfer from 
subsidiary (note 30) 8 111 15 — — — 134
Disposals (71) (1) — — — — (72)
At 1 July 2015 1,659 7,886 1,443 3,722 1,246 6 15,962
Additions 665 429 970 861 1,318 — 4,243
Transfer to asset in use — — — 1,426 (1,426) — —
Transfers — (1,725) 1,745 539 — — 559
Disposals (22) — — — — — (22)
At 30 June 2016 2,302 6,590 4,158 6,548 1,138 6 20,742
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2014 1,017 5,644 1,014 318 — 1 7,994
Charge for the year 250 561 141 358 — 2 1,312
Disposals (71) (1) — — — — (72)
At 1 July 2015 1,196 6,204 1,155 676 — 3 9,234
Charge for the year 380 617 254 852 — 2 2,105
Transfers — (1,588) 1,608 539 — — 559
Disposals (22) — — — — — (22)
At 30 June 2016 1,554 5,233 3,017 2,067 — 5 11,876
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2015 463 1,682 288 3,046 1,246 3 6,728
At 30 June 2016 748 1,357 1,141 4,481 1,138 1 8,866
79 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 15. Investments
The subsidiaries of the Group at 30 June 2016 are represented below. The equity share capital of these entities is wholly owned by the 
Group unless shown otherwise. Those entities that are directly owned by the Company are also disclosed.
Principal 
activity
Country of
 incorporation
Company
ownership
Abcam Australia Pty Limited Sales and distribution Australia Direct
Abcam Inc Sales and distribution US Indirect
Abcam KK Sales and distribution Japan Direct
Abcam (Hong Kong) Limited Sales and distribution Hong Kong Direct
Abcam Epitomics Holdings, Inc Holding company US Indirect
Abcam LLC Holding company US Direct
Abcam Trading (Shanghai) Co., Limited Sales and distribution China Indirect
Abcam (US) Limited Financing and investing UK Indirect
Abcam US Group Holdings Inc Financing and investing US Direct
Ascent Scientific Limited Dormant UK Direct
Camgene Limited Dormant UK Direct
Epitomics Inc R&D and manufacturing US Indirect
Epitomics (Hangzhou) Biotechnology Co., Limited R&D and manufacturing China Indirect
Firefly BioWorks Inc R&D and manufacturing US Indirect
MitoSciences Inc R&D and manufacturing US Indirect
Abcam Singapore Pte. Ltd Sales and distribution Singapore Direct
AxioMx Inc R&D and manufacturing US Indirect
The Abcam Employee Share Benefit Trust Limited Employee benefit trust UK Direct
Analysis of changes in investments – Company
 £000
At 1 July 2014 96,147
Capital contribution
1
529
Reduction of investment value on transfer of trade to parent (note 30) (8,370)
At 30 June 2015 88,306
Capital contribution
1
5,684
Reduction of investment value on transfer of trade to parent (29)
At 30 June 2016 93,961
1  The capital contribution represents share-based payment charges for share options issued by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries and, in the year 
ended 30 June 2016, shares issued on behalf of subsidiaries as part of the consideration payable on acquisition.
On 12 November 2015, the Company launched its direct service in Singapore. The cost of the investment was £48. This was the nominal 
value of the issued share capital.
16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The following are the deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and the Company and movements thereon during the 
current and prior reporting years.
Group
Accelerated tax
depreciation
£000
Cash flow
hedges
£000
Share-based
payment
£000
Acquired
intangible assets
£000 
Losses
£000
Other temporary
differences
£000
Total
£000
At 30 June 2014 (613) (238) 897 (8,841) — 2,212 (6,583)
(Charge)/credit to income (608) — 62 1,079 — 1,099 1,632
Acquisition of subsidiary (restated)
1
— — — (6,607) 1,882 — (4,725)
(Charge)/credit to equity — (203) 623 — — — 420
Exchange differences (56) — — (410) (84) 125 (425)
At 30 June 2015 (restated)
1
(1,277) (441) 1,582 (14,779) 1,798 3,436 (9,681)
Credit/(charge) to income 112 336 406 898 (738) 269 1,283
Acquisition of subsidiary — — — (6,306) 1,173 — (5,133)
Credit/(charge) to equity — 1,995 613 — — (173) 2,435
Exchange differences (142) — — (2,751) 406 260 (2,227)
At 30 June 2016 (1,307) 1,890 2,601 (22,938) 2,639 3,792 (13,323)
1 The prior year restatement relates to recognition of carried forward losses in relation to the Firefly Bioworks Inc acquisition. See note 3 for details.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Deferred tax assets 9,615 5,098
Deferred tax liabilities (22,938) (14,779)
(13,323) (9,681)
80 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Group continued
The deferred tax liability of £22,938,000 (2015: £14,779,000) has been recognised in relation to the acquired intangible assets as a result of the 
acquisitions. Amounts released from this liability during the year were £898,000 (2015: £1,079,000), representing the decrease of the deferred 
tax liability in line with amortisation charged against the carrying value of the associated intangible assets.
Company
Accelerated tax
depreciation
£000
Cash flow
hedges
£000
Share-based
payment
£000
Acquired
intangible assets
£000
Other temporary
differences
£000
Total
£000
At 30 June 2014 (28) (238) 863 — (112) 485
(Charge)/credit to income (259) — 95 — 157 (7)
Acquisition (note 30) — — — (119) — (119)
(Charge)/credit to equity — (203) 623 — — 420
At 30 June 2015 (287) (441) 1,581 (119) 45 779
(Charge)/credit to income (177) 336 407 — 120 686
Credit to equity — 1,995 613 — — 2,608
At 30 June 2016 (464) 1,890 2,601 (119) 165 4,073
At the balance sheet date, there are no aggregate temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
a deferred tax liability has not been recognised (2015: £nil). No temporary differences exist in the current year as a result of a change to the 
UK tax legislation which largely exempts dividends from UK tax if received on or after 1 July 2009. The Directors believe that all dividends to 
be paid by the Company’s subsidiaries will meet the criteria for exemption from UK tax.
17. Inventories
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Raw materials 3,075 1,487 557 —
Work in progress 2,221 1,845 413 —
Finished goods 14,379 16,471 12,562 17,090
19,675 19,803 13,532 17,090
18. Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods 20,292 13,791 5,027 3,964
Allowance for doubtful debts (698) (565) (104) (137)
19,594 13,226 4,923 3,827
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 27,824 14,466
Other debtors 6,255 4,119 3,295 2,399
Prepayments 2,655 2,382 1,253 1,213
28,504 19,727 37,295 21,905
Trade receivables
The average credit period taken for sales is 36.5 days (2015: 32.5 days). No interest has been charged on the receivables. Trade receivables 
are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. The Group and the Company 
have provided fully for all receivables over 90 days past due because historical experience is such that receivables that are past due beyond 
90 days are generally not recoverable. Trade receivables between 30 days and 90 days are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable 
amounts from the sale of goods determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit limits for each customer are reviewed on a monthly basis. No customer represents more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
The analysis below shows the balances included in debtors which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group or the Company 
has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. Neither the 
Group nor the Company holds any collateral or other credit enhancements over these balances, nor do they have a legal right to offset 
against any amounts owed to the counterparty.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
0 to 30 days overdue 3,417 2,689 486 599
30 to 60 days overdue 825 524 112 52
4,242 3,213 598 651
Any receivables past 60 days past due are fully provided for.
81 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 18. Financial assets continued
Trade receivables continued
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Balance at the beginning of the year (565) (479) (137) (196)
Impairment (losses)/gains recognised in the income statement (29) (82) 28 61
Receivables written off during the year as (uncollectible)/recovered (23) 15 5 (2)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (81) (19) — —
Balance at the end of the year (698) (565) (104) (137)
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group and the Company consider any change in the credit quality of the 
receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer 
base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance 
for doubtful debts.
Ageing of impaired receivables
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
0 to 30 days overdue 307 265 97 79
30 to 60 days overdue 66 16 2 1
60 to 90 days overdue 34 186 5 14
More than 90 days overdue 291 98 — 43
698 565 104 137
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
19. Loan receivable
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Amount owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 82,065 60,760
The amount owed to the Company represents interest-bearing loans due from subsidiary undertakings, with terms as follows:
Borrower
Principal
$000 Repayment date
Interest
rate
Book value
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Term loan 1 Abcam US Group Holdings 33,000 20 December 2019 7.34% 24,686 20,983
Term loan 2 Abcam US Group Holdings 34,000 20 December 2019 8.69% 25,434 21,619
Bridging loan Abcam US Group Holdings 28,153 Not applicable 7.30% — 17,901
Term loan 3 Abcam US Group Holdings 28,153 1 October 2020 3.50% 21,060 —
Term loan 4 Abcam US Group Holdings 11,468 11 November 2020 3.50% 8,579 —
Term loan 5 AxioMx Inc 2,417 11 November 2020 3.50% 1,808 —
Other loans Various Various Various Various 498 257
   82,065 60,760
All of the loans are unsecured. During the year the bridging loan was formalised into term loan 3. Term loans 4 and 5 were issued during 
the year. Any other changes in the book values of each loan are due to foreign exchange movements.
Interest accrued for term loans 3 and 4 are £0.9m and £0.2m respectively. These amounts are included within the trade and other 
receivables of the Company balance sheet.
Other loans represent the start-up funding for new entities within the Group. As at 30 June 2016, amounts consisted of funding to 
MitoSciences Inc, Abcam Singapore and Abcam Australia.
20. Available-for-sale financial asset
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Shares 797 678
The Group holds a 3.92% interest in Plexbio Co. Limited (Plexbio), a biotechnology company headquartered in Taiwan. Plexbio was established 
to research, develop and manufacture in vitro diagnostic (IVD) kits. The movement in the year is due to foreign exchange. See note 26 for 
further details.
82 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 21. Derivative financial instruments
Group and Company: 30 June 2016
Current Non-current
Total
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Derivatives carried at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
Forward exchange contracts that are not designated in hedge 
accounting relationships 6 (1,856) — — (1,850)
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging 
instruments carried at fair value
Forward exchange contracts 5 (7,411) — (1,231) (8,637)
11 (9,267) — (1,231) (10,487)
Group and Company: 30 June 2015
Current Non-current
Total
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Derivatives carried at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
Forward exchange contracts that are not designated in hedge 
accounting relationships 784 (247) — — 537
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging 
instruments carried at fair value     
Forward exchange contracts 2,471 (490) 224 (5) 2,200
3,255 (737) 224 (5) 2,737
Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in note 26.
22. Trade and other payables
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade payables 4,241 4,669 4,190 3,638
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings — — 21,495 6,803
Accruals 14,067 8,699 10,597 6,655
Other taxes and social security 743 615 667 549
Other payables 1,027 1,525 1,537 1,143
20,078 15,508 38,486 18,788
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. At 30 June 2016, the Group 
had an average of 22.8 days of purchases (2015: 39.3 days) outstanding in trade payables (excluding accruals and deferred income). Most 
suppliers do not charge interest for the first 60 days of the invoice. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that 
all payables are paid within the credit timetable. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates 
to their fair value.
23. Commitments
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year:
Land and buildings 3,369 2,822
At the balance sheet date, the Group and the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases, all of which relate to land and buildings, which fall due as follows:
Group Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Within one year 3,855 2,853 925 959
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12,592 4,052 1,346 1,855
After five years 650 528 — —
17,097 7,433 2,271 2,814
The above table reflects the committed cash payments under operating leases, rather than the expected charge to the income statement 
in the relevant periods. The charge in 2016/17 on these operating leases is expected to be £3.9m for the Group and £0.9m for the Company. 
At the year end the Group had additional commitments of £0.8m relating to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets (2015: £1.0m).
83 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 24. Capital and reserves
Share capital
Group and Company
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Issued and fully paid:
202,601,452 (2015: 201,052,039) ordinary shares of 0.2 pence each 405 402
The movement during the year on the Company’s issued and fully paid shares was as follows:
2016
Number
2016
£000
2015
£000
Balance at beginning of year 201,052,039 402 401
Issue of share capital 1,549,413 3 1
Balance at end of year 202,601,452 405 402
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. The share capital issued during the year arose from 
the settlement of the equity consideration in relation to the AxioMx Inc acquisition and from the exercise of share options.
Share premium
Group and Company
£000
Balance at 1 July 2014 17,692
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 1,830
Balance at 1 July 2015 19,522
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 2,027
Balance at 30 June 2016 21,549
There were no costs of issue incurred during the year or the previous year.
Own shares
Group and Company
£000
Balance at 1 July 2014 (2,143)
Issued/acquired in the year (1,001)
Disposed of on exercise of options 332
Balance at 30 June 2015 (2,812)
Issued/acquired in the year (658)
Disposed of on exercise of options 239
Balance at 30 June 2016 (3,231)
This balance represents the cost of 772,936 shares with a nominal value of £1,546 in Abcam plc (2015: 794,549 shares with a nominal value 
of £1,589) which were issued/acquired by the Company at market value and held by the Abcam Employee Share Benefit Trust. These shares 
are held in order to satisfy the Free Share and Matching Share elements of the SIP. See note 27 for further details of this scheme.
Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
Share-based payment reserve
The share-based payment reserve comprises the IFRS 2 charge for the fair value of share-based options and awards.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges and the associated deferred tax assets and liabilities created.
Tax reserve
In accordance with IAS 12 the tax reserve comprises the portion of the deferred tax arising on outstanding share options not taken to the 
income statement and the portion of current tax on exercised share options not taken to the income statement.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve comprises the premium issued on shares allotted as consideration for acquisitions where conditions for merger relief are satisfied.
84 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 25. Dividends
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Amounts recognised as distributions to the owners of the parent in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2015 of 5.92 pence (2014: 5.62 pence) per share 11,975 11,287
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2016 of 2.354 pence (2015: 2.29 pence) per share 4,765 4,601
Total distributions to owners of the parent in the period 16,740 15,888
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2016 of 6.556 pence (2015: 5.92 pence) per share 13,297 11,902
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval of the shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
26. Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return 
to stakeholders. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the owners of the parent, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and 
the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument 
are disclosed in note 3. Foreign exchange contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and the yield curves derived 
from quoted interest rates matching maturities of these contracts.
Categories of financial instruments for items held at amortised cost
Group carrying value Company carrying value
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Financial assets    
Loans and receivables    
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 109,889 75,226
Trade receivables 19,594 13,226 4,923 3,827
Other receivables 3,573 1,126 597 —
Cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 70,667 58,695 61,953 50,931
Total financial assets 93,834 73,047 177,362 129,984
Financial liabilities  
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost  
Trade and other payables
1
(19,335) (14,893) (16,324) (11,436)
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings — — (28,296) (12,583)
Total financial liabilities (19,335) (14,893) (44,620) (24,019)
1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost within trade and other payables consist of trade payables, accruals and other payables.
The Directors consider there to be no material difference between the book value and the fair value of the Group’s financial assets 
and liabilities at the balance sheet date due to their short-term nature.
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet
Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value have been classified using a fair value hierarchy that 
reflects the significance of the inputs used in measuring the fair value of those instruments. The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable market inputs).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities carried at fair value by valuation method.
30 June 2016
Level 1
£000
Level 2
£000
Level 3
£000
Total
£000
Assets    
Derivative financial instruments — 11 — 11
Available-for-sale asset — — 797 797
Total assets — 11 797 808
Liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments — (10,498) — (10,498)
Contingent consideration and fees — — (12,900) (12,900)
Total liabilities — (10,498) (12,900) (23,398)
85 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 26. Financial instruments continued
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet continued
30 June 2015
Level 1
£000
Level 2
£000
Level 3
£000
Total
£000
Assets    
Derivative financial instruments — 3,479 — 3,479
Available-for-sale asset — — 678 678
Total assets — 3,479 678 4,157
Liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments — (742) — (742)
Total liabilities — (742) — (742)
There were no transfers between levels during the year.
Level 2 derivative financial instruments comprise forward foreign exchange contracts. These forward foreign exchange contracts have been 
fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
The Level 3 available-for-sale asset is an equity instrument which has been admitted to the Taiwan Emerging Stock Board (TESB) during the 
year. This is the first stage of the listing process for the Taiwanese Stock Exchange. The Directors consider that the conditions for an active 
market have not been met and have therefore determined the fair value of the equity investment to be in line with original cost less any 
provision for impairment. Had the fair value been based on the traded price at the year end an immaterial uplift would have arisen.
The Level 3 contingent consideration and fees payable were recognised as part of the AxioMx acquisition in November 2015. As part of the 
total consideration the Group has agreed to pay the selling shareholders additional consideration of up to $23.5m and related legal fees 
of up to $1.5m if predetermined milestones are met. The milestones are based on further intellectual property and technology development 
targets. The achievement of milestones will be assessed quarterly and some or all of the consideration payable may fall due at any of the 
assessment dates up to the final maturity dates, ranging from November 2017 to November 2020. The consideration payable will be settled 
in the same ratio as the initial consideration, 60% in cash and 40% in equity.
The fair value is calculated based on management’s best estimate of the likely achievement of each milestone and the expected 
achievement timing. The post tax discount rate used in assessing the fair value was 15%. It is most sensitive to changes in the estimated 
probability of performance. The effect of a 5% decrease/increase in the probability profile for each milestone would result in a change 
in liability of -$0.8m/+$0.7m.
The movement in the fair value in the period is shown below:
Total
£000
At 1 July 2015 —
Created on acquisition (note 29) 10,173
Unwinding of discount 1,050
Exchange differences 1,677
At 30 June 2016 12,900
Payable within six months
1
1,990
Payable between six to 12 months —
Payable between 12 months and five years contingent on achievement 10,910
12,900
1  At 30 June 2016, as part of the quarterly assessment, two targets were deemed achieved, meaning a total of $2.7m (£2.0m) will be due for payment in the 
quarter ending 30 September 2016. This amount has been disclosed within current liabilities on the balance sheet.
See note 29 for more information in relation to the contingent consideration liability arising from the business combination.
The Group’s finance department performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, including Level 3 
fair values. It reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Discussions of valuation processes and results are held between the 
CFO and the valuation team at least once every six months, in line with the Group’s reporting dates.
Risk management in relation to financial instruments
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group or the Company. 
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas. The Group does not have a significant 
credit risk exposure to any single counterparty. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of trade receivables and 
consideration is given as to whether there is any impairment in the value of any amounts owing.
The standard payment terms for receivables other than intra-group balances are 30 days. Any variation in these terms requires authorisation 
by senior management. Year-end debtor days are 36.5 days (2015: 32.5 days). All overdue debts are provided for where collectability is 
considered doubtful or the value of the debt is impaired. Objective evidence of impairment could include the Group’s past experience 
of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 days, as well 
as observable changes in international or local economic conditions.
86 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 26. Financial instruments continued
Risk management in relation to financial instruments continued
Credit risk continued
The standard payment term for intra-group receivables is 45 days. There is not considered to be any risk of impairment of these receivables 
unless the financial assets of the entity holding the corresponding liability are impaired.
The credit risk on the Group’s liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited. The counterparties are major financial institutions 
and funds and transactions are spread across a number of these to help reduce any single exposure. The Group monitors the credit rating 
of the major institutions on a quarterly basis to identify any indicators that may lead to future difficulties. The carrying amount best represents 
the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the sales of goods and services denominated in US Dollars, 
Euros, Japanese Yen and Chinese Renminbi.
Currency risk
Currency risk is the risk that a change in currency rates causes an adverse impact on the Group’s performance or financial position.
The Group undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies and therefore has exposure to both the transactional and translational 
risks associated with currency fluctuations. The Group’s policy is to maintain natural hedges, where possible, by matching foreign currency 
revenue and receivables against expenditure and payables of the same currency. Any remaining net exposure is identified and managed 
within approved policy parameters using forward exchange contracts.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date, not denominated 
in the local functional currency, are as follows:
Liabilities Assets
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
30 June 2016
£000
30 June 2015
£000
Euros (255) (241) 4,856 7,172
US Dollars (29,427) (12,969) 24,064 10,954
Canadian Dollars (459) — 861 —
Japanese Yen (39) (21) 1,379 3,724
Chinese Renminbi (2,067) — 5,040 4,347
Australian Dollars (2) — 640 816
Hong Kong Dollars — — 482 139
(32,249) (13,231) 37,322 27,152
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
The Group’s principal functional currency is Sterling. The Group is mainly exposed to fluctuations in US Dollars, Euros, Japanese Yen 
and Chinese Renminbi (RMB) exchange rates.
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 15% increase and decrease in the Sterling exchange rate against the relevant 
foreign currencies on the Group’s profit before tax and equity. 15% represents management’s assessment of the reasonable possible 
change in foreign exchange rates, an increase from prior year as a result of the recent volatility experienced in relation to the Brexit decision. 
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and forward exchange contracts in the 
balance sheet at the end of the relevant accounting period and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 15% change in foreign 
currency rates. It does not represent the overall impact on Group profitability if the exchange rate sensitivity had been applied through 
the reporting period. A positive number indicates an increase in profit or other comprehensive income.
US Dollar currency impact Euro currency impact Yen currency impact RMB currency impact
2016
£000
2015
£000
2016
£000
2015
£000
2016
£000
2015
£000
2016
£000
2015
£000
Effect of a 15% strengthening of GBP against the 
relevant currency
Income statement 623 436 688 516 322 277 439 332
Other comprehensive income 3,140 1,973 4,494 1,875 1,628 520 66 —
Effect of a 15% weakening of GBP against the 
relevant currency    
Income statement (843) (512) (931) (606) (435) (325) (583) (390)
Other comprehensive income (3,330) (2,315) (6,080) (2,202) (2,202) (611) (84) —
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk since it is limited to the year-end 
exposure and does not reflect the exposure during the year.
87 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 26. Financial instruments continued
Currency risk management
Forward exchange contracts
It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward exchange contracts to manage the risk associated with sales transactions expected to occur 
up to 18 months ahead. The Group uses a layered contract approach to build between 30% to 95% coverage of the exposure generated.
Foreign currency forward contracts are valued using quoted forward exchange rates and the yield curves derived from quoted interest 
rates matching maturities of the contracts.
The following table details the maturity profile of the forward exchange contracts outstanding as at the year end:
Outstanding contracts
Average
rate
30 June 2016
Foreign currency
30 June 2016
000
Contract value
30 June 2016
£000
Fair value
30 June 2016
£000
Sell US Dollars    
Less than 3 months 1.53 $10,122 6,627 (940)
3 to 6 months 1.52 $7,625 5,002 (698)
7 to 12 months 1.48 $15,094 10,194 (1,050)
13 to 18 months 1.47 $5,863 3,994 (349)
 1.50 $38,704 25,817 (3,037)
Sell Euros    
Less than 3 months 1.37 €9,427 6,859 (1,030)
3 to 6 months 1.36 €10,929 8,043 (1,157)
7 to 12 months 1.32 €18,885 14,310 (1,639)
13 to 18 months 1.28 €7,904 6,151 (542)
 1.33 €47,145 35,363 (4,368)
Sell Yen    
Less than 3 months 182.13 ¥337,224 1,852 (614)
3 to 6 months 175.49 ¥552,379 3,148 (910)
7 to 12 months 168.97 ¥841,098 4,977 (1,229)
13 to 18 months 158.90 ¥297,713 1,874 (340)
 171.16 ¥2,028,414 11,851 (3,093)
Sell Chinese Renminbi
Less than 3 months 8.88 ¥4,400 495 6
3 to 6 months 8.94 ¥3,300 369 5
8.91 ¥7,700 864 11
Total of outstanding forward contracts  73,895 (10,487)
Outstanding contracts
Average
rate
30 June 2015
Foreign currency
30 June 2015
000
Contract value
30 June 2015
£000
Fair value
30 June 2015
£000
Sell US Dollars
Less than 3 months 1.63 $12,600 7,707 (307)
3 to 6 months 1.63 $11,037 6,762 (260)
7 to 12 months 1.56 $18,289 11,738 95
13 to 18 months 1.54 $9,181 5,976 131
1.59 $51,107 32,183 (341)
Sell Euros
Less than 3 months 1.23 €7,502 6,100 773
3 to 6 months 1.25 €9,646 7,721 857
7 to 12 months 1.31 €16,197 12,399 761
13 to 18 months 1.36 €6,908 5,094 62
1.29 €40,253 31,314 2,453
Sell Yen
Less than 3 months 171.36 ¥344,314 2,009 217
3 to 6 months 174.53 ¥339,272 1,944 174
7 to 12 months 181.24 ¥750,555 4,141 208
13 to 18 months 185.98 ¥250,274 1,346 26
178.43 ¥1,684,415 9,440 625
Total of outstanding forward contracts 72,937 2,737
At 30 June 2016, the fair value of contracts held as cash flow hedges is a liability of £8.6m (2015: asset of £2.2m). The remaining contracts are 
not held as cash flow hedges. The loss on the financial instruments at fair value through the profit and loss account was £2.4m (2015: £0.3m). 
The loss of £10.8m (2015: gain of £1.1m) recognised through other comprehensive income is the combination of fair value losses in the year 
of £8.6m (2015: gains of £2.1m) and transfers to the income statement of £2.2m (2015: £1.1m).
88 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 26. Financial instruments continued
Currency risk management continued
Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
The Group’s US Dollar denominated contingent consideration amounting to $17.2m (2015: $nil) is designated as a hedge of the net investment 
in the Group’s US subsidiaries. The foreign currency gain of £1.7m (2015: £nil) on translation of the contingent consideration to Sterling at the 
year end is recognised in other comprehensive income to match the hedged portion of the translation loss of the US subsidiary results.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will have insufficient funds available in the required currency and location to settle its obligations 
as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate levels of easily accessible cash reserves and banking facilities, regularly monitoring 
cash flows and matching the maturity profiles and currencies of financial assets and liabilities where possible.
The Group and the Company may hold fixed term deposits with a maturity of up to five years, which is the maximum maturity for the 
Group’s investment decisions. At 30 June 2016, fixed term deposits represented 2.5% of total funds and had an average maturity 
of 67 days (2015: 430 days). 
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management 
framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
Outstanding obligations
All trade and other payable balances include any accrued interest that will become due for payment. The maturity profile of the Group’s 
and the Company’s financial liabilities is shown below.
Less than
six months
£000
Between
six months
and one year
£000
Total
£000
Group
2016
Trade and other payables (18,052) (1,283) (19,335)
(18,052) (1,283) (19,335)
Company
2016
Trade and other payables (15,579) (745) (16,324)
Trade and other payables owed to subsidiary undertakings (21,495) — (21,495)
Loans payable to subsidiary undertakings (6,801) — (6,801)
(43,875) (745) (44,620)
Less than
six months
£000
Between
six months
and one year
£000
Total
£000
Group
2015
Trade and other payables (14,345) (548) (14,893)
(14,345) (548) (14,893)
Company   
2015   
Trade and other payables (10,957) (479) (11,436)
Trade payables owed to subsidiary undertakings (5,938) (865) (6,803)
Loans payable to subsidiary undertakings — (5,780) (5,780)
(16,895) (7,124) (24,019)
Trade payables are normally payable within 30 days of invoice and the standard payment terms for intra-group receivables are 45 days. 
Sufficient funds are readily available to the Company to meet operational requirements.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that a change in interest rates adversely affects the Group’s or the Company’s performance or ability to settle 
financial obligations.
As the Group and the Company do not hold any external debt, exposure to interest rate risk is minimal. In addition, the Group is not dependent 
on income from investment returns to settle operational obligations.
The Group requires flexible access to funds; therefore, the majority are held in variable rate instant access deposit accounts with a small 
percentage held in fixed rate deposits. Market yields are currently low and therefore the negative impact of an interest rate reduction in the 
Group’s income statement is limited. The fixed rate deposits are not sensitive to interest rate changes.
89 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 26. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
An increase of 0.25% in the average interest rate during the year would have resulted in an increase in interest received by the Group 
of £158,000 (2015: £144,000) and by the Company of £139,000 (2015: £126,000). A decrease of 0.25% in the average interest rate during 
the year would have resulted in a reduction in interest received by the Group of £158,000 (2015: £144,000) and by the Company of 
£139,000 (2015: £126,000). There would have been no effect on equity reserves.
The average cash and term deposits balance throughout the year has been used as the basis for the calculations. A 0.25% increase 
or decrease in interest rates represents management’s assessment of the reasonable possible change in interest rates likely in the 
preceding financial year.
27. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Company operates a number of share option schemes for certain employees of the Group. The share-based payments charge relates 
to option awards from the Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) scheme, the Unapproved Share Option Plan, the Abcam Inc share scheme, 
the Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme, the Abcam Company Share Option Plan (CSOP), the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) and the NED share award. Option or conditional share grants under each scheme have been aggregated.
The vesting period ranges from one to four years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant the 
options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
The volatility of the options is based on the average of standard deviations of daily continuous returns on Abcam plc shares. The dividend 
yield is based on Abcam’s actual dividend yield in the past.
The risk-free rate is the yield on UK government gilts at each date of grant. The employee exercise multiple is based on published statistics 
for a portfolio of companies. The employee exit rate is based on management’s expectations and, in accordance with IFRS 2, is applied 
after vesting.
The Group recorded a total equity-settled share-based payments expense of £1,962,000 in the year (2015: £1,747,000), of which 
£1,627,000 (2015: £1,251,000) was included within administration and management expenses and £301,000 (2015: £496,000) was 
included within R&D expenses.
Summary of all schemes, excluding SIP, LTIP and deferred share awards
Options outstanding as at 30 June 2016 had an exercise price of between 62 pence and 598 pence (2015: 56 pence and 464 pence). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life is 7.09 years (2015: 7.28 years). The weighted average fair value of the options outstanding 
at the end of the year was 90.78 pence (2015: 87.28 pence). The Group recorded a total share-based payments expense of £151,500 
(2015: £309,000) in the year relating to all schemes excluding the SIP, LTIP and deferred share awards.
2016 2015
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,145,081 364.6 — 2,035,466 331.8 —
Granted during year 423,706 598.0 — 569,094 406.0 —
Forfeited during year (396,119) 473.0 — (95,525) 411.5 —
Exercised during year (442,861) 325.4 605.4 (363,954) 244.8 448.5
Outstanding at end of year 1,729,807 407.3 — 2,145,081 364.6 —
Exercisable at end of year 431,614 250.2 — 741,511 250.3 —
Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) scheme
2016 2015
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 38,920 60.4 — 147,495 58.9 —
Forfeited during year (2,850) 62.4 — — — —
Exercised during year (36,070) 60.3 656.2 (108,575) 58.3 422.7
Outstanding at end of year — — — 38,920 60.4 —
Exercisable at end of year — — — 38,920 60.4 —
The size of the Group means that since 2009 it is no longer able to grant awards under the EMI scheme.
All outstanding vested options have now been exercised or forfeited. No further options remain outstanding under this scheme.
90 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 27. Share-based payments continued
Unapproved Share Option Plan
2016 2015
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence 
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 170,460 62.4 — 170,460 62.4 —
Exercised during year — — — — — —
Outstanding at end of year 170,460 62.4 — 170,460 62.4 —
Exercisable at end of year 170,460 62.4 — 170,460 62.4 —
Any new grants of unapproved options are now being made under the Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme and included in the disclosure 
for that scheme.
The vesting dates and expected cash receivable on exercise relating to the options outstanding are detailed in the table below.
Vesting date Expiry date
2016 2015
Number of
options
outstanding
Exercise price
 pence
Cash receivable
on exercise
£000
Number of
options
outstanding
Exercise price
pence
Cash receivable
on exercise
£000
8 November 2010 8 November 2017 170,460 62.4 106 170,460 62.4 106
Total 170,460 106 170,460 106
The Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme
2016 2015
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,474,458 403.2 — 1,188,908 395.5 —
Granted during year 408,141 598.0 — 489,700 406.0 —
Forfeited during year (340,322) 482.1 — (56,319) 418.6 —
Exercised during year (281,418) 357.1 602.4 (147,831) 344.7 478.8
Outstanding at end of year 1,260,859 455.2 — 1,474,458 403.2 —
Exercisable at end of year 179,550 383.6 — 352,435 330.4 —
The vesting dates and expected cash receivable on exercise (subject to performance conditions being met for options yet to vest) relating 
to the options outstanding are detailed in the table below.
Vesting date Expiry date
2016 2015
Number of
options
outstanding
Exercise price
 pence
Cash receivable
on exercise
£000 
Number of
options
outstanding
Exercise price
pence
Cash receivable
on exercise
£000 
6 November 2011 6 November 2018 21,550 92.4 20 34,200 92.4 32
9 November 2012 9 November 2019 — — — 25,875 180.8 47
2 December 2013 2 December 2020 12,391 345.0 43 52,788 345.0 182
1 November 2014 1 November 2021 56,983 370.0 211 122,452 370.0 453
1 November 2014 1 November 2022 34,244 385.0 132 117,120 385.0 451
1 November 2015 1 November 2022 54,382 385.0 209 118,998 385.0 458
1 November 2016 1 November 2022 53,780 464.0 250 72,295 385.0 278
25 November 2015 25 November 2023 92,110 385.0 355 204,626 464.0 949
25 November 2016 25 November 2023 112,279 464.0 521 149,517 464.0 694
25 November 2017 25 November 2023 66,549 460.0 270 102,377 464.0 475
4 November 2016 4 November 2024 171,674 464.0 797 221,856 406.0 901
4 November 2017 4 November 2024 123,774 406.0 503 141,357 406.0 574
4 November 2018 4 November 2024 85,893 406.0 349 110,997 406.0 451
26 October 2017 26 October 2025 187,160 598.0 1,119 — — —
26 October 2018 26 October 2025 94,420 598.0 565 — — —
26 October 2019 26 October 2025 93,670 598.0 560 — — —
Total 1,260,859 5,904 1,474,458 5,945
91 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 27. Share-based payments continued
The Abcam CSOP
2016 2015
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence 
Number of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
pence
Weighted
average
share price
at date of
exercise
pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 461,243 378.7 — 528,603 359.4 —
Granted during year 15,565 598.0 — 79,394 406.0 —
Forfeited during year (52,947) 437.2 — (39,206) 401.3 —
Exercised during year (125,373) 330.6 597.5 (107,548) 295.8 432.9
Outstanding at end of year 298,488 402.1 — 461,243 378.7 —
Exercisable at end of year 81,604 349.1 — 179,696 312.7 —
The vesting dates and expected cash receivable on exercise (subject to performance conditions being met for options yet to vest) 
relating to the options outstanding are detailed in the table below.
Vesting date Expiry date
2016 2015
Number of
options
outstanding
Exercise price
 pence
Cash receivable
on exercise
£000 
Number of
options
outstanding
Exercise price
pence
Cash receivable
on exercise
£000 
9 November 2012 9 November 2019 17,300 180.8 31 45,560 180.8 82
2 December 2013 2 December 2020 25,847 345.0 89 67,308 345.0 232
1 November 2014 1 November 2021 38,457 370.0 142 66,828 370.0 247
1 November 2015 1 November 2022 61,501 385.0 237 103,352 385.0 398
25 November 2016 25 November 2023 95,365 464.0 442 109,349 464.0 507
4 November 2017 4 November 2024 52,396 406.0 213 68,846 406.0 280
26 October 2018 26 October 2025 7,622 598.0 46 — — —
Total 298,488 1,200 461,243 1,746
Option fair values
The Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme and Abcam CSOP
The fair value of options issued with market-based performance criteria is calculated using the Monte Carlo model. The inputs into the 
Monte Carlo model for options issued during the current and prior years were as follows:
The Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme
Grant date
4 November
2014 
4 November
2014
4 November
 2014
26 October
2015
26 October
2015
26 October
2015
Share price at grant (pence) 406.0 406.0 406.0 595.5 595.5 595.5
Fair value at valuation date (pence) 66.0 75.0 97.0 110.0 114.0 125.0
Exercise price (pence) 406.0 406.0 406.0 595.5 595.5 595.5
Expected volatility 25% 25% 30% 26% 24% 25%
Expected life (years) 5 6 7 5 6 7
Expected dividend yield 1.91% 1.91% 1.91% 1.38% 1.38% 1.38%
Risk-free rate 0.78% 1.10% 1.37% 0.52% 0.75% 0.98%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 2 2 2 2
Employee exit rate 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
The Abcam CSOP
Grant date
4 November
2014
26 October
2015
Share price at grant (pence) 406.0 595.5
Fair value at valuation date (pence) 77.0 116.0
Exercise price (pence) 406.0 595.5
Expected volatility 25% 24%
Expected life (years) 6 6
Expected dividend yield 1.91% 1.38%
Risk-free rate 1.10% 0.75%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 
Employee exit rate 0.00% 0.00%
92 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 27. Share-based payments continued
Option fair values continued
Share Incentive Plan
All UK-based employees are eligible to participate in the SIP whereby employees buy shares in the Company. These shares are called 
Partnership Shares and are held in trust on behalf of the employee. For every Partnership Share bought by the employee up to a limit 
of £1,800 per tax year the Company will give the employee one share free of charge (Matching Shares), provided the employee remains 
employed by the Company for a period of at least three years. The employees must take their shares out of the plan on leaving the Company 
and will not be entitled to the Matching Shares if they leave within three years of buying the Partnership Shares. In addition, the Company 
can also award employees up to a maximum of the HMRC approval limit, which during the year was £3,600 of shares (Free Shares) per 
tax year. There are no vesting conditions attached to the Free Shares, other than being continuously employed by the Company for 
three years from the date of grant.
Number of Free Shares Number of Matching Shares
2016 2015 2016 2015
Outstanding at beginning of year 571,679 576,230 156,065 159,230
Granted during year 141,374 165,318 34,303 42,025
Forfeited during year (40,041) (40,497) (38,767) (11,365)
Released during year (101,512) (129,372) — (33,825)
Outstanding at end of year 571,500 571,679 151,601 156,065
Exercisable at end of year 239,141 240,245 42,488 64,662
For the purposes of IFRS 2 the fair value of these Matching Shares and Free Shares is determined as the market value of the shares at the 
date of grant. No valuation model is required to calculate the fair value of awards under the SIP. The fair value of an equity-based payment 
under the SIP is the face value of the award on the date of grant because the participants are entitled to receive the full value of the shares 
and there are no market-based performance conditions attached to the awards.
The Group recognised a total expense of £641,800 (2015: £586,000) in the year relating to Matching and Free Share awards.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Company approved a new LTIP in 2008. Full details of the performance conditions are outlined in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
All awards are nil-cost options or conditional shares which vest, subject to achievement of the relevant performance conditions, after 
three years and can be exercised over the following seven years. Save as permitted in the LTIP rules, awards lapse on an employee 
leaving the Company.
Details of performance share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Year ended
30 June 2016
Year ended
30 June 2015
Outstanding at beginning of year 941,309 1,168,872
Granted during year 384,565 150,333
Forfeited during year (193,301) (307,592)
Exercised during year
1
(81,969) (70,304)
Outstanding at end of year 1,050,604 941,309
Exercisable at end of year 261,106 451,934
1  The weighted average sales price for exercises in the year was 580 pence (2015: 402 pence). Of the 81,969 options exercised during the year 5,008 were 
exercised in exchange for cash (2015: 304).
The aggregates of the fair values of the awards made in the year were £95,621, £260,904, £100,663, £947,449, £181,198 and £554,306, granted 
on 6 July 2015, 3 August 2015, 6 November 2015, 10 November 2015, 25 January 2016 and 21 March 2016 respectively (2015: £538,837).
Fair values of the awards with a performance condition based on EPS are calculated using the Black Scholes model. The inputs into the models 
for awards granted in the current year were as follows:
Grant date
6 July
2015
3 August
2015
6 November
2015
6 November
2015
6 November
2015
6 November
2015
10 November
2015
25 January
2016
21 March
2016
Expected volatility 24% 24% 24% 25% 29% 29% 24% 25% 25%
Expected life (years) 3 3 3 4 5 6 2 3 3
Expected dividend yield 1.57% 1.34% 1.37% 1.37% 1.37% 1.37% 1.43% 1.28% 1.41%
Risk-free rate 0.96% 0.95% 0.98% 1.21% 1.42% 1.59% 0.49% 0.67% 0.53%
The Group recognised an expense of £695,800 (2015: £166,000) in the year related to performance share awards under the LTIP.
Annual Bonus Plan – deferred share award
The Company approved a new component to the Annual Bonus Plan in 2013 whereby a portion of the annual amount awarded to certain 
senior management would be deferred in shares. The number of deferred shares granted is dependent on certain performance criteria, 
consisting of a one-year profit target, and achievement of strategic and personal objectives. There is a further two-year compulsory 
deferral period, at the end of which the deferred share awards will become exercisable subject to continued employment. All awards 
are nil-cost options or conditional shares.
93 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 27. Share-based payments continued
Option fair values continued
Annual Bonus Plan – deferred share award continued
Details of performance share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 2016
Year ended
30 June 2015
Outstanding at beginning of year 185,855 68,886
Granted during year 83,541 118,229
Forfeited during year (17,690) (1,260)
Exercised during year (14,761) —
Outstanding at end of year 236,945 185,855
Exercisable at end of year 54,039 —
The aggregate of the fair values of the awards granted on 26 October 2015 was £342,800 (2015: £509,600).
Fair values of the awards are calculated using the Black Scholes model due to the grants having performance conditions based on non-market 
conditions. The inputs into the model for awards granted in the current and prior years were as follows:
Grant date
8 September 
2014
10 October
2015
Expected volatility 32% 24%
Expected life (years) 3 3
Expected dividend yield 1.71% 1.91%
Risk-free rate 0.87% 1.10%
The Group recognised an expense of £338,000 (2015: £500,800) in the year related to deferred share awards under the Annual Bonus Plan.
Non-Executive Directors – share award
During the year the Company approved a new component to the Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration, whereby a portion of the annual 
fees agreed would be deferred in shares. The number of deferred shares granted will be settled in the open period following the completion 
of the one year vesting period. The Group recognised an expense of £135,300 (2015: £nil) in the year related to these share awards under 
the Non-Executive Directors’ share plan.
Further details are included in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 41.
Cash-settled share option scheme
In addition to the equity-settled schemes the Group operates a cash-settled scheme for certain overseas employees. The total charge 
for the year was £281,000 (2015: £144,000).
28. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The UK-based employees of the Company have the option to be members of a defined contribution pension scheme managed by a third 
party pension provider. For each employee who is a member of the scheme the Company will contribute a fixed percentage of each employee’s 
salary to the scheme. The only obligation of the Group with respect to this scheme is to make the specified contributions.
Employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the US, Japan, China and Hong Kong are members of state-managed retirement benefit schemes 
operated by the governments of the US, Japan, China and Hong Kong respectively. Depending on location, the subsidiaries are required to 
contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit schemes to fund the benefits. The only obligation of the Group 
with respect to the retirement benefit schemes is to make the specified contributions as required by law.
The total cost charged to the income statement in respect of these schemes during the year ended 30 June 2016 was £2,235,000 
(2015: £1,689,000). As at 30 June 2016 contributions of £181,000 (2015: £156,000) due in respect of the current reporting period had 
not been paid over to the schemes.
29. Business combinations
On 11 November 2015 the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of a private Delaware corporation, AxioMx Inc. 
Upfront consideration, including payments for working capital, of $19.3m was exchanged on the acquisition date with a payment of $2.4m 
made after the acquisition to settle pre-existing liabilities to largely offset the $2.0m cash and cash equivalents acquired. Further consideration 
payments of up to $23.5m and related fees up to $1.5m will be payable on successful completion of future development and technology 
milestones. As a result of the acquisition, Abcam now has access to AxioMx’s technology, which potentially provides scalable capabilities 
to produce highly validated recombinant monoclonal antibodies within weeks (significantly faster than in vivo methods).
The goodwill of $18.5m (£12.1m) arising from the acquisition consists largely of the production opportunities derived from the acquired 
technology and the value of the highly knowledgeable and skilled workforce. The tax benefit recognised within goodwill in relation to 
the acquired AxioMx losses has been concluded by a section 382 loss analysis.
94 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 29. Business combinations continued
The following table summarises the consideration transferred and the provisional fair value for the assets and liabilities recognised at the 
date of acquisition.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Provisional
fair value
£000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 16,413
Property, plant and equipment 115
Deferred tax asset 1,173
Other long-term assets 3
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,326
Trade and other receivables 167
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (1,924)
Non-current liabilities
Contingent fees (594)
Deferred tax liability (6,306)
Total identifiable assets acquired 10,373
Goodwill 11,837
Total consideration 22,210
Consideration at 11 November 2015 £000
Cash 7,584
Equity 5,047
Contingent consideration – cash 5,747
Contingent consideration – equity 3,832
Total consideration 22,210
Cash consideration 7,584
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (1,326)
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition 6,258
Acquisition-related expenses totalling £0.5m are included within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the 
period ended 30 June 2016.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets consists of £15.9m attributable to technology and £0.5m attributable to license 
support agreements. The values have been assessed by an independent third party valuation company. A related deferred tax liability of 
£6.3m has also been recognised.
The fair value of the equity consideration was determined using the mid-market close price on the date of the acquisition.
The Group recognised a contingent consideration liability of £9.6m in relation to the acquisition, which represents the total calculated present 
value of expected payments due upon achievement of predetermined development milestones. This value was also assessed as part of the 
independent third party valuation. The total contingent consideration and fees recognised by the Group at acquisition was £10.2m.
During the period from the date of acquisition to the balance sheet date, AxioMx contributed £0.4m to the Group’s revenue from sales 
to third parties and a loss before tax of £1.7m over the same period.
Had AxioMx Inc been consolidated from 1 July 2015, the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June 2016 would show 
a Group pro-forma revenue of £172.0m and profit before tax of £44.4m.
Details of prior year acquisition
Firefly BioWorks Inc – restated
On 23 January 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Firefly BioWorks Inc (Firefly), a private company incorporated in 
the United States specialising in novel assay technologies, for $26.4m. A further payment of $1.6m was made after the acquisition to settle 
pre-existing liabilities. As a result of the acquisition, the Group has an extended product portfolio covering microRNA research products. 
In addition to sample testing services income, the first significant sales of these products were recorded towards the end of the year. 
In addition the Group is expecting to leverage the acquired technology to produce a new series of protein immunoassays.
As stated in note 3, during the year the Group finalised the fair values arising on the acquisition. The resulting adjustment relates to 
recognition of a deferred tax asset and is reflected in the table below.
The goodwill of $9.2m (£6.1m) arising from the acquisition consists largely of the product pipeline opportunities and alternative future 
uses to be derived from the acquired technology and the value of the highly knowledgeable and skilled workforce. None of the goodwill 
recognised is expected to be deductible for corporation tax purposes.
95 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 29. Business combinations continued
Details of prior year acquisition continued
Firefly BioWorks Inc – restated continued
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Firefly and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the 
acquisition date:
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Fair value
£000
Provisional
Measurement
period
adjustment
 £000
Fair value
£000
Restated
Non-current assets 
Intangible assets (note 13) 17,704 — 17,704
Deferred tax asset — 1,882 1,882
Current assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 224 — 224
Trade and other receivables 21 — 21
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables (1,323) — (1,323)
Non-current liabilities 
Deferred tax liability (7,082) — (7,082)
Total identifiable assets acquired 9,544 1,882 11,426
Goodwill 8,013 (1,882) 6,131
Total consideration 17,557 — 17,557
Consideration at 23 January 2015 £000
Cash 17,557
Total consideration transferred 17,557
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (224)
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition 17,333
Acquisition-related expenses totalling £0.3m are included within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the 
year ended 30 June 2015.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets consists of £17.1m of in-progress R&D and £0.6m of software. The values have been 
formally assessed by a third party valuation expert. A related deferred tax liability of £7.1m has also been recognised. The book value has 
been deemed by the Directors to equate to the fair value for the remaining balance sheet accounts.
During the period from the date of acquisition to 30 June 2015, Firefly contributed £0.2m to the Group’s revenue from sales to third parties 
and a loss before tax of £1.0m over the same period.
Had Firefly been consolidated from 1 July 2014, the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June 2015 would show pro-forma 
revenue of £144.1m and profit before tax of £43.6m.
30. Related party transactions
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories in IAS 24 
Related Party Disclosures.
The key management team for the prior year comprised the Non-Executive Directors, the Executive Directors and the Senior Leadership Team. 
In April 2016 the key management team was restructured and the Senior Leadership Team replaced by the Executive Leadership Team. 
The current year figures therefore represent pro-rated amounts for the change in structure.
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees for the year ended 30 June 2016 represent amounts received in cash and an element receivable in shares. 
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Group and Company
30 June
2016
£000
30 June
2015
£000
Short-term employee benefits and fees 4,204 3,778
Post-employment benefits 84 64
Share-based payments charge 458 190
 4,746 4,032
96 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements 30. Related party transactions continued
Directors’ transactions
Dividends totalling £2,203,000 were paid in the year in respect of ordinary shares held by the Company’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
During the year the Group entered into a licence and supply agreement for access to knock-out cell lines with Horizon Discovery Group plc, 
of which Jonathan Milner is a non-executive director. A total of £220,000 (2015: £nil) has been paid during the year under the terms of the 
agreement with additional product-related fees of £4,700 (2015: £7,200). Total sales of £53,000 have been made during the year to companies 
of which Jonathan is the chairman or a significant investor.
The Group has also made a software subscription purchase from Dynamic Action for £35,000 (2015: £60,000), of which Michael Ross is a 
director, and a payment of £6,000 (2015: £nil) to Mara Aspinall for consultancy services in addition to her Non-Executive Directorship fee.
Company transactions with its subsidiaries
The Company provided goods for resale to, purchased goods from, received dividends from, and was charged fees by its subsidiaries 
in the current and prior years as summarised in the following table:
30 June
2016
£000
30 June
2015
£000
Sales of goods 98,737 76,308
Purchase of goods (6,525) (11,887)
Fees related to intra-group trading (15,545) (1,004)
 76,667 63,417
Amounts remaining outstanding at the year end can be seen in the notes to the Company balance sheet.
Company transactions with its subsidiaries in relation to the prior year
Ascent Scientific Ltd intra-group trade transfer
During the year ended 30 June 2015 the decision was made to hive-up the trade of Ascent Scientific Ltd (Ascent) into Abcam plc. 
Consequently on 30 June 2015 the trade and net assets of Ascent were transferred to the Company at their book value.
The cost of the Company’s investment in that subsidiary undertaking reflected the fair value of net assets and goodwill assessed at the time 
of acquisition to the Abcam Group (12 September 2011). As a result of the transfer, the value of the Company’s investment in Ascent fell 
below the amount at which it was stated in the Company’s balance sheet.
Schedule 1 to the Companies Act 2006 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(SI 2008 No. 410) requires that the investment be written down accordingly and that the amount be charged as a loss in the Company’s profit 
and loss account. However, the Directors consider that, as there has been no overall economic loss to the Company, it would fail to give a 
true and fair view to charge that diminution to the profit and loss account for the year and it should instead follow predecessor accounting, 
reallocating the cost to goodwill and the identifiable fair value of net assets transferred. The allocation between assets acquired has been 
taken with reference to the original values assessed formally at the date Ascent was acquired by the Abcam Group.
The following table summarises the impact of adopting predecessor accounting for the trade transfer on the Company balance sheet:
Fair value
 recognised
£000
Non-current assets 
Intangible assets 602
Property, plant and equipment 134
Current assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 54
Inventories 1,596
Trade and other receivables 96
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables (82)
Non-current liabilities 
Deferred tax (119)
Total identifiable assets recognised 2,281
Cash consideration 1,798
Reduction in carrying value of investment 8,370
Recognised directly in equity
1
(229)
Total consideration 9,939
Goodwill recognised 7,658
1 Amounts recognised directly to equity represent the change in the net assets of Ascent since acquisition on 12 September 2011.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2015 were not affected by this transfer.
31. Income statement for the Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own income statement for the year. 
Abcam plc reported a profit for the year ended 30 June 2016 of £45.9m (2015: £40.4m).
97 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements 32. Consolidated adjusted financial measures
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000
Profit before tax 45,412 46,099
Acquisition costs 466 335
Integration costs 480 24
System and process improvement costs 3,955 —
Unwinding of discount factor on contingent consideration and fees 1,050 —
Prior year R&D tax credit (1,308) —
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3,727 3,118
Adjusted profit before tax 53,782 49,576
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000 %
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000 %
Operating profit/margin 46,318 27.0 45,727 31.7
Acquisition costs 466 335
Integration costs 480 24
System and process improvement costs 3,955 —
Prior year R&D tax credit (1,308) —
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3,727 3,118
Adjusted operating profit/margin
1
53,638 31.2 49,204 34.2
1 Adjusted operating margin is adjusted operating profit divided by revenue.
Year ended
30 June 2016
£000 %
Year ended
30 June 2015
£000 %
Operating profit 46,318 45,727
Depreciation and amortisation 11,355 8,038
EBITDA/margin
1
57,673 33.6 53,765 37.3
Acquisition costs 466 335
Integration costs 480 24
System and process improvement costs 2,645 —
Prior year R&D tax credit (1,308) —
Adjusted EBITDA/margin
2
59,956 34.9 54,124 37.6
1 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. EBITDA margin is EBITDA divided by revenue.
2 Adjusted EBITDA margin is adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue.
The reconciliation of adjusted EPS is included in note 11.
33. Post balance sheet event
Subsequent to the year end, a further milestone was successfully achieved in relation to the contingent consideration recognised as part 
of the AxioMx Inc acquisition. An additional $2.5m of the consideration has therefore become due (60% cash, 40% equity).
98 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2016
Financial statements Antibody A protein made by the immune system that binds specifically to an antigen. When an antibody detects 
this antigen in the body, it will contribute to an immune response to rid the body of the antigen.
Amino acids The basic building blocks of proteins and peptides.
Antigen A molecule that is recognised by the immune system and which can be specifically bound by an antibody.
Assay A laboratory test for assessing the presence, amount or functional activity of a chemical or biological molecule.
Biological pathway A series of molecular interactions that leads to a change in a cell in response to a stimulus. For example, 
biological pathways can trigger the assembly of new molecules, turn genes on and off, or spur a cell to move.
Biomarker A measurable indicator of a biological state or condition. For example, increased amounts of a particular 
protein in a blood sample may indicate the presence of a particular disease.
Conjugated antibody Antibodies that are chemically bound to molecules that enable detection of the antibody. For example, 
an antibody might be bound to a fluorescent dye.
ELISA Assay that uses antibodies to detect and quantify proteins and peptides in a biological sample. 
Acronym for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
ERP Acronym for enterprise resource planning. It refers to business process management software that allows 
an organisation to use a system of integrated applications to manage the business and automate many 
back office functions related to technology, services and human resources.
Gene A section of DNA that acts as the blueprint for making a particular protein. Every human being 
(except identical twins) has a unique set of genes, half of which came from their mother and the 
other half from their father.
Immunoassay A test that uses the binding of antibodies to antigens to detect and quantify a biological molecule 
in a sample.
In vitro Describes studies that are performed with microorganisms, cells or biological molecules outside their normal 
biological context. For example, an in vitro experiment might involve extracting a blood sample from a 
patient, and performing an assay on that sample in a test tube.
In vivo Describes a biological process that takes place in a living cell or organism, including animals and plants.
Kits and assays Multi-component products comprising antibodies and other reagents that can be used to detect a wide 
range of biological molecules.
Knockout cell lines A cell line that has had a particular gene removed (or ‘knocked out’). The protein that the knocked-out 
gene encodes for is therefore not produced.
Lysate The fluid produced by lysis of cells and tissues. Lysates are used as controls in biological experiments to 
confirm the absence or presence of proteins of interest.
Lysis The disruption of cells by mechanical, chemical or enzymatic means.
Matched antibody pairs A pair of antibodies that binds to an individual protein at different sites, meaning that both antibodies of 
the pair can bind the protein at the same time. Matched antibody pairs are used in assays such as ELISA.
microRNA or miRNA Small RNAs that are involved in regulating gene expression.
99 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Financial statements
Technical glossary Monoclonal antibodies Identical antibodies derived from a group of identical cloned cells. Monoclonal antibodies recognise only 
one kind of antigen, i.e. they bind to the same site on a protein.
Multiplex immunoassays Immunoassays that can detect multiple proteins at once within a single sample. They allow scientists to increase 
the efficiency and scope of their experiments.
Net Promoter Score or NPS A management tool that can be used to gauge the loyalty of a company’s customer relationships. It serves 
as an alternative to traditional customer satisfaction research and can be correlated with revenue growth.
Peptides Short chains of amino acids.
PD-L1 Acronym for programmed death-ligand 1. It is a protein that plays a major role in suppressing the immune 
system and is an important target in difficult to treat cancers.
Polyclonal antibodies Antibodies that target the same antigen, but are derived from different cell lineages. Polyclonal antibodies 
bind to different sites on the antigen.
Proteins Large, complex molecules made up of amino acids. Proteins are required for the structure, function and 
regulation of the body’s tissues and organs.
RabMAb
®
Abcam’s patented technology for the generation of high quality rabbit monoclonal antibodies.
Rabbit/recombinant 
monoclonal antibodies
Antibodies made by cloning DNA sequences from cell lines that produce rabbit monoclonal antibodies. 
Cloned recombinant antibodies are identical, and are therefore not susceptible to lot-to-lot variation.
Reagent A product used in an experiment to detect or measure biological processes.
RNA Acronym for ribonucleic acid. It is a polymeric molecule made up of one or more nucleotides. It is 
implicated in various biological roles in the coding, decoding, regulation and expression of genes.
Specificity This refers to the ability of an antibody to bind only the desired antigen.
SimpleStep ELISA
®
 kits Kits that deliver fast results in just 90 minutes by reducing antibody and sample additions to a single step.
100 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
Technical glossary continued  
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Registered office
330 Cambridge Science Park 
Milton Road 
Cambridge CB4 0FL 
UK
Websites
www.abcam.com 
www.abcamplc.com
Registered number
3509322
Company Secretary
Suzanne Smith
Nominated advisor and broker
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street 
London E14 5JP 
UK
Independent auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Abacus House 
Castle Park 
Cambridge CB3 0AN 
UK
Public relations advisor
FTI
200 Aldersgate 
London EC1A 4HD 
UK
Banker
National Westminster Bank plc
King’s Parade 
Cambridge CB2 3PU 
UK
Registrar 
Capita Asset Services
Northern House 
Woodsome Park 
Fenay Bridge 
Huddersfield HD8 0GA 
UK
Shareholder enquiries
Any shareholder with enquiries should, in the first instance, contact 
our registrar, Capita Asset Services, using the address provided in the 
Corporate Directory.
Share price information
London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market (AIM) 
symbol: ABC.
Information on the Company’s share price is available on the 
Abcam investor relations website at www.abcamplc.com.
Investor relations
330 Cambridge Science Park 
Milton Road 
Cambridge CB4 0FL 
UK
Email: corporate@abcam.com 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 696000 
Website: www.abcamplc.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 30 June 2016
Full year results announced 12 September 2016
Annual General Meeting 2 November 2016
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 10 November 2016
Record date for final dividend 11 November 2016
Final dividend payment 2 December 2016
Corporate directory
Shareholder information
101 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
The Abcam Group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected 
in the production of this Annual Report which has been printed on 
Cocoon 100, an FSC® certified and PCF (Process Chlorine Free) 
paper made from 100% post-consumer waste paper fibres. 
The report is printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their 
environmental printing technology and vegetable based inks. 
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 Company with the 
unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture 
and delivery of this document being reduced to net zero through 
a verified carbon offsetting project.
Both the paper manufacturing mill and the printer are registered 
to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and FSC 
chain-of-custody certified. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Abcam plc
330 Cambridge Science Park 
Cambridge CB4 0FL 
UK
Email: corporate@abcam.com 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 696000 
Fax: +44 (0)1223 215215
