 Annu Al R epo Rt An d Accounts 2013
getting  
fitte R Wh At  
We do
Betfair revolutionised the sports betting industry with its Betting 
Exchange, which offers customers better value and more choice.  
Today Betfair provides a full range of sports betting and gaming 
products and is one of the largest online gambling operators  
in the UK market.
Wh At We  
ARe f ocused on 
We are seeking to accelerate revenue growth in sustainable jurisdictions 
by exploiting Betfair’s unique combination of Exchange and Sportsbook 
products to offer a differentiated customer experience and expand 
Betfair’s addressable market. 
We are seeking to accelerate growth further by investing in new market 
opportunities that result from regulatory change and through the use  
of our strong balance sheet. 
The changes we have made put the business in a far stronger position  
to generate future growth. 
Betf Ai R  
i s g et ting 
f i tte R BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REVIEW
1  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
OVERVIEW
MORE INFORMATION
You can access the latest information and read this report on Betfair’s corporate website: 
corporate.betfair.com
OPERATIONAL
HIGHLIGHTS
•	 	 ex c e l l e nt 	 p r ogr e s s 	 m ade 	 i n 	 t h e 	 de l iv e r y 	 o f 	 o u r	
t u rn ar o u n d 	 pl an :
	 –	 	 s u s ta i n a b l e 	 r e v e n u e s 	 u p 	 t o 	 75 % 	 o f 	 t o ta l 	 r e v e n u e
1
,	 	
f r o m 	 6 7 % 	 i n 	 Q4 	 F Y 1 2 ;
	 –	 	 S po r ts boo k 	 s u c c e s sf u l ly 	 l a u n c h e d , 	 h e l p i n g 	 t o	 	
d riv e 	 a 	 6 5 % 	 i n c r e a s e 	 i n 	 UK 	 c u s t o m e r 	 a c q u i s i t i o n ;
	 –	 	 i nt r od u ct i o n 	 o f 	 E x c h a n g e - b a s e d 	 f e a t u r e s	 	
( e . g . 	 C a s h 	 O u t ) 	 t o 	 t h e 	 S po r ts boo k 	 p r o vi d i n g	 	
a 	 d iffe r e nt i a t e d 	 p r od u ct ;
	 –	 	 i n c r e a se d 	 c o s t 	 sa vi n g s 	 o f 	 c . £ 3 0m 	 t o 	 be 	 r e a l i s e d	 	
i n 	 F Y 1 4 ; 	 a n d
	 –	 	 n e w 	 m a n a g e m e nt 	 t e a m 	 i n 	 p l a c e 	 a n d 	 c u l t u r a l	 	
c h a n g e 	 un d er w a y .
FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTS
•	 r e v e n u e 	 a n d 	 E B I T D A 	 a h e ad 	 o f 	 p r e vi o u s 	 g u i d a n c e ;
•	 r e v e n u e 	 o f 	 £ 3 87 . 0m 	 ( F Y 1 2 : 	 £ 3 8 8 .5 m ) :
	 –	 s u s ta i n a b l e 	 r e v e n u e 	 u p 	 6 % ; 	
	 –	 o t h e r 	 r e v e n u e 	 d o wn 	 1 5 % 	 d u e 	 t o 	 m a rk et 	 exi ts ;
•	 	 t o ta l 	 u n de rlyi n g 	 E B I T D A 	 o f 	 £ 73 . 3 m 	 ( F Y 1 2 : 	 £ 8 6 . 0m )	
d riv e n 	 b y 	 l o w e r 	 ca p i ta l i s a t i o n 	 o f 	 de v e l o p m e nt 	 s pe n d	
a n d 	 r e g u l a t o r y 	 i m p a ct , 	 o ff s et 	 b y 	 gr o w t h 	 i n 	 s u s ta i n a b l e 	
j u ri s d ict io n s ;
•	 	 B et f a i r 	 U S 	 a c h i e v e d 	 po s i t iv e 	 u n de rlyi n g 	 E B I T D A 	 f o r	 	
firs t 	 t i m e ;
•	 	 s t r o n g 	 u n de rlyi n g 	 f r e e 	 ca s h 	 flo w 	 g e n e r a t i o n 	 o f 	 £5 0 . 2 m 	
( F Y 1 2 : 	 £ 4 3 . 8m ) ; 	 a n d
•	 	 fin a l 	 d ivi de n d 	 o f 	 9 . 0 	 pe n c e 	 p r o po se d ; 	 f u l l 	 y e a r 	 d ivi de n d 	
u p 	 2 7 % 	 t o 	 1 3 . 0 	 pe n c e .
1
 75% of Group revenues in Q4 FY13 was from UK, Ireland, USA (TVG), Denmark and Malta.
Overview 
1 Operational and Financial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
Strategic Review 
3 CEO Review
4 How we can win
5 Focus on sustainable revenues
6 Invest in our product and brand
7 Become a leaner, more dynamic 
organisation 
Business Review
8 Exchange
10 Sports
12 Gaming
14 Betfair US and Australia
15 Regulation
16 Financial Review
20 Corporate Responsibility
28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Governance
30 Board of Directors
32 Directors’ Report
34 Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities
35 Corporate Governance Statement
41 Nomination Committee Report
42 Audit Committee Report
44 Risk and Risk Management
48 Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
57 Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the members of Betfair Group plc
59 Consolidated Income Statement
60 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
61 Consolidated Balance Sheet
62 Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity
63 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow
64 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
99 Company Balance Sheet
100 Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
102 Five Year Summary
103 Shareholder Information
104 Professional Advisers
104 Investor Relations
104 Find out more 2 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Regulation
As with all businesses in our industry, regulation provides 
challenges and opportunities. Adverse regulatory changes in the 
year meant we restricted access to our products in a number of 
countries in which we had previously built up significant businesses. 
Recent positive regulatory changes in Italy, Spain and the USA are 
welcomed and Betfair will continue to strive to grow sustainable 
revenues in countries with sensible regulatory regimes. 
Board
During the year, Stephen Morana stepped down from his role  
as an Executive Director on the Board. Stephen had held a 
number of roles over ten years at the Company, notably Chief 
Financial Officer and interim Chief Executive Officer. In October, 
Baroness Denise Kingsmill resigned as a Non-Executive Director 
and, as previously announced, Josh Hannah has informed the 
Board of his intention to step down in the coming months.  
I would like to thank all three for their substantial contributions  
to the Company.
In addition to Breon Corcoran, I am delighted to welcome 
Alexander Gersh as our new Chief Financial Officer (CFO),  
and Peter Jackson as a Non-Executive Director and member  
of the Audit Committee. Both bring with them a wealth  
of experience in competitive, international, growth businesses  
and will be valuable additions to our Company.
Dividend
As indicated at the time of our interim results the Directors plan  
to maintain a progressive and sustainable dividend policy with  
an appropriate level of dividend cover. This dividend policy 
reflects the strong cash flow characteristics and long-term 
earnings potential of the Betfair Group and will allow it to retain 
sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating requirements and 
continued investment for long-term growth. 
The Board considers the appropriate target payout ratio  
to be approximately 40% of underlying profit after tax  
in the medium term. 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.0 pence, which 
results in a full year dividend up 27% to 13.0 pence per share.
Recent events
In April we received an approach to take Betfair private.  
A number of proposals were put to the Board, all of which  
were rejected. Betfair has struggled in its early years as a public 
company, but the Board believes it now has the management  
and the strategy to succeed and that the early signs are positive.  
During the discussions, our capital structure and cash balances,  
and their implication for our cost of capital, were considered.  
The Board was able to confirm its commitment to using them  
to support the executive team in executing its strategy and in  
this way to move to a more efficient balance sheet. Our new  
team has only just begun the process of transforming Betfair and  
it is this that will ultimately realise the best value for shareholders. 
Finally the Board and I would like to thank Betfair’s employees  
for their hard work and commitment over the past year. I continue  
to be impressed by the passion and enthusiasm within the business.
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
Having enjoyed tremendous growth over its first decade,  
the Company failed to maintain this momentum in the first  
few years of its public market life. Faced with some serious 
challenges in a highly competitive market, the Company had  
to change course or risk losing further ground to our competitors. 
This turnaround required a strong leadership team and a strategy 
to return the business to growth. I am happy to say that the 
business now has both.
Strategy
Breon Corcoran joined as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in August 
and outlined a new strategic direction for Betfair in December. 
We are now investing only in markets with regulatory visibility 
and are introducing a simpler product offering to appeal to  
a wider customer base. At the same time, Betfair is becoming  
a leaner, more dynamic organisation. We have a new management 
team in place with many highly talented additions with relevant 
track records of delivering growth. Under their leadership much 
has already been achieved and the foundations of positive change  
have been laid.
Financial performance
The financial performance in the year has been encouraging  
in difficult circumstances. We have begun the essential process  
of replacing unregulated revenues with revenue from regulated 
jurisdictions. While this affects growth in the short term,  
the quality of earnings is higher. 
Importantly, cash flow was strong and we ended the year debt 
free and with £168.1m of cash.
‘ i AM delighted Wi th the st ARt t he ne W 
MAn Ag e Me nt te AM h As MAd e in tu Rn ing 
the Bu siness ARo und.’ 
 g e RAl d co RBe tt, ch Ai RMAn o v e Rvie W
ch Ai RMAn ’s s t Ate Me nt 3  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Additionally, we are investing in our product and brand.  
The Exchange appeals greatly to many consumers but does  
not fully address the mass market, due to perceived and real 
complexity. In response, we made the creation of a Sportsbook 
product, which launched in February, our top product priority. 
This simpler product enables us to attract those customers  
who have not yet understood or embraced the Exchange  
model. We believe that the combination of the Exchange  
and Sportsbook is a powerful combination, allowing us  
to provide customers with a superior customer experience.
The Sportsbook is also enabling us to offer a wider range of bets  
to our existing customers by offering a solution to illiquid markets, 
especially in-play. More compelling still is the prospect of combining 
our Sportsbook with the Exchange to create a unique offering by 
introducing Exchange-based features to our Sportsbook customers.
We are investing in the Betfair brand and are repositioning it to be 
more inclusive and relevant to a wider audience. In the first six 
months in which marketing spend has been redirected towards the 
UK and Ireland, the number of unique customers in these countries 
increased by 18%. Betfair has a reputation for innovation, rooted in 
breakthrough technology, and our brand messaging builds on this. 
We undertook a thorough review of our cost base and identified  
a number of areas where the business could become leaner.  
In the second half of the year we implemented changes that will 
save c.£30m in FY14, an increase over the originally targeted 
£20m. We are taking pride in doing more with less. Of this 
saving, we are intending to re-invest c.£10m in customer facing 
product and marketing initiatives to drive revenue growth. 
Our balance sheet strength is a valuable source of competitive 
advantage and we intend to use this to pursue a strategy of 
targeted acquisitions to add further domestic scale, achieve 
geographical expansion and close product gaps. We believe 
investment opportunities exist to generate substantial returns 
from our cash balance and we will maintain a disciplined 
approach to investment.
We have made substantial progress to date and this is testament  
to the quality and hard work of our people, for which I thank them. 
The changes made to the business alongside our unique technology, 
customer value proposition, UK scale and strong balance sheet  
mean that the business is well placed to compete in this challenging 
industry in the long term. I am very happy to be leading the business 
at this exciting time for Betfair and our industry.
Outlook 
We believe that our new strategy will lead to an acceleration  
of revenue growth in our key UK market and expect these 
revenues to grow in line with the market in the medium term.
In markets with insufficient regulatory visibility, revenues  
are expected to decline in the near term following our decision  
to cease marketing investment, although these revenues  
continue to be more resilient than expected. In the longer  
term, we see Italy and Spain as potentially attractive sources  
of growth following positive regulatory developments. 
We are focused on efforts to mitigate the impact of upcoming  
UK gaming taxes and continue to believe that increasing our  
scale will aid margin expansion.
Breon Corcoran 
Chief Executive Officer
‘ We ARe s eeing Mo Me ntu M Bu ild f Ro M 
e ARl y success.’ 
BRe on co Rco RAn , ch ief e x ecutive o f fice R 
At our Interim results we announced a plan to turnaround Betfair’s 
performance and I can report that the business has made excellent 
progress against that plan and that the Group is now in a far 
stronger position for higher quality and sustainable growth.
Overview of results
Revenue was broadly flat year on year at £387.0m and ahead  
of our previous guidance range (£370m to £385m). 
Underlying EBITDA of £73.3m was also higher than our guidance 
(£65m to £70m), driven primarily by the better revenue performance.
The impact of regulation in Greece, Germany, Cyprus and the 
withdrawal of the Exchange in Spain was a significant drag on revenues. 
This was mitigated through an increase in revenues from sustainable 
jurisdictions, helped by the successful launch of our Sportsbook. 
Betfair continues to be highly cash generative with underlying 
free cash flow of £50.2m. The Group’s balance sheet was further 
strengthened in the year through the sale of our non-strategic holding 
in Kabam for £18.8m. In April we acquired certain assets of  
Blue Square for £5.0m cash to expedite the growth of our new 
Sportsbook. The business remains debt free and had £168.1m of cash 
(excluding ring-fenced client funds of £284.1m) at 30 April 2013. 
T urnaround plan
Achieving profitable scale in sustainable markets is the aim  
of our plan. To do this we have had to make significant changes 
to Betfair’s strategy, management, structure and culture. 
The business is focused on growing regulated revenues; investing in its 
products and brand; becoming a leaner and more dynamic organisation; 
and making disciplined use of our balance sheet to accelerate growth. 
We have ceased direct acquisition marketing investment in 
countries with insufficient regulatory visibility. We therefore expect 
regulated jurisdictions to contribute an increasing proportion of 
future revenues. Whilst reducing unregulated revenues has held 
back revenue growth in the near-term, it moves us towards a more 
sustainable future. We are already seeing an increase in the quality 
of revenues, with 75% of Q4 FY13 revenues coming from 
sustainable jurisdictions, up from 67% in Q4 FY12.
s t RAt egic Revi e W
ce o Revie W 4 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
1
  2011 NGR from Gambling Data. Market segmentation based 
on Betfair estimates.
Currently 
addressed market
Market currently not  
being addressed
c.£150m
c.£440m
c.£60m
Our share: 
c.60-70% Our share: c.10%
s o phistic Ated  
Be tto Rs Rec Re At ion Al  
Betto Rs o cc Asion Al  
Be tto Rs gR o W  
pRofit i n vest in ou R  
pRo duct An d 
BRAnd  
Bette R  
Acq uisition An d 
Re tention g Ro W  
Re venues o pe RAt ion Al ge ARi ng
Our plan to reinvigorate the business is fourfold. If we deliver on these objectives, over time we will become an efficient  
and focused operator with the capacity to drive investment in a compelling and broad customer proposition that addresses  
a far greater part of the available market than we do today:
Betf Ai R’s pl An Successful online consumer businesses are normally 
characterised by large, well scaled business models.  
To succeed, we need to be more focused on our investment  
in product, people and brand to allow us to capture market 
share. If we can do this more efficiently, this will allow  
us to re-invest again in the business. 
Betfair’s brand and product positioning has enabled it to gain  
a strong position in the sophisticated end of the customer 
base. Betfair is currently, however, under-represented  
in the recreational customer segment, which is the largest  
and fastest growing part of the market and has a greater 
propensity to cross-sell to gaming products. To achieve  
scale, we need to broaden our addressable market. 
UK online sports betting market:
£650m pa
1
Why sc Al e MAt te Rs Achieving sc Ale
s t RAt egic Revi e W
h o W We c An Wi n 4 
Accele RAte 
g Ro Wt h 
th Roug h 
inte Rn At ion Al 
oppo Rt unities 
And BAl Ance 
sheet flexi Bi lity 1 
f oc us on 
sust Ain ABl e 
Rev enues p5
 2 
i n vest in  
ou R pRo duct  
And BRAnd 
p6
3 
Beco Me A 
l e Ane R, Mo Re 
dyn AMi c 
o Rg An is Ati on 
p7 5  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
oB j ective:
To reduce Betfair’s regulatory risk and improve 
quality of earnings by increasing the proportion  
of revenues that come from regulated jurisdictions.
Wh At We ARe d oing:
We have ceased acquisition marketing and  
other investment in countries where we are 
not confident there is sufficient near-term 
regulatory visibility. 
This will allow greater focus of resources  
on markets that are regulated or are in  
the process of regulating in the near term. 
o u R pRo g Res s:
s t RAt egic Revi e W
1  
f o cus on  
sust Ai n ABl e Reve nues Q4 FY13
FY13
FY12
75%
72%
68%
% OF REVENUE FROM SUSTAINABLE MARKETS 6 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
s t RAt egic Revi e W
2  
i n vest in ou R  
pRo duct And BRAnd 
oB j ective:
To accelerate revenue growth. 
Wh At We ARe d oing:
We are broadening our addressable market  
by simplifying our products and changing  
our brand messaging to become more inclusive.
We are differentiating our products by  
bringing Exchange-based features to our  
fixed odds products.
We will invest in our brand, particularly  
in our key UK market. 
o u R pRo g Res s:
•	 cAs h out exp An ded to  
cove R 90% of exch An ge  
foot BAl l MARk ets;
•	 s po R t s B o o k l A u n c h e d  
in f e BRu ARy 2 013;
•	 M A R k e t i n g i n v e s t M e n t  
up £6 M in fy 13; An d •	 i n tend to Re -invest £10 M  
o f cost s Av ings in consu Me R  
f Acing p Ro duct A n d BRAn d. 7  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
s t RAt egic Revi e W
3  
Beco Me A le An e R,  
Mo Re dyn AMi c o Rg An is At ion 
oB j ective:
•	 to increase the pace of delivery
•	 to improve organisational efficiency
•	 to create a culture of ownership and accountability.
Wh At We ARe d oing:
The leadership team is focused on establishing  
a winning culture, with talented and driven  
people at all levels of the business.
We are empowering people to take risks and 
engendering a culture of ownership, where people 
are accountable for decisions and performance.
We have removed management layers  
and increased the span of control.
We have reviewed our relationships with suppliers 
to identify where costs can be reduced.
o u R pRo g Res s:
•	 n e W MAn Ag e Me nt te AM in pl Ace;
•	 Rest Ru ctu Re co Mpleted An d 
he Ad count Re duced By c .500; An d •	 Action to Achieve £30 M  
o f cost s Av ings co Mpleted. 8 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
exch An ge
The Exchange has enabled Betfair to generate and sustain  
a market-leading position in the UK for over a decade.  
The Exchange enjoys excellent brand affinity with its users,  
who demonstrate higher levels of Average Revenue Per User, 
(ARPU), and lower customer churn than typical sports  
betting customers. 
We strongly believe that the Exchange remains the most 
innovative product in our industry, offering better value  
and greater flexibility than the traditional bookmaker model. 
It can be further strengthened by the addition of our 
Sportsbook, which will provide new customers and liquidity  
for the Exchange. 
Overview of results
Exchange revenues in the year fell 1%, after the withdrawal  
of the product from Greece, Germany and Spain following 
regulatory changes. Revenues were also affected by the decision 
taken to cease investment in jurisdictions with unsatisfactory 
regulatory outlooks. The decline in revenues from these 
countries, however, was less than expected and is further 
evidence of the affinity of the Exchange with our customers  
and the stickiness of the product. 
Revenues from sustainable markets were up 2% in the year. 
Football revenues benefited from the European Championships  
in June 2012 and an increase in the number of second-tier 
matches offered. Horseracing, however, suffered from a high 
level of cancellations in the year due to the poor weather 
conditions (151, up from 49 in FY12).
Activity on the Exchange remained vibrant with 1.2bn (+10%) 
bets matched and £52bn (+8%) of matched volume in the year.
Operational developments
We are focused on reducing the complexity and improving the 
ease of use of the Exchange, while still allowing our customers to 
benefit fully from its unique characteristics and value. Cash Out is 
an example of a simplification of a complex concept and has been 
extended to cover around 90% of football markets and is now 
available across all major mobile platforms.
Mobile performance was strong, with around 50% of active 
Exchange customers placing a bet via mobile in the year.  
Our in-house development teams have continued to enhance  
our apps, adding unique features such as ‘push notifications’,  
which provide customers with goal alerts and betting prompts.
In October 2012, we launched an advertising campaign focussing 
on our unique Cash Out feature. This tool, which allows 
customers to lock in profits or losses at the touch of a button, 
greatly simplifies user experience. Following the launch of the 
campaign, the number of users ‘Cashing Out’ has increased 
significantly, with 38% of football customers using it in the year. 
In May 2013, we changed the base level of commission from the 
standard 5% to between 4% and 7.5% in five countries and have 
recently extended these trials to a further 18 countries. This will 
provide a better understanding of the effect of different pricing 
structures on the Exchange ecosystem and revenues.
We are also investing to improve our products for our 
‘sophisticated’ customers. Betfair has a number of high-value 
customers using third party applications and automatic trading 
programs, which utilise our Application Program Interface (API)  
to directly access the Exchange. We have recently launched a 
new API to allow these vendors to build out more sophisticated 
trading tools to provide an improved user experience for this 
important customer segment. 
How we make money
  p R i ce c o M p A R is o n 
Ad ve Rt ise Ment follo Win g  
ApRi l 2013 gRA n d nA t ion Al •	 we bring customers together  
to provide betting opportunities;
•	 this agency model eliminates the  
financial risk borne by sportsbooks,  
so we do not apply a margin to odds  
on the Exchange;
•	 it means that the odds that customers  
enjoy are more likely to represent  
the true probability of an outcome  
and are often better than those offered  
by traditional bookmakers; and
•	 Betfair earns a commission on the net 
profits of any individual customer on  
each market regardless of the outcome  
of the event.
Our products 9  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
BEST PRICED RUNNERS
AT THE 2013
GRAND NATIONAL
BEST PRICE ON
AURORAS ENCORE 
BETFAIR
EXCHANGE 
Industry SP vs Betfair SP at the o ﬀ . 5% commission deducted fr om Betfair SP (2-5% typical) . 
Further charges may apply. See Betfair.com/aboutUs/Betfair.Charges/ 
See form.timeform.betfair.com for veriﬁ cation.
18+ www.gambleaware.co.uk
0
BOOKIES
40
BOOKIES
126/1
66/1 10 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
s po Rts
The launch of our Sportsbook in FY13 provides an opportunity  
to accelerate growth. Betfair has managed to gain a substantial 
market share amongst ‘sophisticated’ bettors through the 
Exchange. The Sportsbook allows us to increase our share  
of the growing ‘recreational’ segment with an easy-to-use 
product that new customers are already familiar with. 
The Sportsbook also fills the product gaps that previously  
led our customers to use competitors’ sites, allowing Betfair  
to capture more of their betting activity. 
Overview of results
In the full year, risk volumes increased by 36%, leading  
to revenue growth of 33%. 
As a result of our product developments in the second half of 
FY13, activity on our Sports risk product increased significantly. 
Following the release of the Sportsbook, risk volumes in the UK  
& Ireland were up 150% in March and April. 
The number of customers placing fixed-odds bets in FY13 was  
up 85% on the prior year, driven by 129% growth in the UK  
& Ireland. 
Initial evidence suggests that the Sportsbook is complementary 
to the Exchange, with 24% of UK football customers in  
March and April placing bets on both the Exchange and 
Sportsbook products.
We also launched a separate sports betting app to complement 
our Exchange app. In the final quarter, the mobile channel 
delivered the majority of new customer activations and 31% 
revenues in Sports. 
Operational developments
The Sportsbook was launched in February. The product was 
developed and launched in just 13 weeks, with the customer  
facing front-end built using our in-house development team  
based in Porto and the underlying platform making use of  
third party products. 
The next stage of the standalone Sportsbook is to broaden  
our coverage of in-play markets and new sports.
We are differentiating our Sportsbook by using our Exchange 
technology to provide unique features and better value.  
For example, in recent weeks we launched ‘Cash Out’ on the 
Sportsbook and are developing ‘Best Price Execution’, where 
customers may automatically receive better odds if they are 
available on the Exchange. 
The Sportsbook adds to our promotional capability. For example, 
during the 2013 Cheltenham Festival, we offered market-leading 
offers including cashback on horses finishing second. This has 
proven to aid customer acquisition and retention.
During April 2013, we completed the acquisition of certain assets  
of Blue Square to gain additional scale. The new customers are 
being serviced without increased operating costs, highlighting  
the operating leverage inherent in the business model.
How we make money Our products
•	 on our Sportsbook, we act as principals  
in each transaction so customers are 
betting directly against Betfair;
•	 the Sportsbook can therefore lose money  
on any particular market with revenue  
being dependent on sporting outcomes; 
and
•	 to reflect the risk we are taking, we build  
a margin into our odds and apply other  
risk management techniques. Over time,  
we expect these margins to allow  
us to generate revenue.
‘t i ge R i n su RAn ce’ offe R Ah e Ad 
of 2013 us MAs te Rs 11  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 12 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
gAMing
Greater emphasis was placed on Gaming in FY13.  
Product improvements, marketing focus and better cross-sell 
delivered an improved performance and we believe this 
segment is now well placed to contribute to Betfair’s growth. 
Overview of results
While total Gaming revenues were down 6% in the year, led by  
a 26% decline in unregulated jurisdictions following market exits, 
sustainable revenues were up 10%. This was helped by our  
first ever television campaign focusing on Casino and a greater  
focus on cross-selling our Gaming products to Sportsbook and  
Exchange customers. 
Following the launch of the Sportsbook in February the number  
of customers cross-sold to Gaming has increased substantially  
on the corresponding period in the prior year. 
Operational developments
Following new content deals signed during the year, we have 
significantly increased the number and range of games offered  
on our site and increased the rate at which content is refreshed. 
In the year, we updated our mobile Casino app and launched  
a dedicated Arcade app to meet the strong demand in this  
channel. We saw strong growth throughout the year and  
revenues from the channel were up over 500% compared  
to the prior year.
We are investing to drive further growth in the segment.  
We have recently hired a number of outstanding people from 
within the industry to fill skills gaps, including a new VIP team. 
In Q4, we added Bingo to our product suite and began  
the process of migrating customers to the iPoker network.  
This platform has greater liquidity than our previous network, 
particularly in newly regulating regions. The migration will  
be completed in July and while this has caused an initial fall  
in customers, it provides us with a better product and should  
lead to higher revenues in the longer term. 
How we make money
•	 in our Gaming segment we act as both 
principal and agent;
•	 Betfair offers products such as casino  
and arcade games in which customers  
are playing against the ‘house’. Revenue  
is generated through an inbuilt margin,  
with the odds favouring the operator; and
•	 in other games, like poker, players 
compete against each other and Betfair 
takes a share of the winnings.
Our products
Betf Ai R cAs ino offe R f Ro M 
o cto Be R 2012 13  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 14 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
us An d Aust RAl i A 
Betf Ai R us Betfair US, operating under the TVG brand, is an Advanced 
Deposit Wagering (ADW) operator and has a horseracing-
based TV channel.
FY13 revenues were up 5% on the prior year, with wagering 
contributing £31.6m of revenue and £6.4m generated from  
TV operations. 
On 1 March 2013 TVG entered into a five-year exclusive 
agreement to offer ADW in New Jersey through the 4NJbets 
platform, the only licensed online horse wagering site in the state. 
Since taking over the responsibility for the NJ platform, TVG has 
modernised the product offering, helping to drive substantial 
increases in wagering volumes.
Revenue growth and management of costs resulted in Betfair  
US achieving positive underlying EBITDA for the first time. 
Underlying EBITDA was £2.9m compared to a loss of £0.9m  
in the prior year. We believe the business can become more 
profitable and are aiming to increase its operating margin  
to a level that is consistent with the wider Group.
Betf Ai R Au st RAl i A
Betfair Australia is a 50:50 joint venture between Betfair  
and Crown Limited. 
Net revenue was up 13% in the year, driven by a 23% increase  
in Australian racing revenues. Following the decision of certain 
states to implement turnover-based race field fees, Betfair  
Australia increased the base rate of commission from 5%  
to 6.5% on Australian horseracing. This change in pricing  
structure was the driver of the increase in horseracing revenue.
The revenue growth, however, was insufficient to cover the 
increased race field fees and our share of underlying operating 
profits reduced to £1.4m (FY12: £2.4m). 15  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
uk
Recognising that a high quality racing product is necessary for 
our business to flourish, we continue to support the industry.  
In FY13 we replaced voluntary Horserace Betting Levy 
contributions with a pioneering new five-year commercial deal 
with the sport. The payment to the Horserace Betting Levy 
Board totalled £7.6m in the 2012-2013 Levy year. Both British 
Racing and the UK Government see this as a template to help 
secure the long-term funding of British Racing.
Separately, following a lengthy consultation, the Levy Board  
decided in June 2011 that it would not seek to impose a levy  
on the customers of betting exchanges. After unsuccessfully  
seeking to overturn this decision through Judicial Review 
proceedings in the High Court in July 2012, William Hill appealed 
this decision in the Court of Appeal. In May 2013, the Court voted 
unanimously to support the original decision of the Levy Board 
that customers are not liable to pay the Horserace Betting Levy. 
This brings to an end years of uncertainty and legal fees for both 
Betfair and the industry.
The Department for Culture, Media and Sport and HM Treasury 
have been conducting reviews of the licensing and taxation  
of online gambling in the UK. The current legislation operates  
on a point of production basis, with licences and tax determined  
by the location of the operator’s key equipment rather than  
the location of the customer. This incentivises operators to move 
their businesses outside the UK and, to achieve a level playing field 
with competitors who had already made the move, Betfair moved 
its UK business to Gibraltar in March 2011. The Government has 
indicated an intention to change the basis of licensing and taxation 
to a point of consumption basis, so that all operators selling into 
the UK market, whether based domestically or overseas, will  
be required to hold a Gambling Commission licence to transact 
with, and advertise to, British consumers and to pay betting duty 
on UK gross gaming revenue (GGR). The exact details of licensing 
and taxation regimes have yet to be announced but are expected 
to come into effect in late 2014. Betfair is engaging with  
the Government and stressing the requirement for effective 
enforcement of any new rules to ensure player protection  
and fair competition in the marketplace.
Regul Ati on 
i n te Rn At ion Al The regulatory environment across Europe continues to evolve,  
with countries taking a range of approaches to the regulation  
of online gaming. Betfair continues to engage in these 
processes with the aim of achieving workable and fair 
regulation. We have recently seen positive steps towards  
the regulation of exchanges in Italy and Spain.
In Italy, a ministerial decree entered into force on 24 May  
2013 that regulates betting exchanges with ring-fenced national 
liquidity. Taxation is set at 20% GPT. Whilst some further 
procedural steps remain, we hope to launch our Exchange  
product in Italy during FY14. 
In Spain, we received a Sportsbook licence in June 2012 and  
as part of the licensing conditions were required to make our 
Exchange unavailable in the country. In April 2013, the gambling 
regulator announced that betting exchanges will be regulated  
and we look forward to participating in this process. 
Regulatory and fiscal changes in Greece, Germany and Cyprus, 
meant that we had to make some of our products unavailable 
in these countries during FY13. 
In November 2012, following a decision by the Greek Gaming 
Commission to impose financial penalties and criminal sanctions 
against gaming operators, we withdrew all products from  
the market. 
Germany introduced a law that applies a 5% tax on stakes  
on both online and offline sports betting, which led us to block  
the Exchange to customers in Germany in November 2012. 
In July 2012 the Cypriot government introduced gambling 
legislation restricting online casino and poker, and certain  
other betting products including horseracing. This resulted  
in a significant reduction in our revenues from the country.  
Betfair is continuing to engage with the Cypriot authorities  
to achieve a workable online regulation.
There have been positive developments in the US. The California 
Horseracing Board has published exchange wagering regulations 
for public comment. If passed, the regulations will be submitted 
for approval by the California Office of Administrative Law (OAL). 
The New Jersey Racing Commission is expected to publish draft 
rules for stakeholder input and formally begin the regulatory 
process for the introduction of betting exchanges in the coming 
months. Discussions with stakeholders in other states regarding 
exchange wagering remain at the preliminary stage.
The year has seen significant developments in the effort to bring 
legalised online gaming to the US. In February both Nevada and 
New Jersey signed legislation to allow online gaming, starting in 
2013. Other states are progressing legislation on online gaming 
and we will continue to monitor developments.  16 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
f in An ci Al Revi e W
Alex g e Rsh
cf o Summary
Revenue from continuing operations was £387.0m  
(FY12: £388.5m). Within this, a significant impact from 
regulation was offset by growth in regulated jurisdictions.
Underlying EBITDA was £73.3m (FY12: £86.0m). Much of 
the reduction resulted from lower capitalisation of development 
spend, which declined by £9.1m, and the impact of regulation, 
offset by growth in sustainable markets.
This, and a higher underlying corporate tax rate, resulted  
in underlying basic earnings per share reducing by 31%  
to 31.2 pence (FY12: 45.3 pence).
Management believes that underlying results, which exclude 
separately disclosed items and profits arising on disposal, provide 
additional guidance to statutory measures to help understand the 
underlying performance of the business during the financial year.  
For the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group reported a loss 
before tax from continuing operations of £49.4m (FY12: profit  
of £54.2m). This was primarily due to the impairment of certain 
intangible assets, following the strategic review undertaken in  
the first half of the year. 
The Group ended the period with a cash balance of £168.1m  
(30 April 2012: £118.3m, excluding discontinued operations)  
and no debt. In addition, customer funds held off balance sheet  
in separate ring-fenced accounts were £284.1m on the same date 
(30 April 2012: £288.3m).
Year ended 30 April
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
Change
%
Revenue from 
continuing operations
Core Betfair
2
349.0 352.3 -1%
Betfair US 38.0 36.1 +5%
Total 387.0 388.5 0%
Underlying EBITDA
1
Core Betfair 
2
70.4 86.9 -19%
Betfair US 2.9 (0.9) N/A
Total 73.3 86.0 -15%
Operating (loss)/profit (69.0) 46.3 N/A
Underlying operating profit
1
35.5 48.8 -27%
(Loss)/profit before tax (49.4) 54.2 N/A
Underlying profit before tax
1
38.0 52.4 -27%
(Loss)/earnings per share (44.4p) 45.4p N/A
Underlying earnings per share
1
31.2p 45.3p -31%
1
  Underlying figures are stated after making a number of adjustments in order  
to aid comparability between periods. These adjustments involve the exclusion, 
where relevant, of separately disclosed items and the High Rollers segment, 
along with the associated tax effect of these adjustments. 
2
 Core Betfair includes Tradefair (further information on page 73).
Revenue
The reorganisation of the business as part of the strategic  
review has led to a change in our operational segments.  
We now manage and report our revenues for Exchange,  
Sports, Gaming and Betfair US.
Year ended 30 April
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
Change
%
– Exchange 247.5 250.1 -1%
– Sports 24.1 18.1 +33%
– Gaming
1
75.9 81.1 -6%
Management of customer 
funds
1.5 3.0 -50%
Core revenue 349.0 352.3 -1%
US 38.0 36.2 +5%
Total revenue 387.0 388.5 0%
1
 Gaming segment includes Tradefair in both periods.
Exchange revenue was down 1% to £247.5m (FY12: £250.1m). 
The first half of the year saw growth of 6% with Football 
boosted by the European Championships; however the second 
half was down 8%, reflecting the impact of regulation. As a 
result of these factors, Football revenues were flat year on year. 
Horseracing revenue declined slightly due to the high level of 
abandonments in the year (151 abandonments compared with  
49 in FY12).
Sports registered strong growth, with revenue up 33% to £24.1m 
(FY12: £18.1m). This was driven by a 36% increase in volumes 
following an 85% increase in the number of active customers.
Games revenue decreased by 6% to £75.9m (FY12: £81.1m),  
with the adverse impact of regulation and a decline in Poker  
partly offset by UK Casino growth. 17  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Revenue (£m) Q1 FY12 Q2 FY12 Q3 FY12 Q4 FY12 Q1 FY13 Q2 FY13 Q3 FY13 Q4 FY13
Sustainable markets 61.5 68.2 64.2 69.4 75.5 67.7 65.3 71.5
Other markets 30.0 31.3 29.6 34.3 28.3 29.0 25.2 24.5
Total 91.5 99.5 93.8 103.7 103.8 96.7 90.5 96.0
 
Revenue from sustainable markets (UK, Ireland, Denmark, Malta, 
Gibraltar and the USA) was up 6%, mainly driven by a strong  
UK performance (+8%). 
By contrast, revenue from other markets was down 15%, 
primarily due to the impact of regulation in Greece, Germany, 
Cyprus and Spain, which affected revenue by £24m, as well  
as the decision to focus on sustainable markets. 
Actives (k) Q1 FY12 Q2 FY12 Q3 FY12 Q4 FY12 Q1 FY13 Q2 FY13 Q3 FY13 Q4 FY13
Sustainable markets 334 287 286 357 359 307 336 437
Other markets 163 174 184 202 195 181 177 145
Total 497 461 470 559 554 488 513 582
 
The number of active customers in FY13 increased by 11% to 
1,046,000 (FY12: 940,000), predominantly driven by Sports 
growth which was boosted by the launch of Sportsbook in Q4. 
Actives in sustainable markets increased significantly, up 20% at 
674,000, while the number of actives in other markets was down 
1% at 372,000.
Core products per active Q1 FY12 Q2 FY12 Q3 FY12 Q4 FY12 Q1 FY13 Q2 FY13 Q3 FY13 Q4 FY13
Rolling 12 months 1.49 1.48 1.49 1.50 1.52 1.54 1.56 1.58
 
Core products per active over a rolling 12 month period improved 
steadily during the past year, up from 1.50 in FY12 to 1.58 in 
FY13. The increase was driven by enhancements to our fixed 
odds sports product, as well as additional cross-sell to Games.  18 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
f in An ci Al Revi e W
Administrative expenses
1 
Year ended 30 April
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
Change
%
Sales and marketing 106.4 100.3 6%
Technology 60.2 61.5 -2%
Operations 18.9 19.3 -2%
G&A 51.2 48.4 6%
US 27.2 27.4 -1%
Total 263.9 256.9 3%
1
  In both periods Administrative expenses have been restated to include Tradefair 
and share-based payments, while product costs have been reclassified from 
Technology to Sales and marketing and trading costs have been transferred  
from Operations to Sales and marketing. Corporate has been renamed G&A.
Sales and marketing expenses increased by 6% due to additional 
spend during the football European Championships and higher 
UK marketing investment. As a proportion of total revenue, sales 
and marketing spend increased to 27.5% (25.8% in FY12).
Technology costs before capitalisation of internal development 
expenditure were down 8% on the prior year following 
reductions in headcount and a shift of development activity  
to more efficient locations in Romania and Portugal. In FY13, 
£14.8m of internal technology development expenditure has 
been capitalised compared with £20.1m in FY12. Technology 
costs after this capitalisation were 2% lower than the prior year.
Operational spend was down 2% in the period as reduced 
headcount was partly offset by increased investment in market 
operations due to additional markets being offered.
G&A costs were up 6% primarily due to higher bonus payments  
in the year.
During the latter part of the year we have identified cost savings  
of c.£30m and we expect to see the full benefit of this in FY14.  
The majority of the savings relate to employment costs and 
reflect a reduction of c.500 employees. Further savings have 
been made from external suppliers, including professional 
services, facilities and data networks costs.
Separately disclosed items 
In FY13, £104.5m of expenses and charges have been disclosed 
separately due to their exceptional nature and are not included 
in underlying figures (FY12: £2.5m). Most of these items are 
non-cash charges relating to impairment of the carrying values  
of goodwill and other intangible assets. These items largely arose 
as a result of the strategic review announced in our interim results 
and include the costs to deliver the c.£30m of annual savings.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
Following a review of the recoverability of assets, at 31 October 
2012 goodwill totalling £34.6m and other assets totalling £47.8m 
were impaired.
Restructuring costs
Restructuring costs amounted to £19.4m (FY12: £nil)  
and represent redundancy and other similar costs to deliver  
the targeted cost savings.
Professional services fees
Professional services fees of £2.7m resulted from the rejected 
takeover approach by CVC and partners.
Depreciation and amortisation
Year ended 30 April
FY13 
£m
FY12 
£m
Change 
%
Core Betfair 34.0 34.4 -1%
Betfair US 3.8 2.8 36%
Total depreciation and 
amortisation
 
37.8
 
37.2
 
2%
Depreciation and amortisation was slightly higher than in the prior 
year, with higher capital expenditure during FY12 driving a £5.6m 
increase in the first half of the year mostly offset by lower charges 
in H2 following reduced FY13 capital expenditure and the 
impairment of intangible assets.
Finance income and expenses
Net interest income from corporate funds was £1.1m 
(FY12: £1.2m). The reduction resulted from lower yields on bank 
deposits. Finance income and expenses also include a net foreign 
exchange gain of £0.3m (FY12: £2.4m). 19  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Share of profit from equity accounted investments – 
Betfair Australia
Our share of operating profit from Betfair Australia was £1.4m 
(FY12: £4.3m). Prior year operating profit included £1.9m  
relating to the one-off benefit from a sales tax refund and costs 
associated with the High Court appeal. Higher revenues were  
offset by increased race field fees following the introduction  
of turnover-based charges on horserace betting in certain states.
Taxation
The Group had a tax credit of £4.2m in the period (FY12: charge 
of £7.6m). The Group’s effective underlying tax rate was 16.4% 
(FY12: 10.5%). We continue to expect the long-term sustainable 
tax rate to remain around 16%.
Dividend 
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend  
of 9.0 pence per share. Together with the interim dividend of 
4.0 pence per share, the proposed full year dividend is 13.0 pence 
per share (FY12: 10.2 pence). This represents a payout of 42%  
of underlying earnings per share.
The ex-dividend date will be 4 September 2013 for payment  
on 2 October 2013. 
Capital expenditure
Year ended  
30 April FY13 FY12
 
Core
£m
Betfair 
US 
£m
Total 
£m
Core 
£m
Betfair 
US
£m
Total 
£m
External capex 16.9 1.0 17.9 31.3 1.9 33.2
Internal devex 14.8 2.6 17.4 20.1 6.4 26.5
Total capex 31.7 3.6 35.3 51.4 8.3 59.7
Capital expenditure (capex) totalled £35.3m (FY12: £59.7m), 
reflecting lower capitalisation of development spend and lower 
external capex investment following increased spend on the 
platform re-architecture in the prior year.
Cash and cash flow 
Free cash flow was £37.9m in the period (FY12: £43.8m).  
This included £12.3m relating to the payment of taxes  
on historical revenue in Spain and redundancy payments.  
Excluding these one-off items, underlying free cash flow  
increased by £6.4m with lower capital expenditure offsetting  
the decrease in underlying EBITDA.
Cash at 30 April 2013 in continuing operations was £168.1m 
(30 April 2012: £118.3m). The increase was mainly driven  
by a combination of strong free cash flow, the sale of Kabam  
and the issue of share capital (relating to exercising of employee 
share options).
Year ended 30 April
1
FY13 
£m
FY12 
£m
Underlying free cash flow 50.2 43.8
Cash flow from exceptionals (12.3) –
Free cash flow 37.9 43.8
Dividends paid (11.2) (9.6)
Disposal of Kabam 18.8 –
Other
2
4.3 (48.0)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash 
and cash equivalents 49.8 (13.8)
Balance as at 30 April
1
FY13 
£m
FY12 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 168.1 118.3
Customer funds held off balance sheet on 
deposit in separate ring-fenced accounts
 
284.1
 
288.3
1
 Continuing operations.
2
  Other is comprised of the net purchase of own shares and proceeds from  
the issue of share capital.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks facing the Group are summarised on pages  
28 and 29. 20 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
co Rpo RAte Re sponsi Bi lity Committed to safeguarding our customers
Betfair has never been afraid of doing things differently.  
Innovation, transparency and fairness for the customer are values 
that continue to underpin the business. However, corporate 
responsibility (CR) isn’t something we have talked enough about 
over the years. And that’s because for us being a good corporate 
citizen is simply part of business as usual for Betfair. But we 
realise that we should talk about it more and we will do that now.
Betfair takes a pioneering approach to some of the difficult issues 
gambling can pose for the business and society as a whole. Betfair 
recognises that where you have gambling you will have some 
problem gambling. It is this acknowledgement that ensures Betfair 
enshrines responsible gambling policies into everything it does.
From safeguarding our customers by offering the latest tools to  
help them control their gambling, to managing the social impact  
of problem gambling, Betfair helps to protect its customers across  
all platforms. We engage with and financially support a wide range  
of organisations to help ensure that the research, education  
and treatment of problem gambling continues to be improved.  
Only with a collaborative approach between the industry, national 
gambling regulators, charities and educational institutions can  
we help ensure an improved understanding of how to prevent  
and treat problem gambling.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for 
ensuring the Company fulfils its four core values towards its 
customers. The Committee meets on average four times a year 
and reviews Betfair’s policies and advises the Board on social, 
ethical and environmental matters. Among other matters,  
the Committee is cognisant of external feedback and reviews 
received in respect of community investment and that those  
are among the factors used to develop appropriate procedures. 
Members of the CR Committee ordinarily include:
•	 Independent Non-Executive Director, Fru Hazlitt
•	 Group Operations Director, Ian Chuter
•	 HR Director, Lisa Hillier
Stakeholders:
•	 customers
•	 employees
•	 regulators
•	 governments
•	 business partners
•	 suppliers
•	 local communities
•	 third sector
Acting With integ Rit y : 
An indust Ry le Ad e R in Re sponsi Bl e g AMBl ing o u R v Al ues The four core values of how we do business are:
Being t Ru sted By o u R custo Me Rs Acting With integ Rit y 
e n su Ri ng ou R people ARe i nspi Re d, 
eng Ag ed An d developed
t Ak ing p Ri de in the co MMu nities Wh e Re  
We l ive An d Wo Rk .
 
Over the next few pages we will illustrate how Betfair fulfils 
each of these values.
fR u hA z litt i n dependent  
n o n- e x ecutive d i Re cto R An d ch Ai R of 
co Rpo RAte Responsi Bi lity co MMi ttee ‘ 2012 proved to be a wonderful year of sport. At Betfair we are proud to play our part in helping to keep 
sport free of corruption by working with sports governing bodies and regulators around the world.  
With a dedicated Integrity Team and educational partnerships with the Professional Players Federation 
and British Athletes Commission, Betfair continues to lead the field on integrity.’ 
Fru Hazlitt, Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair 21  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Being t Ru sted By o u R custo Me Rs Betfair’s primary goal is to ensure its customers have an  
enjoyable and safe gambling experience. Gambling is enjoyed  
by the vast majority of people as a leisure activity but a small 
minority unfortunately develop a problem which impacts  
negatively upon their life. 
Therefore Betfair has established responsible gambling policies  
and strategies to ensure that we listen and respond to customers  
in order to help them when needed.
Our responsible gambling policy sets out our commitment  
to minimise the negative effects of problem gambling and  
to promote responsible gambling practices. You can read it  
at responsiblegambling.betfair.com. All customers can click 
through to this site directly from Betfair’s home page under  
the tab ‘Responsible Gambling’.
In accordance with licensing conditions and industry leading best 
practice, Betfair employs the following methods in order to help 
prevent problem gambling:
Customer-driven deposit and loss limits
Customers are able to limit the amount they can deposit into their 
Betfair account on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. In addition 
they can limit the amount that they can lose over a given time 
period of a week, month or year. If a customer makes a deposit  
or loss limit more restrictive, settings on their account are changed 
with immediate effect. If a customer sets a deposit or loss limit 
which is less restrictive there is a ‘cooling-off’ period of at least  
7 days before the less restrictive settings come into effect.
Self-exclusion options
Customers who elect to self-exclude will have their Betfair 
accounts closed for a minimum of six months from the date  
of self-exclusion. After this date, the customer can apply in 
writing to have their account re-opened. Each such application 
will be considered on an individual basis. More generally 
customers are always able to request that their Betfair account  
be closed permanently.
Game session timers
Betfair allows customers to limit their session times for games  
or events that have no natural end. This gives customers greater 
control over their gambling. On Betfair’s games, session timer 
technology gives customers a gentle reminder about how long 
they have been playing. The reminder will appear on screen  
60 minutes after customers have placed their first bet (or after  
a shorter period if selected), and will give the option to continue 
playing or to exit the gaming application. 
Preventing under-18s and the vulnerable from gambling
Betfair is particularly concerned about preventing under-18s  
and vulnerable groups from gambling given that they are notably 
more susceptible to problem gambling. In accordance with the 
law, children are prohibited from betting on the Betfair site. 
Betfair has a strict underage policy and a rigorously applied age 
verification process. Betfair’s specialist Verification Team has 
developed a number of Know-Your-Customer checks in order  
to age verify customers and prevent under-18s from betting  
on the site. We are registered as a ‘gambling content’ site with 
the Internet Content Rating Association (ICRA), part of the 
Family Online Safety Institute, which provides general information 
and advice about internet safety. We also encourage customers 
to use parental filtering solutions.
Responsible advertising
Given our focus on the protection of minors and vulnerable 
people we endeavour not to direct our advertising at these two 
groups. Our advertising and marketing activities comply with UK 
Committee of Advertising Codes (‘CAP Codes’: www.cap.org.uk/
Advertising-Codes.aspx) which seek to ensure that advertising  
and sales promotion activities do not give gamblers misleading 
information, such as a false impression of the odds on winning.
Self-help and awareness information to help prevent 
problem gambling
Early identification of a problem can help combat its development 
into something more serious. Under the clearly marked tab  
at the top of the home page entitled ‘Responsible Gambling’, 
customers are linked through to information to make them aware 
of the relevant issues. If a customer identifies that they may have 
a problem, they are advised to use Betfair’s tools to limit their 
behaviour and seek help and support. 
Details of professional organisations that can help
Betfair provides on its website information on organisations  
that can help people work through their concerns. These  
include the National Problem Gambling Clinic, GamCare  
and Gamblers Anonymous.
Funding the research, education and treatment  
of problem gambling
In the UK Betfair makes annual voluntary contributions  
to the Responsible Gambling Trust. Since April 2009,  
the gambling industry has voluntarily contributed over  
£17m. Major operators, like Betfair, donate on the understanding 
that a minimum target of £5m will be reached each year.
The Responsible Gambling Trust commissions research,  
education and treatment services for problem gambling  
as prioritised in a national responsible gambling strategy  
advised by the Responsible Gambling Strategy Board and  
endorsed by the national gambling regulator, the UK Gambling 
Commission. The Responsible Gambling Trust is made up  
of experts with either a background in helping people with 
addiction, the gambling industry or Government. 
Responsible gambling training for employees
Betfair employees receive responsible gambling awareness  
training within their first three months of employment.  
Customer facing employees receive additional more in-depth 
training which is refreshed annually.
tRA i ning includes:
•	 i d entifying the t Ri gge Rs An d c Au ses  
of p Ro Bl e M g AMBl ing;
•	 t h e Ri sks specific to Re Mo te g AMBl ing;
•	 k n o Wl edge of Av Ai l ABl e suppo Rt Ag encies;
•	 s elf-exclusion An d othe R pl Ay e R pRo tection 
function Al ities; An d •	 po licies, p Ro cesses An d Re gul At o Ry 
Requi Re Me nts. 22 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
‘ Under the terms of Betfair’s unique deal with British 
Racing, Betfair’s betting data will be used to help  
construct a fixture list that will optimise British Racing’s 
attractiveness as a betting product for punters, the racing 
industry and betting operators. The agreement therefore 
aligns Betfair’s interests with those of British Racing  
in seeking to increase revenues derived from a thriving 
horseracing industry.’ 
Susannah Gill, Head of Public Affairs (UK & Ireland)
Signing a commercial deal with British Racing 
In July 2012, Betfair become the first ever betting operator to 
establish a landmark five-year commercial agreement worth at  
least £40m to British Racing and to provide a template to help 
secure the long-term funding of British Racing. The deal has 
the full support of the British Government and it is hoped that 
other betting operators will follow where Betfair is leading.
Bu siness Revi e W
co Rpo RAte Re sponsi Bi lity Pioneering partnership with British Racing
Betfair’s unique landmark five-year commercial deal, along with 
supporting organisations and charities at the grassroots of the 
sport, through to pioneering sponsorship ideas, means it is the 
betting operator most committed to supporting and investing  
in British Racing.
Signing a commercial deal
In July 2012 Betfair and British Racing, comprised of the British 
Horseracing Authority (BHA), the Racecourse Association and  
the Horsemen’s Group, signed a landmark five-year commercial 
agreement worth at least £40m to the sport, providing a template 
to help secure the long-term funding of British Racing. The deal 
has the full support of the British Government and it is hoped 
that other betting operators will follow where Betfair is leading.
The five-year agreement replaces Betfair’s annual voluntary 
Horserace Betting Levy payments, with the agreement taking 
effect from the 51st Levy Scheme covering 2012-2013. Betfair 
made upfront Levy payments of £6.5m for 2012-2013 which 
were offset against the first payment due under the new 
commercial agreement. In 2013 Betfair’s total payment to  
the Horserace Betting Levy Board was £7.6m. This comprised  
of £6.5m under the terms of the Horserace Betting Levy and 
£1.1m under the terms of the commercial deal. In future years  
all payments to the Horserace Betting Levy Board will be in line 
with the terms of the commercial deal.
Acting With integ Rit y Safeguarding the integrity of sport
Information sharing agreements with sports
We always act with integrity because we want to build trusted 
relationships with our customers, regulators, local communities  
and sports organisations around the world. We are committed  
to assisting Sports Governing Bodies (SGBs) in helping to maintain  
the integrity of all such sports. As acknowledged by leading 
experts in sport, from the outset Betfair’s approach brought 
unprecedented openness and transparency to the way in which  
we interacted with sport on betting integrity related matters.
Paul Scotney, the then Director of Integrity Services & Licensing, 
British Horseracing Authority, in The Guardian 29 August 2007: 
‘ The real watershed for racing was the betting exchanges 
because they didn’t cause the corruption, they brought  
it out into the open and exposed what was already there.’ 
It is essential for Betfair’s long-term sustainability that its  
customers have confidence in the honesty of the markets  
on which they place bets. This means that Betfair’s business 
interests are aligned with those of SGBs in wanting sport  
to be conducted fairly and without corruption.
Our dedicated Integrity Team uses sophisticated forensic and 
analytical tools to monitor betting activity. Crucially, every 
transaction on Betfair is recorded. In addition, we have led the  
way in information-sharing agreements, known as Memoranda  
of Understanding (MoUs) with sports authorities. In practice 
MoUs are a commitment from Betfair to share any relevant 
customer and transactional data, at an account level, with SGBs 
in the event of a betting integrity related issue being detected  
on their sport. We have signed over 50 MoUs with leading SGBs 
such as the British Horseracing Authority, FIFA and UEFA.  
In 2012 we signed MoUs with the Irish Greyhound Board, 
European Rugby Cup Limited, the Japanese Football Association 
Early Warning System, the England and Wales Cricket Board  
and the Danish Football Association.
Educational partnerships with sports
In addition to monitoring and sharing information Betfair (along 
with bet365, Ladbrokes and the Remote Gambling Association) 
has established partnerships with the Professional Players 
Federation (PPF) and British Athletes Commission which provides 
funds and expertise to help athletes and players understand 
betting rules and regulations. Over the last three years the 
partnership with the PPF has seen 5,620 players across a range 
of sports including football, rugby and cricket receive face-to-face 
education about betting.
Brendon Batson MBE, Chairman of the Professional Players 
Federation: ‘Education for players is the first, and most 
effective, line of defence for sport against match-fixing.  
The PPF’s arrangement with the betting operators is an 
excellent partnership that is proven to work.’
Pioneering partnerships with sport: Establishing  
a commercial relationship with British Racing
Paul Bittar, Chief Executive of the British Horseracing Authority:  
‘This agreement has required a high degree of co-operation 
both within Racing, with all the major organisations closely 
involved in negotiations, and of course with Betfair,  
who have shown great commitment in their intent  
to be a constructive commercial partner with our sport.’
John Penrose MP, the then Minister for Tourism and Heritage 
at the Department for Culture, Media & Sport said:  
‘The Government has always believed there should be a 
commercial relationship between British Racing and betting 
operators and I pay tribute to all parties for bringing about 
this deal. Betfair’s willingness to be the first operator to do 
a deal is impressive and admirable… I hope others will 
follow swiftly in their wake.’  23  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
At the start of 2012 we signed an MoU with the International 
Olympic Committee (IOC) to cover the London 2012 Games. 
‘ By strengthening its co-operation with operators such  
as Betfair, the IOC steps up its efforts to protect the 
integrity of sports competitions through a permanent  
and efficient system of information exchange.’
IOC Spokeswoman Emmanuelle Moreau, 12 January 2012
In addition, Betfair was a leading member of the industry in 
working with the UK Gambling Commission and IOC in order  
to ensure a Joint Assessment Unit could be established so 
information on betting could be shared between stakeholders  
and action taken if required. In the event, there was no 
recorded suspicious betting on the London Olympic Games.
In March 2013, the Gambling Commission produced a report 
called ‘Working together to protect the Integrity of Sport:  
The role of the Joint Assessment Unit (JAU) at the London 
2012 Olympic Games’. The report concluded: ‘All the 
indications are that the JAU approach adopted for the 2012 
Games provided an effective mechanism to identify and 
support decision makers with any suspicious activity driven 
by either unusual betting, suspected corrupt sports betting or 
other match fixing activity.’
The London Olympic Games
Supporting the grassroots of racing
As well as signing a commercial deal Betfair continues to support 
the grassroots of racing at a difficult economic time for the sport. 
Over the past year Betfair has contributed a significant six-figure 
sum in supporting a wide range of organisations, charities and 
initiatives including (but not limited to):
•	 boosting prize money and supporting race days  
at independent courses;
•	 sponsoring the first Newmarket Open Day for 14 years,  
as well as sponsoring the Lambourn Open Day and agreeing  
to sponsor the Middleham Open Day for 2013;
•	 continuing to fund 50% of ‘the jockeys’ doctor’, Anna  
Louise Mackinnon, in partnership with the Professional  
Jockeys Association;
•	 continuing to support ‘The Betfair Wing’ of the Injured Jockey 
Fund’s Oaksey House in Lambourn;
•	 being the biggest corporate sponsor of Racing Welfare which 
provides help for racing’s people in need;
•	 backing the development of Newmarket’s New Astley Club 
which will provide fitness and physiotherapy treatment for 
those working in racing;
•	 sponsoring the World Horse Welfare’s Annual Conference for 
the second year running; and
•	 sponsoring of the Moorcroft Racehorse Welfare Annual 
fundraising quiz and Animal Health Trust raceday at Newmarket.
‘ We pride ourselves on trying to provide the best prize money  
we can – we also pride ourselves on providing the very best  
of grassroots National Hunt racing, so this link with Betfair  
is perfect for us. I am very grateful to Betfair for their major 
contribution to the prize money and their generous best  
turned-out horse awards and free food to stable staff.’
Fakenham’s Chief Executive and Clerk of the Course,  
David Hunter said following Betfair’s support for the course
‘ Betfair has supported the work of the Injured Jockeys Fund  
at Oaksey House since its official opening by our Patron,  
HRH The Princess Royal, in September 2009. The Company’s 
support of our physiotherapy and rehabilitation centre, 
known as ‘The Betfair Wing’, has enabled us to assist many 
jockeys in returning to fitness far earlier than they would 
otherwise have been able to do. Oaksey House has surpassed 
all of our expectations in this respect and we are delighted to 
be assisting injured jockeys both past and present in this way.’
Lisa Hancock, Chief Executive Injured Jockeys Fund
e n su Ri ng ou R people ARe i nspi Re d, 
eng Ag ed An d developed Communicating with employees
As at 30 April 2013, we had over 1,700 employees around  
the world, with major sites in the UK, Ireland, Gibraltar, Malta, 
Portugal, Romania and the US. As a global business, we need  
good communication so that we can understand, support, grow 
and develop the people who will help us to execute and deliver our 
strategy and vision year by year. We work hard to be an employer 
of choice and recognise the need to attract, develop, retain and 
reward individuals who add value to our unique business. 24 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
co Rpo RAte Re sponsi Bi lity Managing to high performance
Performance management is a crucial lever to delivering  
high performance and during the year, as with previous years,  
we have delivered training to equip our managers to have quality 
conversations, set clear performance levels and develop people  
for future roles. This work is supported by talent and succession 
planning which determines the strength of our leadership  
talent pipeline, based on capability, performance, potential  
and career aspirations.
We listen to our employees, respond to their feedback and 
communicate the actions we have taken. Among other things,  
we use Betfair’s intranet to ensure that everyone understands  
our focus and vision as it moves forward.
We review employee performance annually against objectives 
agreed a year earlier, and use this opportunity to formally identify 
training and career development opportunities. As in the previous 
year, the pay award for 2012 was performance related and  
a budget of 2.5% was made available for distribution according  
to performance.
Safeguarding employees
As part of our Responsible Gambling policy all Betfair employees 
receive responsible gambling awareness training within their first 
three months of employment. Employees can seek support  
for any issues they might have with problem gambling through 
Betfair’s Employee Assistance Programme which is conducted  
by the NHS National Problem Gambling Clinic. This programme 
offers staff working in the industry a valuable and strictly 
confidential support service outside of Betfair. It is a free  
service to staff.
Helping ensure a work/life balance for all employees
To engage a good work-life balance Betfair helps employees 
enjoy their time in the office and make the most of it outside 
working hours. Such initiatives include:
•	 Matching employee fundraising for charity events up to the 
sum of £100. In 2012 Betfair committed £14,200 to this.
•	 All employees are entitled to take two working days a year  
to volunteer for a recognised community service or registered 
charity of their choice which means something to them and  
the community in which they live.
Our industry is often regarded as male-dominated because  
of its focus on technology, but we are committed to equal 
opportunities and a diverse, inclusive and representative 
workplace where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
tA k ing p Ri de in the co MMu nities 
Wh e Re We Wo Rk An d live Engagement with local communities and charities
We take pride in our local communities. As part of our  
commitment to the communities in which we live and operate,  
we have a dedicated CSR resource linked to each of our offices 
around the world. 
Employee engagement is a key driver for this activity, alongside  
a broader objective to create innovative community partnerships 
that find solutions to local issues. Our community investment 
programme encourages employees to get actively engaged  
with the communities where we live and work, and provides 
investment in grassroots sport.
Investing in local communities and charities
As well as encouraging employees to get actively engaged  
through volunteering activity we support a number of charities  
and community organisations across Europe financially and  
in-kind. Some of the charities Betfair has supported in 2012  
are listed below:
UK
•	 Crisis 
•	 Greenhouse
•	 Maggie’s Cancer Care Centres 
•	 SPEAR 
•	 Special Olympics (GB)
•	 Stevenage Community Trust 
•	 Wildfowl and Wetland Trust
•	 Animal Health Trust
Ireland 
•	 St Andrew’s Resource Centre Fettercairn Youth Horse Project
Malta
•	 Stompers Rubgy Football Club
•	 St Joseph Home Hostel
Romania
•	 Asociatia Autism Transilvania 
•	 Asociatia Little People Romania 
•	 Claudia Safta Charity Association
•	 Christmas Shoe Box
•	 Habitat for Humanity
•	 Special Olympics
Portugal
•	 CrescerSer
South Africa
•	 Charlton Athletic Community Trust 25  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Supporting grassroots sport: Cash 4 Clubs
Sport in the community is about local people, local facilities,  
local groups and organisations working together to provide 
opportunities to enjoy sport. Recognising the importance of 
community sport, we set up Cash 4 Clubs in 2008 to offer  
sports clubs in the UK the chance to win grants ranging from 
£250 to £1,000. The programme has since been launched in 
Australia and Malta, and to date in the UK we have supported 
271 clubs with grants totalling over £221,000. A diverse panel  
of judges ranging from sports stars, such as Dame Kelly Holmes 
and Karen Pickering MBE to MPs and sports journalists, helps 
ensure that Cash 4 Clubs is supporting the clubs that are making 
a real impact in their communities.
e n vi Ron Me nt Al MAt te Rs We are committed to reducing the environmental impact  
of our business. In this section, among other areas, we:
•	 report of the effectiveness of our environmental strategy 
through a review of various Key Performance Indicators (KPIs);
•	 set out a forward-looking assessment of short and long-term 
environmental risks and opportunities facing the business; and 
•	 outline quantative KPIs for greenhouse gas emissions,  
water consumption and landfill.
As a minimum, Betfair meets or exceeds all relevant environmental 
legislation. Where no environmental legislation exists, we develop 
and implement our own appropriate standards, practice and 
procedures. Across all business units, we take all reasonable steps 
to manage our operations, so as to minimise our environmental 
impact and to deliver excellence in environmental practice across 
our business.
Respect for the environment is fundamental to assuring  
a sustainable future. Betfair recognises that, by managing our  
day to day activities efficiently, we can have a positive impact  
on the environment. We aim to minimise harmful effects 
whenever we can, and will work through a continuous 
improvement process to achieve this.
Betfair is an online business and therefore our main focus  
is on our offices and data centres. Betfair uses state of the art 
power usage effectiveness (PUE) data centre facilities in Ireland, 
and whenever possible we plan to retire inefficient servers and 
consolidate legacy systems. 
Betfair operates in modern office environments, which have been 
designed to have minimal impact on the environment and all our 
office spaces operate with:
•	 perimeter infrared motion detector lighting;
•	 low energy lighting;
•	 energy efficient air conditioning systems;
•	 power factor correction; and
•	 high densities of occupation in the workplace.
Betfair operates largely out of leased premises. We accordingly 
work with our landlords to encourage their investment in energy 
efficient systems, waste recycling and water consumption.
Risks and opportunities
Betfair perceives its risk of environmental impact as very low.  
The business is 100% online with no retail premises and its  
key servers held with modern, fit for purpose data centres  
through professional third party suppliers.
Although the risk is very low there remain opportunities to  
reduce environmental impact through consolidation of its office 
portfolio, following the restructure of the business. As a result 
c.50,000 sq ft (20%) of office space will be closed, including 
parts of Hammersmith, Malta and the San Francisco office.
The forthcoming mandatory carbon reporting will support  
more emphasis on data collection, interrogation and comparatives 
across all offices helping us to learn from best practice across  
the portfolio.
Our aim for 100% waste recycling will improve local practices 
and the significant investment in video conference technology 
supports reductions in travel.
Commitment and verification
Betfair is committed to continuous improvement in reducing our 
carbon footprint through developing and implementing initiatives, 
practices and procedures which will enable us to manage and 
control the impact our business has on the environment.
Betfair collects data of its emissions and carbon footprint.  
Our KPIs include the adoption of a 10% reduction programme  
in each year of operation. 
This KPI data is reported through an industry standard 
verification system for data collected. This verification system, 
which is independently verified, confirms that we are already 
compliant with the scope 1 & 2 requirements for Mandatory 
Carbon Reporting and for Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
We envisage that for the 2014 Annual Report we will set out 
further KPI details in respect of:
Scope 1:   Direct emissions resulting from activities within the 
organisations control, including on-site fuel combustion, 
manufacturing and process emissions, refrigerant losses 
and company vehicles;
Scope 2:  Indirect emissions from electricity, heat or steam 
purchased and used by the organisation;
Scope 3:  Indirect emissions from sources not directly controlled  
by the organisation, e.g. business travel, outsourced 
transportation, waste disposal, water usage and 
commuting.
Stakeholders
As a matter of course, we gauge stakeholder views on 
environmental matters and these views are reported to the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee. This process enables us  
to increase our responsiveness to matters raised by stakeholders, 
find new ways to reduce our impacts and maximise opportunities, 
balance business efficiency with economic success and, ultimately, 
continue to make the business more competitive, profitable  
and sustainable. 26 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
co Rpo RAte Re sponsi Bi lity Betfair aims for 100% waste recycling, with no waste going  
to landfill, and this is achieved where feasible. All offices, 
as a minimum, separate waste at source within the 
opportunities available for recycling locally. This includes 
plastics, paper, cans and glass. In addition:
•	 Betfair provides separate recycling waste bins at the point  
of disposal;
•	 mixed waste is sorted and recycled;
•	 wet waste is composted;
•	 glass is sorted and recycled; and
•	 cooking oil is collected and recycled, where internal catering 
facilities are provided.
Waste KPIs
Betfair is conscious to ensure that our suppliers also adopt  
and maintain a good environmental policy as part of our 
procurement and tender process.
We seek to source products manufactured nationally so as to  
be aligned to our offices and thereby reduce the impact on the 
environment through transportation, e.g. all furniture purchased 
for the Hammersmith office in 2012 was British manufactured, 
and manufactured in Portugal for the Porto office.
Supplier KPIs
We continued to review our energy use and implement new 
ways to enable us and our people to manage and control 
consumption. This included:
•	 data collection of environmental indices across all  
Betfair offices;
•	 desktop power – Betfair delivered ‘one switch’ power 
modules to 1,000 desktops within the Hammersmith and 
Milan offices, as part of a refurbishment programme. These 
enable our people to switch off all power to their desk from 
a single switch. This cuts the continuous consumption of 
‘out of hours’ energy drawn by phone chargers, PC power 
modules and other electrical items which continue to feed 
when not in use;
•	 air conditioning settings – Betfair teams operate across 
various hours during any 24 hour period and our air 
conditioning systems are programmed geographically to 
match the working patterns of our people ensuring that 
systems are not operating and drawing energy unnecessarily;
•	 capital improvement projects included high energy efficient 
air conditioning and UPS systems in line with the Carbon 
Trust’s energy technology list that qualify for enhanced 
capital allowances; and
•	 retiring end of serviceable life equipment (with recycling 
where possible) including PC’s, laptops, screens, 
videoconference units, servers and network kit, which  
allows for the purchase of modern efficient replacement.
Energy KPIs
Betfair has a strict travel policy which aims to reduce all  
travel within the business through actively encouraging use  
of videoconference and movi client application. In addition, 
Betfair does not operate a company car scheme. Other 
initiatives include:
•	 cycle to work scheme;
•	 provision of showers and locker facilities for cyclists  
and runners;
•	 global video-conferencing facilities;
•	 economy travel across all European destinations; and
•	 use of public transport in city hubs.
Transport and Travel KPIs
This year Betfair has introduced a data centre management  
tool called Nlyte, which allows Betfair to track power usage  
and improve planning for the efficient utilisation of the data 
centre facility. An ongoing programme of consolidation 
continues, including cloud computing solutions, enabling us to 
switch off older, inefficient equipment across the whole estate.
Betfair complies with WRAP UK guidelines when carrying out  
all fit out and construction works and ensures our contractors 
work to these same standards.
During the Hammersmith refurbishment, we recycled 87%  
of all waste, working within WRAP guidelines, from 184  
tonnes of waste removed.
All redundant furniture is either re-used, through resale, 
charity or school donation or disposed of through responsible 
methods and recycled or chipped.
Capital Improvement KPIs
The Betfair procurement process ensures that our environmental 
responsibility is a key factor in any purchasing decisions including:
•	 consideration of where goods are manufactured, and the 
disposal of used goods in an environmentally responsible way;
•	 giving preference to items that are manufactured with a 
high recycled content;
•	 specifying items that can be recycled or reused;
•	 considering the energy usage/cost of operating equipment 
prior to purchase;
•	 favouring suppliers that are committed to environmental 
improvement;
•	 considering ‘whole life’ costs and impacts when assessing 
equipment for purchase; and
•	 carrying out environmental assessment of all suppliers.
Equipment Purchase KPIs
Compliance
Following on from the details in our 2012 Annual Report,  
we have since focussed our efforts on KPIs including: 27  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
he Al th An d s Af ety Alongside our commitment to providing a vibrant working 
environment that values wellbeing and diversity, we recognise  
our wider legal and moral obligation to provide a safe and healthy 
working environment for our people, visitors and members  
of the public who may be affected by our activities. 
This commitment underpins our approach to health and safety, 
with Board level responsibility being appointed to the Director  
of Operations, supported by specialist technical advisers in safety 
and occupational health employed across all our global locations.
Our operations are fully compliant with all aspects of the current 
Health and Safety (H&S) law, codes of practice and approved 
industry standards. Our H&S policy statement, Management 
System, Practices and Procedures, reflect Betfair’s commitment  
to managing health, safety and welfare across our international 
portfolio through selected senior representatives and H&S 
professionals who form the National Health and Safety Forum.  
In addition, all of our Facilities Managers have IOSH accreditation 
and two employees are accredited at NEBOSH level.
Betfair provides an occupational health helpline, providing 
independent and confidential support for all employees. The 
Employee Assistance Programme (EAP), is an expert provider  
of employee support services and is completely independent  
from the Company. The EAP is designed to help employees  
in those times of need, whether it’s stress, anxiety, managing 
money, relationships or work. 
We regularly review and audit the quality and effectiveness  
of our risk assessment and incident investigation processes and  
the completeness of our health and safety management system.  
In addition we continue to develop our procedures for measuring 
and supporting a proactive approach to meeting our 
commitments to the safety and well-being of all our people, 
clients and suppliers.
Health and Safety activity
During the past reporting year priority was focussed on fully 
reviewing and updating all Health and Safety activities at Betfair.
As a result of this review Betfair carried out the following:
•	 Health and Safety management system reviewed to include 
updated legislation and all global locations;
•	 roles and responsibilities updated;
•	 Practices and procedures, including all risk assessment 
activities, reviewed and redeveloped in line with current 
legislation and Betfair good practice;
•	 audit process developed and introduced;
•	 baseline audits to measure current performance;
•	 practices and procedures schedule updated and implemented;
•	 formation of the H&S forum led by senior representatives  
of the business;
•	 fire safety systems, practices and procedures reviewed  
and updated;
•	 all staff training requirements reviewed and action plans 
produced;
•	 specialist H&S training provided to all relevant people; and
•	 accident and incident statistics collated and reviewed.
In addition to the above Betfair were subject to a Health and 
Safety inspection by our independent risk assessor, which resulted 
in the following feedback:
‘It is noted that the Company has implemented a number of risk 
management initiatives commensurate with Good Practice, 
these include:
•	 development of a health and safety policy that has been  
signed by the Chief Executive Officer;
•	 preparation of risk assessments for the office activities,  
to include the use of display screen equipment and fire safety;
•	 monthly workplace inspection to monitor the implementation  
of health and safety risk controls;
•	 robust accident reporting and investigation; and
•	 a high standard of housekeeping throughout the  
Hammersmith office.
The above stimuli will serve to enhance the risk profile of the 
organisation, with associated business benefits, not least through  
a reduction in the total cost of risk. The risk improvements 
contained at the end of this report are presented in the interests 
of continuous improvement, and are intended to build upon  
the risk control measures you already have in place, as well  
as improve your claims prevention and defensibility strategy’.
It is a statutory requirement to keep a record of all accidents, 
incidents and near misses that occur at work. Our H&S record  
in 2012–2013 was good. There were no reportable fatalities 
or major injuries across our business and a health, safety 
and environment inspection visit in the UK resulted in no 
enforcement notices or prosecutions for health, safety 
or environmental offences.
Close
We believe that good corporate responsibility practice is part  
of business as usual for Betfair.
Fru Hazlitt 
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair 28 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Bu siness Revi e W
pRi ncip Al R isks An d 
unce Rt Ai nties Key risk Impact Mitigation
Online gambling regulation  
(EU/non-EU)
Many jurisdictions are beginning to 
regulate their online gambling market 
by introducing a licensing regime.
While opportunities exist, they are  
not without risks – such as commercial 
viability, delays in licensing of betting 
exchanges compared to other products, 
how our products are taxed and licensing 
one section of the online market  
such as sports betting but not  
another, such as casinos or poker.
 
Any new licensing regime, adverse 
regulatory decisions or tax base that 
makes it commercially unviable for 
Betfair to operate its exchange and 
products could restrict our ability  
to grow the business, gain access  
to new customers and, ultimately, 
increase revenues.
 
We work closely with a wide variety of 
organisations involved in the regulation  
of online gambling. We are fully engaged  
with the UK Government regarding the 
ongoing review of how operators licensed 
elsewhere are regulated in the UK.
External third parties help us to substantiate 
evidence to support using a gross profits  
tax model.
We have a dedicated internal and  
external legal, tax, compliance  
and public affairs resource.
Our products
Online gaming is a very competitive 
industry. Our competitors are constantly 
looking to gain advantage through 
aggressive marketing campaigns, pricing 
and promotional behaviour and new 
product features which could impact 
revenue or margins. 
Product and delivery to market is vital to 
gain competitive edge over other operators. 
Like all betting operators we recognise 
that our platform could be targeted by 
those who seek to benefit from corrupt 
activity on a market or to use the site for 
the illegal transfer of funds.
Our product offering could  
become less attractive in relation  
to competitors’ offers.
Disproportionate growth in risk 
products such as multiples and  
fixed odds could result in a volatile 
earnings pattern.
We could fail to maximise the revenues 
earned from products offered.
Betfair products could be used by 
criminals for money laundering or 
other criminal purposes. This, or 
fraud and corruption in sport more 
generally, could result in negative 
publicity for sports betting and Betfair.
Our product delivery activity includes  
an approval process whereby appropriate 
products are assessed for suitability and 
priority to bring to market. 
Our experienced Trading Team and new 
Client Services Division constantly monitor 
client activity and betting patterns relating  
to risk products. We monitor competitor 
promotional activities, pricing and products 
and continue to invest in exchange 
technology and product development  
to make it more difficult for a competitor  
to launch comparable products.
We have a fully staffed and highly skilled 
Integrity Team who investigate any potentially 
suspicious activity and liaise with sports 
regulatory bodies. We carry out routine risk 
assessments for specific territories in relation 
to anti-money laundering, fraud, terrorism 
financing and other crimes.
Customers
Our customers are at the heart of the 
business. Macroeconomic factors such  
as licensing, regulatory, tax or other 
developments outside Betfair’s control 
could deter a significant number of 
customers from using our products.
As we increase our reliance on third parties, 
potential to maliciously access data and 
data compromise could increase.
Reduced activity by a significant 
number of customers could have  
a material adverse effect on our 
operations, financial performance  
and prospects.
Poorly designed promotional activity 
could result in negative financial and 
reputational impacts.
We closely monitor the behaviour  
of customers and have a team focused  
on their management and retention. 
We aim to ensure we provide a service  
and platform which grow value for both  
the customer and Betfair, and significantly 
reduce the risk of customers leaving.
We review our terms and conditions  
to ensure they are fit for purpose and  
have processes in place to assess risk  
and approve promotions.
This section highlights the principal risks which are considered to have a material potential impact on the Group’s long-term 
performance and achievement of strategy. It is not intended to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis of all risks which may  
affect the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less  
material, may also have an adverse effect on the business. Further details of how our risk management framework and policies  
are embedded can be found on pages 44 to 47. 29  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Key risk Impact Mitigation
People
Our success and anticipated future growth 
is in part dependent on the continued 
services and performance of certain 
Directors, managers and key staff. 
Our ability to continue to attract, retain 
and motivate highly skilled employees 
in an intensely competitive environment 
means that competitive packages and 
development opportunities must  
be available.
Reduced ability to: 
•	 retain executives, managers and 
key staff; 
•	 attract, retain and motivate highly  
skilled employees; 
•	 engage staff with their jobs and the 
Company’s objectives
could impair our operations, financial 
performance and prospects.
Succession planning and processes are 
in place throughout the business to:
•	 identify key roles in line with business 
continuity plans;
•	 conduct regular succession and 
talent reviews; and
•	 recognise competitive package and 
career development opportunities.
Our employees participate in regular 
surveys which help us to link 
improvements to achieving our 
corporate goals while reducing 
employee turnover and improving 
productivity and wellbeing.
Infrastructure and systems 
We rely on IT infrastructure and systems 
for our core operations and their overall 
management.
Potential risks include:
•	 site outages and/or loss of customer 
connectivity;
•	 software error;
•	 reliance on third parties; and
•	 unauthorised access to customer data 
by employees, third party providers 
or cyber attack.
We rely on our customers being able to 
access markets via the internet and any 
extended loss of connectivity could have 
a material effect on revenues.
Any failure of the Company’s and/or other 
infrastructure could lead to significant 
costs and disruptions that could reduce 
revenue and harm our business reputation.
We regularly review our business 
continuity plans and have service level 
agreements in place with third parties.
Our Group Security Team regularly 
review and assess our systems in 
terms of potential threat and 
vulnerability. We carry out targeted 
infrastructure testing and have 
implemented our own Secure Coding 
Standard for use within the business. 
We use a variety of systems and 
applications testing tools for critical 
customer facing applications.
Financial
Due to the international nature of the 
business, the Company is exposed to the 
impact of foreign exchange fluctuations 
on deposits as well as cash flows.
The future of the Eurozone is currently 
uncertain and could expose the Company 
to a wide range of issues, such as currency 
payment methods and loss of business in 
certain jurisdictions.
Under the terms of a Trust Deed, Betfair 
generally holds all customer moneys in 
separately managed bank accounts which 
are safeguarded independently of Betfair’s 
corporate funds.
Adverse foreign exchange exposures could 
impact on Group revenues.
A break-up of the Eurozone, or defaults 
within it, could have a wide range of 
negative impacts.
Actual or perceived mismanagement of 
customer funds could have severe financial 
and reputational impacts.
We monitor exposure to foreign 
exchange risk and where appropriate 
use financial instruments to mitigate 
any associated risk.
Incident management plans are in 
place to address the unpredictable 
nature of events which could lead  
to the potential default or break-up  
of the Eurozone.
Daily and monthly reconciliations of 
the customer funds balance take place 
to ensure timely detection, in the 
event of fraud or error. 30 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
j osh  
h An n Ah g e RA l d 
co RBett 
  M i ke 
Mct ighe 
pe te R  
j Ackson BRe on 
co Rco RAn fR u 
hA zl itt 
 A le x 
g e Rs h 
 i A n d yson 
g o ve Rn Ance
Bo ARd o f d i Re cto Rs 31  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Gerald Corbett  
Non-Executive Chairman 
(b – Chair)
Gerald Corbett is the Company’s Chairman, a position he assumed 
in March 2012 having joined the Betfair Group as Deputy 
Chairman on 3 January 2012. 
External appointments: Chairman of Britvic plc, 
Moneysupermarket.com Group plc and Towry Holdings Limited. 
He is also a Non-Executive Director of the investment and 
stockbroking business, Numis Corporation Plc.
Previous experience: Over a long business career, Gerald  
has been a director of 12 public companies, five of which  
he has chaired. His most recent role was as Chairman of SSL 
International plc between 2005–2010. His executive career 
included Group Finance Director roles with Redland plc  
and Grand Metropolitan plc, and he was Chief Executive  
of Railtrack between 1997–2000. 
Breon Corcoran  
Chief Executive Officer
Breon Corcoran is the Company’s Chief Executive Officer,  
a position he assumed on 1 August 2012 (and he has no external 
appointments).
Previous experience: Chief Operating Officer of Paddy Power plc 
and previously Managing Director, Non Retail and Development 
and also Commercial Director. Before joining Paddy Power,  
Breon was a Vice President with J P Morgan having started  
his career with Bankers Trust. Breon has an MBA (INSEAD)  
and is a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin.
Alex Gersh  
Chief Financial Officer 
(d – Chair)
Alexander Gersh is the Company’s Chief Financial Officer,  
a position he assumed on 3 December 2012.
Previous experience: Chief Financial Officer of NDS Group,  
Chief Financial Officer of Flag Telecom and Chief Financial  
Officer of BT Cellnet. His early career was spent with Ernst  
& Young where he qualified as a Certified Public Accountant. 
Mike McTighe  
Senior Independent Director 
(a) (b) (c – Chair)
External appointments: Board member of Ofcom (the UK’s 
regulator of the broadcasting, telecommunications and wireless 
communication sectors) where he is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. He is Chairman of Volex plc and WYG plc.  
He is also a director of Nujira Ltd, Traitrealm Limited, Cheshire 
Mortgage Corporation Limited, Arran Isle Limited, Jerrold 
Limited and Gortmullan Holdings Limited.
Previous experience: Mike’s executive career included being 
Chairman and CEO of Carrier 1 International SA and Executive 
Director of Cable & Wireless plc. During the recent past he has 
been a member of the Audit Committees of Alliance & Leicester 
plc and London Metals Exchange Holdings Limited. Mike has 
been a Director of Betfair since 17 October 2008. 
Please see  
corporate.betfair.com/ 
about-us/board-profiles.aspx 
for full Board biographies
Fru Hazlitt 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(b) (c) (e – Chair)
External appointments: Managing Director of Commercial and 
Online at ITV plc and Director of the Advertising Association.
Previous experience: CEO of GCAP Media Plc, Chief Executive  
of Virgin Radio and a Managing Director of Yahoo UK and 
Ireland. Fru has been a Director of Betfair since 23 March 2005.
Ian Dyson  
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(a – Chair) (c)
External appointments: Non-Executive Director of Punch  
Taverns plc.
Previous experience: CEO of Punch Taverns plc, Group Finance  
& Operations Director at Marks and Spencer Group plc and  
Finance Director of The Rank Group plc. Prior to this he was  
Group Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc. He joined Hilton 
from Le Meridien, a division of Forte plc, where he had been 
Finance Director. His early career was spent with Arthur 
Andersen, where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 
and was promoted to be a Partner of the firm in 1994. Ian was  
a Non-Executive Director of Misys plc until September 2005.  
Ian has been a Director of Betfair since 1 February 2010. 
Josh Hannah  
Non-Executive Director
External appointments: General Partner of Matrix Partners  
and a Director of JustFabulous, Huddler, Huddle, Taulia Inc,  
Klip, Inflection and Koding.
Previous experience: Josh Hannah was Chief Executive  
and co-founder of Flutter.com which merged with the Betfair 
Group in 2002. He has been a Director of Betfair since  
21 February 2002. 
Peter Jackson  
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(a)
External appointments: Chief Executive of Travelex Limited.
Previous experience: Managing Director, Consumer Banking  
at Lloyds Banking Group plc. Before that he held a number  
of roles at HBOS plc in retail. Peter started his career with 
McKinsey & Company. He holds an MEng from the University  
of Cambridge. He has been a Director of Betfair since  
24 April 2013.
Key: Committee memberships
a – Audit Committee
b – Nomination Committee
c – Remuneration Committee
d – Market Disclosure Committee
e – Corporate Responsibility Committee 32 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Directors present their Report and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 30 April 2013. The Directors’ Report 
should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual 
Report; the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive Officer’s Review, 
Financial Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, Corporate 
Governance Statement, Corporate Responsibility Report and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, all of which are incorporated into 
this Directors’ Report by reference.
Principal activities
Betfair is one of the world’s leading online betting and  
gaming operators.
At the heart of Betfair is its pioneering Betting Exchange,  
where customers come together in order to bet at odds set  
by themselves or offered by other customers, instead of with  
a traditional bookmaker. The Betting Exchange usually provides 
customers with better pricing and more choice and flexibility  
than competing products, which has resulted in Betfair’s 
customers showing greater levels of loyalty than its competitors 
with significantly higher customer satisfaction rates.
Betfair additionally offers a range of other sports betting products, 
casino games and poker. As at 30 April 2013, Betfair had more 
than 6 million registered customers worldwide and processes over 
a billion transactions on the Betting Exchange each year.
Betfair also owns Betfair US, which comprises TVG (a licensed  
US horseracing wagering and television broadcasting business),  
and 33% of LMAX, which operates an exchange platform for 
online retail financial trading which has evolved from Betfair’s 
exchange platform technology. In addition, Betfair has a 50% 
holding in Betfair Australia, a joint venture which operates  
a licensed betting exchange business in Australia.
Directors
Details of the Directors as at 30 April 2013 can be found on 
pages 30 and 31 and the Board composition and any changes  
to it throughout the year are detailed in full in the Corporate 
Governance Statement on pages 35 to 40.
All of the Directors stand for re-election or (for the two new 
Directors) election as Directors at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM). Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting 
which is enclosed with these financial statements.
Articles of Association 
The Articles of Association can only be amended by special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. No amendments  
are proposed to be made to the existing articles at the 2013 AGM.
Directors’ indemnity
As permitted by the Articles of Association the Directors have the 
benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity 
provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year, and 
remains in force. The Company also purchased and maintained 
throughout the financial year, Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
Corporate Governance Statement
The Corporate Governance Statement is made in accordance  
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) 7 and the 
Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in May 2010. The new edition of the Corporate 
Governance Code was published in September 2012 by the 
Financial Reporting Council, and it is envisaged that the new 
provisions therein will be adopted in the 2014 Annual Report.
Employees
The responsibility for formulating, implementing and ensuring 
adherence to employment policies and relevant legislation is the 
responsibility of Human Resources. The Company fully supports 
the principle of equal opportunity for all employees and opposes  
all forms of discrimination and has policies to ensure it meets its 
legal obligations. It is also Group policy to give full and fair 
consideration to the recruitment of disabled persons.
The Company believes in open and continuous communications  
as an important part of the employee engagement process.  
The Company has an intranet and various internal communication 
channels for informing employees about financial results, business 
development and other news concerning Betfair and its people.
Further information can be found on pages 20 to 27 in the 
Corporate Responsibility Report. 
Conflicts of interests
The Company’s Articles of Association permit the Board to 
consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director 
has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the 
interests of the Company (Situational Conflicts). The Board has  
a formal system in place for Directors to declare Situational 
Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors  
who have no interest in the matter being considered. In deciding 
whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted 
Directors are required to act in the way they consider would  
be most likely to promote the success of the Company for  
the benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose limits  
or conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they 
think this is appropriate. The Board believes that the systems it 
has in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts 
continue to operate effectively.
Related party transactions
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party 
transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are 
carried out on an arm’s length basis and are properly recorded.
Interim dividend
The Company declared an interim dividend on 13 December  
2012 of 4.0 pence (2012: 3.2 pence) per share which was paid  
on 25 January 2013.
Final dividend
The Company has declared that a final dividend of 9.0 pence 
(2012: 7.0 pence) per share will be paid in respect of the year 
ended 30 April 2013.
Share capital
The Company has a single class of shares in issue divided into 
ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each. As at 30 April 2013 the 
Company’s issued share capital was 104,221,610.
The ordinary shares carry the right to the profits of the Company 
available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding 
up of the Company. The ordinary shares carry the right to attend 
and speak at general meetings of the Company; each share holds 
the right to one vote. At the year end there were no shares held  
in treasury and the Company’s employees share trust held  
934,307 shares.
Authority to purchase shares
The Company currently has the authority to purchase a maximum 
of 10,238,142 of its own shares. This authority will expire at close 
of the 2013 AGM or the earlier of the 2013 AGM or 18 months 
from the date of resolution.
gove Rn Ance
d i Re cto Rs ’ Repo Rt 33  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Major shareholdings
As at 27 June 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with DTR Rule 5 of the UK Listing Authority, of the following 
major shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company:
Shareholder
Number of  
shares held
Percentage of  
issued shares
Mr Edward Wray 11,624,602 11.13
Softbank Capital Partners 11,033,109 10.57
Le Peigne SA 9,769,772 9.36
Mr Andrew Black 6,597,721 6.32
Mr Richard Koch 6,504,254 6.23
Balderton Capital 4,227,170 4.05
MFS Investment 3,923,470 3.76
Share transfer restrictions
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company. 
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held  
on 5 September 2013 is contained in a circular sent out to 
shareholders with this Report. The Notice of Meeting contains 
full details of the resolutions that will be put to shareholders.
Political donations
At the 2012 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution to authorise 
the Company to make political donations and/or incur political 
expenditure (as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 379  
of the Companies Act 2006), in each case in amounts not 
exceeding £50,000 in aggregate. As the authority granted will 
expire on 5 September 2013, renewal of this authority will be 
sought at this year’s AGM. Further details are available in the 
Notice of AGM. The definitions of political donations and political 
expenditure used in the Companies Act 2006 are broad in nature 
and this authority is sought to ensure that any activities 
undertaken throughout the Group’s businesses, which could 
otherwise be construed to fall within these provisions, can be 
undertaken without inadvertently infringing them. 
During the year, the Group made no EU political donations  
(2012: £14,907).
In accordance with applicable US state and federal laws, the 
Group has made £76,190 (2012: £107,944) of contributions  
to support candidates for nomination and/or election to public 
office. The Group has fully complied with jurisdictional reporting 
of these contributions and such contributions in the US are 
accepted normal business practice. Betfair is committed to 
working with governments in the EU, US and other jurisdictions 
in which it operates.
Charitable donations
The Group donated £241,000 (2012: £384,700) for charitable 
purposes within the UK during the financial year. The Company’s 
charitable activities are described within the Corporate 
Responsibility section on pages 20 to 27.
Contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third 
parties in support of its business activities. The disclosure in this 
Report of information about any of those third parties is not 
considered necessary for an understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’s businesses.
Change of control provisions
There are no significant agreements which contain provisions 
entitling other parties to exercise termination or other rights  
in the event of a change in control of the Company. 
The rules of certain of the Company’s share plans include 
provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction. 
Supplier payment policy
It is the Group’s policy to comply with the terms of payment  
agreed with its suppliers. Where payment terms are not 
negotiated, the Company endeavours to adhere to suppliers’ 
standard terms. As at 30 April 2013, the Group had trade 
creditors of £5.5m (2012: £15.6m).
Going concern, responsibilities and disclosure
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Funding and liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet  
its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach  
to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will 
always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring 
unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. 
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly 
rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.  
The Group performs regular cash flow projections to ensure  
that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected 
operational expenses for a period of at least 90 days.  
The Group has no committed lines of credit.
Auditors
KPMG Audit plc (KPMG), the Company’s external auditors,  
have expressed their willingness to be reappointed as auditors  
of the Company. Upon the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, resolutions to reappoint KPMG as the Company’s 
auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval  
of the Directors’ Report confirms that so far as they are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware, and that they have taken all steps that they 
ought to have taken as a Director to make them aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Alexander Gersh 
Director
Registered office 
Betfair Group plc 
Waterfront 
Hammersmith Embankment 
Chancellors Road (access on Winslow Road) 
London W6 9HP 
United Kingdom
Registered number 6489716 34 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
s t At e Me nt of d i Re cto Rs ’ Re sponsi Bi lities in Re spect of the  
Annu Al R epo Rt An d the fin An ci Al s t At e Me nts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the Group and Parent Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that law they 
are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and applicable 
law, and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company 
and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each  
of the Group and Parent Financial Statements, the Directors  
are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
•	 for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	 for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the Parent Company Financial Statements; and
•	 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy  
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect  
of the Annual Report
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed  
on pages 31 and 35 of this Annual Report, confirm that,  
to the best of each person’s knowledge and belief:
•	 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair  
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit  
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
•	 the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal  
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board of Betfair Group plc
Alexander Gersh 
Director
Compliance statement
This review has been prepared in accordance with section 417 of the Companies Act 
2006. The review’s intent is to provide information to shareholders and stakeholders. 
It should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are made  
by in good faith based on the information available at the time of this  
report. These statements should be treated with caution due to the  
inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
Other information
Additional financial and non-financial information, including press releases,  
can be accessed on our website, corporate.betfair.com. 35  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) as issued  
by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 which applies  
to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and  
is available at www.frc.org.uk. 
The Board has reviewed the content of the Code and will report  
on compliance through this Statement which incorporates  
the Directors’ Report, Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive 
Officer’s Review, Financial and Operational Review, Principal  
Risks and Uncertainties and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
by reference. 
The Board considers that the Company complied with the main 
principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 April 
2013 with the following unintentional exception. Provision C.3.1  
of the Code states that the Audit Committee must be comprised  
of at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors. There  
was a period during the year, between Denise Kingsmill leaving  
the Board and Peter Jackson’s appointment, where the  
Audit Committee’s membership fell to two Independent  
Non-Executive Directors. 
Board composition
As at 30 April 2013, the Board comprised the Chairman,  
two Executive Directors and four Independent Non-Executive 
Directors and one non-independent Non-Executive Director.  
The biographical details of all Board Directors as at 27 June 2013 
are set out on pages 30 and 31 and these include their main 
external commitments outside of the Company.
During the year various changes were made to the composition  
of the Board which is explained in further detail opposite. 
‘  We h Av e A Ro Bu st gove Rn An ce  
st Ru ctu Re . Wh ich continues  
to delive R sust Ai n ABl e v Al ue.’ 
 g e RAl d co RBe tt, ch Ai RMAn Directors
The following were Directors of the Company during the year:
Director Role Date appointed
Gerald Corbett Non-Executive Chairman 3 January 2012
Breon Corcoran Chief Executive Officer 1 August 2012
Alex Gersh Chief Financial Officer 3 December 2012
Stephen Morana
2
Interim Chief 
Executive Officer 25 September 2006
Mike McTighe
1
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director 17 October 2008
Ian Dyson
1
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 1 February 2010
Josh Hannah
1
Non-Executive Director 21 February 2002
Fru Hazlitt
1
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 25 March 2005
Baroness Denise 
Kingsmill
3
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 1 February 2011
Peter Jackson
4
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 24 April 2013
1
  In certain cases the appointment date reflects the Director’s appointment  
prior to the Company’s admission to The London Stock Exchange on  
27 October 2010. 
2
 Director retired from the Board of Betfair Group on 3 December 2012.
3
 Director retired from the Board of Betfair Group on 25 October 2012.
4
 Director appointed to the Board of Betfair Group on 24 April 2013.
g o ve Rn Ance
co Rpo RAte gove Rn An ce st Ate Me nt 36 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Balance of Non-Executive Directors
and Executive Directors
Chairman 1
Executive Directors 2
Independent Non-Executive Directors 4
Non Independent Non-Executive  1 
Directors 
Length of tenure of
Non-Executive Directors
0-3 years 2
3-6 years 2
6-9 years 1
9+ years 1
Gender split of Directors
Male 7
Female 1
Nationality
British 6
Irish 1
American 1
Division of responsibilities
In accordance with main principle A.2 of the Code, there is  
a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company 
between the Board and executive responsibility for the running  
of the Company’s business. No one individual has unfettered 
powers of decision.
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic 
direction, development and control of the Group. It therefore 
approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets. 
It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance 
of past investments and maintains an overview and control of  
the Group’s operating and financial performance. It monitors  
the Group’s overall system of internal controls, governance and 
compliance and ensures that the necessary financial and human 
resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives. 
The Board has established and adopted a schedule  
of matters which are reserved for its attention and which  
are published on the Company’s corporate website at:  
corporate.betfair.com/about-us/corporate-governance.  
Included in its responsibilities are:
•	 determining the overall business and commercial strategy;
•	 identifying long-term objectives;
•	 reviewing the annual operating plan and budget;
•	 determining the basis of allocation of capital; and
•	 considering all matters relating to major Group policy 
and regulatory policy.
The Board has adopted objective written criteria for the 
appointment of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Non-Executive 
Directors have been defined in writing. 
The Board may delegate authority in the following instances:
•	 determination and review of the terms of reference for  
Board Committees and receive reports on their activities;
•	 approval of lists of delegated authority to approve expenditure, 
investments and other matters as the Board may determine;
•	 approval of the division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the CEO and of delegated authorities  
for the CEO, CFO and other senior management; and
•	 granting powers of attorney.
The Executive Committee is responsible for reviewing  
the performance of the business and supporting the CEO  
in performing his duties. Biographies of members of the  
Executive Team can be found on pages 30 to 31.
The composition of the Board
In accordance with main principle B.1 of the Code, the Board and 
its Committees have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them 
to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Board experience as at 30 April 2013
g o ve Rn Ance
co Rpo RAt e gove Rn An ce st At e Me nt 37  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Role of the Chairman
In accordance with main principle A.3 of the Code, Gerald 
Corbett as Chairman is responsible for the leadership and 
effectiveness of the Board, including ensuring that the Board is 
run smoothly and for ensuring that appropriate communication 
is maintained with shareholders. He is available to meet with 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman ensures that the Board has the right 
composition and that the debate is effective and at the  
right level, involving all members, and that appropriate 
conclusions are drawn. For Betfair, it is vital that the 
Chairman is accessible and can play an important role  
in providing support and wise counsel to the CEO and  
wider management team. The Chairman effectively 
challenges when required and takes a ‘helicopter view’  
of the business. The Chairman has a key role in instilling 
behaviours appropriate to a public company environment 
and is able to maintain relationships with shareholders  
and other stakeholders, as necessary. The Chairman  
has a proven track record as a plc Chairman and currently 
acts as Chairman to two other public quoted companies.  
Gerald Corbett’s biography can be found on page 31.
Role of the Chief Executive Officer
Breon Corcoran was appointed as Chief Executive Officer  
on 1 August 2012. Prior to this, Stephen Morana had 
responsibility for this role. The CEO has responsibility for 
implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for  
the executive management of the Group, including being 
responsible for: developing and proposing the Group 
strategy, annual plans and commercial objectives to the 
Board, having regard to the Group’s responsibilities to its 
shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders; 
managing the Group’s risk profile in line with the extent of 
risk identified as acceptable by the Board and to ensure 
appropriate internal controls are in place; ensuring the 
development needs of the executive directors and senior 
management are identified and met and ensuring succession 
planning; effective communication with shareholders and 
that appropriate, timely and accurate information is disclosed 
to the market, with issues escalated promptly to the Market 
Disclosure Committee.
Role of the Senior Independent Director
 Mike McTighe is the Senior Independent Director and is available  
to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved 
through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO.  
In addition, Mike is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.  
His biography can be found on page 31.
Non-Executive Directors
The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its 
Board. The Board considers Mike McTighe, Ian Dyson, Fru 
Hazlitt and Peter Jackson to be independent as they are free 
from any business or other relationship which could materially 
influence their judgement and they represent a strong source  
of advice and independent challenge. 
Josh Hannah, is not deemed to be independent under the 
provisions of the Code. He has served as a director for over  
10 years. He has informed the Board of his intention to step  
down in the coming months. Under the terms of his letter  
of appointment, his appointment will expire in October 2013.
All of the Directors’ biographies can be found on pages 30 and 
31 and all will stand for re-election or election in accordance 
with the Code. 
Other than their fees, which are disclosed on page 53,  
the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from  
the Company during the year. When prospective Non-Executive 
Directors are considered for appointment, the Nomination 
Committee will take into account their other responsibilities  
in assessing whether they can commit sufficient time to their 
prospective directorship.
The training needs of Directors and of members of the Board’s 
Committees are formally considered on an annual basis.
Company Secretary 
Martin Cruddace is the Group Director, Legal & Corporate  
Affairs and Company Secretary. The Company Secretary’s 
responsibilities include, in accordance with main principle B.5  
of the Code, ensuring good information flows to the Board  
and its Committees and between senior management and  
the Non-Executive Directors. The appointment and removal  
of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board. 
The Company Secretary is responsible through the Chairman,  
for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and 
for assisting the Directors with their professional development. 
This includes regular corporate governance and business issues 
updates, as well as the use of operational site visits and the 
provision of external courses where required.  38 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Board attendance 
During the year, there were 10 scheduled Board meetings 
excluding a one day off-site meeting which considered the 
Group’s strategy. The table below shows attendance levels at the 
scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year; 
the numbers in brackets confirm how many Board meetings each 
Director was eligible to attend during the year.
Board 
scheduled
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee AGM
Current Directors 
who served 
during the year
10 4 8 3
Gerald Corbett* 10 (10) – – 3 1
Breon Corcoran 7 (7) – – – 1
Alex Gersh 4 (4) – – – –
Mike McTighe 9 (10) 4 8 3 1
Ian Dyson 9 (10) 4 7 – 1
Josh Hannah 10 (10) – 8 3 1
Fru Hazlitt 9 (10) – – – 1
Peter Jackson 1 (1) – – – –
Former Directors 
who served 
during the year
Baroness Denise 
Kingsmill 3 (5) 2 (2) – – 1
Stephen Morana 4 (6) – – – 1
*  Attends Committee meetings at the invitation of the respective 
Committee Chairman.
All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers 
circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations  
at the meetings in addition to receiving minutes of previous 
meetings. Their understanding of the Group’s business is 
enhanced by business specific presentations and operational visits 
to the Company’s businesses. Separate strategy meetings and 
meetings with senior executives are also held throughout the 
year. Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they 
were provided with all the papers and information relating to that 
meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly with the 
Chairman and CEO. There are 10 Board meetings and a one day 
off-site meeting currently scheduled for 2013-2014.
Annual re-election and appointments
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association  
the Company and provision B.7.1 of the Code which states  
that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand for  
annual election by shareholders, all current Directors will submit 
themselves for re-election on an annual basis at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
Alexander Gersh and Peter Jackson will stand for election 
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. Further information 
is set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Appointments to the Board
In accordance with main principle B.2 of the Code, there is  
a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new directors to the Board.
Succession planning
The Board considers the quality, performance and likely 
successors for its Executive Director and senior management 
population on a regular basis. The Board normally considers these 
matters formally in December each year. However, given that 
Breon Corcoran was appointed in August 2012 and Alex Gersh  
in December 2012 it was considered unnecessary to have  
a formal succession planning meeting in December 2012.  
It intends to resume its review process in December 2013.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are set out  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 53. The Chairman 
and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment  
which are available for inspection at the registered office of the 
Company during normal business hours and at the place of the 
Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes before and  
until the end of the meeting.
Independent advice
Members of the Board may take independent professional  
advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access  
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, the Head  
of the Legal Department and the Company’s legal advisers and 
external auditors.
g o ve Rn Ance
co Rpo RAt e gove Rn An ce st At e Me nt 39  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Training and development
In accordance with main principle B.4 of the Code, there is 
comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors and 
regular updating, tailored to individual requirements and including 
guidance on requirements of, and Directors’ duties in connection 
with the Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well as other 
relevant legislation. The Board as a whole is updated as necessary 
in light of any governance developments as and when they occur. 
Conflicts of interest 
Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external 
Non-Executive Director appointment with the Company’s prior 
approval as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare 
situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those 
Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.  
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting 
and considering conflicts continues to operate effectively. 
Shareholder relations
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the 
performance and activities of the Company. The Company formally 
updates the market on its financial performance at least four times 
a year, at the half year and full year results in December and June 
and respectively, the interim management statements in March and 
September. The content of these updates is posted and webcast  
on the Company’s website, together with general information  
about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.  
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its major 
institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, 
on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the 
business. On a more informal basis, the Head of Investor Relations 
regularly reports to the Board the views of major shareholders in 
respect of the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and 
other Non-Executive Directors are available and meet shareholders 
on request and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings  
with major shareholders.
The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, 
many of whom are also customers. All proxy votes received  
in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the 
balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.  
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees attend to answer questions.
Board effectiveness evaluation
Following various changes in the composition of the Board since 
2012, including the appointment of a new Chairman and CEO 
and to allow sufficient time for adjustment due to the changes,  
a formal assessment of the Board and its performance will  
be carried out (with an external assessor) during 2013-2014. 
Further, the Chairman’s performance assessment will be led  
by the Senior Independent Director.
The last formal assessment (with an external assessor) was 
carried out in 2010 and included a review of issues relating  
to the Board as a whole, the performance of the Chairman  
and the priority of tasks. The process included the completion  
of a detailed questionnaire by the Board Directors and included  
an opportunity for each Director to make comments. The areas 
covered in the questionnaire were the Board’s role and its 
organisation, the Board dynamic and relationships, quality  
of information flows and decision-making, Board committees, 
performance monitoring and the Board’s priority tasks.  
The report was subsequently discussed between the Chairman 
and the rest of the Board.
Board diversity
We, as a Board, are committed to ensuring a broad mix of 
gender, age, nationality, experience and skills throughout the 
business and that the composition of the Board itself is based  
on a range and balance of skills, knowledge, experience and  
merit and remains appropriate for a business of this size. The 
Board has noted the contents of the Davies Report on Women 
on Boards in February 2011 and Code revision to strengthen  
the principle of board diversity. The Company currently has  
six Non-Executive Directors, one of whom (17%) is female.
Committees
There are four main Committees of the Board which are outlined 
on page 40. Each Board Committee has written terms of 
reference approved by the Board, which are available on the 
Company’s website: corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/
corporate-governance. 40 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
g o ve Rn Ance
co Rpo RAt e gove Rn An ce st At e Me nt Executive Committee
The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the CEO, 
consists of the Executive Directors and certain other  
senior executives.
The Executive Committee meets formally approximately 
every four weeks. The Committee assists the CEO who  
has day to day responsibility for the running of the Group’s 
business. It develops the Group’s strategy and annual 
revenue and capital budgets for Board review and approval. 
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant 
investment proposals. 
This Committee monitors the financial and operational 
performance of the Group and allocates resources within  
the budgets agreed by the Board. It considers employment 
issues, ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of talent  
and develops senior management manpower planning and 
succession plans. In addition it also ensures that the Group’s 
policy on regulation is fulfilled.
Market Disclosure Committee
The Market Disclosure Committee considers and decides 
upon matters brought to its attention which would be likely 
to give rise to an obligation to make a market announcement 
under the FSA Listing Rules. Amongst others, it comprises 
the CFO (Committee chairman), and the Company Secretary.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Committee, which is chaired by Fru Hazlitt,  
an Independent Non-Executive Director, includes  
the Group Operations Director and HR Director.
The Committee meets at least four times per year and  
was established to define, support and monitor the  
execution of Betfair’s corporate responsibility strategy.
Further details of the work of this Committee can be found  
on pages 20 to 27.
Remuneration Committee
Mike McTighe has been chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee since June 2009.
Ian Dyson and Fru Hazlitt (both also independent  
Non-Executive Directors) were members of the Committee 
throughout the year. The Remuneration Committee met 
eight times during the year.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee and  
its activities are included in the Directors’ Remuneration  
Report on pages 48 to 56.
Nomination Committee
Gerald Corbett has chaired the Committee since March 2012.
Mike McTighe, Senior Independent Director and Fru Hazlitt, 
an Independent Non-Executive Director were members of 
the Committee during the year. The Nomination Committee 
met three times during the year.
Further details about the Nomination Committee can be 
found on page 41.
Close
The Board is the guardian of Betfair, its reputation and its 
relationships. We believe that a robust corporate governance 
structure helps us to continue to maintain Betfair’s reputation  
and relationships, and to deliver sustainable value.
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
Audit Committee
Ian Dyson has been chairman of the Audit Committee  
since 17 February 2010. Ian has been identified as having 
significant recent and relevant financial experience and his 
biography can be found on page 31. The other members  
of the Audit Committee, Mike McTighe and Peter Jackson, 
have extensive commercial experience. The Chairman of  
the Board, the CEO and the CFO attend such meetings  
at the invitation of the Committee’s Chairman. During  
the year, the Committee met four times.
Further details about the Audit Committee and its activities  
are included in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 
42 to 47. 41  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
g o ve Rn Ance 
Repo Rt o f the no Mi n At ion co MMi ttee Role of the Committee
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying  
and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates  
for appointment to the Board. The Committee has written  
terms of reference which are available on the Company’s website.
Activities during the year
During the year and in accordance with its terms of reference,  
the members of the Nomination Committee engaged with 
Redgrave Partners (which has no other connection with the 
Company), an executive search firm, to assist with and 
recommend potential candidates for the Chief Financial Officer 
role. The Nomination Committee also engaged with The Zygos 
Partnership (which has no other connection with the Company) 
to provide a successor Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and a Non-Executive 
Director (Fru Hazlitt), guided the Committee throughout the 
recruitment process for both roles. Comprehensive candidate 
search briefs were agreed and circulated to the executive  
search firm. Thereafter a shortlist of candidates was circulated.  
After careful consideration of a range of quality candidates,  
a number of shortlisted candidates were invited for meetings  
as appropriate. After these meetings, a review of the candidates 
took place and the preferred candidates were recommended  
for appointment to the Board. Throughout the process, regular 
evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, 
diversity and capability were taken into account and the 
candidates were considered on merit against objective criteria.
The chosen Chief Financial Officer candidate, Alexander Gersh, 
was immediately available as he had left his previous company, 
NDS, following its sale to Cisco Systems, Inc. and he took up  
his role at Betfair on 3 December 2013.
The chosen Non-Executive Director, Peter Jackson, joined the 
Board on 24 April 2013.
Action plan
Among other things, we envisage:
•	 continuing to support the development of the executive team; 
and
•	 continuing to ensure that we plan for the evolution of the 
Non-Executive Directors over the medium term to maintain  
the appropriate mix of skills.
Close
We have conducted a thorough and transparent appointment 
process for the recommendation of two new directors to the  
Board and have made good progress.
Gerald Corbett 
Nomination Committee Chairman
‘ We h Av e MAd e good p Ro g Re ss in 
secu Ri ng the Appoint Me nt of A ne W 
ch ief f i n An ci Al o f fice R An d A ne W 
i n dependent n o n- e x ecutive d i Re cto R.’ 
 g e RAl d co RBe tt, ch Ai RMAn 42 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit Committee process
The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined  
in its terms of reference, through a series of meetings throughout 
the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.  
The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found  
on the Company’s website corporate.betfair.com/about-us/
corporate-governance.
The Committee commissions reports, from external advisers, 
Group Internal Audit, or Company management, either after 
consideration of the Company’s major risks or in response  
to developing issues. The Committee meets privately with the 
external auditors and the Director of Group Internal Audit & Risk 
Management. The external auditors meet the Director of Group 
Internal Audit & Risk Management in private throughout the  
year and liaise with Company management in considering  
areas for review.
During the year, the Committee considered the following matters:
•	 review and recommendation of interim and full year  
financial results;
•	 the scope and cost of the external audit;
•	 non-audit work carried out by the external auditors and trends  
in the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committee’s  
policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence;
•	 the scope of the annual internal audit plan, internal audits  
of reference, its resourcing and external support;
•	 the external auditors’ interim and full year reports;
•	 periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group 
Internal Audit; and
•	 the effectiveness of the external auditors and consideration  
of their reappointment;
g o ve Rn Ance
Repo Rt of the Audit co MMit tee Overview
The Audit Committee is the body which carries out the functions 
required by DTR 7.1.3 (Audit Committees and their functions).  
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to:
•	 review the Company’s public statements on internal control 
and corporate governance compliance prior to their 
consideration by the Board;
•	 review the Company’s processes for detecting fraud, 
misconduct and control weaknesses and to consider  
the Company’s response to any such occurrence;
•	 review management’s evaluation of any change in internal 
controls over financial reporting;
•	 review with management and the external auditors any 
financial statements required under UK legislation before 
submission to the Board;
•	 establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness  
of the Group Internal Audit function;
•	 assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, 
resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditors, 
including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness;
•	 pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external 
auditors and the fees to be paid for that work together with 
the monitoring of the external auditors’ independence;
•	 oversee the process for dealing with complaints received  
by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls 
or auditing matters and the confidential, anonymous 
submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable 
accounting or auditing matters; and
•	 monitor the integrity of the financial statements, and formal 
announcements relating to the Company’s financial performance, 
reviewing significant judgements contained therein.
‘ t h e co MMi ttee continues to d Ri ve  
A Be tte R unde Rs t An ding of Ri sk 
Appetite, tole RAnce And MAn Ag e Me nt 
AcRo ss the Bu siness in line Wi th the 
ch An ges in the Bu siness st Ru ctu Re t o 
focus on Achieve Me nt of the st RAt egic 
o Bj ectives An d sust Ai n ABl e long-te RM 
g Ro Wt h of the Bu siness.’ 
i An dyson,  
independent non-executive di Re cto R 43  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
•	 reports on allegations made via the Group’s whistleblowing 
procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures;
•	 the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit;
•	 management representations granted to the external auditors 
and the Company’s procedures to ensure all relevant audit 
information has been disclosed;
•	 major changes in the Group’s internal controls;
•	 the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions;
•	 the Group’s framework for the identification and control of 
major risks, its risk and assurance mitigation plan and the 
annual assessment of control effectiveness;
•	 compliance with the code of ethics;
•	 corporate governance developments;
•	 review of the suitability of the Group’s accounting policies  
and practices;
•	 the status of material litigation involving the Group; 
•	 the Committee’s own terms of reference, membership  
and its effectiveness; and
•	 detailed reviews of strategy, security, disaster recovery, 
insurance, treasury, related parties transactions, financial 
authorisation controls, financial personnel succession planning 
and Directors and senior officer expenses.
The Company’s financial statements are reviewed by the 
Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
External auditors’ independence
The Committee has primary responsibility for making 
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and 
removal of the external auditors. The Committee maintains  
an ongoing oversight of the external audit appointment and 
recommends that the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc’s (KPMG) 
election be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
KPMG was appointed as external auditor, following a competitive 
tender in 2003. Any decision to open the external audit to tender 
will be taken on the recommendation of the Committee based  
on a review of the effectiveness of the external auditor. There are 
no contractual obligations restricting the Committee’s choice of 
external auditors. In any event, the external auditors are required  
to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every 
five years. The lead audit partner has been rotated this year.
The Committee is satisfied that there are no relationships 
between the Company and the auditor, its employees or its 
affiliates that may reasonably be thought to impair the auditors’ 
objectivity and independence. 
Private meetings were held with KPMG to ensure there were no 
restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items 
that the auditors did not wish to raise with the Executive Directors 
present. The Committee reviews and agrees the engagement 
letter from KPMG and verifies their independence and objectivity. 
It also reviewed the scope of non-audit services provided by 
KPMG to ensure that their objectivity was not impaired.
Non-audit services
The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external 
auditors for non-audit work which is in compliance with the 
Code. The external auditors may carry out certain specified 
non-audit work, in areas that have been pre-approved by the 
Committee. Any other work for which management wishes to 
utilise the external auditors must be approved. The pre-approved 
services include the following:
•	 audit related services, including work related to the annual 
Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local 
statutory accounts; and 
•	 certain specified tax services, including tax compliance,  
tax planning and tax advice.
The external auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit 
services that would compromise their independence, would violate 
any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors  
or would lead a reasonable third party to regard the objectives  
of the proposed non-audit service as being inconsistent with the 
external audit. The policy defines the types of permitted and not 
permitted services. In exceptional circumstances relating to urgent 
transactions or services deemed not to be of a material nature,  
the engagement of the auditor for non-audit work must be 
approved in advance by the Committee Chairman where the fee  
is in excess of £50,000. Fees up to £50,000 must be approved 
by the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees payable in 
respect of audit services is appropriate for a group of its size and 
that an effective audit was conducted during the year. The fees 
for audit and non-audit services are disclosed in Note 3 to the 
Financial Statements on page 76.
Ian Dyson 
Independent Non-Executive Director 44 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
g o ve Rn An ce Risk An d R i sk MAn Ag e Me nt Internal controls and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. In order  
to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the 
procedures necessary to apply the Corporate Governance Code, 
including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and 
delegated authority. These procedures, which are in accordance  
with revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place since before  
the Group was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and for the 
preparation of consolidated accounts. These systems include  
policies and procedures to facilitate the maintenance of records 
that accurately and fairly reflect transactions, provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
the preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, and 
that require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with 
appropriate monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and  
the Executive Committee have established processes, as part  
of the normal good management of the business, to monitor:
•	 strategic plan achievement
•	 financial performance within a comprehensive financial 
planning, accounting and reporting framework
•	 capital investment and asset management performance, with 
detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews
•	 consumer insight data and actions to evolve brands and formats 
to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant 
•	 risk management, through an ongoing process, including 
reports from the Group Internal Audit & Risk Management 
Team, that the significant risks faced by the Group are being 
identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard 
to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives:
•	 reports from the Corporate Risk Committee
•	 reports from the Group’s Internal Audit Team on the work 
carried out under the annual internal audit plan
•	 reports from the external auditors.
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has 
conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control during the year ended 30 April 2013. The system of 
internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate,  
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such,  
it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. In that context, the review,  
in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system  
was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of 
any change to this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
The Company has a long established process for analysing its key 
risks and adopts a proactive approach in this area, with ultimate 
ownership resting with respective Board and Executive Board 
members who manage the specific risks associated with their 
areas of responsibility together with a dedicated Group Risk 
Management Team.
Risk Management Framework
The Risk Management Framework is a well established process 
adopted to ensure that the Company understands, evaluates and 
mitigates the potential risks facing the business and is shown below.
Betfair Board
Audit Committee
Corporate Risk 
Committee
Group Risk 
Management 
Department
Group Internal 
Audit 
Department
Risk sub-
committees:
Escalate critical 
risks requiring 
Risk Committee 
review
Business  
functions:
Risks identified by 
business 
functions 
documented on 
the risk register
Risk  
functions:
(BCM, Fraud, 
Integrity, AML 
etc.): escalate key 
risks requiring 
Risk Committee 
review
Betfair has a comprehensive risk management framework across 
the whole of the Group based on sound principles of good 
governance, to actively identify risks and mitigate them to the 
extent considered appropriate, balancing risk and opportunity  
to safeguard the business and its reputation. The framework 
provides the Directors and senior management with a consolidated 
view of the key risks faced by the business which is updated and 
evaluated regularly. The Directors believe the Group’s approach 
and capabilities will, over the long term, contribute to the 
achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives.
The risk management framework comprises a number of formal 
committees made up of senior executives and relevant senior 
managers from across the Betfair Group, which deal with matters 
of policy and control and exercise oversight of the operational 
implementation of risk management, together with several 
operational teams. There are also established processes and 
procedures in place between committee meetings to deal  
with more urgent decisions and actions. This framework  
is overseen by the Corporate Risk Committee, which reports  
to the Audit Committee.  45  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
A Group Risk Management Team co-ordinates, structures  
and embeds risk management practices across the business  
on an ongoing basis. It maintains a central risk register which 
documents the risks across the whole organisation and how  
they are being managed. A description of the Corporate Risk 
Committee, and some of the key components of Betfair’s risk 
management framework is set out below.
Corporate Risk Committee
The Corporate Risk Committee comprises the CEO, the CFO and 
the Group Director of Legal & Corporate Affairs. The Corporate 
Risk Committee is responsible for the review of significant 
business risk issues for Betfair, including but not limited to money 
laundering, fraud, integrity, operations and legal and regulatory 
issues. The Corporate Risk Committee makes recommendations 
to the Audit Committee and, as appropriate, to the Board as  
to the Betfair Group’s overall appetite for risk and its approach  
to managing and mitigating risk. Importantly, it also reviews 
Betfair’s risk management and internal control frameworks to 
ensure consistent performance and recommend improvements  
as necessary. To ensure that our risk process drives improvement 
across the business, action plans for the principal risks and 
uncertainties are reviewed at each Committee meeting together 
with any recommendations to add emerging risks to/remove 
mitigated risks from these principal risks. The Committee plans  
to continue to drive a better understanding of risk appetite, 
tolerance and management across the business in line with  
the changes in the business structure to focus on achievement  
of the strategic objectives and sustainable long-term growth  
of the business. The Corporate Risk Committee meets quarterly 
and otherwise as required and reports matters of significance  
at the subsequent Audit Committee meeting.
Technology Risk Committee
The Technology Risk Committee is responsible for identifying  
and mitigating key risks to Betfair’s technology infrastructure, 
including risks to the current and future operating requirements  
of Betfair’s technology. In particular it is responsible for Betfair’s 
disaster recovery planning. The Technology Risk Committee  
meets quarterly.
Business continuity planning
Through its comprehensive business continuity strategy, Betfair 
aims to be able to continue to service its customers irrespective  
of any incident or failure which may impact on any of Betfair’s 
key operating and technology locations. The key components  
of this strategy are physical site security, departmental continuity 
plans for all functions and a technology disaster recovery plan. 
Betfair’s state of business continuity readiness is demonstrated 
by the business continuity plan’s continued certification under 
BS25999 (Business Continuity Assessment). The Chief 
Information Officer and direct staff have primary responsibility  
for the business continuity plan. 
Disaster recovery (DR) capability is a key part of the wider 
business continuity plan. The objective of the DR strategy is  
to ensure that response and recovery of Betfair’s technology 
infrastructure is in line with prioritised business needs and 
compliant with regulatory requirements (COBIT DS4 – IT 
Continuity). Betfair has pre-placed equipment in dedicated DR 
sites in Ireland to which key products, technology operations  
and back-end functionality can be moved over and remotely 
operated. While not in DR use, this equipment is used to 
performance and capacity test new software code before 
deployment to Betfair’s live environment.
Group Internal Audit Team
The Group Internal Audit Team is responsible for giving  
risk-based, independent assurance to the Audit Committee  
and operating management on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management, control and governance processes.
It provides assurance that:
•	 risk management practices are sound and operating effectively;
•	 key risks are being managed to an acceptable level;
•	 internal controls are effective and efficient; and
•	 mechanisms are in place to achieve Betfair’s business 
objectives.
The team’s responsibilities include reporting regularly to 
management on the effectiveness of Betfair’s controls. The team 
reports to the CFO and the team head has a direct reporting line 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee (with direct access to 
the other members of the Audit Committee).
Management actions from internal audits are tracked  
to completion and the status of actions on significant risks  
is reported to the Audit Committee to ensure that the risks 
identified are appropriately addressed.
Compliance Group
The Compliance Group comprises four teams of specialist and 
subject matter experts in their individual fields. The teams report  
to Betfair’s Group Director of Legal & Corporate Affairs.
Compliance Team
The Regulatory Compliance Team provides advice and 
administrative assistance across the Betfair business in the 
development, licensing and launch of new products, and day  
to day product and process compliance with existing licences  
and Betfair regulatory policies. Together, Betfair’s compliance 
managers and compliance analysts maintain an ongoing dialogue 
with gambling regulators, technical testing bodies and relevant 
staff within the business to ensure that Betfair operates in 
accordance with the terms of its licences and relevant legislation. 
Regulatory Licensing Team
This team is responsible for applying for, and obtaining, relevant 
gambling licences in jurisdictions which the business has identified 
as a suitable market to offer its products. The team co-ordinates 
and organises the collation and submission of the application and 
supporting documents and acts as advisor to the product team  
and Regulatory Compliance to ensure products meet the new 
jurisdictional requirements. 46 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Additional risk management policies and practices relating  
to customers
Betfair has a number of important policies which are embedded  
in its operations to protect both its customers and Betfair from 
certain risks often associated with remote gambling. In part, 
these policies also help Betfair to meet licensing and regulatory 
requirements and comply with applicable legislation. They also 
underpin some important capabilities of Betfair, in particular  
by facilitating the close and consistent co-operation of several  
of the risk management functions described above.
•	 KYC/customer due diligence: Betfair operates a sophisticated 
four-level customer due diligence process (referred to as Know  
Your Customer or KYC), which uses both automated and manual 
methods to verify a customer’s age, identity and source of 
funds. The KYC process also assesses the extent and quality  
of the customer’s verification information in determining whether 
to allow the customer to operate a Betfair betting account, 
either at all, or above certain levels of activity. Betfair’s KYC 
processes are integral to the anti-money laundering, fraud  
and integrity policies and practices described below.
•	 Underage betting and gaming: All customers are required  
to confirm upon registration that they are over the legal age  
for gambling within each particular jurisdiction. As an essential 
and specific component of the customer due diligence policy 
referred to above, Betfair also carries out age verification 
checks on all customers who use payment mechanisms which 
may be available to under 18s, and performs random age 
verification checks on all customers. Betfair suspends all 
UK-based customers who fail to verify their age within  
72 hours. Betfair advises and encourages its customers to 
prevent minors from accessing betting and gaming websites.
•	 Ring-fenced customer funds: Betfair holds all Core Betfair 
customer moneys in separately managed bank accounts,  
which are safeguarded independently of Betfair’s Corporate 
funds under the terms of a Trust Deed or where there  
is a requirement for such funds to be held under the terms  
of any licence, in a separate non set-off bank account  
in the name of the licence holder.
Anti-Money Laundering Team
Betfair’s anti-money laundering (AML) compliance policy 
encompasses a collection of procedures, technologies and 
techniques to:
•	 make a risk-based assessment of all financial transactions  
using Betfair payment, betting and gaming systems
•	 establish and implement relevant record-keeping  
requirements across the business
•	 report on an ongoing basis to the relevant statutory  
authorities any suspicious circumstances concerning  
financial transactions
•	 ensure regular staff training in Betfair’s AML procedures.  
A dedicated AML Team is responsible for assessing and 
implementing Betfair’s AML policy in accordance with the 
Financial Action Task Force (FATF) recommendations,  
European Directives and national legislation. The AML  
Team is also responsible for managing Betfair’s anti-bribery 
strategy in accordance with the requirements of the UK  
Bribery Act 2010.
Integrity Team and Rules and Regulations Committee
The Integrity Team is responsible for monitoring betting activity  
on the Betfair’s sports betting products, investigating any 
potentially suspicious betting activity, and is the main point  
of liaison for sports regulatory bodies. Betfair has Memoranda  
of Understanding (MoUs) in place with over 55 sports regulators, 
under which, in certain circumstances, Betfair shares relevant 
information about its customers with MoU partners to help in 
policing the betting integrity related rules which govern their 
participants and/or the prevention and detection of crime. The 
sports governing body may then use the personal information 
shared by Betfair to investigate and act on any such breaches in 
accordance with its procedures. Betfair also offers its sporting 
MoU partners access to the BetMonitor, a proprietary technology 
portal which enables regulators to monitor betting activity by 
Betfair customers in real time. 
The Directors consider Betfair’s MoU framework and information 
sharing policy to be market leading and a key contributor to the 
trust with which Betfair is regarded by customers, sports and 
gambling regulators and governments.
Maintaining the integrity of Betfair’s betting markets is important 
to Betfair’s reputation for fairness amongst customers and sports 
bodies. To this end the MoU framework is complemented by  
a comprehensive and detailed set of betting rules which Betfair 
applies in the operation of its betting markets. Those rules, 
together with decisions about the operation and settlement  
of betting markets and practices relating to customers,  
are overseen by Betfair’s Rules and Regulations Committee,  
which reports as necessary to the Corporate Risk Committee.
Sustainable gambling practices
The Sustainable Gambling Team develops and implements 
Betfair’s policies and practices in relation to problem gambling 
and responsible play are implemented throughout the business. 
Customers are educated about playing responsibly and can access 
tools which enable them to apply automated controls on their 
betting and gaming activity with Betfair, including full self-
exclusion and applying deposit and loss limits. Betfair also makes 
donations to various research and treatment organisations, 
including the Responsible Gambling Trust (RGT) and Gambling 
Therapy. All Betfair staff complete regular training in responsible 
gambling and have access to free and confidential support should 
they ever feel they need help with their own gambling habits. 
Betfair continues to be at the forefront of the industry in 
developing data analysis tools and behavioural markers to create 
a risk profile for problem gambling so that such customers can  
be referred to Betfair’s various tools and support services. 
gove Rn Ance
Ris k An d Ris k MAn Age Me nt 47  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Regulatory overview
Betfair operates in a heavily regulated sector where changes  
in regulation can have a significant impact on its operations.  
The regulation and legality of online betting and gaming varies 
from jurisdiction to jurisdiction (from open licensing regimes to 
sanctions or prohibitions) and in certain jurisdictions there is no 
directly applicable legislation. Besides the regulatory changes, 
online betting and gaming is subject to other uncertainties in many 
jurisdictions and approaches to enforcement of local laws vary. 
Bearing all these factors in mind, Betfair’s commercial and 
marketing strategy is designed to achieve sustainable revenue  
from regulated jurisdictions. The primary focus of the Group  
is on the UK and Ireland, but other countries where the Group 
holds gambling licences such as the United States, Australia,  
Italy, Spain or Denmark are also significant. 
Betfair’s determination, as to whether or not to permit customers 
in a given jurisdiction to access any one or more of its products  
and whether to engage with customers, is made on the basis of 
its measured and prudent approach to legal and regulatory 
compliance, and is based on a number of factors which include:
•	 the terms of Betfair’s betting and gaming licences  
in individual jurisdictions
•	 the laws and regulations of the jurisdiction including state,  
federal or supra-national law including EU law if applicable,  
and in particular the way in which such laws and regulations 
apply to the specific betting and gaming products and specific 
types of related activity, including marketing; and
•	 the approach to the application or enforcement of such  
laws and regulations by regulatory and other authorities  
in the jurisdiction.
With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to 
insure against every risk to the fullest extent. The Group regularly 
reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it 
buys with guidance from an external independent body, bearing 
in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood 
and magnitude of the risks involved.
The Company’s principal risks and uncertainties may be found  
on pages 28 and 29.
Ian Dyson 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 48 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
During the year the new strategy was unveiled coupled with  
a significant restructure of the business and the Remuneration 
Committee has also been mindful of the speed with which the  
new Executive Team has been able to implement these changes. 
The Remuneration Committee has worked hard to continue  
to develop our remuneration policy, and thereby improve the 
alignment with both the Company’s short and long-term  
strategy and best market practice.
While there have been no significant changes to the remuneration 
policy, during the course of the year we have simplified the bonus 
structure and brought the terms of our LTIP in line with market 
practice, as approved at the AGM in 2012. As disclosed at the 
time of his award, we have provided specific recruitment terms 
for the incoming Chief Executive. The Committee also dealt with 
the departure of the interim CEO and the recruitment of a new 
CFO during the year.
A summary of the main topics discussed at the Committee 
meetings during the year can be found below. 
I hope that you will support the Directors’ Remuneration  
Report resolution which will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
g o ve Rn Ance
Re Mu ne RAt ion Repo Rt Introduction
The contents of this report sets out the Group’s policy and 
disclosures in relation to Directors’ remuneration for the year 
ended 30 April 2013. The report has been presented on behalf  
of the Board and complies fully with the Listing Rules, the 
Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium 
Sized Companies (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008  
and the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’)  
as applicable for the financial year.
The relevant sections of this report have been audited by KPMG  
Audit plc. This report will be put to shareholders for approval  
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee’s remit includes determining  
the broad policy for remuneration, as well as each element  
of remuneration for the Executive Directors of the Company,  
the Company Secretary, the Chairman and designated members 
of executive management. The Remuneration Committee is also 
responsible for overseeing all share schemes and advising the 
Board on any significant changes in employee benefit policies or 
structures throughout the Company. The Committee has agreed 
terms of reference that are available on the Company’s website, 
or on request from the Company Secretary, who also acts as 
Secretary to the Remuneration Committee. The Group has 
complied with the provisions of the Code relating to Directors’ 
remuneration throughout the financial year.
Activities of the Committee
May 2012
•	 year end outturn
•	 performance measures
•	 LTIP and bonus plan revisions
June 2012
•	 year end 2011-2012 outturn 
•	 LTIP 2009-2012 vesting
•	 performance measures 2012-2013
•	 2012 LTIP targets and awards
•	 annual report
•	 annual salary review
•	 LTIP and bonus plan revised rules
•	 dilution and trust purchases
July 2012
•	 executive remuneration policy and proposals
September 2012
•	 outgoing Interim CEO exit arrangements
November 2012
•	 share awards
•	 adoption of share plans
•	 incoming CFO contract and remuneration
March 2013
•	 review of Terms of Reference 
•	 dilution and Trust purchases
•	 amendment to LTIP and DSIP rules for the purposes of tax
•	 LTIP targets and measures
•	 consideration of updates to legislation and market practice
‘As AppRo ved At t he 2012 A g M,  
We h Av e MAd e good p Ro g Re ss in 
si Mplifying ou R Bo nus st Ru ctu Re  
An d Acco Rd ingly i MpRo ving Al ign Me nt 
Wi th the co MpAn y’s st RAt egies.’
Mike M ctighe,
Re Mu ne RAt ion co MMi ttee ch Ai RMAn 49  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the 
Code. The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mike McTighe, 
and its other members are Ian Dyson and Fru Hazlitt. All three 
members served on the Remuneration Committee throughout 
the year. Biographies of the Committee members can be found 
on pages 30 and 31. 
The Committee meets at least twice each year, and during  
the year under review met on eight occasions. Each member’s 
attendance at these meetings is set out in the Corporate 
Governance report on page 38. The Committee received material 
assistance and advice from the Chairman, CEO and the Group 
Human Resources Director, although no individual is present for 
decisions relating to their personal remuneration.
The Committee has been advised during the year by New  
Bridge Street (NBS) and by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 
(Freshfields). NBS is a separate subsidiary of the Group’s insurance 
broker Aon plc (and it does not provide any other services to  
the Company). Freshfields are one of the Group’s legal advisors 
and have advised the Group on various legal matters.
Remuneration policy
Betfair’s remuneration is designed to provide a strong link  
to short and long-term performance through a simple and 
transparent framework. To attract, motivate and retain the 
highest calibre executives, the Company targets total fixed pay  
at around market levels, and incentive opportunities to allow 
executives to earn upper quartile levels of reward for upper 
quartile levels of performance. In determining the structure and 
quantum of senior executive remuneration, the Committee also 
takes into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in 
the Group. The table below sets out the Committee’s strategy 
and policy during the year and details changes envisaged going 
into the next financial year.
Elements of remuneration
Element Objective FY13 policy FY14 policy
Base salary  
(see page 50)
Reflect size and nature of role, 
individual experience and 
performance.
Determined taking into 
account market data for 
comparable positions at 
companies of similar sector 
and size to Betfair.
No change.
Short-Term Incentive Plan 
(STIP) 
(see page 50)
Incentivise delivery of Betfair’s 
business strategy by rewarding 
profit and revenue targets and 
each executive’s contribution  
to Group success.
A maximum opportunity of up 
to 180% of salary.
Deferred Shares awarded as 
part of the Annual Bonus plan 
will be awarded under the 
Deferred Share Incentive Plan 
as approved at the 2012 AGM. 
Up to 10% of salary is payable 
against personal performance.
The personal performance 
element is to increase to 20%  
of salary (out of 180% 
maximum opportunity).
The remaining 170% of  
salary is based on Core  
Betfair underlying EBITDA  
and revenue.
2/3rds of any amount earned 
is paid in cash and 1/3rd in 
shares, vesting in equal 
tranches after 1 and 2 years 
from date of grant.
Following the Group’s 
restructuring efforts of recent 
times, the emphasis for the 
Company will be moved to 
Revenue, with 60% of the 
opportunity against financial 
measures being based on 
Group Revenue and 40% 
against Group Underlying 
EBITDA.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
(see pages 51 and 53)
Incentivise senior executives  
to create long-term  
shareholder value.
Align the interests of senior 
executives with those  
of shareholders.
Awards over shares, vesting 
after 3 years based 50% on 
Relative Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR), 25% on Revenue 
performance and 25% on EPS.
The Committee has proposed 
that the same three measures 
will be used for the 2013 
award, although the weighting 
will be adjusted to 25% on 
Relative TSR, 25% on Revenue 
performance and 50% on EPS.
Pension 
(see page 54)
Provide competitive total  
fixed pay.
Company contributions of 15% 
of salary for the CEO, and 10% 
for the CFO (or an equivalent 
cash payment in lieu).
No change.
The Committee considers that the Company’s incentives  
are compatible with the Group’s risk policies and systems,  
and is satisfied that the approach to setting the structure  
of remuneration packages for senior executives underpins  
an effective and proper management of risk; rewarding  
executives fairly for sustainable profit growth and long-term 
shareholder value creation, and delivering a significant proportion 
of executive remuneration in Betfair shares. 50 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
g o ve Rn Ance
Re Mun e RAt ion Repo Rt Departure of the Interim CEO 
During a period of transition, Stephen Morana stepped down  
as Interim CEO on 1 August 2012 (when Breon Corcoran became 
CEO) and continued to be employed by the Company as CFO  
until 3 December 2012 (when Alex Gersh became CFO) when  
he stepped down from the Board. He ceased to be employed  
by the Company on 31 March 2013 and then received a cash 
payment of £422,300 in respect of his notice period and £17,866  
in respect of untaken holiday.
Stephen Morana retains awards granted to him in 2010 and  
2011 under the Long-Term Incentive Plan. The awards will vest  
in accordance with the rules of the plan at their normal vesting 
dates subject to the applicable performance targets. The number 
of shares that will vest will be reduced on a time pro-rata basis. 
Stephen Morana also retains vested and unvested share option 
awards under various Company employee share plans which he 
may exercise in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans. 
Details of these awards are set out on pages 55 and 56.
In addition to the above, Stephen Morana is entitled to receive  
a cash payment in July 2013 in respect of the cash element  
only of his 2013 Short-Term Incentive Plan award, pro-rated  
to reflect the termination of his employment on 31 March 2013. 
Details of the payment are set out on page 54. 
New CEO Breon Corcoran
Breon Corcoran took up the role of CEO on 1 August 2012 and 
the terms of his remuneration upon appointment were detailed  
in last year’s report and, to the extent they were awarded or paid 
during the most recent financial year, are set out in the relevant 
sections of this report. The level of any bonus paid in respect  
of the 2012-2013 financial year will reflect the period of service  
in this year.
New CFO Alexander Gersh
The new CFO, Alex Gersh was selected after a rigorous search 
process led by the Nomination Committee, as outlined in the 
Nomination Committee on page 41. Alex Gersh joined the 
Company and was appointed CFO on 3 December 2012.  
He is paid a basic salary of £400,000 per annum, with a 
Company contribution to his pension fund of 10% of basic salary. 
Alex Gersh participates in the executive annual bonus plan as set 
out below, with a maximum opportunity of 180% of basic salary. 
One third of any award paid is deferred into Company shares 
with 50% vesting after 1 year and 50% vesting after 2 years. 
The level of any bonus paid in respect of the 2012-2013 financial 
year will be reduced pro-rata for the period of service in this year. 
In order to facilitate his recruitment, upon commencement  
Alex Gersh received a share award, with terms similar to the  
2012 LTIP award. This award consisted of nil cost options over 
108,788 of the Company’s shares (whose face value equalled 
200% of Alex’s salary at the date of grant) which vest on the  
third anniversary of grant subject to performance conditions and 
continued service. Performance conditions, which are the same 
as those made to other senior executives under the 2012 LTIP 
award, and are set out on pages 51 and 52.
The nil cost options above, which are non pensionable, have  
been granted pursuant to the authority contained in Listing Rule 
9.4.2R(2) and full details of the awards as required by Listing  
Rule 9.4.3 are disclosed in this Annual Report. The Remuneration 
Committee is satisfied that the package agreed is appropriate  
for the candidate recruited and it is not paying any more than 
necessary to facilitate his recruitment. 
It is anticipated that from 2013 onwards, Alex Gersh will  
participate in the Group LTIP with an award level of 200%  
of basic salary annually.
Executive Director pay mix FY13
The chart below shows the relative importance of each element  
of the expected on-going annual package for Executive Directors, 
based on the maximum bonus (inclusive of deferred shares) and  
the face value award of the LTIP:
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
CEO
CFO
Basic Salary Annual bonusLTIP awards Pensions
Basic salary 
Basic salaries are normally reviewed annually and any changes  
are effective from 1 July each year. In reviewing salaries the 
Remuneration Committee takes into account pay and conditions 
elsewhere across the Group, relevant market data and 
benchmarking, and the individual Director’s performance and 
experience. Benchmarking is carried out on a total remuneration 
basis, and takes account of pay levels for comparable roles at a 
range of organisations of similar size and sector. As at 30 April 
2013, neither Breon Corcoran’s nor Alex Gersh’s basic salary has 
increased since their appointment and remained at £515,000 and 
£400,000 respectively. The general level of pay review in the 
business has been set at a 2.5% budget for FY14 and it is the 
intention to apply the same level of budget to the Executive Team.
As disclosed last year, Stephen Morana was awarded a temporary 
increase of £100,000 per annum applied to his underlying  
basic salary whilst acting in the role of Interim CEO (equating  
to £25,000 in the financial year under review). His underlying  
basic salary was increased on 1 July 2012 by 2.5% in line with 
general increases throughout the Group. The temporary increase 
ceased upon Breon Corcoran’s commencement on 1 August 2012 
and Stephen Morana reverted to his basic salary of £422,300. 51  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Short-Term Incentive Plan 
For the year to 30 April 2013, Executive Directors continued  
to be eligible for a maximum STIP opportunity of 180% of salary. 
The STIP reinforces our annual business strategy by incentivising 
profitable growth captured through Core Betfair Underlying 
EBITDA and revenue. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied 
that EBITDA and revenue are the best measures of short-term 
financial performance for Betfair. The use of revenue aligns with 
our strategic objectives of widening the range of products and 
services that we offer, attracting new customers, increasing the 
activity of existing customers, and building our market share in  
all regions in which we operate. Rewarding EBITDA alongside 
revenue helps ensure a balance between growth and profitability. 
Up to 85% of salary was available for meeting the maximum 
targets under each financial measure. In order to incentivise and 
reward wider aspects of business performance, and capture lead 
measures, an element based on individual performance was 
introduced for the STIP during FY12. Executive Directors were 
eligible to earn up to 10% of salary for achieving specific and 
measurable individual objectives. Two-thirds of any STIP payment 
is delivered in cash, with the remaining one third deferred into 
Betfair Group shares. Deferred shares vest 50% after 1 year and 
50% after 2 years from the date of grant, subject to continued 
employment. Details of the STIP awards are set out in the 
Directors’ remuneration table below.
The STIP arrangements for FY14 will be similar to those operated  
for FY13. However, following shareholder approval at the 2012 
AGM, the Committee has separated the STIP into its component 
parts of a cash bonus plan and deferred share arrangement  
and the deferred share arrangement will contain the flexibility  
to use new issue shares. While there is no change in the 180% 
maximum bonus available to the participants or the level of  
share deferral operated, the new plans allow the Committee to 
introduce a clawback clause, dividend roll-up provision and other 
changes to simplify the arrangements and better align them with 
best and market practice. Any future significant amendments  
to share plans would similarly be referred to shareholders.
The Committee has reviewed the measures for FY14 and is 
satisfied that overall they continue to remain the most relevant 
metrics aligned to the corporate strategy. However, out of the 
180% maximum opportunity, the personal performance element 
is to increase from 10% to 20% of salary and of the opportunity 
against financial measures 96% will be based on Group Revenue 
and 64% against Group Underlying EBITDA.
When agreeing bonus awards this year, the Committee has 
recognised the new strategy put in place by the Executive Team 
and that the transition has been achieved with more pace than had 
been envisaged. In particular the positive impact of driving cost 
savings and efficiency coupled with more resilience in revenue from 
non-regulated markets, as detailed elsewhere in this report, has been 
taken into account. The bonuses awarded are detailed on page 54.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is important  
to provide share incentives to Executive Directors and senior 
management to align their long-term interests with those  
of Betfair’s shareholders.
The Committee has moved to granting LTIP awards as a multiple  
of salary, rather than a fixed number of shares, 300% for the 
CEO and 200% for the CFO. Continuing the process started  
in 2011, awards in 2012 were made solely over nil-cost options.  
In addition, the Committee received shareholder approval at  
the 2012 AGM to introduce a dividend roll-up, add clawback  
and amend a number of provisions to aid the administration  
of the plan which are consistent with the deferred share 
arrangement. Any future significant amendments to share  
plans would similarly be referred to shareholders.
For the 2012 LTIP award the Committee introduced a third 
measure for the LTIP, being Relative TSR against a specific 
comparator group composed of similar gaming organisations. 
The awards made will vest 50% against the Relative TSR 
measure, 25% against Group EPS and 25% against Core Betfair 
Revenue. The Committee introduced TSR as an additional 
measure to improve alignment with shareholders, and better 
reflect market practice at FTSE-listed companies. EPS  
and Revenue remained as the other measures to reinforce  
our growth strategy and focus on profitability.
The joining awards of performance-based shares for the CEO 
and CFO described elsewhere in this report are measured  
on the same conditions as those of the 2012 LTIP.
The targets for the 2012 award are:
TSR Target (50% of award):
For the 2012 awards, the Remuneration Committee has agreed 
that appropriate TSR comparators over a three year performance 
period are: Bwin.party digital entertainment plc, Ladbrokes plc, 
Playtech Limited, Paddy Power plc, Rank Group plc, Sportingbet 
plc, Unibet, William Hill plc and 888 Holdings plc. In order for 
this part of the award to vest, Betfair must achieve performance 
as illustrated below:
Betfair’s TSR against the TSR of 
members of the comparator group
% of the relevant part of the award 
that vests (subject to the Relative  
TSR performance condition)
Upper quartile 100%
Between median  
and upper quartile
25%–100%  
(straight-line basis)
Median 25%
Below median 0%
EPS Target (25% of award):
Betfair’s Group EPS for  
the year ended 30 April 2015
% of the relevant part of the award 
that vests (subject to the Group 
EPS performance condition)
60.9 pence 100%
Between 50.3 pence  
and 60.9 pence
25%–100%  
(straight-line basis)
50.3 pence 25%
Below 50.3 pence 0%
N.B. EPS of 50.3 pence and 60.9 pence in 2015 is equivalent to threshold and 
maximum growth rates of 7% compound p.a. and 14% compound p.a. 
respectively.
Core Revenue Target (25% of award):
Betfair’s Core Revenue for  
the year ended 30 April 2015
% of the relevant part of the award 
that vests (subject to the Core  
Revenue performance condition)
£498.3m 100%
Between £405.2m  
and £498.3m
25%–100%  
(straight-line basis)
£405.2m 25%
Below £405.2m 0%
N.B. Core Revenue of £405.2m and £498.3m in 2015 equivalent to threshold 
and maximum growth rates of 5% compound p.a. and 12.5% compound p.a. 
respectively.  52 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
g o ve Rn Ance
Re Mun e RAt ion Repo Rt In respect of both the EPS and Core Revenue targets, the 
Committee retains the discretion to adjust the performance 
outturn to reflect changes to accounting policy since the grant  
of the award and for material changes to the Board’s assessment 
of the regulatory environment within which the Group operates. 
To the extent that the performance targets are not met over  
the performance period, awards will lapse, i.e. there will be  
no re-testing of performance conditions. In the event of a change 
of control, vesting of options is subject to the discretion of  
the Committee.
Having reviewed the measures to be used for the 2013 Awards,  
the Committee has proposed that the same three measures will  
be used, although the weighting will be adjusted to 25% on 
Relative TSR, 25% on Revenue performance and 50% on EPS. 
The corresponding targets will be disclosed in next year’s report.
All-employee share schemes 
The Group operates an HMRC approved SAYE scheme, in which 
all UK employees including Executive Directors may participate. 
Participants can save up to £250 per month for three years and 
then use these savings to buy shares in the Group at a 20% 
discount to the market value at the start of the savings period. 
During the year reported, no such offer was made to employees  
but the Company has already committed to a further offer being 
made in FY14.
Share Option Plan 
The 2009 Unapproved Option Plan allows Executives to be  
granted fair-market value options vesting subject only to continued 
employment. This plan is only used to attract and recruit new 
employees to the Company, and the Committee does not intend  
to make further awards to the current Executive Directors.
Other long-term incentive plans 
Stephen Morana also holds awards under other incentive plans 
operated prior to Admission. Any applicable performance 
conditions on these awards have now been met. The Committee 
does not currently intend to make any further awards to 
Executive Directors under these plans.
Further details on these awards can be found at page 56.
Dilution 
The Group’s share schemes are funded through a combination  
of shares purchased in the market and new issue shares. Funding  
of awards through new issue shares is subject to an overall dilution 
limit of 10% of issued share capital in any 10 year period.
Pension contributions 
The CEO is entitled to a Company pension contribution of 15%  
of basic salary into the Group’s Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) 
which is a defined contribution scheme open to all employees. 
The CFO is entitled to a 10% contribution to the same scheme. 
As an alternative, Executive Directors may choose to take  
the amount as a cash supplement and the CEO has made such  
an election.
Other benefits 
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors relate to life assurance, 
private medical care, income protection and critical illness cover  
and in the case of Breon Corcoran for the reported year, 
assistance with his relocation from Ireland to London.  
There is currently no car or car allowance policy. 
Non-Executive Directors 
All Non-Executive Directors’ services are provided for under the 
terms of a letter of appointment with the Group, and are subject 
to annual re-election with one month’s notice by either party 
(except for the Chairman with three month’s notice by either 
party). Details of the terms of the appointment of the current 
Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
Non-Executive Director
Start of  
current term*
Expiry of  
current term
Josh Hannah 29 September 2010 5 October 2013
Ian Dyson 30 September 2010 5 October 2013
Fru Hazlitt 30 September 2010 5 October 2013
Mike McTighe 4 October 2010 5 October 2013
Gerald Corbett 3 January 2012 3 January 2015
Peter Jackson 24 April 2013 23 April 2016
*  Please see Non-Executive Directors’ profiles for total service on pages 30  
and 31.
Executive Director service contracts
The Remuneration Committee’s policy is to provide service 
contracts for Executive Directors with notice periods of  
12 months or less. Both Executive Directors are subject to  
12 months’ notice by either party. Upon termination, Executive 
Directors are entitled to salary for the duration of their notice 
period. It is the Remuneration Committee’s policy to seek  
to mitigate such payments. The Executive Directors’ service 
agreements and letters of engagement for Non-Executive 
Directors will be available for inspection at the AGM. 
External Directorships for Executive Directors 
At the discretion of the Board, an Executive Director may be 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director at one other company. 
Before granting permission the Board will take into account,  
inter alia, the time commitment of the new role, any potential 
conflicts, the Listing Rules and the Code. The two Executive 
Directors, Breon Corcoran and Alex Gersh, do not have any 
external directorships. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors, excluding  
the Chairman of the Board, are determined by the Board,  
on recommendation of the Executive Directors, and are set  
out in individual letters of appointment. The Chairman’s fee  
is determined by the Remuneration Committee. For the year 
ended 30 April 2013, fees remain unchanged from the prior year.  53  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
The agreed annual basic fees payable to the Non-Executive 
Directors for the year to 30 April 2013 were:
Non-Executive Director (audited)
Annual  
basic  
fee 
£
Committee 
chairmanship  
fee 
£
Senior Independent 
Director  
fee 
£
Total 
£
Gerald Corbett 250,000
1
– – 250,000
Mike McTighe 50,000 10,000 10,000 70,000
Ian Dyson 50,000 15,000 – 65,000
Josh Hannah 50,000 – – 50,000
Fru Hazlitt 50,000 – – 50,000
Baroness Denise Kingsmill
2
50,000 – – 25,000
Peter Jackson
3
50,000 – – 961
1
 This fee includes chairing the Nomination Committee.
2
 This fee is pro-rated until 31 October 2012.
3
 This fee is pro-rated from 24 April 2013 when Mr Jackson joined the Board. 
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses or 
participation in share schemes and no pension contributions  
are made on their behalf. 
Total shareholder return (TSR) 
This graph shows the value, by 30 April 2013, of £100 invested  
in Betfair Group plc on 27 October 2010 (the official date of 
listing) compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
250 Index, FTSE 350 Index and the FTSE 350 Travel and 
Leisure Index. The other points marked are the values at the 
intervening financial year-ends.
These indices were selected to reflect the most relevant broad 
equity market indices. TSR has been calculated in British Pounds 
Sterling, and is based on spot share prices and includes dividends 
reinvested on the relevant ex-dividend date. 
30
60
90
120
150
30/04/2013 30/04/2012 30/04/2011 27/10/2010
Total Shareholder Return 
Value (£)
Betfair FTSE 250
FTSE 350 FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure 54 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
g o ve Rn Ance
Re Mun e RAt ion Repo Rt Directors’ interests in shares
Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors had the following beneficial interest in the issued share capital of Betfair Group plc  
as at 30 April 2013:
Ordinary shares in Betfair Group plc (audited) 30 April 2013 30 April 2012
Executive Directors
Breon Corcoran 25,000 –
Alex Gersh 20,000 –
Non-Executive Directors
Gerald Corbett – –
Ian Dyson 8,500 8,500
Josh Hannah 548,672 588,672
Fru Hazlitt 16,614 14,114
Mike McTighe 18,450 18,450
Peter Jackson – –
Directors’ remuneration (audited) 
The fees paid to the Directors for the year to 30 April 2013 were as follows:
Year ended 30 April 2013
Salary/fee 
£
Bonus
3
£
Pension
4
  
£
Benefits
5
£
Total 
emoluments 
£
30 April 2012 
Total 
£
Executive Directors
Breon Corcoran
1
386,250 309,000 57,938 142,161 895,349 –
Alex Gersh
1
166,667 120,960 13,333 3,139 304,099 –
Stephen Morana
1
850,559 229,819 41,039 2,427 1,123,844 672,360
Non-Executive Directors
Gerald Corbett 250,000 – – – 250,000 –
Mike McTighe 70,000 – – – 70,000 70,000
Ian Dyson 65,000 – – – 65,000 65,000
Josh Hannah 50,000 – – – 50,000 50,000
Fru Hazlitt 50,000 – – – 50,000 50,000
Peter Jackson
1
961 – – – 961 –
Former Directors
2
25,000 – – – 25,000 50,000
Totals 1,914,437 659,779 112,310 147,727 2,834,259 957,360
1
  Pro-rated for the proportion of the year served. The figure for Stephen Morana includes his pro-rata salary plus the £422,300 notice pay and £17,866 holiday  
pay as detailed on page 50.
2
 Includes salary/fees for former Director Baroness Denise Kingsmill pro-rated until 31 October 2012.
3
  The bonuses for Breon Corcoran, Alex Gersh and Stephen Morana were calculated on a pro-rata basis for time served during the year. The committee is satisfied 
that the personal performance element for Breon Corcoran was met, for Alex Gersh substantially achieved and for Stephen Morana partially met. The payments 
represent 67%, 60% and 47% respectively of their maximum opportunities.
4
  The pension for Breon Corcoran is the value of the cash paid to him in lieu of contributions.
5
  The benefits in kind for Executive Directors include life assurance, private medical care, income protection and critical illness cover. In the case of Breon Corcoran, 
assistance was also provided to facilitate his relocation from Ireland by way of shipping costs, assistance with house and school searches and a contribution towards 
stamp duty.  55  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Executive Directors’ share awards (audited) 
The interests of the Executive Directors in the Company’s share schemes are set out in the tables below: 
LTIP 
 Date of grant
Share 
options 
held at 
30 April  
2012
Number
1
conditionally 
granted 
in year
Exercise  
price
Exercisable 
between
Nil cost 
options
Fair  
market 
value 
options
Number  
of  
options 
lapsed 
in year
Share 
options 
held at 
30 April  
2013
Stephen Morana
 1 May 2009 7,500 – Nominal Value On vesting 7,500 – 7,500
2
–
 1 May 2009 120,000 – £10.00 – 120,000 120,000
2
–
 1 May 2010 22,500 – Nominal Value On vesting 22,500 – 638
3
21,862
 1 May 2010 150,000 – £10.00 – 150,000  4,244
3 
145,756
 1 July 2011 58,500 – Nominal Value On vesting 58,500 – 24,393
3
34,107
 1 July 2011 58,500 – £7.62 – 58,500 24,393
3
34,107
 1 January 2012 26,688 – Nominal Value On vesting 26,688 – 15,609
3
11,079
 1 August 2012 – 109,956 Nominal Value On vesting 109,956 – 109,956
3
–
Total 443,688 109,956  225,144 328,500 306,733 246,911
1
 Awards made under the LTIP during the year are subject to the performance conditions described on page 51 and 52.
2
 Awards made on 1 May 2009 did not meet performance conditions and therefore lapsed during the year.
3
 Stephen Morana left the Company and as a result these awards have been lapsed on a time apportioned basis.
The table above presents the maximum number of awards which may vest subject to performance targets being met in full, rather 
than the target number of awards which may vest (as disclosed last year). 56 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
g o ve Rn Ance
Re Mun e RAt ion Repo Rt 
Other share or options schemes
The following options over shares are held by the Executive Directors:
(audited) Scheme
Share 
options 
held at 
1 May  
2012
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
Share 
options 
held at 
30 April  
2013
Exercise 
price 
£
Market 
price at 
grant date 
£
Market 
price at 
exercise 
date 
£
Exercisable 
from Expires on
Executive Directors          
Breon Corcoran          
Restricted Share 
Plan
1
– 350,000 – – 350,000 – 7.6813 – 1 August 
2013
1 August 
2022
Restricted Share 
Plan
2
– 500,000 – – 500,000 0.001 7.6813 – 1 August 
2015
1 August 
2022
Total – 850,000 – – 850,000      
Alex Gersh         
Restricted Share 
Plan
2
– 108,788 – – 108,788 0.001 7.3538 – 1 August 
2015
1 August 
2022
Total – 108,788 – – 108,788      
Stephen Morana          
Restricted Share 
Award Scheme 
(modified shares of 
The Sporting 
Exchange Limited 
Unapproved Share 
Option Plan 2006)
91,666 – (91,666) – – – 10.0000 8.4077 1 December 
2012
10 September 
2016
BETShare 
Performance Plan 
2007
4,500 – (4,500) – – 0.001 10.0000 7.7150 3 August 
2008
2 August 
2012
BETShare 
Performance Plan 
2008
18,333 – – – 18,333 0.001 10.0000 – 3 September 
2009
2 September 
2013
BETShare 
Performance Plan 
2009
17,242 – – – 17,242 0.001 10.0000 – 9 October 
2010
8 October 
2014
The Betfair Group 
Limited Senior 
Executives’ 
Incentive Plan 2010
151,516 – – – 151,516 0.001 15.0000 – 27 October 
2012
26 October 
2020
Short-term 
Incentive Plan
– 11,756 – (11,756) – 0.001 7.5763 – 9 July 
2013
9 July 
2022
 283,257 11,756 96,166 (11,756) 187,091      
1
 These options vest in 3 equal tranches over three years starting on the first anniversary of grant.
2
 These grants have been made conditionally with the same performance conditions as the 01/08/2012 LTIP.
All other awards above are not subject to any performance conditions.
The lowest price of the shares during the year was 650 pence as at 28 January 2013 and the highest price was 865 pence  
as at 30 April 2013.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Mike McTighe 
Remuneration Committee Chairman INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF BETFAIR GROUP PLC 
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 57 
We have audited the financial statements of Betfair Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2013 set out on pages 59 to 102. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial 
Statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion  
on, the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2013 
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; 
and 
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Financial Statements; and 
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 44 to 47 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial 
Statements.  Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Betfair Group plc 
continued 
58 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made;  
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and 
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. 
 
 
 
 
 
Michael Harper 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London, E14 5GL 
27 June 2013 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
For the year ended 30 April 2013 
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 59 
  
Note 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
 Continuing operations   
 Revenue 2 387.0 388.5
 Cost of sales  (49.8) (48.1)
    
 Gross profit  337.2 340.4
    
 Administrative expenses  (406.2) (294.1)
    
 Group operating (loss)/profit  (69.0) 46.3
    
 Analysed as:   
 Underlying EBITDA* (excluding separately disclosed items) 2 73.3 86.0
 Separately disclosed items 5 (22.1) (2.5)
    
 EBITDA* 2 51.2 83.5
    
 Impairment of goodwill and other assets  (82.4) –
 Depreciation and amortisation  (37.8) (37.2)
    
 Group operating (loss)/profit  (69.0) 46.3
    
 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 6 16.8 –
    
 Finance income 7 1.4 3.6
 Finance expense 7 – –
    
 Net finance income  1.4 3.6
    
 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 12 1.4 4.3
    
 (Loss)/profit before tax  (49.4) 54.2
    
 Tax 8 4.2 (7.6)
    
 (Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations  (45.2) 46.6
    
 Discontinued operations   
 Loss for the period/year from discontinued operations, net of tax 27 (21.1) (12.6)
    
 (Loss)/profit for the year   (66.3) 34.0
    
 Attributable to:   
 Equity holders of the Company  (66.3) 34.7
 Non-controlling interest  – (0.7)
    
 (Loss)/profit for the year  (66.3) 34.0
    
 (Loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations   
 Basic  (44.4)p 45.4p
 Diluted**  – 44.5p
 (Loss)/earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations   
 Basic 9 (65.1)p 33.1p
 Diluted** 9 – 32.5p
* EBITDA is defined as Group operating profit before finance income, tax, impairment, depreciation and amortisation. It excludes amounts in respect  
of the Group’s equity accounted investments and is considered by the Directors to be a key measure of its financial performance.  
 Underlying EBITDA has historically been presented as Adjusted EBITDA and defined as EBITDA before separately disclosed items and charges relating 
to equity-settled share-based payments. For the year ended 30 April 2013, Adjusted EBITDA has been renamed Underlying EBITDA and includes 
charges relating to equity-settled share-based payments but excludes separately disclosed items. Comparative periods have been amended accordingly. 
Separately disclosed items in the prior year include results from High Rollers (2013: £nil, 2012: £3.9m profit). 
** As any potential ordinary shares would have the effect of decreasing the loss per share, they have not been treated as dilutive; hence diluted loss  
per share has not been disclosed.  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE 
INCOME 
For the year ended 30 April 2013 
60 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year (66.3) 34.0
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 
Foreign exchange differences arising on consolidation 1.8 (2.9)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of income tax 1.8 (2.9)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (64.5) 31.1
 
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the Company (64.5) 31.8
Non-controlling interest – (0.7)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (64.5) 31.1 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
As at 30 April 2013 
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 61 
Note 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 10 20.6 33.7
Goodwill and other intangible assets 11 54.6 132.4
Investments 12 7.9 6.2
Available-for-sale financial assets 13 1.3 2.1
Deferred tax assets 14 5.1 –
  89.5 174.4
Current assets  
Trade and other receivables 15 18.7 29.6
Cash and cash equivalents 16 168.1 135.4
  186.8 165.0
Total assets  276.3 339.4
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 17 109.6 118.4
Tax payable  21.5 22.9
Provisions 18 11.6 –
  142.7 141.3
Non-current liabilities  
Deferred tax liabilities 14 – 2.0
Provisions 18 1.6 –
Total liabilities  144.3 143.3
Net assets  132.0 196.1
Equity  
Share capital 19 0.1 0.1
Share premium  19.4 12.0
Other reserves  (7.6) (9.3)
Retained earnings  120.1 193.3
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company  132.0 196.1
Non-controlling interest  – –
Total equity 19 132.0 196.1
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 June 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Breon Corcoran Alexander Gersh 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
For the year ended 30 April 2013 
Attributable to equity holders of the Company 
62 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
parent 
equity 
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£m
Total
equity
 £m
Balance at 1 May 2011 0.1 10.7 1.6 (7.5) 207.0 211.9 3.7 215.6
Comprehensive income for the year   
Profit for the year – – – – 34.7 34.7 (0.7) 34.0
Other comprehensive expense – – – (2.8) (0.1) (2.9) – (2.9)
Total comprehensive 
income/(expense) for the year 
– – – (2.8) 34.6 31.8 (0.7) 31.1
Transactions with owners, recorded 
directly in equity 
  
Issue of shares – 1.3 – – – 1.3 – 1.3
Dividend paid – – – – (9.6) (9.6) – (9.6)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – 7.6 7.6 – 7.6
Purchase of own shares – – – – (50.2) (50.2) – (50.2)
Purchase of own shares by the EBT* – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Sale of own shares by the EBT* – – – – 1.0 1.0 – 1.0
Deferred tax on equity-settled   
share-based payments – – (0.6) – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Total transactions with owners – 1.3 (0.6) – (51.3) (50.6) – (50.6)
Changes in ownership interests 
in subsidiaries  
  
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – – 3.0 3.0 (3.0) –
Total changes in ownership interests   
in subsidiaries   
Balance at 30 April 2012 0.1 12.0 1.0 (10.3) 193.3 196.1 – 196.1
   
Balance at 1 May 2012 0.1 12.0 1.0 (10.3) 193.3 196.1 – 196.1
Comprehensive (expense)/income 
for the year 
  
Loss for the year – – – – (66.3) (66.3) – (66.3)
Other comprehensive income – – – 1.8 – 1.8 – 1.8
Total comprehensive 
(expense)/income for the year 
– – – 1.8 (66.3) (64.5) – (64.5)
Transactions with owners, recorded 
directly in equity 
  
Issue of shares – 7.4 – – – 7.4 – 7.4
Dividend paid – – – – (11.2) (11.2) – (11.2)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – 7.5 7.5 – 7.5
Purchase of own shares by the EBT* – – – – (3.2) (3.2) – (3.2)
Deferred tax on equity-settled   
share-based payments – – (0.1) – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Total transactions with owners – 7.4 (0.1) – (6.9) 0.4 – 0.4
   
Balance at 30 April 2013 0.1 19.4 0.9 (8.5) 120.1 132.0 – 132.0
* Employee Benefit Trust is defined as EBT. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW 
For the year ended 30 April 2013 
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 63 
 Note 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash flows from operating activities  
(Loss)/profit for the year  (66.3) 34.0
Adjustments for:  
Depreciation and amortisation 10, 11 40.1 41.2
Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs 20 9.3 8.1
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 6 (16.8) –
Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 27 5.3 –
Impairment loss in respect of goodwill and other assets 10, 11 90.1 –
Share of profit of equity accounted investments 12 (1.4) (4.3)
Finance income 7 (1.5) (3.4)
Tax 8, 27 (3.8) 7.6
Increase in trade and other receivables  (1.1) (8.4)
Increase in trade and other payables  20.7 26.1
Increase in provisions 18 13.2 –
Cash generated from operations  87.8 100.9
Tax paid  (4.7) (4.5)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities  83.1 96.4
Cash flows from investing activities  
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment  (7.2) (14.3)
Acquisition of other intangible assets  (12.0) (15.3)
Capitalised internal development expenditure  (18.9) (29.4)
Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash disposed 27 (24.5) –
Cash injection in jointly controlled entities 12 – (0.1)
Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 13 18.8 –
Finance income received  0.9 1.3
Net cash flows used in investing activities  (42.9) (57.8)
Cash flows from financing activities  
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 19 7.4 1.3
Dividends paid 19 (11.2) (9.6)
Purchase and cancellation of own shares 19 – (50.2)
Purchase of own shares by the EBT 19 (3.2) (0.1)
Sale of own shares by the EBT 19 – 1.0
Net cash flows used in financing activities  (7.0) (57.6)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  33.2 (19.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 16 135.4 155.0
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held  (0.5) (0.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at year end 16 168.1 135.4 NOTES 
(Forming part of the financial statements) 
64 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Accounting policies 
Reporting entity 
Betfair Group plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 April 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the ‘Group’) and the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities. The Group is involved in the provision of betting 
services and online gaming products. The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity 
and not about its Group. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2013 were authorised for issue in accordance with  
a resolution of the Directors on 27 June 2013. 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted for use in the European Union. The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements  
in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 99 to 101. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: 
• derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value; and 
• financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value. 
Going concern 
The Group has considerable financial resources. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage  
its business risks successfully despite the ongoing economic uncertainty. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in the consolidated financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 33. 
Functional currency and presentation currency 
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial 
information presented in Pounds Sterling has been rounded to the nearest million, except otherwise stated. 
Changes in accounting policy 
The new standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the results or the financial position of the Group as at 30 April 2013 
or on any disclosures. 
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European 
Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods. 
Basis of consolidation 
Business combinations 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control  
is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from  
its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. The Group 
measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: 
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity; plus 
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquired entity; less 
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
When the goodwill is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business 
combination are expensed as incurred. 
Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value as at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, 
then it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity. 
(i) Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently 
exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements 
from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when 
necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 65 
(ii) Associates and jointly controlled entities (‘equity accounted investments’) 
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant 
influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. Jointly controlled entities 
are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for 
strategic, financial and operating decisions. Associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method (equity 
accounted investments) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any 
accumulated impairment losses. 
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted 
investments, from the date that significant influence or joint control commences until the date that significant influence or joint control ceases. 
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investment, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and 
recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of an investee. 
(iii) Acquisition of non-controlling interests 
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners therefore no goodwill  
is recognised as a result. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated 
against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investments. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 
Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling  
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated  
to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the 
difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments 
during the period, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the period. Non-monetary assets 
and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the 
transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the 
functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences arising  
on retranslation are recognised in the income statement. 
Foreign operations 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the 
Group’s presentational currency, Pounds Sterling, at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign 
operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of  
the transactions. 
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are taken directly to the Translation reserve. When a foreign operation 
is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in Translation reserve is transferred to the income statement. 
When the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable 
future, foreign currency gains and losses arising from such item are considered to form part of a net investment in the foreign operation  
and are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity. 
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates: 
Value of £1 
Assets and liabilities 
(Closing rates) 
Income and expenses 
(Cumulative average rates)
Euro 1.18 1.22
US Dollar 1.55 1.58
Australian Dollar 1.50 1.53
Romanian Lei 5.12 5.47
Discontinued operations 
Results in relation to discontinued operations are disclosed as a single amount on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising 
the total post-tax loss of the subsidiary disposed of. The comparative periods in the income statement are stated in the same way. 
   Notes continued 
66 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Restructuring costs 
A restructuring cost is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid 
expectation to those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features  
to those affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring cost includes only the direct expenditure arising from the restructuring,  
which are those amounts that are both necessarily incurred by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.  
Available-for-sale financial assets 
The Group’s investments in certain equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. Subsequent to initial recognition,  
the assets are reviewed annually for changes in value with any impairment loss recognised through the income statement, and on disposal 
any realised gains and losses are also recognised through the income statement. 
On an annual basis the available-for-sale financial assets are reviewed and re-measured on a fair value basis if the fair value is significantly 
different to the value previously recorded and where the fair value of the unlisted equity shares can be reliably measured. 
Financial instruments 
(i) Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group 
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: 
• they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets  
or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and 
• where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes  
no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the 
Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments. 
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes 
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these consolidated financial statements for called up share capital and 
share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares. 
(ii) Non-derivative financial instruments 
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables, including cash and cash 
equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables. 
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments 
are measured as described below. 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part 
of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 
Cash and cash equivalents do not include certain client funds deposited in a stakeholder account held by The Sporting Exchange (Clients) 
Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, on the basis that they are held on trust for customers and do not belong to and are not  
at the disposal of the Group. 
Non-derivative financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss 
An instrument is classified at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition. Financial 
instruments are designated at fair value through profit or loss if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions 
based on their fair value in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy. Upon initial recognition, 
directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred. Financial instruments at fair value through  
profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the income statement.  
(iii) Other 
Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. 
(iv) Derivative financial instruments 
The Group from time to time holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency risk exposure. 
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. 
Cash flow hedges 
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the  
extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. 
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount  
of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same  
period that the hedged item affects the income statement. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 67 
Share capital 
(i) Ordinary shares 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised 
as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. 
(ii) Repurchase of share capital (treasury shares) 
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid which includes directly attributable costs,  
is net of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented 
as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase  
in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings. 
When the Company opts to buy back its own shares, this is treated as a cancellation of shares resulting in a reduction in equity. 
Earnings per share 
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit  
or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the 
period. Diluted EPS is determined by the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which include awards under share award schemes and share options 
granted to employees. 
Property, plant and equipment 
(i) Recognition and measurement 
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the costs  
of materials and direct labour and any other directly attributable cost to bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use. 
Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with  
the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognised within the income statement. 
(ii) Depreciation 
Depreciation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. 
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: 
Freehold buildings – 50 years 
Leasehold improvements – Over the term of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset, if shorter 
Plant and machinery – 10 years 
Fixtures and fittings – 5 years 
Computer equipment – 3 years 
Motor vehicles – 3 years 
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.  
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
(i) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities. 
Acquisitions on or after 1 May 2007 
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 May 2007, goodwill represents the difference between the fair value  
of consideration for the acquisition and the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Identifiable 
intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable. 
Acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007 
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not elected to restate business combinations that took  
place prior to 1 May 2007. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007, goodwill is included at 1 May 2007 on the basis of its deemed 
cost, which represents the amount recorded under the Group’s previous accounting framework which was broadly comparable save that  
only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised. 
   Notes continued 
68 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 
Subsequent measurement 
Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and is not amortised but is tested 
annually for impairment. In respect of equity accounted investments, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount  
of the investment in the investee. 
(ii) Internally generated goodwill and brands 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense, as incurred. 
(iii) Research and development 
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
Expenditure on development activities is recognised as an internally generated intangible asset only when the necessary criteria are met; 
including demonstrating the technical feasibility of the product and having sufficient certainty over the future revenue or cost savings  
that will be generated from the product. 
The qualifying expenditure capitalised represents costs directly attributable to the development of the asset. This expenditure is capitalised 
from the point at which the above criteria are met up to the point at which the asset is available for use. If the criteria are not met the 
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
Capitalised development expenditure assets are amortised on a straight-line basis from the date they are available for use over their  
useful economic lives. 
(iv) Other intangible assets 
Identifiable intangibles are assets which have finite lives, can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether  
those rights are separable. 
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring in to use, the specific software. 
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful economic life or the life of the software licence contract. 
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated 
impairment losses. 
(v) Amortisation 
Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets,  
other than goodwill, from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: 
Computer software – The shorter of the licence period and up to 10 years 
Licences – The shorter of the licence period and up to 10 years 
Wagering technologies – 6 years 
Customer lists – 2 to 4 years 
Development expenditure – 3 years 
Brand – 2 years 
Broadcasting technologies – 2 years 
Impairment 
(i) Financial assets 
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. An indicator  
of impairment of a financial asset is apparent if objective evidence highlights that one or more events have had a negative effect on the 
estimated future cash flows of that asset. 
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount,  
and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. An impairment loss in respect  
of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value and book value. Significant financial assets are tested for 
impairment on an individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics. 
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.  
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in the income statement. For available-for-sale financial assets  
that are equity securities, the reversal is recognised directly in equity. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 69 
(ii) Non-financial assets 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine 
whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill 
and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped 
together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows  
of other assets or groups of assets (the ‘cash generating unit’). The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose  
of impairment testing, is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset when allocated to a cash generating unit exceeds its estimated 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating 
units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amounts  
of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are 
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there  
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that  
the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation,  
if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
Employee benefits 
(i) Defined contribution plans 
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity  
and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension  
plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due. 
(ii) Short-term benefits 
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.  
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has  
a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation  
can be estimated reliably. 
(iii) Share-based payment transactions 
The following schemes are in place that allow employees to acquire shares in the Group: 
Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes 
Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment schemes on the basis that  
the Group will not be required to settle its obligations under these schemes in cash. The fair value of options granted is recognised  
as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period  
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and is calculated using an option pricing model,  
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted  
to reflect the actual number of share options that vest. 
Restricted share scheme 
The Group provides a restricted share scheme as part of its bonus plan. Awards made under the terms of the restricted share scheme  
until 2011 represent a conditional right to receive shares in the Company provided that certain Group and individual performance criteria  
are met. Restricted shares are valued with reference to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. 
The shares vest over a three-year period and one-third of the total entitlement vest each year. The first year’s entitlement can be taken  
in cash at the option of the employee, and accordingly this component is accounted for as a cash settled scheme and recorded as a liability.  
If, on the date of settlement, the employee elects to receive shares instead of cash, the liability previously recognised is transferred to equity, 
as the consideration for the equity instruments issued. 
The remaining two-thirds of restricted shares granted cannot be taken in cash and accordingly are accounted for as equity-settled schemes.  
A charge is recognised in employee expenses on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. 
   Notes continued 
70 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Long-term incentive plan (‘LTIP’), Short-term incentive plan (‘STIP’) and Management incentive plan (‘MIP’) 
During the 2010 financial year, the Group revised the terms of the existing restricted shares scheme for Directors, executives and senior 
management with the LTIP, STIP and MIP schemes. 
These bonus schemes entitle the recipients to cash, share options and restricted share rewards based on meeting the Group and individual 
performance criteria over a three year (for LTIP) and one year period (STIP and MIP). The schemes have awards in the form of cash, share 
options and restricted shares. Determining the fair value of each element is consistent with the measurement outlined above in each share-
based payment category. 
The STIP and the MIP have cash elements which are fixed in value and are paid and expensed in the first year that the award is issued.  
The cash award represents two-thirds of the total award. There is no option given to the recipient of the award to elect to have these  
issued in shares. The cash element issued is classified as a cash bonus in the income statement and not a ‘cash settled share-based payment’. 
This is on the basis that the employee does not have the option to choose whether they receive cash or shares. 
Long-term Senior Executives’ Incentive Plan (‘SEIP’) 
The Long-term Senior Executives’ Incentive Plan (SEIP) was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007. The plan provides for certain senior 
management and Directors to be granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element. The scheme came into effect 
upon the admission of the Group’s shares on the London Stock Exchange. 
The cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in the scheme. The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission 
and half of the restricted shares vested on the first anniversary of the listing and the next half on the second anniversary of the listing. 
The restricted shares in the SEIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares. 
Stakeholder award scheme 
During 2011, the Group issued 309,280 restricted shares and 26,829 phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part  
of the new Stakeholder award scheme. The scheme relates to the individual employees’ performance during the financial year ended  
30 April 2010 for which a cash bonus accrual had been recognised. Subsequent to the year ended 30 April 2010 the reward was settled  
by the issue of equity instruments. 
The restricted shares and phantom shares had a vesting period spanning from the first day of the financial year to which they relate  
to the vest date of 1 August 2011. The restricted shares in the scheme were convertible into shares upon vest date and they were measured 
consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares. The phantom shares in the scheme were only convertible to cash upon the vest 
date and they are measured based on the market value at the date of grant. 
Revenue 
Revenue is measured as the consideration received from customers and represents amounts received for services provided by the Group,  
as set out below. 
Commission and fee income arising from the Group’s betting exchange activities, which comprises both sports betting and exchange games, 
is recognised on the date the market for an event is settled. 
The Sportsbook, Games, and Multiples product revenue represents gains and losses from betting activity. Open betting liability positions  
are recognised based on the best estimate of the expenditure that will be required to settle the position at the balance sheet date, and losses 
arising from these positions are recognised in revenue. 
Revenues from pari-mutuel betting products (Advanced Deposit Wagering and Tote products) represents a percentage of the stake 
recognised on settlement of the event. 
Commission revenue on spread betting and other financial products is recognised on the date of the transaction of each trade. 
Online Poker revenue is recorded as the net income (rake) earned from completed poker games. 
Revenue also includes amounts received from the management of customer funds. 
Expenses 
(i) Cost of sales 
Cost of sales principally comprises betting and gaming taxes, customer payment transaction fees, sporting levies and other data  
rights charges. 
(ii) Operating lease payments 
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term  
of the lease. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 71 
Finance income and expense 
Finance income comprises interest earned on corporate funds invested, changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit 
or loss, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the 
income statement, using the effective interest method. 
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value of financial 
assets at fair value through profit or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets, and losses on hedging instruments that are 
recognised in the income statement. All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method. 
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis, either in finance income or finance expense as appropriate. 
Tax 
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Tax expense is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates  
to items recognised directly in equity (through the other reserve), in which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary 
difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time that the liability to pay the related 
dividend is recognised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes  
and the amounts used for tax purposes. 
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities  
that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries  
to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws  
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate  
to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax 
liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously. 
In determining the current and deferred tax the Group takes into account the impact of uncertain tax positions and whether additional taxes 
and interest may be due. The Group believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open tax years based on its assessment of 
many factors, including interpretations of tax law and prior experience. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve 
a series of judgments about future events. New information may become available that causes the Group to change its judgement regarding 
the adequacy of existing tax liabilities; such changes to tax liabilities will impact tax expense in the period that such a determination is made. 
Operating segments 
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, 
including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. 
Segment information is based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’)  
in order to assess each segment’s performance and to allocate resources. The CODM is the Chief Executive Officer. 
Leases 
Under accounting standards there is a requirement for management to examine the buildings element within each property lease  
to determine if the lease meets the definition of a finance lease and, if so, it should be accounted for as such. This review involves 
determining the fair value of each property at the inception of the lease and analysing the minimum lease payments between their  
‘land’ and ‘buildings’ elements. Based on management’s review of leases for the years ended 30 April 2013 and 2012, all premises leases 
qualify as operating leases. 
Separately disclosed items 
Items that are material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature are included within operating profit and disclosed separately in the  
income statement. 
The separate reporting of these items, which are disclosed within the relevant category in the income statement, helps provide  
a more accurate indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. 
   Notes continued 
72 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates  
and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.  
Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period  
in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. In particular, information about significant areas of estimation 
uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised  
in the consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: 
Estimates 
Note 11 – Capitalisation of development expenditure 
The Group makes certain estimates surrounding costs included in the capitalisation of development expenditure incurred for each project, 
when considering whether or not a project meets the criteria within IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’. An estimate is also required in determining  
the start and end dates of the projects as well as determining the appropriate useful economic lives of each capitalised project. 
Note 8 – Income tax 
Tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws and regulations is unclear, 
estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements. 
Note 11 – Measurement of the recoverable amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets 
A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and intangible assets held by the Group on a cash generating unit basis.  
The impairment review is performed on a ‘value in use’ basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time  
period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate. 
Note 14 – Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent management’s best estimate in determining the amounts to be recognised. When assessing 
 the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, consideration is given to the timing and level of future taxable income. 
Note 17 – Accounting for accruals 
The calculation of accruals contains an inherent level of subjectivity. Management considers that the current level of accruals represents 
management’s best estimate of the likely exposure. 
Note 20 – Measurement of share-based payments 
Judgement and estimation is required in determining the fair value of shares at the date of award. The fair value is estimated using valuation 
techniques which take into account the award’s term, the risk free interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of shares  
of comparable businesses to the Group. 
Judgements 
Note 1 – Basis of consolidation 
Judgement is applied when determining if an acquired entity is controlled by the Group, and whether the acquired entity meets the criteria  
to be defined as a subsidiary. Control is presumed to exist when the Group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half  
of the voting power of an entity. However if the Group owns half or less of the voting power of an entity, control may still exist. In assessing 
control, the Group considers whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually 
exercised. Specific examples of where the Group has control of subsidiaries are where it has the power to govern the entity’s financial and 
operating policies by virtue of statute or agreement and where it has the power to cast the majority of votes of the entity’s governing body. 
Note 5 – Separately disclosed items 
Judgement has been used by management to identify items that are material in size and unusual or infrequent in nature. They are included 
within operating profit and disclosed separately in the income statement. The separate reporting of these items helps to provide an indication 
of the Group’s underlying business performance. 
Note 22 – Valuation of derivative financial instruments 
Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness both at hedge inception and during the period over which hedge 
accounting is adopted. The fair value of derivative financial instruments can also involve judgement. Where appropriate, external valuations 
from financial institutions are undertaken to support the carrying value of such items. 
Business combinations 
Judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions. In particular,  
in the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets and determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets,  
and also in determining contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions where required by the terms of the agreement. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 73 
Future accounting developments 
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments were issued by the IASB or the IFRIC but were not effective for  
the financial year (and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU): 
• amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
• IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 
• revision to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 
• revision to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
• revision to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 
• amendments to IFRS 1 Government Loans 
• amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
• amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities. 
The Directors have decided not to early adopt the above standards and they do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above 
will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. 
There are no other IFRSs or IFRICs in issue but not yet effective that are expected to have a significant impact for the Group. 
Reclassification of equity-settled shared-based payments 
Underlying EBITDA in the Consolidated Income Statement has historically been presented as EBITDA excluding separately disclosed items 
and equity-settled share-based payments. For the year ended 30 April 2013 charges relating to equity-settled share-based payments have 
been included within Underlying EBITDA and comparative periods have been amended accordingly. 
If no reclassification was made, the Underlying EBITDA would be £82.6m for the year ended 30 April 2013 and £94.1m for the year ended 
30 April 2012, respectively.  
2 Operating segments  
The Group’s continuing operating businesses are organised and managed as reportable business segments according to the information  
which is used by the Group’s CODM in making decisions about reporting matters. These segments are: 
• Core Betfair 
− Exchange 
− Sports 
− Gaming 
− Management of customer funds 
• Other investments 
− Betfair US 
• High Rollers. 
As stated in the interim release for the six months ended 31 October 2012, it was the intention of the CODM to operate a new organisational 
structure based on the Exchange, Sports and Gaming business units. The Group has realigned operations from the previous structure  
to provide reportable business performance under these units. To meet the requirements of IFRS 8, the operating segments disclosure  
has been revised to reflect the new reportable business segments. Comparative periods have been amended accordingly. 
Exchange consists of the Exchange sports betting product, which offers markets on Racing, Football, Sports and Specials (SAS) and 
Timeform. Sports consists of the Sportsbook, Multiples and our Betfair Select product. Gaming consists of various casino products  
and bespoke exchange games products. Tradefair Spreads and Poker are also classified within Gaming. All of these gaming activities  
are played by customers in a number of geographical areas. 
Exchange and Gaming meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8 as reportable segment. While Sports and revenue from  
the management of customer funds do not meet these requirements, these segments are separately disclosed as they are closely  
monitored by the CODM. 
The Group’s US operations (including the TVG Network) meet the quantitative threshold to be disclosed separately. 
Following the decision to dispose of the Group’s subsidiary LMAX Limited in October 2012 (which was completed in January 2013)  
and treatment of these operations as discontinued, the segmental information disclosed previously has been amended (see note 27). 
Tradefair Spreads Limited, which was previously reported under the LMAX segment, is part of the Group’s continuing operations  
and is now reported as part of the Core reporting segment. 
Similarly, High Rollers was also assessed by the Board as being a reportable segment in 2011.  
   Notes continued 
74 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
2 Operating segments continued 
The results of the Australian joint venture are consolidated in the Group accounts on an equity accounting basis. As such only the net assets 
and the share of profits/losses are presented in the operating segment note below. If proportional consolidation was applied the Group’s 
share of the Australian joint venture would have increased revenue by £18.0m (30 April 2011: £16.0m) and increased EBITDA  
by £2.1m (30 April 2012: increase by £4.9m). 
The revenue from Exchange, Sports, Gaming and the management of customer funds represents the developed and integrated parts of the 
Group’s business and have been grouped together as Core Betfair. Other investments represent relatively recent additions to the Group’s 
business and which the CODM considers to be in the early stages of development. 
The Group focuses its internal management reporting predominantly on revenue, as the products’ potential to generate revenue is the chief 
driver of the Group’s business and the allocation of resources. The Group’s cost base is to a large extent fixed in nature. Corporate expenses, 
assets and liabilities cannot be allocated to individual operating segments and are not used by the CODM for making operating and resource 
allocation decisions. However, expenses are allocated and reviewed by the CODM between Core Betfair, Other investments and High Rollers 
and the analysis of EBITDA for them is summarised below. 
Management also reviews Group revenue on a geographic basis, determined by the location of the customers when known. This information 
is analysed below on the following basis: 
• UK 
• Europe 
• Rest of World 
• Unallocated. 
The majority of the Group’s non-current assets are located in the UK.  
Revenue unallocated to a geographical segment represents amounts from the management of customer funds and High Rollers.  
Segmental information for the years ended 30 April 2013 and 30 April 2012 is as follows:  
Year ended 30 April 2013 
 
Exchange 
£m 
Sports 
£m 
Gaming**
£m 
Management
of customer
funds
£m
Core
Betfair
£m
Betfair
US
£m
Other 
investments 
£m 
High
Rollers
£m
Group
£m
Revenue 247.5 24.1 75.9 1.5 349.0 38.0 38.0 – 387.0
Underlying EBITDA*   70.4 2.9 2.9 – 73.3
Separately disclosed items   (21.9) (0.2) (0.2) – (22.1)
EBITDA   48.5 2.7 2.7 – 51.2
Depreciation and amortisation    (37.8)
Impairment    (82.4)
Profit on disposal of available- 
  for-sale financial asset 
   
16.8
Net finance income    1.4
Share of profit of equity 
  accounted investments    1.4
Profit before tax    (49.4)
Tax    4.2
Loss for the period from 
discontinued operations 
   (21.1)
Loss after tax and 
discontinued operations 
   (66.3)
Total assets    276.3
Total liabilities    144.3
* Underlying EBITDA has historically been presented as Adjusted EBITDA and defined as EBITDA before separately disclosed items and charges relating  
to equity-settled share-based payments. For the year ended 30 April 2013, Adjusted EBITDA has been renamed Underlying EBITA and includes charges 
relating to equity-settled share-based payments but excludes separately disclosed items. Comparative periods have been amended accordingly. 
Separately disclosed items in the prior year include results from High Rollers (2013: £nil, 2012: £3.9m profit). 
** Includes results from Tradefair Spreads Limited that was previously disclosed as LMAX and classified as other investments.  
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 75 
Year ended 30 April 2012 
 
Exchange 
£m 
Sports 
£m 
Gaming**
£m 
Management 
of customer 
funds
£m
Core 
Betfair
£m
Betfair 
US
£m
Other 
investments 
£m 
High 
Rollers
£m
Group
£m
Revenue*** 250.1 18.1 81.1   3.0 352.3 36.2 36.2 – 388.5
Underlying EBITDA*   86.9 (0.9) (0.9) – 86.0
Separately disclosed items   (6.4) – – 3.9 (2.5)
EBITDA   80.5 (0.9) (0.9) 3.9 83.5
Depreciation and amortisation    (37.2)
Net finance income    3.6
Share of profit of equity 
accounted investments    4.3
Profit before tax    54.2
Tax    (7.6)
Loss for the year from 
discontinued operations 
   (12.6)
Profit after tax and 
discontinued operations 
   34.0
Total assets    339.4
Total liabilities    (143.3)
* Underlying EBITDA has historically been presented as Adjusted EBITDA and defined as EBITDA before separately disclosed items and charges relating  
to equity-settled share-based payments. For the year ended 30 April 2013, Adjusted EBITDA has been renamed Underlying EBITA and includes charges 
relating to equity-settled share-based payments but excludes separately disclosed items. Comparative periods have been amended accordingly. 
Separately disclosed items in the prior year include results from High Rollers (2013: £nil, 2012: £3.9m profit). 
** The results relating to Tradefair Spreads Limited’s operation which was previously reported under the LMAX segment and which is still part  
of the Group’s continuing operations is shown within Gaming. 
*** The amount previously disclosed has been amended to reflect the new organisational structure of reportable segments.  
Geographical information determined by location of customers is set out below: 
Year ended 30 April 2013 
 UK**
£m 
Europe
£m
Rest of World 
£m 
Unallocated*
£m 
Group
£m
Core Betfair 214.3 110.8 22.4 1.5 349.0
Other investments – – 38.0 – 38.0
Total Group revenue 214.3 110.8 60.4 1.5 387.0
Year ended 30 April 2012 
UK**
£m 
Europe
£m
Rest of World 
£m 
Unallocated*
£m 
Group
£m
Core Betfair 196.9 133.7 18.7 3.0 352.3
Other investments – – 36.2 – 36.2
Total Group revenue 196.9 133.7 54.9 3.0 388.5
* Unallocated represents revenue from the management of customer funds.  
** Revenue derived from customers located in Ireland has been reclassified from Europe to UK for the year ended 30 April 2013. The prior year 
comparatives have been amended to reflect this reclassification.  
   Notes continued 
76 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
3 (Loss)/profit before tax 
(Loss)/profit before tax is stated after charging: 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs 9.3 8.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.0 16.2
Amortisation of capitalised development costs 15.6 16.9
Amortisation of other intangibles 7.5 8.1
Rentals payable under operating leases 8.7 8.4
Research and non-capitalised development costs 51.0 49.5
Auditors’ remuneration: 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.6
Other services pursuant to legislation – review of interim financial statements 
Other services pursuant to legislation – profit estimate listing procedures 
0.1
0.1
0.1
–
Tax services 0.1 0.5
Transaction advisory 0.1 0.1
Total 1.0 1.4
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Company’s 
financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis. 
4 Employee numbers and costs 
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 
 
2013
No.
2012
No.
Technology  924 994
Sales and marketing 272 281
Operations 545 656
G&A 325 333
Total 2,066 2,264
The above numbers include the average numbers of persons of 71 (2012: 78) employed by Group’s discontinued operation LMAX.  
The number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) as at 30 April 2013 was 1,773 (2012: 2,302). 
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 104.7 110.6
Social security costs 10.8 11.3
Redundancy costs – 1.5
Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs (note 20) 9.3 8.1
Pension costs 2.4 2.7
Total 127.2 134.2
The above numbers include the aggregate payroll costs of £5.5m (2012: £6.7m) in relation to the Group’s discontinued operation LMAX. 
Details on the remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 77 
5 Separately disclosed items 
Separately disclosed items are those items the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought  
to the reader’s attention in understanding the Group’s financial performance.  
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Regulatory developments – 6.4
Results from High Rollers – (3.9)
Restructuring costs 19.4 –
Costs incurred on corporate projects 2.7 –
Total 22.1 2.5
During the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group has incurred costs of £19.4m, which relate to its restructuring and cost optimisation 
initiatives (see note 18), and £2.7m in relation to professional fees resulting from the rejected takeover approach by CVC and partners.  
During the year ended 30 April 2012, regulatory developments comprise a one-off expense relating to Spanish gaming tax and other  
costs relating to the Group’s Spanish operations in prior periods. During the year ended 30 April 2013, separately disclosed items have  
been recorded within administrative expenses (2012: separately disclosed items were recorded within cost of sales).  
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Impairment recognised of goodwill and other intangible assets 82.4 –
As at 30 April 2013, following the announcement of the Group’s strategic priorities during the first six months of the financial year, 
management has undertaken a review of the carrying value of all intangible assets, including goodwill and capitalised development 
expenditure. As a result of this review, an impairment charge of £82.4m has been recorded in the income statement (see note 11).  
6 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit on sale of investment 16.8 –
On 20 November 2012 the Group sold its shares held in Kabam for $30m (£18.8m) (see note 13). 
7 Finance income and expense 
Recognised in income statement 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Finance income 
Bank interest receivable 1.1 1.2
Foreign exchange gain 0.3 2.4
Total 1.4 3.6
The Group has no finance expense in the current year (2012: £nil).   Notes continued 
78 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
8 Tax 
Recognised in the income statement 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Current tax 
UK – current year 4.1 4.8
UK – adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.6) (3.5)
Overseas – current year 0.9 2.6
Overseas – adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.2) (0.5)
Current tax expense 4.2 3.4
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (8.2) 4.4
Tax rate reduction (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred tax (8.4) 4.2
Total tax (credit)/expense (4.2) 7.6
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax (49.4) 54.2
Total tax credit/(expense) 4.2 (7.6)
(Loss)/profit for the year (45.2) 46.6
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 23.9% (2012: 25.8%) (11.8) 14.0
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (0.9) (2.1)
Non-deductible expenses 15.5 1.1
Tax rate reduction 0.2 (0.1)
Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 1.0 2.1
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.6) (4.7)
Group relief claimed for no payment (3.6) (2.7)
Tax exempt revenues (4.0) –
Total tax (credit)/expense (4.2) 7.6
Tax recognised directly in equity 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Other deferred tax in relation to equity-settled share-based payments (0.9) (1.4)
Deferred tax (0.9) (1.4)
Current tax in relation to equity-settled share-based payments 0.8 0.8
Total tax (0.1) (0.6)
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 79 
The Group’s consolidated effective tax rate for the year was 8.5% (30 April 2012: 14.0% restated for LMAX discontinued operations). 
The tax effect of exceptional and impairment items in the current year amounted to a tax credit of £10.4m (2012: £0.2m). 
The 2013 Budget on 25 March 2013 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 2015. A reduction in the rate  
from 26% to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012, and a further reduction to 23% (effective 
from 1 April 2013) was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012. 
This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax liability at 30 April 2013 has been calculated based  
on the rate of 23% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 3% rate reduction, although this will further 
reduce the Group’s future current tax charge and reduce the Group’s deferred tax liability accordingly. 
9 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share 
The calculation of basic earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2013 was based on the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of £66.3m (30 April 2012: profit of £34.7m) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 101,854,246  
(30 April 2012: 104,569,704). 
 2013 2012
(Loss)/profit for the year (£m) (66.3) 34.7
Weighted average number of shares 101,854,246 104,569,704
Basic (loss)/earnings per share* (65.1)p 33.1p
Diluted earnings per share* – 32.5p
* The (loss)/earnings per share calculations include the results of the discontinued operations.  
Please see page 59 for the separately disclosed basic and diluted earnings per share for the continuing operations of the Group. 
Diluted earnings per share 
The calculation of diluted earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2013 was based on the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of £66.3m (30 April 2012: profit of £34.7m) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment  
for the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares of 103,378,698 (30 April 2012: 106,780,109). 
As any potential ordinary shares would have the effect of decreasing the loss per share for the year ended 30 April 2013, they have not  
been treated as dilutive; hence diluted earnings per share have not been disclosed.  
Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
(Loss)/profit used to determine diluted earnings per share (66.3) 34.7
As any potential ordinary shares would have the effect of decreasing the loss per share for the year ended 30 April 2013, they have not been 
treated as dilutive; hence diluted earnings per share have not been disclosed.  
Weighted average number of shares (diluted) 
 2013 2012
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (basic) 101,854,246 104,569,704
Effect of share options on issue 1,524,452 2,210,405
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 103,378,698 106,780,109
The average market value of the Company’s shares of £7.33 (2012: £7.76) was used to calculate the dilutive effect of share options based  
on the market value for the year that the options were outstanding. 
   Notes continued 
80 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
10 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Computer
equipment
£m
Fixtures 
and 
fittings 
£m 
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 May 2011 0.8 13.7 80.4 6.9 0.7 102.5
Additions –4.210.71.7 0.316.9
Disposals –(4.9)(1.0)(0.4) (0.3)(6.6)
Net foreign exchange differences – – – 0.1 – 0.1
At 30 April 2012 0.8 13.0 90.1 8.3 0.7 112.9
  
Additions –2.24.20.8 –7.2
Disposals –(0.9)(0.2)(0.1) (0.5)(1.7)
Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary – (0.4) (4.4) (0.1) – (4.9)
Net foreign exchange differences – 0.1 0.6 0.1 – 0.8
At 30 April 2013 0.8 14.0 90.3 9.0 0.2 114.3
Depreciation  
At 1 May 2011 0.1 8.1 57.8 3.1 0.4 69.5
Depreciation for the year – 2.0 12.6 1.4 0.2 16.2
Disposals –(4.9)(1.0)(0.4) (0.3)(6.6)
Net foreign exchange differences – – – 0.1 – 0.1
At 30 April 2012 0.1 5.2 69.4 4.2 0.3 79.2
  
Depreciation for the year – 2.5 12.7 1.7 0.1 17.0
Impairment –1.91.30.1 –3.3
Disposals –(0.8)(0.2)– (0.2)(1.2)
Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary – (0.4) (4.4) (0.1) – (4.9)
Net foreign exchange differences – 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3
At 30 April 2013 0.1 8.5 79.0 5.9 0.2 93.7
 
Net book value 
 
At 30 April 2012 0.7 7.8 20.7 4.1 0.4 33.7
At 30 April 2013 0.7 5.5 11.3 3.1 – 20.6
In the year ended 30 April 2013, additions totalling £1.3m and depreciation totalling £0.4m was recognised in respect of  
discontinued operations (see note 27). Except for £1.8m of leasehold improvements, the impairment relates solely to the assets  
of the discontinued operation.   
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 81 
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Computer 
software 
£m 
Licences
£m
Development 
expenditure
£m
Brand
£m
Customer 
lists 
£m 
Broadcasting
and 
wagering
technologies
£m
Total
£m
Cost    
At 1 May 2011 53.5 21.7 1.7 74.1 1.9 3.8 0.9 157.6
Acquisitions through 
business combinations 0.2 – – – – – – 0.2
Other acquisitions – 
internally developed – – – 29.4 – – – 29.4
Other acquisitions – 
externally purchased – 9.5 – 7.0 – – – 16.5
Disposals – (0.2) –––– –(0.2)
Net foreign exchange 
differences 0.3 – (0.1) –0.10.1 –0.4
At 30 April 2012 54.0 31.0 1.6 110.5 2.0 3.9 0.9 203.9
    
Other acquisitions – 
internally developed – – – 18.9 – – – 18.9
Other acquisitions – 
externally purchased – 3.5 – 3.2 – 5.3 – 12.0
Disposals – (0.1) –––– –(0.1)
Derecognised on disposal 
of subsidiary – – – (13.9) – – – (13.9)
Net foreign exchange 
differences 1.8 0.1 – 0.10.10.2 –2.3
At 30 April 2013 55.8 34.5 1.6 118.8 2.1 9.4 0.9 223.1
    
Amortisation    
At 1 May 2011 – 8.5 1.3 32.2 1.9 2.1 0.6 46.6
Amortisation for the year – 6.9 0.1 16.9 – 1.0 0.1 25.0
Disposals – (0.2) –––– –(0.2)
Net foreign exchange 
differences – – (0.1) –0.10.1 –0.1
At 30 April 2012 – 15.2 1.3 49.1 2.0 3.2 0.7 71.5
    
Amortisation for the year – 6.4 0.1 15.6 – 1.0 – 23.1
Impairment 34.6 5.1 –47.0– – 0.186.8
Disposals – (0.1) –––– –(0.1)
Derecognised on disposal 
of subsidiary – – – (13.9) – – – (13.9)
Net foreign exchange 
differences 0.7 – 0.1 –0.10.2 –1.1
At 30 April 2013 35.3 26.6 1.5 97.8 2.1 4.4 0.8 168.5
    
Net book value    
At 30 April 2012 54.0 15.8 0.3 61.4 – 0.7 0.2 132.4
At 30 April 2013 20.5 7.9 0.1 21.0 – 5.0 0.1 54.6
Computer software represents software licences which have been purchased from suppliers. Licences represent bookmaking licences held  
by the Group. 
Development expenditure represents internally and externally generated costs incurred on development activities. These costs have been 
capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. 
The remaining other intangibles represent assets purchased as part of the TVG Network acquisition (being brand, customer lists and 
broadcasting and wagering technologies) and the customer database purchased as part of the Blue Square Bet acquisition in March 2013. 
These are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives which fall between two to six years. 
The amortisation charge of intangible assets is recognised within ‘Administrative expenses’ in the income statement.  Notes continued 
82 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 
In the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group capitalised development expenditure amounting to £1.5m, incurred amortisation of £1.9m 
and impaired assets amounting to £6.2m in respect of the discontinued operations.  
Goodwill 
At 30 April 2013, the carrying amount of goodwill, after the impairment review, was £20.5m (2012: £54.0m) allocated across one 
(2012: four) cash generating units (CGUs) as follows: 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
CGU 
Sports   – 8.7
Games – 2.5
Poker – 10.0
TVG 20.5 32.8
Total goodwill net book value at 30 April 20.5 54.0
All goodwill is recorded in local currency. Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction  
and the goodwill at the end of the year is stated at closing exchange rates. 
Impairment testing 
Goodwill 
Impairment charges of £34.6m were recognised in the year ended 30 April 2013. In the prior periods, goodwill has been allocated  
to the following CGU’s in line with Group’s segmental reporting: 
• Sports 
• Games 
• Poker 
• TVG. 
As part of the strategic review referred to on pages 3 to 7 and changes to the future reporting structure of the Group’s operations,  
it is considered appropriate to monitor the business at a more granular level and goodwill has been allocated to CGU’s on this basis.  
In line with this approach, subsequent impairments of £21.0m have been recognised in respect of past acquisitions. 
Following recent regulatory developments in the US, management undertook a strategic review of the US market and TVG’s position  
within that market. As a result of this review, the TVG CGU has been impaired by £13.6m. The key changes to assumptions since the 
previous impairment test relate to an anticipated reduction in operating margins and future growth rates. 
In order to determine whether impairments are required, the Directors estimate the recoverable amount of each CGU. The calculation  
is based on projecting future pre-tax cash flows over a five year period and uses a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth 
thereafter. The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model, which reflects the expected long-term average growth rate for the 
business in which the CGU operates. 
The budgets for the next financial year form the basis of the cash flow projections for each CGU. Cash flow projections for the next four 
financial years reflect management’s expectations of the medium term operating performance of the CGUs and growth prospects in each 
CGU’s markets and regions, and have been modelled in line with historic patterns experienced by the Group in recent years, where relevant. 
A discount factor is applied to obtain a ‘value in use’ which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value less costs to sell the respective 
CGU is an amount in excess of the ‘value in use’. 
The calculation of value in use for goodwill is sensitive to the following key assumptions: 
(i) Operating cash flow 
One of the key drivers of operating cash flow is revenue. The 2014 revenue figures for each CGU are based on the budget for the next 
financial year. For the years 2015 to 2018, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account of past 
experience, growth prospects in regions and historic player patterns. For TVG CGU, the terminal growth rate used was 2.0% (2012: 2.0%). 
The management consider the assumed growth rate to be conservative.  
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 83 
(ii) Discount rate applied 
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risks 
specific to the CGU. 
For the TVG CGU, a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5% (2012: 12.5%) has been used in discounting the projected cash flows for that CGU.  
The calculation of recoverable amount of TVG goodwill is primarily sensitive to forecast future earnings, the discount rates applied as well  
as future developments in US horseracing. Management have considered the effect of either a decrease of up to 10.0% in future planned 
earnings for all financial years ending 30 April 2018 or an increase in the discount rate for each CGU of up to 2.0%, both of which are 
considered unlikely. There are no reasonable changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of TVG CGUs to exceed 
the recoverable amount.  
Development expenditure and software 
As part of the strategic review, management has also performed a detailed review of the carrying value of capitalised development costs. 
Those projects which are no longer in use as part of the sustainable revenues strategy (as referred in the Strategic Review section) have  
been impaired resulting in a charge of £47.0m. This charge includes the impairment of the development costs incurred in building  
the US Exchange (£10.4m) and the LMAX Exchange (£6.2m). The charge in respect of LMAX has been included within the loss from 
discontinued operations as a result of the LMAX sale (see note 27). The remaining £30.4m impairment charge relates to specific projects 
where the anticipated returns no longer support the carrying value as a result of the change in strategic focus of the business. 
Following a review of the carrying value of the Group’s software assets, an impairment charge of £5.1m has also been recorded.  Notes continued 
84 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
12 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities 
The Group and Company have the following principal investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities: 
Country of origin Principal activity Classification
Ordinary 
shares held 
%
The Sporting Exchange Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100
Betfair Limited England Support services Subsidiary 100
Betfair General Betting Limited England Bookmaking Subsidiary 100
The Sporting Exchange (Clients) Limited England Gambling and betting Subsidiary 100
Timeform Limited England Publisher Subsidiary 100
Timeform Betfair Racing Club Limited England Horse racing club Subsidiary 100
TSE Global Limited England Trading Subsidiary 100
TSE Development Limited England Intellectual property licensor Subsidiary 100
TSE Holdings Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100
Winslow One Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100
Winslow Two England Holding company Subsidiary 100
Winslow Three Limited Cayman Islands Support services Subsidiary 100
Winslow Four Cayman Islands Support services Subsidiary 100
TSE (Gibraltar) LP Gibraltar Bookmaking Subsidiary 100
TSE Data Processing Limited Ireland Data centre Subsidiary 100
Polco Limited Malta Intellectual property licensor Subsidiary 100
Betfair Games Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100
Betfair Casino Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100
Betfair Counterparty Services Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100
Betfair Entertainment Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100
Betfair International Plc. Malta Bookmaking Subsidiary 100
Betfair Marketing Limited Malta Marketing activities Subsidiary 100
Betfair Holding (Malta) Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100
Betfair Poker Holdings Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100
Betfair Italia S.R.L. Italy Bookmaking Subsidiary 100
TSE Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong Holding company Subsidiary 100
TSE (Beijing) Management Consulting Co Limited China Support services Subsidiary 100
TSE Development Romania S.R.L. Romania R&D activities Subsidiary 100
TSE Services Limited Gibraltar Support services Subsidiary 100
TSE Marketing España Spain Marketing activities Subsidiary 100
The Rebate Company LLC USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100
TSE US Holdings Inc USA Holding company Subsidiary 100
TSE US LLC USA R&D activities Subsidiary 100
ODS Holdings LLC USA Holding company Subsidiary 100
ODS Technologies LP USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100
Betfair US LLC USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100
Tradefair Spreads Limited England Spread Betting services Subsidiary 99.98
London Multi Asset Exchange (Holdings) Limited England Holding company Subsidiary99.98
Betfair Pty Limited Australia Bookmaking Joint venture 50
Betfair Development Pty Limited Australia Intellectual property licensor Joint venture 50
Betfair Australasia Pty Limited Australia Holding company Joint venture 50
TSED Unipessoal LDA Portugal R&D activities Subsidiary 100
The Sporting Exchange Limited is held directly by Betfair Group plc. All other subsidiaries are held indirectly. 
Other direct holdings of the Group and Company have been excluded in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 s410, as they are not 
deemed to be significant to these accounts. A full list of the Group and Company subsidiaries will be included in the next annual return. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 85 
The interest in the joint ventures of the Group is as follows: 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Share of net liabilities 
At the beginning of the year (1.7) (6.1)
Share of operating profit* 1.1 4.2
Share of interest receivable 0.3 0.1
Contribution of cash into joint venture – 0.1
Share of change in equity – (0.1)
Foreign exchange differences – 0.1
At the end of the year (0.3) (1.7)
 
Goodwill 
At the beginning of the year 0.4 0.4
At the end of the year 0.4 0.4
 
Loan 
At the beginning of the year 7.5 7.7
Foreign exchange differences 0.3 (0.2)
At the end of the year 7.8 7.5
 
Net book value 
 
At the beginning of the year 6.2 2.0
At the end of the year 7.9 6.2
* £1.9m of the share of the operating profit of Betfair Australasia Pty Limited in the year ended 30 April 2012 comprises a one-off gain of £2.9m  
due to a settlement of historic tax matters related to Goods and Services Tax (GST) which is partially offset by a one-off legal fee of £1.0m accrued  
to cover fees relating to an ongoing legal case. 
The table below presents the summary aggregated financial information of the Group’s joint venture Betfair Australasia Pty Limited at 100%. 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Current assets 19.5 13.9
Non-current assets 6.6 9.2
Current liabilities (2.7) (22.0)
Revenue 36.0 31.9
Expenses (36.8) (26.2)
13 Available-for-sale financial asset 
At 30 April 2013, the available-for-sale financial assets comprised the Group’s 8.9% (fully diluted holdings of 9.9%) non-controlling interest 
in Featurespace Limited (£0.1m) and non-controlling interest in LMAX Limited of 33% (£1.2m). On 20 November 2012 the Group sold its 
shares held in Kabam for $30m (£18.8m). 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 May  2.1 2.1
Disposals  
Reclassification of remaining shares held in LMAX 
(2.0)
1.2
–
–
At 30 April  1.3 2.1
   Notes continued 
86 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
 Assets Liabilities Total 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment 6.3 4.2 – – 6.3 4.2
Intangible assets – 1.6 (4.3) (14.0) (4.3) (12.4)
Equity-settled share-based payments 
and associated costs 
1.2 3.6 – – 1.2 3.6
Value of tax loss carry-forwards – 1.3 – – – 1.3
Other 1.9 1.3 – – 1.9 1.3
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 9.4 12.0 (4.3) (14.0) 5.1 (2.0)
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of £12.3m (2012: £11.7m), unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect 
of depreciation in excess of capital allowances of £1.0m (2012: £0.9m), unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of share-based 
payments of £1.9m (2012: £nil) and unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of intangible assets of £0.5m (2012: £nil). 
These have not been recognised on the basis that there is insufficient certainty of there being future taxable profits in those jurisdictions. 
Movements in deferred tax are as follows: 
 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Tax value of 
loss carry-
forwards 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 May 2011 3.6 (8.9) 5.4 1.4 2.1 3.6
Recognised in income statement 0.5 (3.5) (0.4) (0.1) (0.7) (4.2)
Foreign exchange differences – – – – – –
Recognised in equity – – (1.4) – – (1.4)
Balance at 30 April 2012 4.1 (12.4) 3.6 1.3 1.4 (2.0)
  
Adjustment in respect of disposal  
of discontinued operations 
(0.3) (0.1) – – – (0.4)
Recognised in income statement 2.58.2(1.5)(1.3) 0.58.4
Foreign exchange differences – – – – – –
Recognised in equity – – (0.9) – – (0.9)
Balance at 30 April 2013 6.3 (4.3) 1.2 – 1.9 5.1
15 Trade and other receivables 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 2.2 1.9
Other receivables 3.9 12.5
Prepayments and accrued income 12.6 15.2
Total 18.7 29.6
16 Cash and cash equivalents 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 168.1 135.4
As at 30 April 2013, £284.1m (30 April 2012: £288.3m) was held on trust in The Sporting Exchange (Clients) Limited, on behalf of the 
Group’s customers and is equal to the amounts deposited into customer accounts. 
The above cash and cash equivalent includes £8.9m (2012: £15.1m; £9.3m of which is related to LMAX Limited) of client funds, that are not 
held on trust in The Sporting Exchange (Clients) Limited in accordance with local regulations. These client funds that are not held on trust are 
matched by liabilities of an equal value as disclosed in note 17. The cash and cash equivalent also includes an additional £5.1m of restricted 
cash relating to the Group’s financial guarantees (2012: £8.0m).    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 87 
17 Trade and other payables 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade payables 5.5 15.6
Other payables 22.7 25.0
Amounts owed to joint ventures 3.2 3.0
Other taxation and social security 7.3 3.9
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 70.9 70.9
Total 109.6 118.4
Included in other payables at 30 April 2013 is an amount of £8.9m (2012: £15.1m) in respect of amounts due to customers, representing 
deposits received and customer winnings which are not held on trust. This is offset by an equivalent amount of client funds held, which is 
included in cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in note 16.  
18 Provisions  
 
Redundancy 
provision 
£m 
Onerous 
contracts
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 May 2012 – – –
Provision accounted for in the year 9.7 1.9 11.6
Current provisions 30 April 2013 9.7 1.9 11.6
 
Balance at 1 May 2012 
   
– – –
Provision accounted for in the year   – 1.6 1.6
Non-current provisions 30 April 2013 – 1.6 1.6
The redundancy provision relates to costs incurred as part of restructuring and cost optimisation initiatives. All affected employees will depart 
the Group within one year of the balance sheet date. 
Onerous contracts relate to provisions made in relation to operating leases for premises that have been vacated during the course of the year 
as part of the restructuring. 
19 Equity 
Share capital 
 Ordinary shares 
2013
No.
2012
No.
As at 1 May 102,328,826 107,904,239
Issued by the Group in relation to: 
Exercised share options and restricted shares 1,864,890 921,983
Exercised SAYE options 27,894 8,613
Shares cancelled – (6,506,009)
New shares issued for cash – –
Total fully paid, ordinary shares of £0.001 each 104,221,610 102,328,826
 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
104,221,610 ordinary shares of £0.001 each (30 April 2012: 102,328,826) 0.1 0.1
During the year, the Group received consideration of £7.3m (30 April 2012: £1.2m) for the exercise of 1,864,890 (30 April 2012: 921,983) 
share options and restricted shares and £0.1m (30 April 2012: £0.1m) for the exercise of 27,894 (30 April 2012: 8,613) SAYE options, 
resulting in total consideration from the issue of shares of £7.4m (30 April 2012: £1.3m). 
Exercise prices ranged from £0.001 to £8.00. 
The Employee Benefit Trust held 2,640,497 ordinary shares in the Company as at 30 April 2013 (30 April 2012: 2,458,771). 
As part of the Share Buyback Programme, the Group purchased 6,506,009 shares at a total cost of £50.2m (including the cost of the 
transaction of £0.2m) during the year ended 30 April 2012. 
The total fully diluted shares as at 30 April 2013 was 107,500,314 (30 April 2012: 107,773,076). 
   Notes continued 
88 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
19 Equity continued 
Other reserves 
Other reserves mainly comprise tax directly recognised in equity. 
Translation reserve 
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences on the revaluation of foreign currency entities and long-
term foreign currency balances considered to be quasi-equity in nature. 
Reconciliation of movement in equity 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Balance at 1 May 196.1 215.6
Total comprehensive income for the year 
(Loss)/profit for the year (66.3) 34.0
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 
Foreign exchange differences arising on consolidation 1.8 (2.9)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 1.8 (2.9)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (64.5) 31.1
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity 
Issue of shares 7.4 1.3
Purchase of own shares – (50.2)
Purchase of own shares by the EBT (3.2) (0.1)
Sale of own shares by the EBT – 1.0
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 7.5 7.6
Dividends paid (11.2) (9.6)
Tax directly recognised in equity (0.1) (0.6)
Total transactions with owners 0.4 (50.6)
 
Balance at 30 April 132.0 196.1
20 Share-based payments 
The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the year: 
(a)Share option plans 
(b)Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) share option schemes 
(c)Restricted share scheme 
(d)Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan 
(e)Senior Executives’ Incentive Plan 
(f)Stakeholder shares scheme. 
As at 30 April 2013, 3,278,704 share options and restricted shares (2012: 5,444,250) in the capital of the Group remain outstanding  
and are exercisable up to 30 April 2023. 
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002  
that had not vested as at 30 April 2006. The total expense recognised in respect of these schemes was £8.5m (excluding Employers’ 
National Insurance costs) for the year ended 30 April 2013 (30 April 2012: £7.6m). Employers’ National Insurance costs amount 
to £0.8m (30 April 2012: £0.5m). 
The fair value of the options (Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn share option schemes) is determined using the Black-Scholes  
option pricing model. The expected volatility is based on historical volatilities of the Group’s traded options. The expected term used in the 
model is based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
The expected dividend yield and volatility was calculated based on the historical yield and historical volatility of the Company since initial listing 
on the London Stock Exchange. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 89 
(a) Share option plans 
Under the Group’s share option plans, options may be granted to the Directors and employees to purchase ordinary shares. No consideration 
is payable on the grant of an option. Options typically vest over a period of four years and the term of the options may not exceed ten years. 
Share options are granted under a service condition. There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants. Options vest 
subject to continued employment although certain employees may be given extended vesting dates after their employment ceases. 
Financial year granted 
Outstanding 
at 1 May 
2012 
Granted
during
the year
Lapsed/
cancelled
during the
year
Exercised
during the
year
Outstanding 
at 30 April 
2013 
Exercise
price
£
Exercisable
before
2004 30,893 – –(25,893) 5,000 0.25 – 2.25 2014
2005 340,773 – –(109,228)231,545 2.17 – 4.50 2015
2006 1,908,946 – –(1,531,477)377,469 4.50 2016
2007 601,538 – – –601,538 0.001 – 10.00 2017
2008 36,275 – – – 36,275 0.001 – 10.00 2018
2009 8,313 – (2,000) – 6,313 0.001 – 10.00 2019
2010 16,187 – (3,187) – 13,000 0.001 – 10.00 2020
2011 80,200 – (67,138) – 13,062 0.001 – 10.00 2021
2012 340,111 –(264,738)(14,216) 61,157 0.001 – 8.71 2022
2013 – 10,036 (6,252) (3,784) – 0.001 – 8.76 2023
 3,363,236 10,036 (343,315)(1,684,598) 1,345,359 
1,293,384 options were exercisable under this scheme as at 30 April 2013 (2012: 2,943,808). 
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year is £4.35 (2012: £2.18). 
The fair value of the options is expensed over the period that the options vest. The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes 
pricing model for these options: 
Financial year options granted 2013 2003 – 2012
Share price at date of grant £8.06 £0.40 – £10.00
Exercise price £0.001 – £8.76 £0.001 – £10.00
Expected volatility 40.35% 32.51% – 62.71%
Expected term until exercised 1 – 4 years 1 – 5 years
Expected dividend yield 0.8% Nil – 0.8%
Risk-free interest rate 0.41% – 0.97% 0.35% – 5.79%
The weighted average fair value of the awards granted during the year ended 30 April 2013 under the share option plan at the date  
of grant was £5.05 (2012: £4.12). 
The expense recognised in the income statement (excluding Employers’ National Insurance costs) was a credit of £0.1m 
(2012: charge of £1.0m). 
The Group provides for National Insurance contributions, where necessary, on options which were granted to certain employees  
on or after 6 April 1999 under its unapproved share option schemes. The charge is based on the expected timing of future exercises  
of the share options and the market value of the underlying shares expected at those dates in those cases where the liability has not  
been passed onto the employee. 
(b) Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) share option schemes 
The Group operates a HMRC approved SAYE share option scheme in which all UK employees and some international employees  
can participate. Participants save a fixed amount of up to £250 per month for three years and are then able to use these savings  
to buy shares in the Group at a price fixed at a 20% discount to the market value at the start of the savings period. There are  
no market conditions associated with the SAYE option grants. 
The SAYE options must ordinarily be exercised within six months of completing the relevant savings period, and are satisfied through  
the issue of new shares. In line with market practice, the exercise of these options is not subject to any performance condition. 
   Notes continued 
90 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
20 Share-based payments continued 
(b) Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) share option schemes continued 
Financial year granted 
Outstanding 
at 1 May 
2012 
Granted
during
the year
Lapsed/
cancelled
during the
year
Exercised
during the
year
Outstanding 
at 30 April 
2013 
Exercise
price
£
Exercisable
before
2009 41,768 – (38,568) (3,200) – 8.00 2012
2010 57,150 – (34,430) – 22,720 8.00 2013
2012 633,677 – (146,439) (24,694) 462,544 5.68 2014
 732,595 – (219,437) (27,894) 485,264 
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year is £6.13 (2012: £8.00). 
The fair value of the SAYE share options is expensed over the service period based on the Black-Scholes model with the following 
assumptions: 
Financial year options granted 2003 – 2012
Share price at date of grant £2.71 – £10.00
Exercise price £2.17 – £8.00
Expected volatility 40.07% – 54.40%
Expected term until exercised 3.25 years
Expected dividend yield Nil – 0.69%
Risk-free interest rate 0.84% – 5.08%
There were no SAYE share options granted during the year ended 30 April 2013 (30 April 2012: 661,201). The weighted average fair value 
of the options granted in the year ended 30 April 2012 was £3.21. 
The expense recognised in the income statement (excluding Employers’ National Insurance costs) was £0.9m (2012: £0.7m). 
(c) Restricted shares schemes 
The Group provided a restricted shares scheme as part of its bonus plan until 2010. In 2010, the bonus plan was revised with the 
introduction of the Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan. Refer to note 20 (d). 
Awards made under the terms of the restricted share scheme plan prior to 2010 have vested. 
In January 2012, the Group modified certain outstanding share options and replaced them with restricted shares on a 3:1 basis. These were 
expensed over the remaining vesting period of the originally granted share options. 
A number of individuals were granted restricted shares in the period. These have a range of vesting periods of up to three years from the first 
day of the award to which they relate and one third of the shares will vest each year for three years. 
Scheme year 
Outstanding 
at 1 May 
2012 
Granted
during
the year
Lapsed/
cancelled
during the
year
Exercised
during the
year
Outstanding 
at 30 April 
2013 
Exercise
price
£
Exercisable
before
2007 49,542 – – (49,542) – 0.001 2012
2008 83,919 –– (27,470) 56,449 0.001 2013
2009 128,680 – – (51,119) 77,561 0.001 2014
2012 327,652 – (23,970) (101,069) 202,613 0.001 2017
2013 – 405,053 – – 405,053 0.001 2018
 
589,793 405,053 (23,970) (229,200) 741,676 
Restricted shares are valued with reference to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. 
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year was £0.001 (2012: £0.001). 
The total expense recognised in the income statement related to the restricted shares (excluding Employers’ National Insurance costs)  
was £2.8m (2012: £0.6m). 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 91 
(d) Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan 
In 2010, the Group revised the terms of the existing restricted shares scheme for the Directors, executives and senior management with  
the introduction of the following schemes: 
• Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) which consists of share options and restricted share awards; 
• Short-term incentive plan (STIP) which consists of cash and restricted share awards; and 
• Management incentive plan (MIP) which consists of cash and restricted share awards. 
The schemes have awards in the form of cash, share options and restricted shares. Determining the fair value of each element is consistent 
with the measurement outlined above in each share-based payment category. The level of award granted in each of the schemes is based  
on a mixture of the individual performance of the employee and the Group wide performance over the term of the award which is between 
one and three years. 
Scheme year 
Outstanding 
at 1 May 
2012 
Granted
during
the year
Lapsed/
cancelled
during the
year
Exercised
during the
year
Outstanding 
at 30 April 
2013 
Exercise
price
£
Exercisable
before
2010 4,794 –– (1,048) 3,746 0.001 2020
2011 4,689 –– (505) 4,184 0.001 2021
2013 – 181,954 (38,912) – 143,042 0.001 2023
 9,483 181,954 (38,912) (1,553) 150,972 
The fair value of the share options in the LTIP scheme is expensed over the three year period that the options vest. No grants were  
awarded in the current year which included option elements. The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes pricing model  
for options in the previous year: 
Financial year options granted 2012
Share price at date of grant £8.56
Exercise price £8.56
Expected volatility 43.91%
Expected term until exercised 4 years
Expected dividend yield Nil
Risk-free interest rate 1.97%
The STIP and the MIP have cash elements which are fixed in value and are paid and expensed in the first year that the awards are issued. 
The cash award represents two-thirds of the total award. There is no option given to elect to have these issued in shares. The cash element 
issued is classified as a cash bonus in the income statement and not a ‘cash settled share-based payment’ on the basis that the employee 
does not have the option to choose whether they receive cash or shares. 
The restricted shares in the LTIP, STIP and MIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares. The restricted 
shares in the LTIP scheme vest at the end of the third year. The vesting period of the STIP and MIP restricted shares vest over the second 
and third year after the first year’s cash element is paid. 
An expense of £4.3m for the options and restricted shares has been recognised (excluding Employers’ National Insurance costs) which  
is management’s best estimate of the charge in respect of these awards for the current year (2012: £0.6m). The cash element of the scheme 
has been included in the bonus cash pool for the performance year ended 30 April 2013. 
The Employers’ National Insurance costs amounted to £0.5m (2012: £0.1m). 
(e) Senior Executives’ Incentive Plan 
The Long-term Senior Executives’ Incentive Plan (‘SEIP’) was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007. The plan entailed certain senior 
management and Directors be granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element. The scheme came into effect upon 
the admission of the Group’s shares on the London Stock Exchange, and the cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in 
the scheme. The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission and half will vest on the first anniversary of the listing and the next 
half on the second anniversary of the listing subject to continued employment. 
The restricted shares in the SEIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares. 
The expense recognised (excluding Employers’ National Insurance costs) was £0.6m (2012: £4.6m). The Employers’ National Insurance costs 
amounted to £0.1m (2012: £0.3m). 
   Notes continued 
92 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
20 Share-based payments continued 
(e) Senior Executives’ Incentive Plan continued 
Scheme year 
Outstanding 
at 1 May 
2012 
Granted 
during the 
year
Lapsed/
cancelled
during the
year
Exercised
during the
year
Outstanding 
at 30 April 
2013 
Exercise
price
£
Exercisable
before
2011 600,486 – (7,576) (130,788) 462,122 0.001 2021
(f) Stakeholder award scheme 
During 2011, the Group issued restricted shares and phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part of the stakeholder award 
scheme. The scheme relates to the individual employees’ performance during the financial year ended 30 April 2010. 
The restricted shares and phantom shares have a vesting period spanning from the first day of the financial year to which they relate  
to the vest date of 1 August 2011. The restricted shares in the scheme are convertible into shares upon vest date and they are measured 
consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares. The phantom shares in the scheme are only convertible to cash upon the vest 
date and they are measured based on the market value at the date of grant (1 May 2010: £10.00). 
No expense was incurred in the year ended 30 April 2013 (2012: Nil). 
Scheme year 
Outstanding 
at 1 May 
2012 
Granted 
during the 
year
Lapsed/
cancelled 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Outstanding 
at 30 April 
2013 
Exercise 
price
£
Exercisable 
before
2011 148,657 – (11,224) (44,122) 93,311 0.001 2020
21 Employee benefits 
Defined contribution plans 
In August 2008, the Group introduced a defined contribution pension plan available to certain employees. The total expense shown within 
pension costs disclosed in note 4 relating to this plan in the current year was £2.4m (2012: £2.7m). 
22 Financial instruments 
The carrying value of the Group’s financial instruments by category together, with their fair values is analysed as follows: 
 Carrying
value
2013
£m
Fair 
value 
2013 
£m 
Carrying
value
2012
£m
Fair
value
2012
£m
Trade and other receivables (note 15) 6.1 6.1 14.4 14.4
Cash and cash equivalents (note 16) 168.1 168.1 135.4 135.4
Derivative financial liability (note 22(b)) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Trade and other payables (note 17) (28.2) (28.2) (40.6) (40.6)
Net financial assets 145.9 145.9 109.1 109.1
(a) Fair values of financial instruments 
Trade and other receivables 
The fair value of trade and other receivables is valued at fair value less any provision for bad debts. The fair value is estimated using the 
present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date if the effect is material. 
Trade and other payables 
The fair value of trade and other payables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest  
at the balance sheet date if the effect is material. 
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments comprise Sports betting open positions. The fair value of open Sports bets at the year end has been 
calculated using the latest available prices on the Group’s own markets on relevant sporting events. The fair value calculation also includes  
the impact of any exchange hedging activities in relation to these open positions.  
Cash and cash equivalents 
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is estimated as its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand. Where it is not 
repayable on demand then the fair value is estimated at the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest  
at the balance sheet date. 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 93 
The table below sets out fair value measurements using the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy: 
 
Total
2013
£m
Level 1 
2013 
£m 
Level 2
2013
£m
Level 3
2013
£m
Available-for-sale financial asset (note 13) 1.3 – 1.3 –
Fair value of open bets (0.1) – (0.1) –
Net position 1.2 – 1.2 –
 
 Total
2012
£m
Level 1 
2012 
£m 
Level 2
2012
£m
Level 3
2012
£m
Available-for-sale financial asset (note 13) 2.1 – 2.1 –
Fair value of open bets (0.1) – (0.1) –
Net position 2.0 – 2.0 –
Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
of the relevant asset as follows: 
Level 1 – valued using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets 
Level 2 – valued by reference to valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 
Level 3 – valued by reference to valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data. 
There have been no transfers during the year between levels 1 and 2. 
(b) Financial risk management 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.  
Risk management policies and procedures are reviewed regularly and monitored to reflect changes in market conditions and the  
Group’s activities. 
The Group aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations 
surrounding risk management. 
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: 
• Liquidity risk 
• Market risk including currency risk and interest risk; and 
• Credit risk. 
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to the above risks as well as outlining the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing financial risk and the measurement of capital. 
   Notes continued 
94 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
22 Financial instruments continued 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing 
liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and 
stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group also spreads its cash 
reserves across several highly rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks. 
The Group performs regular cash flow projections to ensure that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses  
for a period of at least 90 days. The Group has no committed lines of credit. 
The Group’s financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the effect of netting agreements summarised in the table 
below all have contractual maturities of one year or less as at 30 April 2013. 
 Carrying amount 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables (note 17) 28.2 40.6
 
Derivative financial liabilities 
Open bet liability (within non-trade payables and accrued expenses) 0.1 0.1
Total 28.3 40.7
The maturity analysis of the trade and other payables is as follows: 
30 April 2013 
0-30 days
£m
31-60 days
£m
61-90 days 
£m 
> 91 days
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 26.7 0.7 0.3 0.5 28.2
30 April 2012 
 0-30 days
£m
31-60 days
£m
61-90 days 
£m 
> 91 days
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 38.2 2.0 0.2 0.2 40.6
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates will affect the Group’s income 
or the value of its holdings in financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. 
The management of market risk is performed by the Group under the supervision of the Corporate Risk Committee and according to the 
guidelines approved by them. The Group will utilise hedges where there is an identified requirement to manage profit or loss volatility. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than Pounds Sterling (GBP).  
The currencies in which these transactions primarily are denominated are US Dollars (USD), Euros (EUR) and Australian Dollars (AUD). 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 95 
The Group does not normally hedge against these sales and purchases. However, the Group monitors all foreign currency exposures and 
where appropriate may undertake currency hedging to mitigate the risk of unfavourable foreign exchange movements on specific 
commitments the Group enters into. 
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows. This is based on the carrying amount for monetary financial instruments except 
derivatives when it is based on notional amounts: 
30 April 2013 
 GBP
£m
EUR
£m
USD
£m
AUD 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 138.815.312.10.9 1.0168.1
Trade payables (4.0) (1.4) (0.1) – – (5.5)
Balance sheet exposure 134.8 13.9 12.0 0.9 1.0 162.6
30 April 2012 
 GBP
£m
EUR
£m
USD
£m
AUD 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 98.016.418.12.0 0.9135.4
Trade payables (9.8) (5.5) (0.2) – (0.1) (15.6)
Balance sheet exposure 88.2 10.9 17.9 2.0 0.8 119.8
A 15.0% weakening of the following currencies against the Pounds Sterling at 30 April 2013 would have increased/(decreased) equity and 
income statement by the amounts shown below. This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been 
applied to risk exposures existing at that date. 
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant. 
 Equity Income statement 
 2013
£m
2012 
£m 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Foreign currency  
EUR (0.2) (1.0) 2.7 2.9
USD – – 2.1 3.2
AUD – – 0.2 0.3
A 15.0% strengthening of the above currencies against Pounds Sterling at 30 April would have had the equal but opposite effect on the 
above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group has no bank loans and therefore is not exposed to interest rate risk on its liabilities. At the balance sheet date the Group’s interest-
bearing financial assets were as follows:  
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Variable rate instruments 
Financial assets – cash and cash equivalents 168.1 135.4
Sensitivity analysis 
An increase of 200 and a decrease of 200 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have increased/(decreased) equity 
and profit by the amounts shown below. The rationale behind the 2.0% sensitivity analysis is that interest rates in the UK have been low due 
to the economic climate and any increase or decrease greater than 2.0% is unlikely to occur. This calculation assumes that the change 
occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date. 
   Notes continued 
96 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
22 Financial instruments continued 
Interest rate risk continued 
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial 
instruments with variable interest rates. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2012. 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit or loss 
Increase 3.5 3.3
Decrease (1.1) (1.2)
Credit risk 
Credit/counterparty risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet  
its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investments. 
Group Treasury policy and objectives in relation to credit risk is to minimise the likelihood that the Group will experience financial loss due  
to counterparty failure and to ensure that in the event of a single loss, the failure of any single counterparty would not materially impact  
the financial wellbeing of the Group. 
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only depositing surplus funds on a short-term basis. The ring-fenced customer funds held  
by the Group in trust are spread across leading banking groups with the main aim of reducing risk as opposed to maximising income. 
Trade receivables are assessed for risk of default by customers and terms of trade are adjusted accordingly. Receivables are insured  
on risk and cost grounds. 
As of 30 April 2013, the trade receivables balance was £2.2m (2012: £1.9m) of which £1.4m is current and £0.8m is past due. 
An amount of £0.7m (2012: £0.5m) of the trade receivable balance has been provided for.  
Exposure to credit risk 
The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. Therefore, the maximum exposure to credit risk  
at the balance sheet date was £174.2m (2012: £149.8m) being the total of the carrying amount of the financial assets excluding equity 
investments, shown in note 22(a). 
Capital management 
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising 
issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 19. 
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor and creditor confidence and to sustain future development 
of the business. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order  
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. 
The Group currently has sufficient capital for its needs. 
23 Operating leases 
The Group had total future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Not later than one year 6.3 6.9
Later than one year and not later than five years 14.6 19.4
Later than five years 3.5 5.1
Total 24.4 31.4
Operating lease payments represent rents payable by the Group for office properties. These leases have varying terms, escalation charges 
and renewal rights. 
During the year £8.7m was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases (2012: £8.4m). 
    
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 97 
24 Capital commitments 
Contracted but not provided for in the financial statements: 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Capital 0.2 0.9
Marketing 3.3 6.1
Total 3.5 7.0
25 Related parties 
Group 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. 
Betfair Pty Limited 
During the year the Group recharged the Australian joint venture, Betfair Pty Limited, the following costs: 
• salary and related costs amounting to £nil (2012: £0.1m); and 
• operational costs amounting to £1.5m (2012: £0.9m). 
During the year the Australian joint venture recharged the Group the following costs: 
• salary and related costs amounting to £0.3m (2012: £0.5m); and 
• operational costs amounting to £2.7m (2012: £2.0m). 
The outstanding balance as at 30 April 2013 of loans receivable from the Australian joint venture is £7.8m (2012: £7.5m).  
The balance is not interest bearing. 
In addition to the recharges detailed above, the Group collects revenue on behalf of the joint venture and to a lesser extent the Australian 
joint venture collects revenue on behalf of the Group. 
As at 30 April 2013, the Group owed £3.2m (2012: £3.0m) to the Australian joint venture. 
Featurespace Limited 
During the year the Group was charged £0.2m (2012: £0.5m) for consultancy services by Featurespace Limited in which the Group have 
a non-controlling interest. 
Transactions with key management personnel 
Key management personnel compensation, excluding the Group’s Directors, is shown in the table below: 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term benefits 3.5 2.5
Share-based payment expense 2.7 2.2
Total 6.2 4.7
26 Dividends 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period 
Final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2012 of 7.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2011: 5.9p) 7.1 6.2
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 April 2013 of 4.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2012: 3.2p) 4.1 3.4
Total 11.2 9.6
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2013 of 9.0p per share (2012: 7.0p). 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability  
in these financial statements.  
   Notes continued 
98 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
27 Disposals during the year and discontinued operations  
On 18 December 2012 the Group entered into a sale and purchase agreement for the sale of 67% of the shares of LMAX Limited  
for £2.4m. The transaction was finalised in January 2013, on which date control of LMAX Limited passed to the acquirer.  
The net assets of LMAX Limited at the date of disposal were: 
  
2013
£m
Trade and other receivables  12.9
Cash and cash equivalents*  26.9
Trade and other payables*  (31.4)
Net assets disposed of  8.4
  
Consideration received  2.4
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of  (26.9)
Net cash outflow  (24.5)
* Cash and cash equivalents includes £22.7m of clients funds held matched by liabilities of an equal value in trade and other payables. 
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: 
 
 
Period ended
18 January 2013
£m
Year ended 
30 April 
2012
£m
 Revenue 4.1 1.2
 Cost of sales (2.2) (0.6)
    
 Gross profit 1.9 0.6
 Administrative expenses (17.4) (13.0)
    
 Operating loss  (15.5) (12.4)
    
 EBITDA (5.5) (8.3)
 Impairment loss recognised  (7.7) –
 Depreciation and amortisation (2.3) (4.1)
    
 Operating loss (15.5) (12.4)
    
    
 Net finance income/(expense) 0.1 (0.2)
    
    
 Loss before tax (15.4) (12.6)
 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (5.3) –
 Tax (0.4) –
    
 Net loss attributable to discontinued operations (21.1) (12.6)
During the year, LMAX Limited contributed £5.2m (2012: £2.3m) to the Group’s net operating cash flows and paid £2.8m (2012: £2.9m) 
in respect of investing activities. 
  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
As at 30 April 2013 
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 99 
 Note 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fixed assets  
Investments 2 153.7 146.2
Current assets  
Debtors 3 6.4 0.7
Cash at bank and in hand  1.6 0.8
  8.0 1.5
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 4 (12.0) (3.0)
  
Net current liabilities  (4.0) (1.5)
  
Total assets less current liabilities  
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 5 (52.7) (50.5)
Net assets  97.0 94.2
Capital and reserves  
Share capital 6 0.1 0.1
Share premium 6 19.4 12.0
Profit and loss account 6 77.5 82.1
Shareholders’ funds  97.0 94.2
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 June 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breon Corcoran Alexander Gersh 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
  NOTES 
(forming part of the financial statements) 
100 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Company accounting policies 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation  
to the Company’s financial statements. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable accounting 
standards in the United Kingdom (UK). 
Under section s408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. 
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that  
a parent undertaking includes the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements. The Company reported a loss for the 
financial year ended 30 April 2013 of £0.9m (2012: £0.5m).  
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and  
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains  
or losses on translation are included in the consolidated profit and loss account. 
Share-based payments 
The Group’s share option plans and restricted shares scheme allows employees to acquire shares in the Betfair Group. The fair value of these 
schemes is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity, with the exception of cash settled transactions which 
result in a corresponding increase in other creditors. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to participate in the scheme and is calculated using an option pricing model, taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest. 
Restricted shares are valued with reference to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. They have a vesting period  
of three years from the first day of the financial year to which they relate and one third of the shares will vest each year for three years. 
All cash settled share-based payments are recorded as a liability and revalued at the market value at the balance sheet date with the 
difference taken to the profit and loss account, except where the cash component is fixed. 
The Company has recognised an increase in investments corresponding to the FRS 20 Share-based payment charge in respect  
of awards to employees of subsidiary companies. 
Cash and liquid resources 
Cash comprises cash at bank and in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand. 
Investments 
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment. 
Treasury share transactions 
The Company has recognised an increase in investments corresponding to the FRS 20 Share-based payment charge.   
  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports 101 
2 Investments 
 
Shares in Group 
undertakings
£m
Cost 
As at 1 May 2012 146.2
Increase in the cost of investment for share-based payments under FRS 20 7.5
At 30 April 2013 153.7
3 Debtors 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts owed by fellow Group undertakings 6.4 0.7
4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts owed to fellow Group undertakings 12.0 3.0
5 Creditors: amounts falling due more than one year 
 2013
£m
2012
£m
Loans owed to fellow Group undertakings 52.7 50.5
6 Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
£m 
Profit and 
loss account 
£m 
Total Parent 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 May 2011 0.1 10.7 134.8 145.6
Total loss for the year – – (0.5) (0.5)
Issue of shares – 1.3 – 1.3
Share buyback – – (50.2) (50.2)
Dividends paid – – (9.6) (9.6)
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions – – 7.6 7.6
Balance at 30 April 2012 0.1 12.0 82.1 94.2
   
Balance at 1 May 2012 0.1 12.0 82.1 94.2
Total loss for the year – – (0.9) (0.9)
Issue of shares – 7.4 – 7.4
Dividends paid – – (11.2) (11.2)
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions – – 7.5 7.5
Balance at 30 April 2013 0.1 19.4 77.5 97.0 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 
102 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
£m 2013 2012 2011* 2010* 2009*
Revenue 387.0 388.5 393.3 340.9 301.2
Underlying EBITDA excluding equity-settled share-based  
  payments and associated costs 
82.6 94.1 79.7 53.5 70.3
Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs (9.3) (8.1) (6.4) (4.2) (4.3)
EBITDA before separately disclosed items 73.3 86.0 73.3 49.3 66.0
Separately disclosed items (22.1) (2.5) (17.0) (4.6) (0.9)
EBITDA 51.2 83.5 56.3 44.7 65.1
(Loss)/profit before tax (49.4) 54.2 26.6 17.8 47.5
(Loss)/profit for the year (66.3) 34.0 23.0 15.1 38.8
* As reported in previous Annual Reports and not restated for discontinued operation of LMAX.  103 corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Registered Office
Betfair Group plc
Waterfront 
Hammersmith Embankment 
Chancellors Road (access on Winslow Road) 
London W6 9HP 
+44 (0) 20 8834 8000
corporate.betfair.com
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS13 8AE 
0870 707 4010
www.computershare.com
Please contact Computershare quoting your shareholder reference number (on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher) for  
advice regarding any change of name or address, transfer of shares or loss/destruction of share certificate. Computershare will also  
be able to respond to general queries such as the number of shares you hold or payment details for dividends.
Amalgamation of accounts
Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to multiple accounts in their name should contact Computershare  
to request their accounts be amalgamated.
Dividend mandates
We encourage shareholders to have their dividends paid directly into their bank account. This method of payment removes the  
risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures your account is credited on the due date. Tax vouchers are provided  
by Computershare. To take advantage of this convenient method of payment contact Computershare or visit www-uk.computershare.
com/investor.
Electronic communications
Using the Company’s corporate website as a method of communicating with shareholders the Company is able to distribute messages  
to shareholders instantaneously. Receiving the Company’s communications electronically allows the Company to communicate with its 
shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner. You can to elect to receive email notifications by 
contacting Computershare or by registering with Investor Centre at www-uk.computershare.com/investor.
Scams and frauds
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited communications, such as:
•	 offers to buy or sell shares at a discount;
•	 opportunities to receive free company reports;
•	 free financial advice; and
•	 chances to invest in carbon credit trading schemes.
If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and check that they  
are appropriately authorised by the FCA by visiting www.fca.org.uk. More information on protecting your investment  
can be found at www.fca.org.uk/consumers.
Share dealing
If you wish to buy or sell shares in the Company you can do this by using the services of a stockbroker or high street bank or through 
telephone or online dealing services. The Company’s Registrar, Computershare offer a telephone and online service, further information 
can be found at www.computershare.com/sharedealingcentre or by calling 0870 703 0084 (Mon-Fri).
Please note the following when contacting Computershare:
•	 you will need to have your shareholder reference number available; and
•	 if your shareholding is in certificated form you will need to present your valid share certificate at the time of sale.
Please note the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.  
If you are in any doubt you should contact an independent financial adviser. Details of stockbrokers in the UK can be found via the 
Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers (APCIMS) on +44(0) 20 7448 7100 or at www.apcims.co.uk.
ShareGift
If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for you to sell than they are worth, you may wish  
to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift (Registered Charity 1052686) which specialises in accepting such shares as donations. 
The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained from the Company’s registrar Computershare. There are no implications for Capital 
Gains Tax purposes (no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. Further information 
about ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from www.sharegift.org.uk.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 104 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
Principal Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate 
London EC2M 4RB
Principal Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
65 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1HS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Betfair Group plc website
The Company’s corporate website provides shareholders with a broad range of information including investor information such  
as the Company’s financial statements, current and historic share prices, AGM materials, events and governance information.  
You may visit the investor website at corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations.
Financial Calendar
2013 Final Results 27 June 2013
Ex-dividend date 4 September 2013
Record date 6 September 2013
2014 Q1 Interim Management Statement 5 September 2013
Annual General Meeting 5 September 2013
Payment of final dividend 2 October 2013
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT BETFAIR GROUP PLC
Betfair Online
Here you will find the latest information on the following:
•	 The Betfair Group
•	 Investor relations
•	 Corporate responsibility
•	 Latest news and media
corporate.betfair.com
Betfair Group plc
Waterfront 
Hammersmith Embankment 
Chancellors Road (access on Winslow Road) 
London W6 9HP 
United Kingdom
For general enquiries please contact: 
Email: info@betfair.com 
Phone: +44 (0) 20 8834 8000
PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS Designed by www.luminous.co.uk
This Report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk and Amadeus 100 Offset. 
Amadeus 50 Silk is made using 50% post consumer waste and 
Amadeus 100 Offset is made from 100% post consumer waste.  
The Amadeus papers are manufactured at a mill that is EMSA  
and ISO 14001 accredited and is FSC® certified.
The report is printed using vegetable oil based inks.  
The factory is also ISO 14001 and FSC® certified. Betfair Group plc
Waterfront 
Hammersmith Embankment 
Chancellors Road (access on Winslow Road) 
London W6 9HP  
United Kingdom
For general enquiries please contact: 
Email: info@betfair.com 
Phone: +44 (0) 20 8834 8000
Betfair Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
