 A world leader in natural gas
Annual Report and 
Accounts 2007
BG Group plc
100 Thames Valley Park Drive
Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT
www.bg-group.com
Registered in England & Wales No. 3690065
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc. 
Printed by Butler and Tanner.
This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on
think
4
bright. This paper is produced from 100% 
ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp that is fully
recyclable. It has FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)
certiﬁcation and has been manufactured within 
a mill which is registered under the British 
and international quality standard of 
BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the environmental
standard of BS EN ISO 14001-1996.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_FC&BC.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  16:50  Page 1 Our vision
Natural gas is our business. We are
a rapidly growing company, with
expertise throughout the gas chain. 
We are a leading natural gas
company in the global energy
market – operating responsibly and
delivering value to our shareholders. 
We do this by connecting
competitively priced resources 
to high value markets.
www.bg-group.com/investors
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Glossary of Terms 
 
141
For the purpose of this Report the following definitions apply: 
‘$’  US Dollars 
‘£’  UK pounds Sterling 
‘ABI’  Association of British Insurers 
‘ADR’  American Depositary Receipt 
‘ADS’  American Depositary Share 
‘AGM’  Annual General Meeting 
‘bcf’  Billion cubic feet 
‘bcfd’  Billion cubic feet per day 
‘bcma’  Billion cubic metres per annum 
‘BG Group’  BG Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, 
joint ventures and associated undertakings 
‘BG Energy Holdings 
Limited’ or ‘BGEH’  
BG Energy Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of  
BG Group plc 
‘billion’ or ‘bn’  One thousand million 
‘boe’  Barrels of oil equivalent 
‘boed’  Barrels of oil equivalent per day 
‘bopd’  Barrels of oil per day 
‘CATS’ The North Sea Central Area Transmission 
System pipeline 
‘CCGT’  Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 
‘Combined Code’  The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council 
‘Company’  BG Group plc 
‘CR’  Corporate Responsibility 
‘CSOS’  Company Share Option Scheme 
‘E&P’  Exploration and Production 
‘EPV’  Estimated Present Value 
‘EU’  European Union 
‘FEED’  Front End Engineering Design 
‘Finding & Development 
costs’ or ‘F&D’ 
The three year average unit finding & 
development cost is calculated by dividing the 
total exploration, development and unproved 
acquisition costs incurred over the period by the 
total changes in net proved reserves (excluding 
purchases, sales and production) for that period 
‘Financial Statements’  The Group and parent company financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 
which comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the balance sheets, the cash flow 
statements, the consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense, and the related 
notes 
‘GAAP’  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
‘GASA’  Gas Argentino S.A. 
‘Group’  BG Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, 
joint ventures and associated undertakings 
‘GW’ Gigawatt 
‘HSSE’  Health, Safety, Security and the Environment 
‘IAS’  International Accounting Standard issued by 
the IASB 
‘IASB’  International Accounting Standards Board 
‘IFRS’  International Financial Reporting Standards 
issued by the IASB and endorsed by the 
European Union 
‘LNG’  Liquefied Natural Gas 
‘LTIP’  Long Term Incentive Plan 
‘LTIS’  Long Term Incentive Scheme 
‘m’  Million 
 
 
‘managed volumes’ Comprises all LNG volumes contracted for 
purchase and having related revenue and  
other operating income recognised in the 
applicable period 
‘mmbbls’  Million barrels 
‘mmboe’  Million barrels of oil equivalent 
‘mmbtu’  Million British thermal units 
‘mmbtud’ Million British thermal units per day 
‘mmcm’  Million cubic metres 
‘mmscfd’  Million standard cubic feet per day 
‘mtpa’  Million tonnes per annum 
‘MW’  Megawatt 
‘MWeq’ Megawatt equivalent 
‘NGV’  Natural Gas Vehicle 
‘NYSE’  New York Stock Exchange 
‘OECD’  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development 
‘OTCQX’ the US over-the-counter market on which  
BG Group’s ADRs are listed. See page 56 
‘PSC’  Production Sharing Contract 
‘Proved reserves’ see page 125 
‘Probable reserves’ see page 125 
‘Risked exploration’ see page 125 
‘ROACE’  Return on Average Capital Employed 
‘T&D’  Transmission and Distribution 
‘three year proved 
reserve replacement 
rate’ or ‘RRR’  
The three year average proved reserve 
replacement rate is the total net proved 
reserves changes over the three year period 
including purchases and sales (excluding 
production) divided by the total net production 
for that period  
‘three year organic 
proved reserve 
replacement rate’ 
The RRR excluding purchases and sales of 
reserves in place and the impact of the 2007 
year end price adjustment on total net proved 
reserves 
‘Unit lifting costs  
per boe’ 
‘Unit lifting costs per boe’ is calculated by 
excluding royalty, tariff and insurance costs 
from ‘Unit operating costs/expenditure’ as 
defined below  
‘Unit operating costs/ 
expenditure per boe’ 
‘Unit operating expenditure per boe’ is 
calculated by dividing Production and Other 
operating costs (royalties) on page 125 by the 
net production for the period. This measure 
does not include the impact of depreciation 
and amortisation costs and exploration costs 
as they are not considered to be costs 
associated with the operation of producing 
assets 
‘Un-booked resources’ see page 125 
‘RPIX’  Retail Prices Index excluding mortgage 
interest repayments 
‘SEC’  The United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission 
‘SID’  Senior Independent Director 
‘SIP’  Share Incentive Plan 
‘tcf’ Trillion cubic feet 
‘UKCS’  United Kingdom Continental Shelf 
‘WDDM’  West Delta Deep Marine 
 
LEGAL NOTICE 
Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts contain forward-looking information concerning the Group’s strategy, operations, financial 
performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in which the Group operates. By their nature, 
forward-looking statements involve uncertainty because they depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, not all of which are within the Company’s 
control or can be predicted by the Company. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no 
assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Actual results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking 
statements. For a detailed analysis of the factors that may affect our business, financial performance or results of operations, we urge you to look at the “Risk 
Factors” included in this Annual Report and Accounts. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast, and no part of these 
results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in BG Group plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in any way 
in connection with any investment decision. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 
 
BG Group is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom. BG Group is a “designated foreign issuer” for the 
purposes of National Instrument 71-102 “Continuous Disclosure and Other Exemptions” of the Canadian Securities Administrators.  
EXPLANATORY NOTE FOR US INVESTORS RELATING TO GAS AND OIL RESERVES AND RESOURCES 
BG Group continues voluntarily to use the SEC definition of proved reserves to report proved gas and oil reserves in this Annual Report and Accounts. For further 
details of BG Group’s proved reserves as at 31 December 2007, and related supplemental gas and oil information, see Supplementary information – gas and oil,  
on page 121. This Report also contains additional information about other BG Group gas and oil reserves and resources that would not be permitted in SEC filings. 
For an explanation of terms used in connection with such additional reserves and resources information, refer to page 125. 
BG061_IFC-IBC.qxp:Layout 1  18/3/08  15:36  Page b DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION
Revenue and other operating income
Business Performance*
£8 330m +15%
2006 £7 270m
Total Results
£8 158m
2006 £7 674m
Total operating proﬁt
Business Performance*
£3 248m +5%
2006 £3 103m
Total Results
£3 095m
2006 £3 354m
Earnings per share
Business Performance*
52.7p +11%
2006 47.4p
Total Results
51.6p
2006 51.4p
Dividend per share
9.36p +30%
2006 7.20p
Group at a glance 2
Chairman’s statement 4
Chief Executive’s statement 7
Our strategy 10
BG Group’s global operations 14
Operating review 16
Financial review 28
Corporate Responsibility 38
Risk factors 42
Board of Directors 46
Group Executive Committee 48
Governance Framework 50
Other statutory information 58
Remuneration Report 61
Independent Auditors’ report 72
Principal accounting policies 73
Primary statements 76
Notes to the accounts 81
Supplementary information 121
Five year financial summary 127
Shareholder information 129
Notice of ninth Annual 
General Meeting 131
Index 139
Presentation of 
non-GAAP measures 140
Glossary of Terms 141
2007 Performance highlights
Contents
* Business Performance excludes disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments 
as exclusion of these items provides readers with a clear and consistent presentation 
of the underlying operating performance of the Group’s ongoing business. Unless
otherwise stated, financial operating information for the Group and its business
segments presented in the statements of the Chairman and Chief Executive and in
the Directors’ Report is based on BG Group’s Business Performance. See Presentation 
of non-GAAP measures, page 140. See also, Segmental analysis and results presentation,
note 2, page 82, and Earnings per ordinary share, note 10, page 96, for a reconciliation 
of the differences between Business Performance and T otal Results. 
1
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_P01.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  17:50  Page 1 2 Group at a glance
www.bg-group.com
Exploration and 
Production (E&P)
BG Group explores for, develops,
produces and markets gas and oil
around the world. Around 70% of 2007
production was gas. The Group uses its
technical, commercial and gas chain
skills to deliver projects at competitive
cost and to maximise the sales value 
of its hydrocarbons.
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)
LNG is gas that has been cooled to 
a liquid form to make it easier to
transport. BG Group’s LNG activities
combine liquefaction and regasiﬁcation
facilities with the purchasing, shipping
and sale of LNG. 
Transmission and 
Distribution (T&D)
BG Group’s T&D activities are focused 
in fast-growing markets, developing
both markets and infrastructure for 
the delivery of gas.
Power Generation
A large proportion of the worldwide
demand for gas is attributable to 
power generation. BG Group develops,
owns and operates gas-ﬁred power
generation plants.
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG Group is engaged in the
exploration, development,
production, transmission,
distribution and supply of
natural gas. The Group also
has a number of power
generation business interests.
Gas reserves often require
complex chains of physical
infrastructure and
commercial agreements to
deliver the gas to markets.
BG Group has proven skills
and experience in creating
value from these chains.
BG Group is a rapidly growing global
energy business with interests in 
27 countries across ﬁve continents.
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Business Review
BG Group’s Business Review is set
out on pages 2 to 45 of this Report.
UK company law requires the Board
of Directors to produce a Business
Review in which the Board provides
a fair review of the business of the
Group and a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties 
it faces. Particular care should be
taken when assessing elements 
of this Business Review that relate
to future developments and the
principal risks and uncertainties
facing the Group. Whilst the Board
has made every effort to identify,
disclose and explain such matters,
it cannot predict all events or
circumstances that will actually
affect the Group in the future. 
Please also refer to the Legal Notice on page 141.
BG061_p02-03_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:00  Page 2 3
Main markets and activities
BG Group’s high-performing E&P business
is the centre of gravity for the Group. 
E&P volumes were 604 000 barrels 
of oil equivalent per day in 2007. 
The E&P business is expected to have
maintained its top quartile performance
in ﬁnding and development costs
(a)
and
unit operating costs per boe
(a)
in 2007.
Production: Bolivia; Canada; Egypt; 
India; Kazakhstan; Thailand; Trinidad 
and T obago; Tunisia; UK.
Key events in 2007
• Exploration drilling success in
Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Norway,
Thailand and the UK
• Signed Gas Sales Agreement to
facilitate Karachaganak Phase III
• Successful expansion of Tapti gas
ﬁeld in India
• Start-up of Buzzard ﬁeld in the UK
• Record LNG volumes and 
operating proﬁt
• Sanctioned Quintero LNG import
terminal, Chile
• Signed Sale and Purchase
Agreement for 2.25 mtpa LNG 
from Nigeria LNG Train 7 
• Acquired two US power plants
• Increased holding in Italian 
power operation to 100%
• Continued strong growth in
customer numbers, volumes 
and profit
• Expansion of distribution network
in São Paulo and Gujarat
BG Group has an industry-leading
portfolio of LNG assets, delivering 
cargoes to nine out of the world’s 
17 importing nations in 2007. 
Liquefaction: Egypt; Trinidad and Tobago.
Long-term LNG supply: Egypt; Equatorial
Guinea; Nigeria; Trinidad and Tobago.
Regasification: Elba Island and Lake
Charles, USA; Dragon LNG, UK; 
Quintero LNG, Chile; Brindisi LNG, Italy. 
The Group’s T&D businesses are focused
on high-growth developing markets in
Brazil and India.
Transmission and distribution: 
Brazil; India.
BG Group has a 4.3 GW portfolio of 
mostly gas-ﬁred power generation.
Power: Italy; Malaysia; Philippines; 
UK; USA.
Co-generation: Brazil; India. 
BG Group manages its 
business segments on an
integrated regional basis.
Europe and Central Asia
Americas and Global LNG 2
Africa, Middle East and Asia 3
Business Performance*
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
*For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
(a) See definitions, page 141.
1
Total operating proﬁt
£130m 2007
£106m
Total operating proﬁt
£247m 2007
£231m
Total operating proﬁt
£521m 2007
£352m
Total operating proﬁt
2007
£2 457m
£2 387m
2006
2006
2006
2006
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p02-03_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:02  Page 3 4
Commitment 
to profitable growth
Chairman’s statement
Directors’ Report – Business Review
on the global climate. In response, many
governments are now committed to the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
This will require a multi-stranded approach,
encompassing fuel choice and efﬁciency
of energy use, as well as alternatives to the
burning of fossil fuels and the deployment
of technology innovations such as carbon
capture and storage.
Natural gas offers plentiful supplies,
proven and cost-effective technology,
and, importantly – as the cleanest of
the hydrocarbon fuels – 40% lower carbon
content than coal. As a result, there is
an opportunity for gas to displace more
carbon-intensive energy sources. Gas is
also capable of greater generation efﬁciency
than other fossil fuels. Although natural
gas is not the answer to climate change,
it can make an important contribution
towards a solution. 
As a global integrated gas business,
BG Group is playing a part in helping to
meet this defining challenge of our age,
coupled with a commitment to reduce
carbon emissions from its own operations.
This subject is addressed later in this
Report and also in more detail in the
Group’s separate Corporate Responsibility
Report 2007.
Global energy needs grew throughout 2007,
reﬂected in high oil prices and a continued
increase in the demand for gas. This was
particularly evident in the international
LNG market, which is becoming a signiﬁcant
contributor to energy supply security and
in which BG Group beneﬁts strongly from
its role as a leading gas company.
I am pleased to report that BG Group has
achieved another good set of results, with
a 5% increase in total operating proﬁt to
£3 248 million and an 11% increase in
earnings per share to 52.7 pence. We are once
again raising the full year dividend payment,
with a 30% increase to 9.36 pence per share.
Financial results alone can never tell more
than part of the story in a business such as
that of BG Group. I am, therefore, very
pleased to report that there were highly
encouraging developments in the Group’s
exploration prospects, including one of the
major industry successes of recent years in the
Tupi discovery, offshore Brazil. Production
volumes were broadly in line with 2006, even
though output was affected by a number of
factors, notably the disruption to UK
production caused by third-party damage to
the North Sea Central Area Transmission
System (CATS) pipeline. There was further
excellent performance by the Liqueﬁed
Natural Gas (LNG) business, where profits
increased by 48%.
Business context
Natural gas has become one of the world’s
most important commodities, central
to global long-term energy needs. Access
to secure gas supplies – whether imported
or indigenous – is seen as essential in most
mature economies, and plays an increasingly
important part in the development of many
emerging nations.
For a growing number of countries, the
importance of gas within the broader energy
mix is magniﬁed further by concern about
climate change. There is clear evidence that
mankind’s activities have a direct impact
I am pleased to report that
BG Group has achieved another
good set of results.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p04-06_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:04  Page 4 5
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
2007 highlights
Whilst prices are likely to ﬂuctuate, it looks
probable that they will remain at levels
signiﬁcantly higher than we saw in the earlier
part of this decade. However, for BG Group,
as for many international oil and gas
companies, gains from commodity prices
in 2007 were partly offset by the continued
weakness of the US Dollar, the currency
in which a signiﬁcant proportion of the
Group’s revenues are denominated, and by
an increase in costs, far in excess of the rate
of inﬂation, for most of the supplies and
services upon which our industry depends.
Strategic framework
Whilst BG Group has its roots in the old
British Gas monolith, its emergence as an
international business is much more recent
and is largely a product of the last ten years,
following the demerger of British Gas into
BG Group and Centrica (which owns the
British Gas marketing business in the UK).
BG Group’s evolution over the last ten years
can be viewed as having three broad,
overlapping phases.
In the early part of the decade, the focus was
on progressing the portfolio of opportunities
that had been put in place in the late 1990s.
Important new opportunities were also
identiﬁed, notably the core of the Global LNG
business, which is now a major contributor to
the Group.
In recent years, as the Group has expanded, 
it has focused on the timely completion of its
project portfolio and on the development of a
new, and much wider, portfolio of exploration
and production opportunities.
With this second phase largely completed,
the Group’s plans for future growth are
underpinned by the growing strength of the
reserves and resources base and the quality
of the opportunity set it has assembled
in recent years. The Group has now come
full circle, and its focus is returning to
implementation priorities. That is not
to say that additional opportunities will
be overlooked. Far from it. It does mean,
however, that the Group has already secured
within its portfolio the opportunities and
projects that will meet its ambition to deliver
another decade of strong growth. 
prone to political and social instability, and 
the process by which those reserves are
found, produced and delivered to markets
is one that presents constant technological
and operational challenges. As BG Group
grows – and as established hydrocarbon
provinces in developed nations approach
maturity – the Group’s portfolio will continue
to include territories presenting a higher
degree of risk than that faced within the
more stable economies of Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) nations.
These risks – which include the range of
government actions associated with resource
nationalism and the threat of disruption from
the actions of non-state groups – are faced by
all large international oil and gas companies.
However, in highlighting the risk factors to be
taken into account when assessing the
Group’s growth prospects, I should also
be clear on two points.
First, the Group has an effective balance
between its OECD and non-OECD investments,
and indeed several of its non-OECD
investments are in countries that have long
offered an investment environment just as
stable as that in Western Europe or North
America. The strategy and future prospects
section on page 10 provides further detail
of BG Group’s global growth opportunities.
Second, whilst the Group’s portfolio has
broadened, it has intensified its efforts
to manage the consequent challenges.
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Progress in 2007
There were a number of notable highlights
in the Group’s Exploration and Production
(E&P) activities over the year. These are
discussed more fully in the Chief Executive’s
statement. The main focal point was the
outcome of drilling in the Santos Basin,
offshore Brazil, by the consortium in which
BG Group has a 25% interest. Results there
indicate the prospect of a new world-class
ﬁeld, offering the potential for a major new
source of value for the Group in the longer
term. The signing of a new agreement on the
sale of gas from the Karachaganak facility in
Kazakhstan was also an important milestone
for the Group, providing for signiﬁcantly
increased gas sales once the proposed
Phase III expansion comes onstream.
The growth of the LNG business has
exceeded even the most optimistic
of expectations just ﬁve years ago. Whilst
the global LNG market remains relatively
immature, accounting for the delivery
of around 7% of gas volumes worldwide,
it is expanding rapidly – and BG Group is one
of the leading companies in its development.
Already the largest LNG importer by volume
in the USA, the Group has sufﬁcient ﬂexibility
of supply to meet the needs of both contract
customers and spot purchasers in European
and Asian markets.
Governance and Corporate Responsibility
Some of the world’s most signiﬁcant
hydrocarbon reserves are located in regions
Revenue and other operating income*
£8 330m 
2006 £7 270m up 15%
Total operating proﬁt*
£3 248m
2006 £3 103m  up 5%
Earnings per share*
52.7p
2006 47.4p up 11%
Dividend per share
9.36p 
2006 7.20p up 30%
BG061_p04-06_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:21  Page 5 6
www.bg-group.com 
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Chairman’s statement continued
BG Group combines the highest standards
of corporate governance with a robust
assessment of operational risk and a rigorous
focus on security, safety and asset integrity.
In all aspects, the Group is guided by its
Business Principles, which set out core
values and behaviours.
In the Board’s view, a commitment to putting
the Business Principles into practice is the
best foundation for the creation of enduring
shareholder value. BG Group’s long-term
prospects depend on positive and sustainable
relationships with governments, partners,
neighbouring communities and employees.
Those relationships are underpinned by a
commitment to work responsibly at all times,
as well as by strategies that seek to align the
Group’s long-term objectives with the
aspirations of its key stakeholders. More
details on our approach to Corporate
Responsibility can be found on page 38.
I am pleased by the many examples of
Business Principles put into practice that are
entered for the Group’s annual Chairman’s
Awards. The Group is also increasingly
focused on the contribution its businesses
can make to sustainable social, economic and
environmental development in the countries
in which they operate. This will be a theme
to which I expect to return in future years.
Annual Report and Accounts online 
In common with many companies, BG Group is
actively seeking ways to reduce its use of paper
in regular communications. Last year, I wrote
to shareholders explaining that the Group
intended to take advantage of the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006, which permits
companies to communicate with shareholders
electronically via their websites. Therefore, this
year, printed copies of this Report have only
been sent to new shareholders and to those
shareholders who speciﬁcally requested a
paper copy.
In line with the new electronic
communications regime, our Annual Report
and Accounts and Notice of Annual General
Meeting can now be obtained online 
by accessing the BG Group website 
(www.bg-group.com/ara), and these will
remain there throughout the year. Shareholders
may request a printed copy of the Report at
any time – see page 129 for further details.
With the beneﬁts of online navigation – and
with access to broadband now widespread –
I hope these changes will enable a better
understanding of the Group’s activities
and ambitions whilst minimising the
environmental and cost impact associated
with a high number of printed publications.
The Board 
We welcome Dr John Hood, the 
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford,
who joined our Board in April 2007. The
Group’s Deputy Chief Executive, William
Friedrich, announced his retirement from 
the Board in December. He joined the Group
12 years ago, and was one of the architects 
of the two highly successful demergers that
followed in 1997 and 2000. He leaves with 
our thanks and best wishes for the future.
Finally, I would like to thank the people
of BG Group. As the industry becomes ever 
more complex and the pace of change
accelerates, the Group’s continued success 
is testament to their professionalism,
dedication and passion.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
BG061_p04-06_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:28  Page 6 7
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and T otal Results, see note 2, page 82.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
A strategy that delivers 
Chief Executive’s statement
grow throughout 2007 in line with the Group’s
integrated approach to capturing value along
the gas value chain. T otal operating proﬁt
increased by 7% to £247 million. In
Power Generation, total operating proﬁt
increased by 23% to £130 million, principally
due to the consolidation of new subsidiaries.
Strategy for success
I am sure that shareholders will by now 
be familiar with our core strategy – a focus 
on speciﬁc, high value markets and on
securing competitively priced gas to 
connect to those markets.
It is a strategy that BG Group, as an integrated
global gas company, is particularly well-placed
to deliver; we combine a deep understanding
of global gas markets with an excellent track
record in ﬁnding, developing and marketing
reserves. More importantly, as these results
show, it is a strategy designed to deliver value
to our shareholders over the long term.
The need for secure supply to meet the
growing energy needs of both emerging 
and established economies, together with
growing public debate about climate change
and development priorities, presents a
complex business context. The associated
challenges yield opportunities for companies
able to move swiftly and which are sufﬁciently
ﬂexible and willing to align their objectives
with those of governments, businesses and
communities. BG Group’s successful global
portfolio has been founded on this approach.
The Group now has business interests in a
total of 27 countries across ﬁve continents.
We have an established presence in a range
I am pleased to report that in 2007 BG Group
delivered another year of good operating
performance, together with very positive
progress in the development of the Group’s
long-term growth opportunities. Our
distinctive strategy has enabled us to 
capture increased value from our existing
assets whilst strengthening further the
foundations for our next decade of delivery.
Operating performance*
As the Chairman notes in his statement, 
BG Group has continued to meet its
commitment to deliver value to our
shareholders, with earnings of £1 783 million
(2006 £1 640 million).
In Exploration and Production (E&P), volumes
were 220.3 mmboe (2006 219.2 mmboe).
Overall production levels were maintained,
despite the impact of disposals in Canada
and Mauritania and the shutdown of the UK
North Sea Central Area Transmission System
(CATS) pipeline as a result of third-party
anchor damage. Operating proﬁt was
£2 387 million (2006 £2 457 million).
Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (LNG) performance 
was particularly strong in 2007. Global LNG
markets continue to be supply-constrained
amid accelerating demand from consumer
nations. The Group’s focus on the
development of a ﬂexible, global LNG
portfolio means we are well-placed to supply
markets across the world, and this was
reﬂected in 2007 in a 48% increase in total
operating proﬁt in our LNG business.
Our Transmission and Distribution (T&D)
businesses in India and Brazil continued to
Very positive progress in the
development of the Group’s
long-term growth opportunities.
Frank Chapman
Chief Executive
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p07-09_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:29  Page 7 8 Chief Executive’s statement continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Paciﬁc Basin markets, deploying our ﬂexible
global portfolio to good effect to meet strong
demand in the Asia Paciﬁc region. We
continue to expand our global ﬂeet, taking
delivery of four new LNG ships during the
year. We also began to deliver the ﬁrst
cargoes under a new long-term supply
contract with Equatorial Guinea LNG.
The Group sanctioned the Quintero
regasiﬁcation terminal in Chile, with the
initial start-up phase planned for 2009, and
the Dragon LNG import terminal in south
Wales advanced towards completion. In the
USA – where the Group imported 55% of all
LNG supplied in 2007 – our gas marketing
activity was boosted further by the addition
of new capacity rights in the Cypress pipeline,
connecting the Elba Island import facility to
downstream markets in south Georgia and
Florida. In 2007, the US regulatory authorities
also approved terminal expansion and new
pipeline proposals for Elba Island, which are
intended to extend the Group’s capacity 
for downstream marketing in the USA in
future years.
BG Group continues to derive value from
downstream gas demand driven by rapid
economic growth in leading non-OECD
nations. Our Transmission and Distribution
(T&D) subsidiaries showed a strong
performance through the year. In Brazil,
Comgas sales volumes increased by 5%; the
business now serves more than 500 000
customers. India’s largest private gas
company, Gujarat Gas, demonstrated solid
growth, and growth continued at Mahanagar
Gas, which serves India’s economic hub,
Mumbai. In our Power Generation segment,
we acquired an additional gas-fuelled power
plant in north-eastern USA – a region with 
a flexible and accessible power generation
market – in a further expansion of the
Group’s integrated US gas marketing strategy .
BG Group’s role as a leading gas company 
is dependent on the safe, swift and 
cost-effective application of innovative
responses to the many operating challenges
inherent in our industry.
That spirit of innovation is acknowledged 
in the Chief Executive’s Awards, our annual
the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil, found
indications of significant volumes of
hydrocarbons in place – potentially the
largest new source of oil and gas that the
world has seen for some years. The Tupi
structure is at an early stage of appraisal but
is now estimated to contain hydrocarbons 
in place of between 12 and 30 or more billion
barrels of oil equivalent. BG Group has good
exposure to this evolving frontier play, with
all four wells in the Santos Basin so far
proving successful, and further exploration
drilling still to come.
We drilled 20 wells in 2007, with 12 successes,
including wells in Bolivia, Brazil, Norway,
Thailand and the UK. The year saw extensive
seismic acquisition activity, with surveys in
Algeria, Brazil, Canada, China, Libya, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Trinidad and Tobago and the
UK. We also acquired more than 4 600 square
kilometres of new exploration acreage, with
additional licences in Canada, India, Norway,
Trinidad and Tobago and the UK.
In 2007, BG Group made important
advances in a number of key producing
assets. UK Continental Shelf (UKCS)
contribution to Group production volumes
was enhanced during the year with the
start-up of the Buzzard and West Franklin
fields. We made further good progress 
in our Karachaganak operations in
Kazakhstan, working closely with partners
and stakeholders to agree a new Gas Sales
Agreement that will facilitate the sanction
of the proposed Phase III expansion project.
Investment by BG Group and partners in the
development of the mid-Tapti ﬁeld, offshore
India, was another notable highlight; gas
production from the Panna/Mukta and 
Tapti fields has almost doubled over the 
last five years. 
In Trinidad and Tobago, the Group secured
agreement for a further 15 years of domestic
gas sales, beginning 2009, from the East
Coast Marine Area (ECMA).
Our LNG business performed very strongly
through the year, with managed volumes up
31%. The Group has been the Atlantic Basin
leader for some time; we are now also the
main supplier of Atlantic Basin LNG into
of core territories – Brazil, Egypt, India,
Kazakhstan, Trinidad and T obago, Tunisia, the
UK and the USA – and in 2007 made good
headway in developing new sources of value
from within our existing portfolio. There was
also positive progress through the year in the
development of more recent additions to our
portfolio, such as Nigeria, Norway and Oman.
Additionally, shortly after the period under
review, the Group announced an alliance
with Queensland Gas Company Limited in
Australia. The two companies will co-operate
in the exploration and development of coal
seam gas from the Surat Basin, Australia,
and will also jointly pursue domestic market
opportunities and the construction of a new
LNG export facility.
Taken together, we believe that BG Group’s
robust current production base, combined
with our strong total reserves and resources
position and positive exploration prospects,
gives us the inherent potential to support
a compound annual growth rate in
production volumes of between 6% and 
8%, right out to 2020.
Energy prices have risen in response to
increasing global demand. This, in turn, has
stimulated cost inﬂation as operators seek
to acquire the raw commodities and plant
required to capture market opportunities.
The Group is well-positioned to face these
challenges; we have a long-life portfolio of
base assets, where incremental development
is at a lower cost, and we maintain a rigorous
capital discipline in our broad portfolio of
opportunities. We screen all projects against
a wide range of price, cost and production
scenarios to ensure that our investments
generate shareholder value. We will continue
to seek innovative ways to manage
procurement, construction and operating
costs in the current inﬂationary environment.
Our aim throughout is to maintain today’s
position as a high value, low cost operator.
Portfolio developments
2007 was an important year in the
development of our exploration portfolio,
with notable drilling successes and the
acquisition of new acreage. During the year,
appraisal drilling in the Tupi discovery in 
BG061_p07-09_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:29  Page 8 ceremony highlighting the best of the
technological achievements sustaining
BG Group’s ongoing success, which in 
2007 saw some of the strongest entries 
in recent years.
Corporate Responsibility
As the Chairman explains in his statement,
we believe that Corporate Responsibility (CR)
is the bedrock of sustainable value creation.
Our activities are guided by our Business
Principles, which deﬁne our commitment 
to responsible conduct and which set out 
our responsibilities to our people, to the
societies within which we work and to the
environment. Our inclusion in the FTSE4Good
index and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes
and our “Sustainable Investing Leader” 
rating in the Goldman Sachs GS Sustain focus
list are testament to that commitment.
There is more detail on our CR performance
on page 38.
Safe and responsible working practices are
integral to all we do at BG Group. We expect
all of our people, myself included, to take
personal accountability for ensuring not 
only their own safety but also the safety of
others. We all have a continuous obligation 
to intervene to identify unsafe practices and
promote safe behaviour. This obligation is
communicated clearly and regularly through
employee engagement and training across
the global business.
The Group completed its detailed
examination of the ﬁndings of the Baker
Panel established in the aftermath of
BP’s 2005 Texas City reﬁnery accident, and
has tested the key conclusions against our
own asset integrity systems. Those systems,
already well-developed over a number of
years, were reﬁned further in 2007.
The Group’s Lost Time Injury Frequency 
(LTIF) of 0.26 per million hours worked in 2007
was our lowest-ever ﬁgure, reﬂecting the
continuous focus on safety across the Group.
For comparison, in 1998 – the point when
BG Group ﬁrst embarked upon a refreshed
approach to safety management – the LTIF
was 6.7. None of us at BG Group forgets 
that behind the statistics lies the reality of
injured colleagues and bereaved families. 
It is therefore with great regret that I report
the deaths of two contractors during 2007:
one in a road accident in Kazakhstan and the
second working on the construction of one 
of the Group’s new LNG ships in South Korea.
In early 2008, shortly after the end of the
reporting period, a contractor working on
behalf of our Gujarat Gas subsidiary in India
died following an incident during street
works. All incidents have been examined 
in detail to assess lessons to be learned.
Group Executive Committee
In 2007, we announced changes to the
management structure of the global business
to expand our capacity for long-term strategic
activity at the most senior levels of the
organisation. This included the introduction 
of new Senior Vice President roles reporting
into the Group Executive Committee (GEC)
and plans to increase the number of senior
positions both in the professional functions 
at Group level and in our country businesses.
In parallel with these developments, we also
reorganised the Group’s activities within 
three geographic regions in place of ﬁve. 
T aken together, we believe these changes 
will enhance further the Group’s ability to
deliver on our growth ambitions. Page 14 of
the Directors’ Report sets out further details 
of the new regional Executive responsibilities. 
We also welcomed Graham Vinter to the 
GEC as our new General Counsel, and Keith
Hubber as our new Company Secretary. 
As the Chairman notes, our Deputy Chief
Executive William Friedrich announced 
his retirement. I would like to express my
personal thanks to Bill for his tremendous
contribution to the Group over the years. 
I would also like to thank Rick Waddell,
Executive Vice President and Managing
Director for South America, who stood 
down from the GEC shortly after the 
period under review.
Looking forward
In my view, 2007 demonstrated once again
that our strategy and approach are robust
and can be expected to provide the Group
with a source of competitive advantage in 
the future business environment. We beneﬁt
from an established and diversiﬁed long-life
asset base, combined with a broad spread of
future opportunities, offering the prospect of
value creation through the next decade. This
is underpinned by the skills, experience and
focus on delivery of all of my colleagues at
BG Group. I thank them for their passion,
energy and commitment to value creation;
they are central to the Group’s success. 
Frank Chapman
Chief Executive
9
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p07-09_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:30  Page 9 10
Our strategy
Our strategy
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
BG Group is a major integrated gas company
with a record of delivering strong growth by
identifying and focusing on speciﬁc, high
value markets and securing competitively
priced resources to connect to those markets.
This strategy remains fundamentally
unchanged because it has proven to be robust
to developments in the business environment
and it continues to deliver value.
BG Group combines a deep understanding 
of global gas markets with a track record of
ﬁnding and commercialising reserves. The
Group has the people and skills to capture
value at any point in the gas value chain, 
from reservoir right through to burner-tip. We
aim to build enduring relationships with key
stakeholders by seeking to align the Group’s
interests with their objectives and priorities.
This approach enables the Group to respond
to market trends and to target opportunities
where value can be created.
Portfolio for growth
BG Group’s strong growth is underpinned 
by assets already onstream which can sustain
a ﬁrm level of output over a long timeframe.
This foundation enables new and existing
opportunities to contribute directly to net
new growth rather than simply offsetting 
the decline of legacy assets. 
Exploration and Production (E&P) has assets
that give the Group a strong base for future
volume growth. Assets that were already
onstream in 2006 are expected to decline 
by only around 1% per annum out to 2015.
This proﬁle includes ﬁrm plans for expansion,
which present a signiﬁcantly lower risk than
developments in new settings. In the longer
term, the Group aims to sustain strong
organic growth through the successful
exploration and development of its diverse
hydrocarbon resource base. 
BG Group has built a durable Liqueﬁed
Natural Gas (LNG) portfolio of supply and
market access that beneﬁts from longevity, 
a low cost structure and global ﬂexibility. 
The Group’s existing liquefaction facilities,
regasiﬁcation arrangements and long-term
offtake agreements extend out beyond 
2020. Additional value is delivered through 
a combination of ﬂexible supply contracts,
INTEGRATED GAS MAJOR
SKILLS TO SUCCEED ACROSS THE GAS CHAIN
CONNECTING TO 
HIGH VALUE MARKETS
• Build and access markets
• Serve customers
SECURING COMPETITIVELY
PRICED RESOURCES
• Equity reserves
• Contracted resources
BG Group has built a diversiﬁed portfolio that now includes eight
core countries of operation: Brazil, Egypt, India, Kazakhstan,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, the UK and the USA. Three further
countries, Nigeria, Norway and Oman, have the potential to
become core, whilst other countries, including those recently
entered, such as Australia, offer potential for future growth. 
BG Group has already
secured within its portfolio
the opportunities to 
deliver another decade 
of strong growth.
Frank Chapman
Chief Executive
1
Our strategy
BG061_p10-13_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:46  Page 10 11
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
access to multiple markets around the world,
control of shipping, low cost infrastructure
and the Group’s global marketing expertise. 
In the downstream, BG Group continues to
grow successful Transmission and Distribution
(T&D) positions in the developing markets 
of Brazil and India which complement the
development of upstream businesses in 
these countries. More recently, BG Group 
has expanded its Power Generation business
into the USA. This is a focused move that
strengthens the integrated gas strategy
downstream of the LNG regasiﬁcation
terminals and is aimed at maximising the
value captured from BG Group’s LNG supplies
ﬂowing into the world’s largest energy market.
Taken together, the Group’s portfolio,
encompassing all business segments, can
sustain output over a long period purely on
the basis of assets already onstream and
their associated expansions. With the
development of new opportunities, this
portfolio will enable the Group to sustain
growth over the next decade.
Business environment
With this strategy and portfolio, BG Group 
is positioned positively to respond to key
trends in the business environment.
Oil and gas prices remain high and may 
well have moved to a level which represents 
a long-term structural shift. This enhances
the Group’s revenue streams and is
accompanied by a high rate of conversion 
of price to operating cash ﬂow. This enables
the Group to grow and, at the same time, 
to continue to increase dividends.
However, high prices have also driven
increases in costs and project cycle times. In
the face of these trends, BG Group’s existing
low cost asset base is economically robust
over a wide range of prices and costs.
Demand for LNG has continued to outpace
the growth in supply, resulting in market 
tightness across the industry, and this has 
enhanced the value of the Group’s large, 
low cost and ﬂexible supply portfolio.
Meanwhile, governments in resource rich
countries are increasingly focused on balancing
their domestic priorities against the value
derived from exports. In response, BG Group
continues to seek to understand governments’
aims, and, where possible, to align the Group’s
objectives with theirs by bringing an integrated
approach to realising governments’ upstream
and downstream ambitions. 
Resource renewal has become strategically
important to many in the industry. BG Group
has continued to increase its E&P resource
base and is ﬁrmly focused on actively
exploiting this through the delivery of its
exploration strategy.
Success in E&P
BG Group’s growth is driven in large part
by sustained success in Exploration and
Production. Excluding discoveries 100%
operated by National Oil Companies
(NOCs), over the last ten years, the Group
has been involved in ﬁve of the 15 largest
discoveries in the world. 
2007 was no exception, with an extensive
exploration programme of drilling and
seismic activity. The Group completed 
20 wells, yielding 12 successes, including
Tupi Sul and Carioca in Brazil, Jasmine
North Terrace in the UK, six wells in
Thailand, and a well on Huacaya in Bolivia.
Around 10 500 square kilometres of 3D
seismic and 14 500 line kilometres of 2D
seismic were acquired, spread over surveys
in ten countries. 
In 2007, the Group added around 2 billion
boe to its reserves and resources base
(a)
, a
25% increase through the year. The reserves
and resources base
(a)
has increased by 42%
over the last two years, and now totals
more than 10 billion boe.
In aggregate, BG Group now has 46 years
of reserves and resources potential
(a)
at 2007 production rates, spread across 
a variety of geographical areas and 
plays, within existing operations and 
in new frontiers. 
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
With the skills to capture value at any
point in the gas value chain, BG Group 
is well-positioned to identify high value
markets and secure competitively priced
resources to connect to those markets.
This integrated approach has enabled 
the Group to deliver a decade of growth.
BG Group has a strategy that has proven
to be robust to changes in the business
environment. With its broad and deep 
skill base, the Group has built a diversiﬁed,
distinctive, long-life portfolio and secured
the opportunities to meet its ambition of
delivering another decade of growth. 
Future prospects
2
Our strategy
1
(a) For an explanation of these terms, refer to page 125.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p10-13_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:46  Page 11 12 Our strategy continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
BG Group has built a portfolio of long-life
assets able to sustain existing levels of
performance well into the next decade.
Development activity is focused on
enhancing and building new value around
these assets whilst also progressing new 
and existing growth opportunities.
Building core positions 
Eight countries now form the core of 
BG Group’s portfolio, namely Brazil, Egypt,
India, Kazakhstan, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, the UK and the USA. BG Group has
built these signiﬁcant operations largely
through organic growth and by carefully
targeting opportunities with enduring 
value creation in mind. The Group has also
developed a diverse range of skills that 
enable it to compete in onshore and offshore
developments, including conventional
environments, deep water, carbonates 
and tertiary deltas, high pressure/high
temperature (HPHT) and tight gas plays.
Legacy downstream skills have been deployed
into growing distribution businesses in
developing economies, whilst its technical,
commercial, marketing and shipping skills
have been deployed to establish the Group’s
global LNG business. 
The combination of this broad and deep 
skill base, and a portfolio which includes
projects and opportunities at various stages
of development, has the potential to support
BG Group’s growth ambitions well into the
next decade. 
For example, at Karachaganak, in Kazakhstan,
the fourth stabilisation train is scheduled for
start-up in 2009 and is designed to increase
export capacity to 10.3 mtpa and gas sales to
9 bcma. Front-end engineering and design
(FEED) on the signiﬁcant Phase III project is
more than 50% complete and sanction is
planned for this year. The goal is to develop
2.4 billion barrels of additional reserves,
targeting ﬁrst production in 2012. 
Brazil demonstrates how the Group’s strategy
of adding new assets in core countries can
enhance growth potential. Here, the Comgas
Success in LNG
2
Future prospects
BG Group is strongly positioned in 
LNG, having established a competitive
portfolio of assets, largely ahead of 
the current inﬂationary cost cycle. The
durability of this competitive, low cost
position is supported by the longevity 
of the Group’s assets, with commercial
arrangements and supply agreements
which extend to 2020 and beyond. 
In addition, the Group has a goal to build
a supply portfolio of at least 20 mtpa by
the middle of the next decade and has
already identiﬁed a number of expansion
opportunities. The Group’s deep
understanding of global LNG markets and
relationships with LNG producers should
help ensure third-party volumes continue
to be attracted to its facilities under the
right market conditions.
This business model enables the Group 
to serve customers in high value markets
around the world. For example, in 2007,
BG Group sold cargoes to nine countries
and marketed about 50% of all Atlantic
Basin cargoes sent to Asia. BG Group also
supplied 55% of the LNG entering the USA
during 2007.
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG061_p10-13_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:46  Page 12 13
(a) For an explanation of these terms, refer to page 125.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
distribution business continues to deliver
strong growth at the heart of one of the
fastest growing economies in the world. In
the upstream, the appraisal success on the
Tupi discovery in the pre-salt carbonate play,
and exploration success on Carioca, offer the
prospect of a material enhancement in the
Group’s future growth prospects. 
In the UK, the development of multiple
opportunities, such as Jasmine, via the
Group’s existing infrastructure, aims to
extend the Group’s UK production plateau 
of 50 mmboe to 2012. With exploration and
enhancement of existing assets, including
the Buzzard ﬁeld, there is potential to extend
this plateau to 2015.
Production from the Panna/Mukta and 
Tapti ﬁelds in India has doubled since the
Group took over technical operations ﬁve
years ago. Panna has been a notable success
with developments and an extensive inﬁll
drilling campaign increasing production by
about 25% in 2007. With around 900 mmboe
of hydrocarbons in place, the Mukta ﬁeld also
shows considerable upside potential, and in
time, the Group hopes to repeat the Panna
successes in this ﬁeld. 
In Tunisia, the development of the Miskar
ﬁeld continues and the Group’s second
development, Hasdrubal, is on schedule 
with ﬁrst production planned for 2009. 
In Global LNG, the Group believes the outlook
will continue to be positive, with enhanced
margins from global marketing in a supply
constrained environment. In addition, the
Group’s US asset base, which was acquired 
at a low point in the cost cycle, together 
with its relationships with producers and 
its marketing skills, provide a sustainable
competitive position to attract new supplies.
For example, there is potential to add up to
4 mtpa from the Group’s recently announced
alliance with Queensland Gas Company
Limited (QGC) in Australia, as well as further
volumes from already identiﬁed Nigerian
projects at various stages of development. 
Over time, new import terminals under
development in Europe and South America will
also add to the Group’s global market options.
Potential material growth areas
In Nigeria, BG Group is building an offshore
exploration portfolio. The Group currently
holds licences in two offshore blocks and 
has signed two separate farm-in agreements
for which it is currently seeking government
approval. In addition, work is currently
underway to optimise the development 
of the four-train Olokola LNG (OKLNG)
liquefaction project, in which BG Group 
owns a 14.25% shareholding. 
Since entering Oman in 2006, progress 
has been made on Abu Butabul with 
the acquisition of 3D seismic and the
commencement of appraisal drilling
operations. The Group has drilled the ﬁrst
well in an appraisal programme that it
expects to consist of at least eight wells.
In Norway, the Group has built a portfolio 
of 22 E&P licences, 14 of which are as
operator. During 2008, a programme 
of ﬁve wells is planned, consisting of four
exploration wells and an appraisal well 
on the Bream discovery. 
Other countries in the portfolio offering
potential for further growth range from
established operations in countries such 
as Egypt, Thailand, Trinidad and T obago and
Tunisia to new countries where the Group 
is at an early stage of development, for
example, Algeria and China.
BG Group now produces more than 40% of 
all gas supplied in Egypt, split broadly equally
between domestic supply and LNG. The 
West Delta Deep Marine and Rosetta assets
continue to be developed, and exploration
drilling on the El Burg and El Manzala
prospects is planned to start later this year.
A successful exploration campaign on
Bongkot South in Thailand saw estimated
gross reserves
(a) 
increase to 1.2 tcf, sufﬁcient 
to underpin a stand-alone development, 
with sanction planned for this year, and 
ﬁrst production planned for 2011. 
In Australia, the Group also recently
announced an alliance with QGC, a leading
coal seam gas company with signiﬁcant
assets in the Surat Basin. This is a proven
hydrocarbon province with substantial
reserves potential. QGC and BG Group 
intend jointly to develop domestic market
opportunities and a new LNG liquefaction
plant on the east coast of Australia, and to 
co-operate in further upstream development.
A focus on exploration
Replacing production and accessing new
opportunities remains a signiﬁcant challenge
for the industry. However, BG Group has
experienced notable success in this area. 
The Group’s exploration programme added
over 2 billion boe to total reserves and
resources
(a)
in 2007. The most signiﬁcant
additions were to un-booked resources
(a)
and to the Group’s risked exploration
(a)
, 
which now stands at around 3.4 billion 
boe of risked exploration resources.
During 2007, seismic surveys were completed
in Algeria, Brazil, Canada, China, Libya, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, T rinidad and T obago
and the UK. A key objective for the Group 
in 2008 will be to ﬁrm-up further proved 
and probable
(a)
potential within the portfolio.
As a consequence, the Group plans to drill
more than 40 wells during 2008, with 
a strong emphasis on appraisal and 
near-term production.
In summary, the Group intends to deliver
another decade of growth. It has already
secured within its portfolio the opportunities
to achieve this ambition and is now focused
on delivering this potential.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p10-13_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:46  Page 13 14
The integrated
gas major
BG Group’s global operations
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
BG Group’s operations are managed on a regional basis 
and BG Advance supports the regions in achieving technical
excellence and building long-term competitive advantage.
Americas and Global LNG Europe and Central Asia
Key activities
• Major gas producer in Trinidad and Tobago, supplying both 
the domestic market and exporting gas as LNG from its
participation in four liquefaction trains
• Stakes in recent major oil discoveries in Brazil and interests 
in other offshore and onshore blocks in Brazil 
• Exploration assets in Alaska and Canada
• Supplies gas in both Brazil and Bolivia and supplies liquids
markets in Bolivia
• Leading LNG importer into the USA via long-term rights to
import and regasification capacity at Lake Charles, Louisiana,
and Elba Island, Georgia. Holds expansion rights at both
facilities and building regasification terminal in Chile
• Major global LNG marketer including to the Pacific Basin
• Alliance with Queensland Gas Company, Australia, completion
of which is expected in March 2008
• Holds 60.1% stake in Comgas, the largest gas distribution
company in Brazil and a minority position in MetroGAS S.A.,
the largest gas distribution company in Argentina
• Holds stakes in transmission pipelines from Bolivia to Brazil
and Argentina to Uruguay
• Owns more than 1.2 GW power generation in north-east USA
Key activities
• Interests in more than 20 UK Continental Shelf fields, 
which in 2007 produced the equivalent of around 6% of 
UK gas demand and 27% of BG Group’s total production
• In Kazakhstan, joint operator of the giant Karachaganak oil
and gas condensate field, which exported over 61 mmbbl
gross into western markets in 2007
• In 2007, a Gas Sales Agreement was signed to facilitate the
Karachaganak Phase III development
• Holds an exploration portfolio of 22 licences in Norway, 
in four core areas including the southern North Sea, 
close to BG Group’s North Sea core production and 
offshore infrastructure 
• Jointly developing the Dragon LNG import and regasification
facility in Wales, scheduled to be operational during 2008
• Downstream activities in the UK comprising gas marketing,
pipeline capacity and power generation
• In Italy, holds interests in power generation and developing
the Brindisi LNG import facility
An excellent year, with strong
performance in Global LNG and
signiﬁcant exploration success 
in Brazil.
Key 2007 highlights were the
signing of the Karachaganak
Gas Sales Agreement and 
the Buzzard oil ﬁeld coming
onstream.
Martin Houston, 
EVP and Managing Director
Mark Carne, 
EVP and Managing Director
Argentina 
Canada
Alaska
Bolivia
Uruguay
Brazil
Chile
Trinidad &
T obago
USA
BG061_p14-15_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:59  Page 14 Italy
Madagascar
Nigeria
China
Malaysia
Philippines
Thailand
Tunisia
Algeria
Libya
Oman
UK 
Norway
Kazakhstan
Israel and 
areas of PA
Egypt
India
Australia
15
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
BG Advance Africa, Middle East and Asia
Key activities
• Main supplier to the Egyptian gas market through its Rosetta,
Scarab and Saffron fields 
• Gas supply into two Egyptian LNG trains from its Simian,
Sienna and Sapphire fields 
• Main supplier to the Tunisian gas market and an important
supplier to the Thai gas market
• Growing Indian E&P businesses through the Panna/Mukta
and Tapti producing fields and other exploration acreage 
• Exploration acreage and/or discovered reserves located in
Algeria, China, Egypt, Israel and areas of Palestinian Authority,
Libya, Madagascar, Nigeria, Oman and Thailand
• LNG exports from Egyptian LNG and Damietta LNG, Egypt
• Long-term contracted LNG supplies from Nigeria and
Equatorial Guinea and LNG trading activities in Asia Pacific
managed as part of BG Group’s global LNG portfolio
• Interests in two Indian gas distribution companies, Gujarat
Gas in Gujarat and Mahanagar Gas in Mumbai
• Power generation activities in Malaysia and the Philippines
Key activities
• Covers the following Group functional areas: Health, Safety,
Security and Environment; Strategy; Group Exploration;
Petroleum Engineering and Developments; Engineering
Projects; Operations and Well Engineering; Commercial and
Assurance; and Information Management (IM)
• Plays a key role in the development and delivery of BG Group’s
strategy. It is responsible for functional best practice in a
broad portfolio of key business areas – including a step
change in health and safety awareness and business
performance through the utilisation of technology, 
innovation and IM systems
• Responsible for the longer term planning and development 
of technical and commercial capabilities, optimising
deployment of people across the Group in accordance 
with priorities
• Manages the Group’s assurance processes, ensuring diligent
review of all investments, projects and operations to identify
and mitigate risks and to maximise opportunities
2007 has been very successful 
in safety, exploration, project
development and the further
development of functional
excellence.
Continued success in India in
2007 and commencement of 
a major drilling programme to
add to our core producing assets.
Stuart Fysh, 
EVP and Managing Director
Jørn Berget, 
EVP and Managing Director
Key
Exploration 
and Production
Liqueﬁed 
Natural Gas
Transmission 
and Distribution
Power 
Generation
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p14-15_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:59  Page 15 16
Exploration 
and Production
Operating review
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
2007 PERFORMANCE 
Production was 220.3 mmboe in 2007 (2006
219.2 mmboe). The main contribution to this
increase was the Buzzard oil ﬁeld in the UK
Continental Shelf which started production 
in January 2007. Production was adversely
impacted by asset disposals (Canada and
Mauritania) and the shutdown of the Central
Area Transmission System (CATS) pipeline
following damage by a third-party vessel.
Excluding the impact of disposals and the CATS
pipeline closure, 2007 production grew by 5%
compared to 2006. Production in 2006 rose by
19% (35.4 mmboe) compared to 2005, mainly
due to increased contributions from Egypt and
Trinidad and Tobago. The daily production in
2007 was equivalent to 604 000 boed.
In 2007, proved reserves
(b)
were 2 039 mmboe
(2006 2 149 mmboe) after net additions and
revisions of 110 mmboe and production 
of 220 mmboe. Full details can be found 
on page 121. 
Total reserves and resources
(b)
have 
increased by around 2 billion boe during 2007
and now exceed 10 billion boe, amounting 
to 46 years of production at 2007 levels 
(see chart on page 17).
PRODUCING COUNTRIES
(In order of production volumes)
UK 
BG Group net production in the UK totalled
59.2 mmboe in 2007 and accounted for
around 27% of the Group’s production. The
principal operating assets are the Buzzard
ﬁeld, the J-Block (Joanne and Judy) and Jade
ﬁelds, the Elgin/Franklin ﬁelds, the Everest
and Lomond ﬁelds, the Easington Catchment
Area (ECA) ﬁelds, the Atlantic/Cromarty
ﬁelds, the Armada and Seymour ﬁelds and
the Blake ﬁeld. BG Group also has a 51.18%
interest in the CATS pipeline. Damage to the
CATS pipeline in July caused by a third-party
vessel resulted in production from the
Everest, Lomond, Jade and J-Block ﬁelds 
being shut in for around two months. This
reduced BG Group’s expected production 
by 5.5 mmboe in total. The pipeline was 
returned to full service in September.
New production from the Buzzard ﬁeld
(BG Group 21.73%) came onstream in
January 2007 and peak production reached
UK 
Blake 
Atlantic/Cromarty 
Amethyst 
Armada Hub  
including Seymour 
Buzzard 
 
 
KAZAKHSTAN 
Karachaganak 
THAILAND 
Bongkot 
INDIA 
Panna/Mukta 
Tapti 
EGYPT
Rosetta
WDDM
TUNISIA
Miskar
TRINIDAD  
& TOBAGO 
Central Block 
ECMA 
NCMA 
BOLIVIA
Caipipendi (Margarita ﬁeld)
La Vertiente
Los Suris
 
ECA
Elgin/Franklin
Everest and Lomond
Glenelg
J-Block and Jade
Maria
CANADA
Waterton
• Successful exploration and appraisal
wells were drilled in 2007 in Bolivia (1),
Brazil (2), Canada (1), Norway (1),
Thailand (6) and the UK (1)
• Start-up of Buzzard, West Franklin 
and Maria ﬁelds in the UK
• Terms agreed for new Karachaganak
Gas Sales Agreement, Kazakhstan,
which sets out commercial terms for
the sale of gas for 15 years from 2007
• Further domestic gas sales of 
220 mmscfd from ECMA (Trinidad and
Tobago) contracted for up to 15 years
from 2009
• Completion of next phase of
development of the mid-Tapti gas 
ﬁeld in India, enabling the supply 
of an additional 200 mmscfd of gas
• Exploration acreage acquired in
Canada, India, Norway, Trinidad 
and Tobago and the UK 
• Three year organic proved reserve
replacement rate at constant prices 
of 103%. Three year proved reserve
replacement rate of 83% at year 
end prices
(a)
2007 highlights
The Group’s E&P production volumes
were 604 000 boed in 2007. 
(a) See Glossary of Terms, page 141, for how these ratios are calculated.
(b) For an explanation of these terms, refer to page 125.
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:03  Page 16 17
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
220 000 bopd gross. The West Franklin ﬁeld
(BG Group 14.11%) in the central North Sea
commenced production in September 
and should assist in maintaining plateau
production from the Elgin/Franklin facilities.
First production from the Maria ﬁeld
(BG Group 36% and operator) was achieved 
in December 2007.
In 2005 and 2006, BG Group announced 
two discoveries, Jackdaw and Jasmine, in 
the central North Sea. Jackdaw is close to 
the Jade ﬁeld and straddles blocks 30/2a
(BG Group stake increased in December 2007
from 34.4% to 43.1%) and 30/2c (BG Group
36%). BG Group is operator of these two
blocks. The Jasmine discovery straddles
blocks 30/6 and 30/7a (BG Group 30.5%).
BG Group and partners announced a
successful well in the Jasmine North Terrace
in February 2008 and an appraisal well on
Jackdaw is expected to complete drilling in
ﬁrst quarter 2008.
In February 2007, BG Group was awarded
three licences in the UK’s 24th licensing round. 
Egypt 
BG Group is the operator of two gas-
producing areas offshore the Nile Delta – 
the Rosetta concession and the West 
Delta Deep Marine (WDDM) concession
(comprising the producing Scarab, Saffron,
Simian, Sienna and Sapphire ﬁelds, and the
Serpent, Saurus, Sequoia, Solar, Sienna Up,
Mina and Silva discoveries). 
BG Group net production from Egypt was
56.6 mmboe in 2007 (2006 62.4 mmboe).
BG Group continues to be a key supplier to
the domestic market through its Rosetta,
Scarab and Saffron ﬁelds. The Scarab and
Saffron development is one of the longest
sub-sea tie-backs in the world and the ﬁrst
deep water development in Egypt. 
BG Group also supplies Egyptian LNG from its
Simian and Sienna ﬁelds, which supply Train 1,
and the Sapphire ﬁeld, which supplies Train 2
(see LNG section, page 21).
Since 2005, BG Group and partners have 
been tolling 225 mmscfd of gas (reducing to
approximately 150 mmscfd from 2009) from
Scarab and Saffron through the SEGAS LNG
plant located at Damietta. BG Group has
agreed to purchase 0.7 mtpa (reducing to 
0.5 mtpa) of the related LNG output (see LNG
section, page 21). 
During 2006, the Rosetta Phase III (BG Group
80%) and WDDM Phase IV (BG Group 50%)
projects were sanctioned. In 2007, these
projects were reaching completion, with ﬁrst
gas delivered from Rosetta Phase III and
WDDM Phase IV in ﬁrst quarter 2008. In
addition, two inﬁll wells were drilled in fourth
quarter 2007 as part of a programme to
maximise hydrocarbon recovery from WDDM.
BG Group also has interests in three other
offshore concession agreements – El Manzala
(BG Group 100%), El Burg (BG Group 70%) and
the North Sidi Kerir Deep blocks (BG Group
50%). During 2007, processing of 3D seismic
acquired in 2006 was completed, and
environmental and site surveys were
undertaken on El Burg and El Manzala 
in order to start drilling in 2008.
Kazakhstan 
BG Group is joint operator of the giant
Karachaganak ﬁeld (BG Group 32.5%) in
north-west Kazakhstan, which is one of the
largest gas and condensate ﬁelds in the
world. In November 2007, the Karachaganak
partners celebrated the tenth anniversary 
of the signing of the Final Production 
Sharing Agreement.
BG Group net production from Kazakhstan
was 39.6 mmboe in 2007, an increase of 9%
compared with 2006. Over 61 mmbbl (around
73%) of total gross liquids were exported
through the Caspian Pipeline Consortium
pipeline (BG Group 2%) and via the Atyrau
Samara pipeline, in which BG Group has had
capacity since mid-2006, into the Transneft
system. These exports are sold at
international prices. 
The facility was de-bottlenecked at the end 
of 2006, and throughput is expected to
increase western exports to 7.7 mtpa. The
Phase IIM drilling programme, incorporating
an additional 16 production wells, was
sanctioned in 2005 and six wells were drilled
in 2007. A fourth stabilisation train project,
sanctioned in December 2006, has been
expanded to include 13 additional wells 
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
07 06 05 04
604
601
504
457
Production (’000 boed)
Gas
Oil and liquids
(a) For an explanation of these terms, refer to page 125.
Proved reserves (SEC) 
Probable reserves
Un-booked resources
Risked exploration
7 071
6 595
8 017
10 046
2 000
4 000
6 000
8 000
10 000
07 06 05 04
Reserves and resources
(a) 
(mmboe)
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:03  Page 17 18
Exploration and Production continued
Operating review continued 
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
BG Group was successful in the 2006 NELP VI
licensing round and, in March 2007, executed
a production sharing contract with the
Government of India for a 45% interest in
exploration block KG-OSN-2004/1 in the
Krishna Godavari Basin. A joint operating
agreement is being ﬁnalised with Oil and
Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.
Tunisia
BG Group net production in Tunisia during
2007 was 11.9 mmboe gas and condensate
from its Miskar ﬁeld (BG Group 100%). This
satisﬁes approximately 41% of Tunisia’s
domestic gas demand. 
Miskar gas is processed at the Group’s
onshore Hannibal terminal and sold under
long-term contract to the Tunisian state
electricity and gas company. A six well inﬁll
drilling programme is underway, with
completion scheduled for 2009. The ﬁrst well
entered production in December 2007 and
three more are planned to enter production
in 2008. De-bottlenecking work is also
ongoing at Hannibal. A new 60 kilometre
condensate pipeline from Hannibal was
commissioned in 2007. This has improved
safety by removing the need to transport
condensate by road.
Progress has been made on the development
of the Hasdrubal ﬁeld (BG Group 50%) and
gross production of around 30 000 boed is
expected onstream from 2009. All major
infrastructure contracts have been awarded.
Construction is underway and was around
45% complete as at February 2008.
Thailand
In 2007, BG Group produced 9.9 mmboe from
its Bongkot ﬁeld (BG Group 22.22%), a new
record for the asset. 
BG Group continues to invest in the Bongkot
ﬁeld which supplies approximately 20% of
Thailand’s domestic gas demand. Further
development phases are designed to extend
the life of the ﬁeld into the next decade.
Bongkot South is an important part of that
development plan. In October 2006, the ﬁrst
exploration well drilled in the Bongkot
concession for eight years, Ton Chan IX,
encountered gas-bearing sands. This was
and a rail export facility with initial capacity
of 3.8 mtpa. This is expected to increase
western export volumes to more than
10 mtpa and develop gross reserves of
250 mmboe. It is planned to be onstream 
in 2009. 
In November 2006, pre-FEED work for the
Phase III development of the Karachaganak
ﬁeld was completed. FEED commenced in
2007 and further work is ongoing. Phase III 
is targeted to come onstream in 2012, and 
is expected to increase liquids sales to 
16.5 mtpa and gas sales to 16 bcma. In 
June 2007, BG Group and partners agreed 
a new Karachaganak Gas Sales Agreement
with KazRosGas, a joint venture between
Gazprom and KazMunaiGaz. The agreement
sets out the commercial terms governing the
sale of gas over a 15 year period and became
effective in September 2007. 
Trinidad and Tobago
BG Group produced 23.0 mmboe of gas in
Trinidad and Tobago during 2007. This was
an increase of 0.4 mmboe compared with
2006 due to a more steady supply to Atlantic
LNG Train 4 over the year and the start-up 
of the onshore Central Block development.
The BG Group-operated Dolphin and 
Dolphin Deep ﬁelds in the East Coast Marine
Area (ECMA) supply gas into the domestic
market and Atlantic LNG Trains 3 and 4, and
the BG Group-operated North Coast Marine
Area (NCMA) supplies gas into Atlantic LNG
Trains 2, 3 and 4. 
In May 2007, BG Group and partners signed
an agreement for further domestic gas sales
of 220 mmscfd from ECMA to The National
Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited
for up to 15 years, starting in 2009. 
During 2007, BG Group and partners signed
major contracts for a total of US$493 million
for the Poinsettia ﬁeld project, part of the
planned phased development of the NCMA.
The project comprises a new drilling and
production platform in 160 metres of water,
the drilling of six wells from the platform, 
a 20 inch gas export line and a single sub-sea
well tie-back that commenced drilling in
October 2007. Construction of the platform is
expected to be completed towards the end of
2008 and the drilling of the platform wells is
then expected to commence.
In August 2007, BG Group signed a farm-in
agreement with Canadian Superior Energy
Inc. for Block 5(c), 85 miles off the east coast
of Trinidad. Under the terms of the
agreement, BG Group has taken a 30%
working interest in the Production Sharing
Contract. The ﬁrst well of the current three
well programme completed drilling on the
Victory prospect in January 2008 and is under
evaluation after successful tests.
At Central Block, a new gas plant with a
capacity of 65 mmscfd was commissioned 
in September 2007, near the existing
production site at Carapal Ridge. The
increased capacity of the new facility can
supply up to 45 mmscfd of BG Group’s
capacity in Atlantic LNG Train 4 and up to 
20 mmscfd to the domestic market. Also
during the year, 3D seismic was acquired over
85 square kilometres of Central Block area.
India
In 2007, BG Group’s expanded Panna/Mukta
and Tapti (PMT) ﬁelds (BG Group 30%)
produced 13.7 mmboe net. 
Gas production at the PMT ﬁelds has almost
doubled since their acquisition in 2002. The
Group is working with partners and the
government to progress expansion projects
that are planned to further increase the
production rate. The increased production
will be sold into the domestic market. 
In the ﬁrst phase of Panna expansion, two
wellhead platforms were installed and
development wells drilled. First production
from the Panna expansion was achieved in
February 2007. In total, 15 wells have been
drilled so far, and a further six are planned. 
In August 2007, the next phase of
development of the mid-Tapti gas ﬁeld was
completed and ﬁrst gas produced. The new
facilities should enable the supply of an
additional 200 mmscfd of gas to markets in
the western region, which would increase gas
production to 450 mmscfd gross. 
The overall production for PMT ﬁelds is
expected to grow by 75% between 2006
and 2009.
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:03  Page 18 19
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Exploration success in Brazil
followed by two further successful exploration
wells, Ton Rang 2X and Ton Chan 2X. Drilling
continued in 2007, with a further ﬁve
successful exploration wells drilled in the
Bongkot South area and one in Bongkot North.
In 2007, the Thai Government granted an
extension of Bongkot’s Petroleum Production
Periods, covering blocks B15, B16 and B17, for 
a further ten years from the current expiry
dates in 2012 and 2013. This should allow
continued exploration and development
activities within the ﬁeld.
Bolivia
BG Group and its partners signed new
Operations Contracts (replacing contracts
previously in place for their interests) with
the Government of Bolivia in October 2006.
Following congressional approval and
subsequent notarisation in May 2007, 
these contracts became effective.
Gas continued to be delivered during 2007
into the Bolivian, Brazilian and Argentine
markets from BG Group’s ﬁelds in Bolivia,
including from the Margarita Early
Production Facilities (BG Group 37.5%), 
which came onstream at the end of 2004. 
BG Group net production from Bolivia was 
5.5 mmboe in 2007 (2006 5.3 mmboe).
In December 2007, BG Group and partners
successfully drilled the Huacaya X-1 well, on
the northern part of the Caipipendi block
where the Margarita ﬁeld is also located. 
The discovery will now require full technical
and economic evaluation. 
North America
In 2007, BG Group sold most of its Canadian
producing assets, speciﬁcally those known 
as Bubbles, Ojay and Copton/Lynx, for a ﬁnal
consideration of £228 million. The sale was
completed in April 2007. Following the sale,
BG Group’s Canadian production declined to
0.9 mmboe in 2007, from 3.5 mmboe in 2006.
Current production is sold into the Canadian
grid for sale into the Canadian and US markets. 
BG Group retains exploration prospects 
in Canada. This includes a 75% interest 
in Blocks EL 429/432 in the Northwest
Territories, acquired in 2005, which covers
146 928 hectares in the Central Mackenzie
Valley. In May 2007, BG Group acquired two
further licences, EL 444 (BG Group 100%) and
EL 445 (BG Group 75% and operator) in the
Colville Lake area of the Northwest
Territories. Further acreage has also been
acquired in Alberta and British Columbia. 
In Alaska, BG Alaska has interests in over 
2.3 million gross acres in the Eastern North
Slope (ENS) and the foothills of the North
Slope areas. In February 2007, BG Group and
partners began drilling a well on the Jacob’s
Ladder oil prospect, in the ENS area, 20 miles
south-east of the giant Prudhoe Bay ﬁeld on
the North Slope. 
Mauritania
The sale of BG Group’s interests in 
Mauritania to Kuwait Foreign Petroleum
Exploration Co. k.s.c. for a total consideration
of £68 million, completed in January 2007. As
a result, the Chinguetti ﬁeld (BG Group 10.23%)
contributed 0.03 mmboe in 2007 compared
with 1.0 mmboe net to BG Group in 2006.
DISCOVERIES AND EXPLORATION ACREAGE
Algeria
During 2006, BG Group acquired a 36.75%
interest and operatorship of the onshore
discovered reserves and exploration acreage
in the Hassi Ba Hamou Perimeter, Algeria, in
which Sonatrach has a 25% interest. The work
programme includes the acquisition of 2D
and 3D seismic and the drilling of six wells,
including a planned minimum of three
exploration wells before the end of the 
initial exploration phase in September 2008.
Acquisition of 2D and 3D seismic began in
early 2007, and completed in December 2007.
The drilling programme was started in
December 2007 with the ﬁrst appraisal well.
A further ﬁve exploration and appraisal wells
are expected to be drilled in 2008. 
Australia
In February 2008, BG Group announced 
an alliance with Queensland Gas Company
Limited (QGC), a leading Australian coal seam
gas company supplying the Queensland
market. BG Group will initially acquire 20% of
QGC’s assets in the Surat Basin, south-west
Queensland, and acquire a 9.9% stake in
QGC. Completion is expected in March 2008.
The companies will co-operate on exploration
and development of onshore coal seam gas
and domestic market opportunities and a
LNG export facility (see page 23). 
Brazil
During 2007, BG Group conﬁrmed the
success of the Tupi Sul appraisal well 
in the BM-S-11 concession in the Santos 
Basin, offshore Brazil. The well, located
approximately 10 kilometres south of the
Tupi discovery made in 2006, has conﬁrmed
the southern extension of that discovery. 
BG Group holds a 25% interest in the
2007 was a transformational year for
BG Group in Brazil, with signiﬁcant
drilling success on two blocks – Tupi 
and Carioca. 
In 2006, BG Group announced the Tupi oil
discovery in Block BM-S-11 (BG Group 25%)
in the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil.
During 2007, an appraisal well, Tupi Sul,
was drilled that conﬁrmed that Tupi is a 
large structure with signiﬁcant reserves
potential. Tupi may be the largest discovery
worldwide since Kashagan with gross
hydrocarbons initially in place (HIIP)
estimated to be between 12 and 30 
or more billion boe. 
During 2007, BG Group and partners also
announced an oil discovery in Block BM-S-
9 called Carioca (BG Group 30%). This
follows the discovery of oil on the Parati
prospect in Block BM-S-10 (BG Group 25%)
in 2006. 
Drilling offshore Brazil has established a
world class ﬁeld and has been a notable
success for BG Group. The Group has the
second largest exposure to the play in the
Santos Basin area, which covers an
extensive area offshore Brazil.
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  15:15  Page 19 20 Operating review continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
(BG Group 40% and operator) that contains
the Bream discovery. 
BG Group’s Norwegian acreage lies in four
core areas, including the southern North Sea,
where acreage is adjacent to the UK/Norway
median line and close to the Group’s central
North Sea core production area and offshore
infrastructure. The three other core areas 
are North Tampen, Mid-Norway and the
Barents Sea. 
In 2007, BG Group started its exploration
drilling programme and drilled and
completed three wells, with the Nucula 
well in the Barents Sea declared a technical
discovery. In 2008, BG Group expects to 
drill and complete four wells in Norway.
Oman
In April 2006, BG Group signed an Exploration
and Production Sharing Agreement with the
Government of the Sultanate of Oman for a
100% interest in and operatorship of Block 60,
onshore Oman. Block 60 contains the
Abu Butabul gas and condensate discovery, as
well as other exploration prospects, and covers
almost 1 500 square kilometres. BG Group
commenced the acquisition of seismic in 2007
and began drilling in December 2007. Drilling
is planned to continue into 2008 and 2009,
with at least eight appraisal wells planned.
concession together with operator Petrobras
(65%) and Galp Energia (10%). BG Group
estimates gross HIIP of 12 to 30 or more
billion boe. This may be the largest discovery
made globally since Kashagan in 2000.
The Tupi Sul appraisal well is the fourth
consecutive success for BG Group in the 
deep water Santos Basin since the Group
began drilling in 2005. Previous successes 
are Parati (BM-S-10, September 2006), 
Tupi (BM-S-11, October 2006) and Carioca
(BM-S-9, September 2007). 
BG Group has been present in offshore Brazil
since 2000 and has interests ranging from
20% to 60% in seven concessions in the
Santos Basin and one onshore concession 
in the São Francisco Basin. 
China
In June 2006, BG Group entered China with
the signature of two Production Sharing
Contracts (PSCs) covering deep water Blocks
64/11 and 53/16 and a Geophysical Survey
Agreement for Block 41/06, offshore southern
China. The three blocks cover an area of
approximately 25 800 square kilometres. The
exploration work programmes for the blocks
will be carried out in three phases and involve
the acquisition of 2D and 3D seismic and the
drilling of exploration wells. The Geophysical
Survey Agreement involves the acquisition
and processing of 2D seismic over a deﬁned
area and gives BG Group an option to enter
into a PSC for that area upon completion of
this work. 
A 2D seismic acquisition programme across
the three blocks was completed in August
2007. The next phase involves a 3D seismic
programme planned to take place in 2008,
with drilling expected in 2009/2010.
Israel and areas of Palestinian Authority
BG Group holds the Gaza Marine licence
(BG Group 90% and operator) and, in
December 2007, withdrew from negotiations
with the Government of Israel for the sale 
of gas from the Gaza Marine ﬁeld to Israel. 
Libya
BG Group was awarded three onshore
exploration licences in the 2nd Libyan
licensing round in October 2005. Two licences
are in the Sirt Basin (BG Group 100% and
operator) and one licence is in the frontier
Kufra Basin (BG Group 50%). Seismic was
completed on all licences in September 2007
and drilling of the ﬁrst well on each licence 
is planned to start in 2008.
Madagascar
In June 2006, BG Group signed a farm-in
agreement to acquire a 30% non-operated
interest in the Majunga Offshore Profond
exploration block in Madagascar, covering
approximately 15 840 square kilometres.
Technical evaluation is ongoing, utilising 
2D and 3D seismic data.
Nigeria
BG Group is developing an E&P and LNG
position in Nigeria, one of the most proliﬁc
hydrocarbon provinces in the Atlantic Basin. 
In January 2006, BG Group signed a PSC for 
Oil Prospecting Licence (OPL) 332 with the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
(NNPC), which resulted in BG Group acquiring
a 45% participating interest and operatorship
of the deep water block located in up to
1 000 metres of water. The ﬁrst phase of the
two-part work programme on OPL 332 began
in 2006. 3D seismic acquisition completed 
in January 2007 and data processing was
completed in January 2008, with an
exploration well expected to be drilled in
2008/2009. 
In March 2007, BG Group signed a PSC with
NNPC for OPL 286-DO (BG Group 66% and
operator), which was awarded in the May 2006
licensing round. The block is located in deep
water (up to 1 000 metres) and contains an
existing discovery, Boi. BG Group, as operator,
is undertaking the ﬁrst phase of the two-part
work programme with the initial assessment
of 3D seismic in 2007. Exploration and
appraisal drilling is expected to commence 
in 2008 and continue into 2009.
Norway
BG Group currently has 22 exploration
licences (14 as operator) offshore Norway,
gained through licensing rounds and
acquisitions. BG Group gained two licences
(awarded in January 2007) in the 2006
Awards in Pre-deﬁned Areas licensing round,
including one in the southern North Sea
Exploration and Production continued
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:03  Page 20 21
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
2007 PERFORMANCE
BG Group’s LNG business had a record year in
2007. Volumes of LNG managed by BG Group
increased by 31% to around 13.0 million tonnes,
helped by new contracted supplies, additional
spot cargoes and liquefaction volumes
reaching a new high of 7.0 million tonnes. This,
together with more LNG shipping capacity,
enabled BG Group to supply LNG to nine
countries. BG Group and partners sanctioned 
a new regasiﬁcation project in Chile.
LIQUEFACTION
Egypt
Egyptian LNG Train 1 output of 3.6 mtpa is
sold to Gaz de France under a long-term
supply arrangement. BG Group purchases 
3.6 mtpa from Train 2 and delivers this into
Lake Charles and other destinations. 
Since ﬁrst quarter 2005, BG Group has been
tolling gas through SEGAS’ Damietta LNG
plant and purchasing 0.7 mtpa of Damietta’s
LNG production (reducing to 0.5 mtpa from
2009) under a ﬁve year contract.
Trinidad and Tobago
BG Group is a shareholder in four trains of
Atlantic LNG. The fourth train, one of the
world’s largest operating trains of LNG
(5.2 mtpa), entered the full commercial phase
of operation in 2007 and is now undergoing 
a work programme designed to maximise 
its efﬁciency.
Nigeria
In 2007, BG Group had the ﬁrst full year of
deliveries from the 20 year 2.3 mtpa contract
with Nigeria LNG Trains 4/5, which began in
2006. In February 2007, BG Group signed a
Sale and Purchase Agreement (SPA) with
Nigeria LNG for the acquisition of 2.25 mtpa
LNG for 20 years, which will be produced
from the proposed Train 7 project in Finima,
Bonny Island. 
BG Group is jointly developing a new
liquefaction plant at Olokola (OKLNG) on 
the south-western coast of Nigeria. A
Shareholders’ Agreement was signed in
March 2007 between the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation, Shell, Chevron and
BG OKLNG Ltd, which includes the launch
project and any future expansions. 
Liquefied 
Natural Gas
EXISTING LIQUEFACTION
EXISTING IMPORT CAPACITY
EQUITY POSITIONS THIRD-PARTY
TERM PURCHASES
MARKETS SUPPLIED IN 2007
USA
MEXICO
TRINIDAD
& TOBAGO
UK
SPAIN
BELGIUM
EGYPT
NIGERIA
EQUATORIAL 
GUINEA
INDIA
TAIWAN
S. KOREA
JAPAN
• Delivered LNG to nine countries 
• Took ﬁrst deliveries from 17 year 
3.4 mtpa contract with Equatorial
Guinea LNG
• Commenced gas deliveries
(220 000 mmbtud) to south Georgia
and Florida markets 
• Exercised option to participate in the
expansion of the Elba Island LNG
receiving terminal
• Quintero LNG regasiﬁcation plant,
Chile, sanctioned 
• SPA signed with Nigeria LNG for
2.25 mtpa LNG for 20 years, from the
proposed Train 7 project in Finima,
Bonny Island
• Took delivery of four new LNG ships
2007 highlights
The LNG business performed very
strongly with total operating proﬁt*
increasing by 48%.
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:03  Page 21 22 Operating review continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
BG Group has a 14.25% interest in the
proposed project, which currently comprises
four LNG trains of 5.5 mtpa each, with a 
two-phased development of two trains 
each currently envisaged. Work is currently
underway to optimise project design 
and procurement.
In 2006, BG Group signed a Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) with Nigeria’s Brass
LNG for the acquisition of 1.67 mtpa LNG for
20 years with initial deliveries expected to
start by 2013. A full SPA is anticipated during
2008 and it is planned that cargoes will be
delivered on an ex-ship basis to Lake Charles
and Elba Island with BG Group retaining
destination ﬂexibility. 
Equatorial Guinea
From May 2007, BG Group started receiving
LNG cargoes under a 17 year 3.4 mtpa supply
contract with Equatorial Guinea LNG. The
facility experienced some downtime in
production in October/November during 
its ﬁrst year of operation. 
Other
In October 2007, BG Group mutually agreed
to end a MoU with Oil Search Limited to
evaluate the feasibility of developing a 
LNG export project in Papua New Guinea. 
REGASIFICATION
USA
During 2007, BG Group was responsible 
for meeting just over 1% of the US daily gas
demand and importing around 55% of LNG
delivered into the USA. 
Lake Charles
BG Group holds the entire capacity rights 
at the Lake Charles regasiﬁcation terminal.
The current capacity is 1.8 bcfd, with 2.1 bcfd
peak send-out and is contracted to 2028. An
Infrastructure Enhancement Project (IEP) is
currently being implemented at Lake Charles
and is expected to be onstream in third
quarter 2008. The IEP involves new
vaporisation technology and a natural gas
liquids recovery unit to remove ethane,
propane and butane prior to placement 
of gas into the pipeline. This is expected 
to reduce Lake Charles’ fuel gas consumption
by up to 85%. 
Elba Island
LNG from Atlantic LNG Trains 2 and 3
(BG Group 32.5%) is regasiﬁed and marketed
at Elba Island in Savannah, Georgia, where
the Group has capacity and associated LNG
purchase and gas sales agreements. 
In May 2007, BG Group began utilising its
capacity in the Cypress pipeline, which
connects gas sourced from Elba Island to
markets in south Georgia and Florida. This
new 165 mile pipeline came into service with
an initial capacity of 220 000 mmbtud, which
is planned to rise to 336 000 mmbtud by 
May 2008. 
BG Group has agreed with Elba Island’s
owner, El Paso Corporation, to further 
expand the storage at this terminal from 
4.0 bcf to 8.2 bcf and increase BG Group’s
vaporisation capacity from 675 mmscfd 
to 1.17 bcfd. The expansion is expected to 
be onstream by 2014, with BG Group 
having an option to bring this forward 
to mid-2012. 
As part of the expansion project, BG Group
has rights to transportation capacity in the
Elba Express Pipeline. This new 190 mile 
inter-state pipeline is planned to be onstream
from 2010 and will deliver gas from Elba
Island to additional markets in Georgia and,
through the interconnections with other
pipelines, to south-eastern and eastern 
USA. In 2007, both the expansion of the 
Elba Island terminal and the Elba Express
Pipeline received Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission approval. 
Providence
BG Group and its partner, KeySpan, have
elected not to continue with the Providence
LNG project, Rhode Island, USA. 
Gas marketing
Since acquiring capacity rights at Lake
Charles in 2001 and Elba Island in 2004,
BG Group has established an integrated 
gas marketing and distribution business
consisting of access to over 15 inter- and 
intra-state pipelines, salt storage capacity 
and over 280 industrial customers, enabling
BG Group to improve the price it receives 
for its gas in the US market. 
4.1
6.4
9.9
6.7
7.0
13.0
LNG production 
and managed volumes (mtpa)
Production
Managed volumes
07 06 05
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
LNG: Long-term ﬁrm supply
(a)
Firm supply Commercial 
(mtpa) start-up
Atlantic LNG T2/3 2.1 2003
Nigeria LNG T4/5 2.3 2006
Egyptian LNG T2
(b)
3.5 2006
Atlantic LNG T4
(c)
1.5 2006
Equatorial Guinea
(d)
3.3 2007
Nigeria LNG T7 2.3 2013
Total firm supply 15.0
(a) All volumes calculated on a delivered basis into
the US east coast
(b) First cargo lifted in September 2005 
(c) First cargo lifted in February 2006 
(d) First cargo lifted in May 2007
Liqueﬁed Natural Gas continued
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:03  Page 22 A leading player in the global LNG market 23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
During 2007, contracted supply rose to
around 12.6 mtpa, as the new long-term
supply contracts from Equatorial Guinea
began to be delivered. This is anticipated 
to rise further to 15.0 mtpa with a full
contribution from Equatorial Guinea and 
the new volumes from Nigeria LNG Train 7
when they come onstream. 
In 2007, BG Group delivered 150 cargoes 
(2006 104 cargoes) into its US terminals,
86 cargoes to Lake Charles (2006 50 cargoes)
and 64 cargoes to Elba Island (2006 54 cargoes),
and re-marketed a further 81 cargoes to 
other higher value markets (2006 78 cargoes).
During 2007, BG Group delivered LNG cargoes
to nine countries.
UK
Construction progressed at the Dragon LNG
regasiﬁcation terminal at Milford Haven,
Wales, and the terminal is scheduled to be
operational during 2008. BG Group has rights
to 2.2 mtpa of capacity allowing it to send out
3 bcm (106 bcf) of gas per year for 20 years.
The project has an exemption from the
regulated third-party access provisions
imposed by the Second EU Gas Directive and
BG Group has contracted pipeline capacity
with National Grid. 
Chile
In May 2007, BG Group and partners took the
Final Investment Decision to proceed with the
construction of the 2.5 mtpa Quintero LNG
regasiﬁcation terminal in Quintero Bay, Chile.
The regasiﬁcation plant is planned to have an
initial baseload send-out capacity of 
340 mmscfd on a sustainable basis and
170 mmscfd of additional peaking capacity,
meeting approximately 40% of central Chile’s
expected demand for natural gas once
onstream. BG Group’s partners have
contracted to purchase up to 1.7 mtpa LNG
from BG Group for 21 years. The terminal is
expected to be in early operation by 
mid-2009 and in full operation by mid-2010. 
Italy
BG Group continues to pursue the 6.0 mtpa
Brindisi LNG regasiﬁcation project in southern
Italy. BG Group’s share of the capacity would
be 4.8 mtpa with the remaining 20% to be
made available for third-party access, in
compliance with the exemption granted
under the Second EU Gas Directive.
No construction has taken place on the
Brindisi site since it was seized by the Italian
authorities in February 2007 in connection
with a criminal investigation into allegations
of improper conduct related to the
authorisation process. A court hearing in
relation to the criminal investigation has
been scheduled for 13 March 2008 to
consider whether criminal charges should 
be brought against BG Italia S.p.A. and/or any
of the individuals involved. Further details of
this matter are contained in Risk Factors 
(page 45) and note 27 (page 113). 
In October 2007, BG Group received formal
notiﬁcation from the Ministry of Economic
Development that the original ‘Article 8’
authorisation for the construction and
operation of Brindisi LNG had been
suspended pending the submission by
BG Group of a full Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) and conﬁrmation from the
Italian authorities as to the validity of the
‘Article 8’ authorisation. On 15 January 2008,
BG Group commenced the EIA approval
process by submitting an EIA. 
The timing of ﬁrst deliveries to the Brindisi
terminal is dependent on how soon access to
the site can be restored, approval of the EIA
and resolution of the various outstanding
legal matters. 
LNG SHIPPING
BG Group’s shipping remains a key enabler
for the LNG business to ensure delivery and
provide ﬂexibility to market cargoes. 
BG Group has a core ﬂeet of ships that it
owns or has under long-term charter. In
addition, it charters additional ships on a
shorter-term basis to meet its requirements.
In 2007, BG Group took delivery of four
145 000 cubic metre new-build ships and
signed an agreement with Samsung Heavy
Industries Co Limited for the delivery of two
new-build dual-fuel diesel electric LNG ships,
expected to be delivered in late-2009 and
mid-2010. 
2007 was an excellent year for BG Group’s
LNG business, generating a record total
operating proﬁt* of £521 million, up 48%. 
The key contributors to this success were
BG Group’s growing portfolio of ﬂexible
LNG supply, shipping ﬂeet and market
positions which were able to react quickly
to market conditions.
During 2007, BG Group delivered cargoes
to nine markets, as diverse as India and
Mexico, re-marketing 35% of its cargoes
away from Lake Charles and Elba Island,
delivering premium returns. 
During the year, BG Group supplied
around 3.5 million tonnes of LNG to the
Paciﬁc Basin under a combination of
short- and medium-term deals. This made
the Group the largest Atlantic Basin
supplier of cargoes into the Paciﬁc Basin.
In February 2008, BG Group announced
an alliance with QGC (see page 19) to
explore and develop the coal seam gas
resources in the Surat Basin, south-west
Queensland, Australia. The alliance
includes pursuing an initial 3 to 4 mtpa
LNG facility in Queensland to supply Asia
Paciﬁc markets.
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:03  Page 23 24
Transmission
and Distribution
Operating review continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
2007 PERFORMANCE
2007 was another strong year for BG Group’s
transmission and distribution businesses,
with more customers and increased
proﬁtability. Volume throughput was lower
at 9.3 bcma in 2007 (2006 11.9 bcma) due to
BG Group’s divestment of its 25% equity
stake in Interconnector (UK) Limited.
Brazil
Comgas (BG Group 60.1%) is Brazil’s largest
gas distribution company. At the end of 2007,
it was serving around 572 000 customers in
the São Paulo concession area (2006 518 000;
2005 485 000). 
Comgas’ sales volumes grew by 5% during
2007, helped by Brazil’s economic growth,
higher demand from industry, increased
natural gas vehicle (NGV) conversions and an
expansion of the higher margin residential
customer base. Comgas’ operating proﬁt*
increased by 13% to £211 million in 2007
(2006 £186 million), reﬂecting volume
increases and margin improvements, as 
well as favourable currency movements. 
The Comgas network was extended by over
500 kilometres during 2007. This expansion is
part of an ongoing ﬁve year expansion plan,
which commenced in 2004. The expansion
plan also involves the capture of higher
margin residential customers, together 
with the simultaneous development of the
industrial, NGV and co-generation markets. 
India 
Gujarat Gas Company Limited (GGCL)
(BG Group 65.12%) is India’s largest private gas
distribution company. In 2007, its distribution
sales volumes increased by 10% to 1 202 mmcm
(2006 1 088 mmcm; 2005 810 mmcm), with 
its core retail business growing 20%.
Under its compressed natural gas (CNG) for
vehicles expansion programme, GGCL added
ﬁve new stations in Surat, Gujarat, taking
GGCL’s total number of stations to 25 at the
end of 2007. 
GGCL now receives close to 80% of its 
supply from BG Group’s Panna/Mukta 
and Tapti ﬁelds.
UK 
Interconnector pipeline 
ARGENTINA/URUGUAY
MetroGAS
Southern Cross pipeline
INDIA 
Gujarat Gas 
Mahanagar Gas 
BOLIVIA/BRAZIL 
Comgas 
Bolivia-Brazil pipeline 
 
• Comgas, Brazil, continued to grow,
with volumes up 5% and the higher
margin residential customer base 
growing 11%
• Strong distribution volume growth of
10% at Gujarat Gas, India, with the
core retail business growing 20%
• Additional compressed natural gas
stations developed by Gujarat Gas
• BG Group sold its 25% equity stake 
in Interconnector (UK) Limited for
£165 million but retains capacity in 
the pipeline
2007 highlights
The downstream T&D business 
performed well, with total operating proﬁt* 
up 7%. Comgas operating proﬁt grew by 13%. 
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:31  Page 24 25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) (BG Group
49.75%), which owns a gas distribution
business in Mumbai, saw its 2007 volumes
rise 2% to 506 mmcm (2006 494 mmcm;
2005 446 mmcm). The lower volume growth
in 2007 was due to gas supply constraints.
Some of the increased volume at MGL in
2007 was driven by the growth of CNG
through the installation of 12 new refuelling
outlets, taking the total number of
dispensing points in Mumbai, Thane,
Mira-Bhayander and Navi-Mumbai to 623 
at the end of 2007. 
In 2007, MGL expanded its network in 
and around the city of Mumbai. In 2008,
further expansion of the pipeline network 
to neighbouring towns is scheduled for
completion. The number of connected
domestic customers grew to 331 000 at 
the end of 2007 from 278 000 at the start 
of the year. 
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory
Board was set up in 2007 by the Government
of India. The detailed regulations with which
industry participants will be required to
comply are expected to be issued in 2008.
UK
In June 2007, BG Group sold its 25%
shareholding in Interconnector (UK) Limited
for £165 million. BG Group retains both
import and export capacity in the pipeline,
which runs from Bacton in England to
Zeebrugge in Belgium.
Argentina/Uruguay 
MetroGAS is the largest natural gas
distribution company in Argentina. BG Group
acts as technical operator. MetroGAS’ 
total volumes were down slightly in 2007 
to 7 917 mmcm (2006 7 944 mmcm). 
MetroGAS’ results have been deconsolidated
since the end of 2005 as a result of
ﬁnancial restructuring. 
BG Group is operator with a 40% share in 
the Southern Cross Pipeline linking Argentina
to Montevideo.
High-growth markets 
In T&D, BG Group has focused on the
high-growth markets of Brazil and India. 
In both of these markets, gas demand
tends to be related to economic growth,
which is strong, and there is low, but
increasing, penetration of gas usage. By
concentrating on such markets, BG Group
has delivered double-digit volume growth
on average in its distribution businesses
in recent years. 
Infrastructure also tends to be limited 
in these markets and capital investment
in the networks is vital to meeting the
underlying increase in demand. 
BG Group is aiming to expand its
footprint in both the Brazilian and 
Indian markets. 
At MGL and GGCL, distribution volume
growth was 2% and 10% respectively 
in 2007. 
GGCL now receives about 80% of its
supply from BG Group’s Panna/Mukta
and Tapti ﬁelds. 
200
400
600
800
1 000
1 200
07 06 05 04
Customers (’000s)
Comgas
Gujarat Gas
Mahanagar Gas
BG Group has grown its T&D customer 
base by an average of 13% per annum 
from 2004 to 2007
1
2
3
4
5
6
07 06 05 04
Comgas volumes (bcma)
Comgas has grown volumes by 
an average of 10% per annum 
from 2004 to 2007
Industrial
Residential
Commercial
NGV
Co-generation
Power
Source: Comgas
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:33  Page 25 26
Power Generation 
and Other activities
Operating review continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
2007 PERFORMANCE
In 2007, total operating proﬁt* for the 
Power Generation segment increased 
23% to £130 million, principally due to the
contribution from power assets in the USA and
Italy acquired in late 2006 and 2007. At the
end of 2007, BG Group had 4.3 gigawatt (GW)
of power capacity. This increased from 4.1 GW
in 2006, following the acquisition of the
Group’s third power plant in north-east USA. 
POWER 
UK
Premier Power Limited (BG Group 100%) 
owns and operates the Ballylumford power
station in Northern Ireland. Ballylumford 
has a maximum operating capacity of
1 316 megawatt (MW) and has generating
agreements with NIE Energy.
BG Group also has a 50% interest in the 
1 130 MW Seabank power station, near Bristol. 
Philippines
In the Philippines, BG Group has a 40% stake
in the Santa Rita (1 000 MW) and San Lorenzo
(500 MW) power stations, which sell
electricity under long-term agreements to
Meralco, the Philippines’ largest power
distribution company. 
Malaysia
BG Group has a 20% interest in the Genting
Sanyen 760 MW combined cycle gas turbine
plant, located 70 kilometres south of Kuala
Lumpur, with long-term sales to Malaysia’s
national power company. 
Italy
In Italy, BG Group owns 100% of Serene S.p.A.
(now BG Italia Power S.p.A.) following 
the completion of the acquisition of the
remaining 66.32% equity in February 2007.
BG Italia Power S.p.A. operates ﬁve
thermoelectric plants in Italy, with a total
installed gross capacity of 400 MW, and
supplies around 2.6 billion Kwh of power 
and 450 000 tonnes of steam per annum. 
UK
Premier Power (Ballylumford)
Seabank Power
PHILIPPINES
San Lorenzo
Santa Rita
ITALY
BG Italia Power 
MALAYSIA
Genting Sanyen
BRAZIL
Iqara
USA
Dighton
Lake Road
Masspower
• Completed the acquisition of the 
785 MW Lake Road power plant 
in Connecticut, USA
• Acquired the 264 MW Masspower
power plant in Massachusetts, USA,
bringing the Group’s number of US
power plants to three
• Completed the acquisition of the
remaining 66.32% equity in Serene
S.p.A. (now BG Italia Power S.p.A.)
• Iqara Energy Services, Brazil, signed 
ﬁve new contracts corresponding to
22.5 MWeq of co-generation projects,
an 83% increase compared with 2006
2007 highlights
BG Group has a portfolio of mostly 
gas-ﬁred power stations, and has recently
pursued attractive opportunities in certain 
US power markets. 
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:34  Page 26 27
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
USA
During 2007, BG Group announced the
acquisition of a third power plant in the 
USA as part of its integrated US gas strategy.
In May 2007, BG Group completed its
acquisition of the 264 MW Masspower power
plant for US$150 million. The gas- and 
oil-ﬁred combined cycle facility is located in
Massachusetts. This added to the acquisition
of the 165 MW Dighton plant, also in
Massachusetts, which completed in late
2006, and the 785 MW Lake Road plant in
Connecticut, which completed in March 2007.
All three plants are located in north-east 
USA, in the New England power market. The
plants are situated in liquid, well-established
power and gas markets. The acquisitions are
designed to maximise the return from the
existing integrated gas business. 
OTHER ACTIVITIES
In Brazil, through its Iqara subsidiaries, the
Group operates co-generation and related
energy supply services and compressed
natural gas stations supplying NGVs in 
São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. 
There was signiﬁcant growth at Iqara in 2007.
The co-generation and energy supply service
businesses attained a total net revenue
increase of 25% compared to 2006, with four
new clients installed (three shopping malls
and one industrial company), totalling 14 sites
in operation.
In 2007, total operating proﬁt* for the
Power Generation segment grew 23%,
primarily as a result of the acquisitions of
the remaining 66.32% equity in Serene
S.p.A. (now BG Italia Power S.p.A.) and the
three US power plants; Dighton, Lake Road
and Masspower.
BG Group’s strategy in power is quite
different between these two sets of
assets. In Italy, the electricity generated 
is sold to the national grid, while the
thermal power is sold to the adjacent FIAT
plants and other off-takers for process
and heating purposes. The assets are 
run as stand-alone power businesses. 
In the USA, the power assets are an
extension of the Group’s integrated 
gas business. 
In this market, BG Group has a portfolio 
of assets – LNG import capacity and
storage, pipeline capacity and the three
power plants – enabling the Group to
choose where, when and in what form 
the energy is marketed.
Power portfolio grows with Italian and US acquisitions
4.3
(b)
4.1
(a)
2.8
2.8
Power capacity (GW)
(a) Increase in 2006 represents the  
 acquisitions of Lake Road and remaining 
 equity in Serene S.p.A. (now BG Italia  
 Power S.p.A.), announced 2006,   
 completed 2007.
(b) Increase in 2007 represents the   
 acquisition of Masspower.
1
2
3
4
5
07 06 05 04
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p16-27_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:40  Page 27 28
Financial review
Financial review
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
The operations of BG Group comprise
Exploration and Production (E&P), 
Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (LNG), Transmission
and Distribution (T&D), Power Generation
(Power) and Other activities. 
SUMMARY
For the year ended 31 December 2007, 
total operating proﬁt and cash ﬂow from
operations rose by 5% and 10% respectively.
These results reﬂect a good operating
performance across the Group. The
underlying performance was particularly
pleasing as total operating proﬁt increased
despite the one-off impact of the CATS
pipeline outage (details below) and the
adverse impact of the change in the US$/UK£
exchange rate.
The Group continued to invest in a successful
exploration and appraisal programme and
the related expense rose by £64 million to
£336 million.
The Group’s effective tax rate was 2% lower 
at 43% and the share repurchase programme
was earnings per share accretive. Earnings per
share rose by 11% to 52.7 pence.
During 2007, the Group invested £2.5 billion
on capital projects, acquisitions and its
exploration programme, and realised
proceeds of £0.5 billion from targeted
disposals. The Group has been successful 
at growing its portfolio of investment
opportunities and plans to invest a further
£6.3 billion during 2008 and 2009.
During February 2008, the Group completed
the £750 million share repurchase
programme announced in early 2007.
The Group’s cash ﬂows and ﬁnancial position
remain strong, enabling the Group to ﬁnance
its growth plans and continued growth in 
the dividend.
EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE
Excluding disposals, re-measurements and
impairments, earnings (and earnings per
share) were £1 783 million (52.7 pence) in 2007
compared to £1 640 million (47.4 pence) in
2006. The ﬁve year growth in earnings per
share is shown opposite. 
Including disposals, re-measurements and
impairments, earnings (and earnings per
share) were £1 746 million (51.6 pence) in 
2007 compared to £1 779 million (51.4 pence)
in 2006.
A ﬁve year summary from 2003 to 2007 of 
the ﬁnancial results of BG Group’s operations
is set out on page 127.
DIVIDEND
In considering the dividend level, the Board
takes account of the outlook for earnings
growth, cash ﬂow generation and ﬁnancial
gearing. The Group’s strong ﬁnancial
performance and prospects has allowed the
Board to recommend a full year dividend of
9.36 pence per share, an increase of 30%.
It is the intention of the Board to continue 
to increase the dividend in line with the
underlying growth in earnings.
The ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 23 May 2008
(2 June 2008 in respect of American Depositary
Shares (ADSs)). 
* Business Performance excludes disposals, certain 
re-measurements and impairments as exclusion 
of these items provides readers with a clear and
consistent presentation of the underlying operating
performance of the Group’s ongoing business. Unless
otherwise stated, financial operating information for
the Group and its business segments presented in 
the Financial review is based on BG Group’s Business
Performance. For a reconciliation between Business
Performance and T otal Results, see note 2, page 82.
The Group delivered a good operating
performance and earnings per share rose
by 11%*.The Group’s ﬁnancial position
and outlook remain strong.
Ashley Almanza
Chief Financial Officer
• Earnings per share increased 11%* 
to 52.7 pence for the full year
• £750 million share repurchase
programme completed
• Full year dividend increased by 
30% to 9.36 pence per share 
• Capital investment programme
increased to capitalise on a 
growing portfolio of opportunities
• Strong financial position 
and outlook
Highlights
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:21  Page 28 29
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Financial results – Business Performance*
E&P 
E&P production increased by 1% in 2007
compared with 2006 following disposals in
Canada and Mauritania, and the loss of the
CATS UK gas export route following third-party
damage to the pipeline. Excluding these events,
production would have grown by around 5%. 
During 2007, volumes beneﬁted from the
start-up of the Buzzard and West Franklin
ﬁelds in the UK, while in Trinidad and Tobago
lower demand and capacity constraints
restricted production. 
Revenue and other operating income rose
by 3%. The Group’s average gas price fell 
by 6%, principally reﬂecting the impact 
of weaker US$/UK£ exchange rates on
average international gas prices. The weaker
exchange rate was the principal driver behind
a 1.7 pence fall in the average international
gas price to 15.5 pence per therm. 
In the UK, approximately two-thirds of 
BG Group’s gas production was sold under
various contract prices. The remaining UK gas
volumes were sold on an uncontracted basis. 
BG Group’s realised average UK gas price per
produced therm was 33.3 pence in 2007
compared to 31.9 pence in 2006. 
Unit lifting costs
(d)
were £1.64 per boe in 
2007 compared with £1.34 per boe in 2006.
Unit operating expenditure
(d)
was £2.61 per
boe in 2007 against £2.29 per boe in 2006. 
The increases in unit lifting costs and unit
operating costs in 2007 reﬂect increased
maintenance expense and the impact of
higher hydrocarbon prices, as these feed
through into higher input costs.
E&P operating proﬁt was 3% lower in 2007 
as ﬁrmer prices were more than offset by
weaker US$/UK£ exchange rates, the impact
of the CATS shutdown and the increased
expense associated with the Group’s larger
exploration programme. At constant
US$/UK£ exchange rates and upstream
prices, operating proﬁt increased by 2%.
During 2007, gross exploration expenditure
was £536 million (2006 £555 million),
including £304 million (2006 £396 million) 
of expenditure that was capitalised.
25
35
45
55
07 06 05 04 03
Earnings per share (pence)
4
6
8
10
07 06 05 04 03
Dividend per share (pence)
Revenue and other 
operating income Total operating profit(a)
2007 2006 2007 2006   
£m £m £m £m 
Exploration and Production
(b)
4 039 3 928 2 387 2 457 
Liquefied Natural Gas
(b)
3 099 2 442 521 352 
Transmission and Distribution 978 877 247 231
Power Generation
(b)
523 248 130 106 
Other activities 7 8 (37) (43) 
Less: intra-group sales (316) (233) 
8 330 7 270 3 248 3 103
Net finance costs
(c)
(27) (43)
Tax
(c)
(1 385) (1 375)
Profit for the year 1 836 1 685
Minority interest (53) (45)
Earnings 1 783 1 640
(a) Total operating profit includes the Group’s share of pre-tax operating profits in joint ventures and associates. 
(b) Includes other operating income of £(24) million (2006 £26 million) in the E&P segment, £61 million 
(2006 £108 million) in the LNG segment and £2 million (2006 £nil) in the Power segment.
(c) Includes the Group’s share in joint ventures and associates.
(d) See Glossary of Terms, page 141.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:21  Page 29 30 Financial review continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
LNG
The Group’s LNG business has two separate
but related business lines: shipping and
marketing and LNG production (liquefaction).
Revenue and other operating income
increased to £3 099 million in 2007 (2006 
£2 442 million), reﬂecting the growth in LNG
volumes and higher realisations achieved
through the redirection of the Group’s
ﬂexible supply portfolio to the markets 
with the strongest demand.
The volume growth and improved realisations
ﬂowed through to total operating proﬁt, which
rose by 48% to £521 million. The volume of LNG
marketed rose by 31% to 13 million tonnes due
to an increase in the long-term, contracted
supply, from Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea,
and an increase in the amount of short-term
supply BG Group was able to attract.
BG Group’s share of operating proﬁts from its
interests in liquefaction businesses increased
22% to £127 million (2006 £104 million). The
increase in 2007 was principally due to an
increase in tariffs at Atlantic LNG Train 4 as it
entered its commercial phase during the year.
Business development and other costs of 
£69 million (2006 £84 million) were incurred
on new projects, including the development
of Quintero LNG (Chile), which achieved ﬁrm
project approval in the ﬁrst half of 2007. 
T&D
T&D revenue in 2007 was £978 million (2006
£877 million). The increase in revenue in
2007 was primarily due to volume growth 
at Comgas and Gujarat Gas, together with
favourable exchange rate movements. 
Total operating profit in 2007, including the
Group’s share of operating profit in joint
ventures and associates, was £247 million
(2006 £231 million), reflecting growth at
Comgas and Gujarat Gas.
2007 2006
Production volumes (mmboe)
oil 28.2 21.1
liquids 35.7 30.6
gas 156.4 167.5
220.3 219.2
Average realised prices
oil – per barrel (UK£/US$) 36.6/73.4 35.9/65.5
liquids – per barrel (UK£/US$) 29.5/59.1 28.8/52.7
gas – per produced therm (pence) 19.4 20.7
Development expenditure (£m) 1 242 721
Gross exploration expenditure (£m)
capitalised exploration expenditure 304 396
other exploration expenditure 232 159
536 555
50
100
150
200
250
07 06 05
220.3
219.2
183.8
E&P production volumes (mmboe)
Annual production has increased 
by 20% since 2005
1
2
3
4
5
6
07 06 05
5.22
2.61
4.04
2.21
4.18
2.29
E&P unit operating expenditure
(a)
UK£ per boe US$ per boe
(a)   See Glossary of Terms, page 141, 
        for an explanation of how these 
        are calculated.
Exploration and Production
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:43  Page 30 31
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Comgas’ operating profit in 2007 rose 
13% to £211 million (2006 £186 million),
reflecting volume growth of 5% and
favourable Brazilian Real exchange rates. 
The Group’s T&D businesses in India
(Gujarat Gas and Mahanagar Gas)
contributed £38 million to operating 
profit, an increase of £12 million compared
with 2006.
POWER
In 2007, BG Group completed the acquisitions
of the Lake Road and Masspower power
plants (USA) and the remaining 66.32% of
Serene S.p.A. (Italy).
Power revenue increased by £275 million 
to £523 million in 2007 (2006 £248 million).
The increase in revenue is principally due 
to the contribution from power generation
assets in the USA and Italy acquired in late
2006 and 2007. 
Total operating proﬁt of £130 million (2006
£106 million) included the Group’s share 
of operating proﬁts in joint ventures and
associates of £86 million (2006 £88 million)
attributable to the power plants at Seabank
(UK), Santa Rita and San Lorenzo (the
Philippines), and Genting Sanyen Power
(Malaysia). In 2006, the Group’s share of
operating proﬁts in joint ventures and
associates included proﬁts attributable to
Serene S.p.A., which became a wholly-owned
subsidiary in early 2007.
OTHER ACTIVITIES
Revenue for Other activities in 2007 was 
£7 million (2006 £8 million).
The total operating loss in 2007 was £37 million
compared with £43 million in 2006. The loss
in both years related mainly to corporate
costs and business development expense.
LNG
3
6
9
12
15
07 06 05
Production
Managed volumes
6.4
6.7
4.1
13.0
9.9
7.0
LNG production and
managed volumes (mtpa)
100
200
300
400
500
600
07 06 05 (100)
0
Shipping and marketing
LNG production (liquefaction)
Business development and other costs
521
181
352
LNG total operating proﬁt* (£m)
2007 2006
Total operating profit* (£m)
Shipping and marketing 463 332
Liquefaction 127 104
Business development and other (69) (84)
521 352
LNG volumes (mtpa)
Managed volumes 13.0 9.9
LNG production volumes (BG Group net share) 7.0 6.7
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:21  Page 31 32 Financial review continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
2007 2006
Disposals, Disposals,
Business re-measurements Business re-measurements
Performance and impairments Total Performance and impairments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Total operating profit
(a)
3 248 (153) 3 095 3 103 251 3 354
Net finance costs
(b)
(27) 2 (25) (43) 1 (42)
Tax
(b)
(1 385) 115 (1 270) (1 375) (113) (1 488)
Profit for the year 1 836 (36) 1 800 1 685 139 1 824
Minority interest (53) (1) (54) (45) – (45)
Earnings 1 783 (37) 1 746 1 640 139 1 779
Earnings per share (pence) 52.7 (1.1) 51.6 47.4 4.0 51.4
(a) Total operating profit includes the Group’s share of pre-tax operating profits in joint ventures and associates.
(b) Includes the Group’s share in joint ventures and associates.
Proﬁt for the year
provision of £104 million, recognised within
operating costs in the LNG segment, was
established against the cumulative capitalised
construction costs of the Brindisi project. 
Re-measurements included within other
operating income in 2007 amounted to 
a non-cash charge of £172 million (2006
£404 million credit) attributable to the E&P
segment. The re-measurements in both years
primarily consisted of mark-to-market
movements on certain long-term UK gas
contracts that fall within the scope of IAS 39,
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement’ and arise as a result of
movements in UK gas prices and other
commodity indices. The re-measurements
reﬂect the differences between current
market gas prices and actual prices to be
realised under the gas sales contracts. This
non-cash re-measurement unwinds as gas 
is delivered under the relevant contract.
Re-measurements presented within net
ﬁnance costs include a re-measurement charge
of £4 million (2006 £23 million credit) in respect
of certain ﬁnancial derivatives and adjustments
made to borrowings in respect of effective fair
value hedges and net foreign exchange gains 
of £6 million (2006 £22 million losses) on
certain other borrowings in subsidiaries. 
In 2007 , BG Group sold its 25% equity interest in
Interconnector (UK) Limited, resulting in a pre-
tax gain of £157 million. BG Group retained
throughput capacity contracts in the
Interconnector pipeline and concluded that the
obligations associated with these contracts
exceed the beneﬁt expected to be realised from
the Interconnector interest. Accordingly, a pre-
tax provision of £156 million was established 
to reﬂect the present obligation under these
contracts. The overall transaction generated 
a pre-tax gain on disposal of £1 million, which
was recognised in the T&D segment.
In 2006, the loss on disposal of non-current
assets included a pre-tax proﬁt of £35 million
on the disposal of two LNG vessels (recognised
in the LNG segment) and net pre-tax losses 
of £7 million attributable to other disposals
recognised in the T&D segment (£1 million
proﬁt) and Other activities segment (£8 million
loss). During 2006, management committed 
to a plan to dispose of BG Group’s interests in
Mauritania and the Microgen business in the
UK. These programmes resulted in pre-tax
charges of £67 million in the E&P segment 
and £10 million in the Other activities segment. 
The Microgen business was closed in 2007.
Given the current uncertainties surrounding
the Brindisi LNG project, in 2006, an impairment
DISPOSALS, RE-MEASUREMENTS AND
IMPAIRMENTS
The following items, described as ‘disposals,
re-measurements and impairments’ are
excluded from Business Performance as
exclusion of these items provides a clearer
presentation of the underlying performance 
of the Group. Disposals, re-measurements 
and impairments amounted, in aggregate, 
to a charge of £153 million before tax and
interest (2006 £251 million gain). In 2007, 
this represented a non-cash re-measurement
charge of £172 million (see details below),
partly offset by disposal gains of £19 million.
For a full reconciliation between BG Group’s
Total Results and Business Performance, 
see note 2, page 82. For further details 
of amounts comprising disposals, 
re-measurements and impairments, 
see note 6, page 93.
In 2007, the proﬁt on disposal of non-current
assets was £19 million (2006 £49 million
loss). This included a pre-tax proﬁt of 
£18 million on disposal of certain Canadian
assets, a pre-tax gain of £1 million relating 
to the disposal of certain E&P licences and 
a pre-tax loss of £1 million relating to the
completion of BG Group’s disposal of its
Mauritanian interests, all of which were
recognised in the E&P segment.
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:21  Page 32 33
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
FINANCE COSTS
In 2007, BG Group’s net ﬁnance costs before
re-measurements and including BG Group’s
share of ﬁnance costs for joint ventures and
associates, was £27 million (2006 £43 million). 
The lower ﬁnance costs in 2007 reﬂect the
reduction in average net borrowings and a
decrease in BG Group’s share of ﬁnance costs
for joint ventures and associates, partially
offset by the effect of £28 million interest
received in 2006 in relation to tax
settlements. T otal net ﬁnance costs, including
re-measurements and BG Group’s share of
ﬁnance costs for joint ventures and associates
amounted to £25 million (2006 £42 million).
TAXATION
BG Group’s tax charge in 2007 before
disposals, re-measurements and impairments
and including BG Group’s share of taxation
from joint ventures and associates was 
£1 385 million (2006 £1 375 million). 
The Group’s tax charge in 2006 included 
a one-off adjustment associated with the
increase in the North Sea tax rate from 40%
to 50%. The one-off adjustment comprised 
a credit of £61 million to restate the deferred
tax asset associated with certain fair value 
re-measurement balances and a charge of 
£38 million for other deferred tax balances.
The Group’s tax charge for 2007, including
disposals, re-measurements and
impairments and BG Group’s share of
taxation from joint ventures and associates
was £1 270 million (2006 £1 488 million). 
In 2007, the tax charge on disposals,
re-measurements and impairments included
a £84 million credit (2006 £201 million
charge) that arose on fair value re-
measurement of certain commodity
contracts and a tax credit of £32 million
arising on the provision made in respect of
retained capacity contracts 
in the Interconnector pipeline. In 2006, a
deferred tax credit of £25 million arose on 
the impairment of BG Group’s interests 
in Mauritania and the Brindisi project. 
Capital investment
2007 capital investment by 
geographical area
(a)
 (£m)
 Europe and Central Asia 753
 South America 248
 Asia Paciﬁc 135
 North America and 
 the Caribbean 740
 Mediterranean Basin 
 and Africa 621
 Total 2 497
2007 capital investment 
by business segment (£m)
 E&P 1 652
 LNG 194
 T&D 117
 Power 520
 Other 14
 Total 2 497
2007 2006
£m £m
Intangible assets 304 413
Property, plant and equipment 1 554 1 289
Acquisitions 507 47
Investment in joint ventures and associates 132 98
Total 2 497 1 847
(a) On 1 January 2008, the regions in which the Group manages its operations were reorganised. The
information shown is aligned with the way in which the operations were managed in 2007. For further
information see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:44  Page 33 Directors’ Report – Business Review
34 Financial review continued
www.bg-group.com
£350 million (2006 approximately
£400 million) and included gross borrowings
of £312 million, which were guaranteed by
the Group (2006 £410 million). Including
BG Group shareholder loans of £658 million
(2006 £591 million), the total Group share 
of these net borrowings was approximately 
£1 billion (2006 £1 billion). These net
borrowings are taken into account in the
Group’s share of the net assets in joint
ventures and associates, which are 
accounted for using the equity method.
Total equity as at 31 December 2007 was 
£7 357 million compared with £6 465 million
at the beginning of the year. For information
on the Group dividend, see page 28.
Details of the maturity, currency and interest
rate proﬁle of the Group’s borrowings as 
at 31 December 2007 are shown in note 20, 
page 103, and details of the Group’s cash and
cash equivalents as at 31 December 2007 are
shown in note 18, page 102. 
BG Group’s principal borrowing entities are:
BG Energy Holdings Limited (BGEH), including
wholly owned subsidiary undertakings, the
majority of whose borrowings are guaranteed
by BGEH (collectively BGEH Borrowers); and
Comgas and Gujarat Gas, who conduct their
borrowing activities on a stand-alone basis
and whose borrowings are made without
recourse to other members of the Group.
BGEH is the Group’s principal credit rated
entity, with long-term credit ratings of A+
from Fitch Ratings Limited, A2 from Moody’s
Investors Service Ltd and A- from Standard &
Poor’s. BGEH has short-term credit ratings 
of F1 from Fitch Ratings Limited, P-1 from
Moody’s Investors Service Ltd and A-2 from
Standard & Poor’s as at 12 March 2008. 
As at 31 December 2007, BGEH had aggregate
committed multicurrency revolving borrowing
facilities of US$1 040 million, which mature 
in 2012. There are no restrictions on the
application of funds under these facilities, all of
which were undrawn as at 31 December 2007.
BGEH Borrowers had a US$1 billion US
Commercial Paper Programme, which was
unutilised, a US$1 billion Eurocommercial
Paper Programme, of which US$969 million
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
Capital investment in 2007 was 
£2 497 million (2006 £1 847 million) and
included £507 million (2006 £47 million) 
on acquisitions. 
Capital investment in E&P (including
capitalised exploration expenditure) was 
£1 652 million (2006 £1 165 million). E&P
investment in 2007 and 2006 included
projects in the UK, Egypt, Kazakhstan,
Trinidad and Tobago, India and Tunisia. 
Development investment (on proved
properties) totalled £1 242 million compared
with £721 million in 2006. Development
expenditure in 2007 was primarily in respect
of the Buzzard and Maria ﬁelds in the UK,
West Delta Deep Marine ﬁelds in Egypt,
Panna/Mukta ﬁelds in India, Karachaganak
ﬁeld in Kazakhstan and the Miskar and
Hasdrubal ﬁelds in Tunisia.
Capital investment in LNG in 2007 was
£194 million compared with £496 million 
in 2006. Investment in 2007 included 
the construction of LNG ships and the
regasiﬁcation terminal projects in Quintero
Bay (Chile) and Milford Haven (UK). Investment
in 2006 included the construction of LNG
ships, and investment on the development of
LNG regasiﬁcation terminals at Milford Haven
and Brindisi (Italy). 
Capital investment in T&D in 2007 amounted
to £117 million (2006 £123 million). Investment
in 2007 and 2006 was incurred mainly on the
expansion of the Comgas network. 
Capital investment in Power during 2007 
was £520 million (2006 £55 million), including
£507 million for the acquisition of the Lake
Road and Masspower generation assets in
the USA and the remaining equity of Serene
S.p.A. in Italy. Capital investment in 2006
included £47 million for the acquisition of 
the Dighton plant in the USA.
CASH FLOW
Cash generated by operations in 2007 was 
£3 691 million, an increase of £331 million
(2006 £3 360 million), principally reﬂecting
increased operating proﬁt, excluding
non-cash re-measurements and working
capital movements (see note 30, page 118). 
Cash ﬂow from operating activities included
tax paid of £950 million in 2007 compared
with £979 million in 2006. 
Dividends from joint ventures and associates
amounted to £148 million in 2007 (2006 
£193 million). Dividends received in 2006
beneﬁted from the completion of a 
re-ﬁnancing programme at Atlantic LNG.
Pre-tax proceeds from the disposal of
subsidiary undertakings and non-current
assets amounted to £464 million in 2007
(2006 £58 million) and principally represented
the proceeds from the disposal of certain
Canadian E&P assets, BG Group’s Mauritanian
interests and an equity interest in
Interconnector (UK) Limited. Receipts in 
2006 primarily represented the disposal 
of two LNG vessels. 
Payments to acquire property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets amounted
to £1 718 million in 2007 (2006 £1 313 million).
Capital expenditure on business combinations
and other investments amounted to
£497 million in 2007 (2006 £67 million) and
included £480 million, net of cash acquired, 
on the acquisition of power businesses in the
USA and Italy. 
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
accounted for a net cash outﬂow of 
£648 million in 2007 (2006 £1 192 million).
This included £555 million (2006 £972 million)
associated with the share repurchase
programmes. Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing
activities also included a £37 million outﬂow
(2006 £36 million) in respect of dividends
paid to minority shareholders. Net interest
received amounted to £3 million in 2007
(2006 £14 million). 
FINANCING AND CAPITAL
Net funds (comprising cash and cash
equivalent investments, ﬁnance leases,
currency and interest rate derivative ﬁnancial
instruments and short- and long-term
borrowings) were £25 million compared 
to £103 million of net borrowings as at
31 December 2006.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group’s share of
third-party net borrowings in joint ventures
and associates amounted to approximately
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:46  Page 34 35
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
was unutilised, and a US$2 billion Euro
Medium T erm Note Programme, of which
US$1 550 million was unutilised. In addition,
at 31 December 2007, BGEH had uncommitted
borrowing facilities including multicurrency
lines, overdraft facilities of £60 million and
credit facilities of US$40 million, all of which
were unutilised.
BGEH Borrowers are also lessees under a
number of LNG ship charters that constitute
ﬁnance leases.
As at 31 December 2007, Comgas had
committed borrowing facilities of Brazilian
Reals (BRL) 1 795 million (£504 million), of
which BRL 395 million (£111 million) was
unutilised, and uncommitted borrowing
facilities of BRL 578 million (£162 million), 
all of which were unutilised. Some of the
borrowings of Comgas have restrictions on
their use, being linked to capital projects. 
The distribution of the proﬁts of Comgas is
restricted under local legislation. Details of
these restrictions are shown in note 31, page
119. Distribution of the proﬁts of BG Group’s
other subsidiary undertakings is not
materially restricted. 
The Group proposes to meet its commitments
from the operating cash ﬂows of the business,
existing cash and cash equivalent investments,
from the money and capital markets and
existing committed lines of credit.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BG Group’s Principal Accounting Policies 
are set out on pages 73 to 75. To apply certain
of these policies, management is required to
make estimates and assumptions that affect
reported proﬁt, assets and liabilities. Actual
outcomes could differ from those calculated
based on estimates or assumptions. 
BG Group believes that the accounting
policies associated with exploration
expenditure, depreciation, decommissioning,
impairments, ﬁnancial instruments, including
commodity contracts, and revenue recognition
are the signiﬁcant policies where changes in
the estimates and assumptions made could
have a material impact on the consolidated
Financial Statements.
One particular estimate that affects most of
the policies discussed in this section is the
estimation of hydrocarbon reserves. The
Group’s estimates of reserves of gas and 
oil are reviewed and, where appropriate,
updated quarterly. They are also subject 
to periodic review by external petroleum
engineers. A number of factors impact on 
the amount of gas and oil reserves, including
the available reservoir data, commodity prices
and future costs, and the amount is subject
to periodic revision as these factors change.
Exploration expenditure
BG Group accounts for exploration
expenditure under the successful efforts
method. The success or failure of each
exploration effort is judged on a well-by-well
basis as each potential hydrocarbon structure
is identiﬁed and tested. Certain expenditure,
such as licence acquisition and drilling costs,
is capitalised within intangible assets
pending determination of whether or not
proved reserves have been discovered. A
review is carried out at least annually and any
unsuccessful expenditure is written off to the
income statement. Costs that relate directly
to the discovery and development of speciﬁc
gas and oil reserves are capitalised and
depreciated over the useful economic lives 
of those reserves. Certain expenditure that 
is general in nature, such as geological and
geophysical exploration costs, is written off
directly to the income statement.
An alternative policy would be the ‘full cost’
method under which all costs associated 
with exploring for and developing gas and oil
reserves within a cost pool are capitalised and
written off against income from subsequent
production. While the reported proﬁt under
each method will be the same over the total
life of the entity, proﬁt is generally recognised
earlier under the full cost method. 
As at 31 December 2007, BG Group held a
balance of £769 million relating to expenditure
on unproved gas and oil reserves within
intangible assets. Capitalised exploratory well
costs included within this total amounted to
£397 million. Exploration expenditure written
off to the income statement in 2007 was
£104 million (2006 £113 million). 
Capitalised exploratory well costs relate to
offshore and frontier areas where further
work is being undertaken on geological and
geophysical assessment, development design
and commercial arrangements. 
Depreciation 
Exploration and production assets are
depreciated using the unit of production
method, based on estimates of proved
developed reserves of those ﬁelds, except
that a basis of total proved reserves is used
for acquired interests and for facilities. 
The Group estimates that a 1% change
throughout 2007 in the estimation of proved
and proved developed reserves associated
with producing ﬁelds would have changed
the 2007 depreciation charge by £5 million.
Decommissioning
Where a legal or constructive obligation has
been incurred, decommissioning provisions
are recognised in the Financial Statements 
at the net present value of the future
expenditure estimated to be required to
settle the Group’s decommissioning
obligations. The discount implicit in
recognising the decommissioning liability 
is unwound over the life of the provision 
and is included in the income statement as 
a ﬁnancial item within ﬁnance costs. Where 
a provision gives access to future economic
beneﬁts, an asset is recognised and
depreciated in accordance with the Group’s
depreciation policy. Any changes to estimated
costs are dealt with prospectively.
The measurement of decommissioning
provisions involves the use of estimates 
and assumptions such as the discount rate
used to determine the net present value 
of the liability. The estimated cost of
decommissioning is based on engineering
estimates and reports. In addition, the
payment dates of expected decommissioning
costs are uncertain and are based on
economic assumptions surrounding the
useful economic lives of the ﬁelds concerned. 
On the basis that all other assumptions in
the calculation remain the same, a 10%
change in the cost estimates used to assess
the ﬁnal decommissioning obligations would
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:22  Page 35 Directors’ Report – Business Review
36 Financial review continued
www.bg-group.com
Other ﬁnancial instruments, such as
receivables balances, are measured at
amortised cost less any provisions for
impairment. Liabilities associated with
ﬁnancial guarantee contracts are initially
measured at fair value and re-measured 
at each balance sheet date.
Commodity instruments
On adoption of IAS 39, BG Group assessed all
commodity contracts to determine whether
they fell within the scope of the standard at
the inception of each contract. Within the
ordinary course of business, the Group
routinely enters into sale and purchase
transactions for commodities. The majority of
these transactions take the form of contracts
that were entered into, and continue to be
held for the purpose of receipt or delivery 
of the commodity, in accordance with the
Group’s expected sale, purchase or usage
requirements. Such contracts are not within
the scope of IAS 39 and, accordingly, are not
recognised in the Financial Statements.
Certain short-term contracts for the purchase
and subsequent resale of third-party
commodities are within the scope of IAS 39
and are recognised on the balance sheet at
fair value, with movements in fair value
recognised in the income statement. 
Certain long-term gas contracts operating
in the UK gas market have terms within the
contract that constitute written options and,
accordingly, they fall within the scope of
IAS 39. They are recognised on the balance
sheet at fair value, with movements in fair
value recognised in the income statement.
The Group uses various commodity based
derivative instruments to manage some 
of the risks arising from ﬂuctuations in
commodity prices. Such contracts include
physical and net-settled forwards, futures,
swaps and options. Where these derivatives
have been designated under IAS 39 as cash
ﬂow hedges of underlying commodity 
price exposures, certain gains and losses
attributable to these instruments are
deferred in equity and recognised in the
income statement when the underlying
hedged transaction occurs.
BG Group performs impairment testing for gas
and oil reserves using its proved plus probable
reserves estimates, which are based on the
Society of Petroleum Engineers’ deﬁnition.
Financial instruments 
The Group is exposed to credit risk, interest
rate risk, exchange rate risk and liquidity risk.
As part of its business operations, the Group
uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments
(derivatives) in order to manage exposure to
ﬂuctuations in interest rates and exchange
rates. The Group enters into interest rate
swaps or forward rate agreements to manage
the composition of ﬂoating and ﬁxed rate
debt. The Group enters into forward currency
contracts and currency swaps to hedge
certain foreign currency cash ﬂows and 
to adjust the currency composition of its
assets and liabilities. Certain agreements 
are combined foreign currency and interest
swap transactions, described as cross
currency interest rate swaps. The Group’s
policy is not to use interest rate and exchange
rate derivatives for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value on 
the balance sheet. Certain derivatives are
designated as hedges under IAS 39, in line
with the Group’s risk management policies.
Derivatives used for hedging are measured at
fair value, and gains and losses arising from
the re-measurement of these derivatives are
either recognised in the income statement 
or deferred in equity, depending on the 
type of hedge. Movements in fair value 
of derivatives not formally included in
hedging relationships are recognised 
in the income statement. 
The Group calculates the fair value of
medium- and long-term debt and derivatives
by using market valuations where available
or, where not available, by discounting all
future cash ﬂows using the market yield
curve at the balance sheet date.
Loans held by the Group are measured at
amortised cost except where they form the
underlying transaction in an effective fair
value hedge relationship, when the carrying
amount is adjusted to reﬂect the fair value
movements associated with the hedged risks.
result in a change to the decommissioning
provision of £43 million as at 31 December
2007. This change would be principally offset
by a change in the value of the associated
asset, resulting in no material change to the
consolidated net assets. The impact on 2008
proﬁt of such a change is estimated to be 
£11 million (pre-tax), comprising a £9 million
change in the depreciation charge and a 
£2 million change in the unwinding of the
provision charge. 
Impairments
The Group reviews its assets for impairment
if there is an indication that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill 
is subject to an impairment review at least
annually, or more frequently if events or
changes in circumstances indicate that
goodwill may be impaired. Impairment
reviews compare the carrying value of a 
cash generating unit (including associated
goodwill) with its recoverable amount. The
recoverable amount is the higher of the
estimated value in use and fair value less
costs to sell. Value in use is based on the net
present value of estimated future pre-tax
cash ﬂows. Impairment reviews may cover 
all operating segments. 
For the purposes of impairment testing,
assets may be aggregated into appropriate
cash generating units based on
considerations including geographical
location, the use of common facilities and
marketing arrangements. 
BG Group uses a range of long-term
assumptions to determine the net present
value of future cash ﬂows for use in
impairment reviews unless, by exception,
short-term market assumptions are more
appropriate to the asset under review.
Particular assumptions that impact the
calculations are commodity prices, exchange
rates and discount rates. Page 42 includes
further detail in relation to commodity prices
and exchange rates.
E&P activities form BG Group’s largest
business segment, the results of which are
sensitive to a number of factors, but
particularly to commodity prices. 
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:22  Page 36 37
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
All other net-settled commodity contracts 
are measured at fair value with gains and
losses taken to the income statement. 
Gas contracts and related derivatives
associated with the physical purchase, 
storage and resale of third-party gas are
presented on a net basis within other
operating income. 
Revenue recognition
BG Group recognises revenue when the
signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership of
any goods and services have been transferred. 
Revenue associated with exploration and
production sales (of crude oil and petroleum
products, including natural gas) is recorded
when title passes to the customer. Revenue
from the production of natural gas and oil in
which the Group has an interest with other
producers is recognised on the basis of the
Group’s working interest and the terms of 
the relevant production sharing contracts
(entitlement method). Differences between
production sold and the Group’s share of
production are not signiﬁcant. 
Sales of LNG and associated products are
recognised when title passes to the customer.
LNG shipping revenue is recognised over 
the period of the relevant contract.
Revenue from gas transmission and
distribution activities is recognised in the
same period in which the related volumes 
are delivered to the customer. 
For power stations which are contracted
based on availability, revenue is recognised
based on the availability status of the power
station to produce at a given point in time.
Where power output is sold under pool 
or other contractual arrangements and 
where revenue is linked to the costs of actual
production, revenue is recognised when the
output is delivered.
All other revenue is recognised when title
passes to the customer. 
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
BG Group provides goods and services to, 
and receives goods and services from, its 
joint ventures and associates. 
In the year ended 31 December 2007, the
Group incurred charges of £455 million (2006
£448 million) and, in turn, received income 
of £128 million (2006 £120 million) under
these arrangements. In addition, the Group
provides ﬁnancing to some of these parties
by way of loans. As at 31 December 2007,
loans of £658 million (2006 £591 million)
were due from joint ventures and associates.
These loans are accounted for as part of the
Group’s investment in joint ventures and
associates and are disclosed in note 14,
page 99. Interest of £29 million (2006 
£34 million) was charged on these loans
during the year at interest rates of between
0% and 9.95% (2006 0% and 9.95%). The
maximum debt outstanding during the year
was £658 million (2006 £601 million).
During 2007, Comgas received charges
relating to trading transactions of £1 million
(2006 £1 million) from another shareholder.
As at 31 December 2007, £nil was outstanding
with this party (2006 £nil). 
During the year, there were also a number of
transactions between the Company and its
subsidiary undertakings that are eliminated
on consolidation and therefore not disclosed.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p28-37_vAW.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:22  Page 37 38
The way we work
Corporate Responsibility
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Corporate Responsibility (CR) is the way we
work at BG Group. The Group’s success is
dependent on operating to high standards, 
as set out in our Business Principles. CR is 
an essential part of our business decision-
making process. 
This section summarises BG Group’s
performance in the four areas of 
CR: Conduct, Our People, Society and
Environment. More detail can be found 
in the 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report,
which is published separately.
For BG Group, CR means putting our 
Business Principles into practice. BG Group
has had a statement of principles in place
since 1998 and reviews this annually.
BG Group’s Business Principles consist of
15 statements of core values and behaviours.
The Business Principles, which are mandatory
for all employees, are supported by two
documents: Corporate Commitments, which
provides more detail on the Business
Principles to external stakeholders; and
Principles into Practice, which provides
practical guidance for employees on applying
the Business Principles in business life. 
These documents have been translated into
12 languages and can be found online at 
www.bg-group.com/business_principles
Assessment
In 2007, Goldman Sachs ranked BG Group 
as a “sustainable investing leader” in the 
oil and gas sector in the GS Sustain focus 
list, their analysis of the sustainability of
corporate performance. This research
combines environmental, social and
governance performance with ﬁnancial
returns to rank companies for Goldman
Sachs’ sustainable investment focus list.
The Group continues to be a member 
of the FTSE4Good index and Dow Jones
Sustainability Indexes. 
CONDUCT
BG Group expects its people to maintain 
the highest standards, both in how they 
work together and in how they deal with
partners, contractors, governments,
customers and the public.
Companies that prosper economically
over the long term are companies that
work responsibly .
Frank Chapman
Chief Executive
• External target set for BG Group
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
reductions
• GHG emissions from operations
under BG Group’s control rose by 
3.2 million tonnes, primarily due 
to acquisitions
• Lost Time Injury Frequency per million
man hours worked improved to 
0.26 – BG Group’s lowest-ever figure
• Goldman Sachs ranked BG Group 
as a “sustainable investing leader”
in GS Sustain
2007 in review
Conduct
Corporate
Responsibility
Society
Environment
Our people
BG061_p38-41_v26.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:44  Page 38 39
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Employee awareness
Business Principles training is integrated into
business training courses and provided in
separate speciﬁc training sessions. In 2007,
more than 1 300 people received training,
more than one third of whom were in
management roles. 
An online Business Principles training tool
was developed during the year, and is
accessible Group-wide. This provides Business
Principles training for BG Group employees
and contractors, and will be mandatory.
Governance and compliance
There is strong CR leadership and
engagement by the Group Executive
Committee. BG Group has had a Board-level
Corporate Responsibility Committee since
2005, membership of which includes both
the Chairman and the Chief Executive. Its 
full membership and responsibilities are 
set out in the Governance Framework on
pages 50 to 57.
The total number of whistleblowing and fraud
cases during 2007 was 40 (34 whistleblowing,
six fraud). We found evidence of fraud in 
two cases, and three cases are still under
investigation. T wo employees’ contracts have
been terminated and Company procedures
have been amended. The amounts involved 
in cases of fraud ranged from £25 to £17 000.
None of the reported fraud cases demonstrated
a material weakness over financial reporting
controls, and they did not involve employees
who have a significant financial reporting role.
During 2007, the Group’s Whistleblowing
Policy was reviewed and a revised policy 
will be launched in 2008. 
Investor dialogue
BG Group maintains a programme of
engagement with its major shareholders 
on CR issues, including face-to-face meetings
with analysts and written responses to surveys.
In addition, reports and presentations can be
accessed from the Group website.
In 2007, BG Group’s Regional Managing
Director for Europe and Central Asia led a
discussion with the Socially Responsible
Investor community.
OUR PEOPLE
At 31 December 2007, BG Group employed
5 098 people, 3 403 of whom were employed
outside the UK. The Group encourages its
people to share knowledge and develop
cross-cultural experiences: in 2007, 101 non-
UK/USA nationals were employed in roles
outside their home country. The Group’s aim
of localising roles wherever possible continues.
The Group recruited 694 people in 2007. 
BG Group is committed to equality and
diversity; by using the talent and skills
available in the communities and societies
within which it operates, the Group is able 
to build a strong foundation for the lasting
success of its business. 
In 2007, BG Group introduced a new reward
framework. The link between reward and
performance is now more transparent, and
bonus payments are directly linked to HSSE
and behavioural objectives.
During the year, the Group launched a
learning and development Core Curriculum.
118 courses were attended by a total of 984
employees in 12 countries. Whilst the core
content was developed centrally, countries
are encouraged to adapt material to meet
their local requirements.
Safety
BG Group’s commitment to safety, the Group’s
highest priority, continues to be reﬂected 
in performance. In 2007, Lost Time Injury
Frequency per million hours worked improved
to 0.26, BG Group’s lowest-ever ﬁgure, in line
with a continuous improvement since the STEP
UP safety initiative was introduced in 2005.
However, there were two fatalities in 2007,
and one fatality in early 2008, shortly after
the end of the reporting period.
In 2007, a driver working at our Karachaganak
joint venture in Kazakhstan was killed in a
road trafﬁc accident. The driver had received
defensive driving training and the road 
and weather conditions were good. The
investigation, supported by forensic crash
specialists, concluded the collision was caused
by loss of control of the vehicle. There was 
no evidence that the vehicle was faulty.
Employees by region 
(As at 1 January 2008)
 Africa, Middle East and Asia 42%
 Americas and Global LNG 41%
 Europe and Central Asia 17%
Does not include corporate / central staff
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
07 06 05
0.1
0.26
0.36
0.51
Lost time injury frequency 
(per million hours worked)
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p38-41_v26.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:44  Page 39 40 Corporate Responsibility continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Driver training and control of vehicle and
journey management procedures have 
been strengthened. 
Also in 2007, in South Korea, a welder working
on the construction of one of the Group’s new
LNG ships in a contractor shipyard died as a
result of asphyxiation. A full investigation of
immediate and system causes has been
carried out. This investigation is being
followed up by BG Group and senior
management in the shipyard.
In February 2008, a Gujarat Gas Company
Limited pipelaying contractor died following
an incident during street works. This 
incident has been investigated to identify 
any lessons learned.
The STEP UP safety initiative continued in
2007. Employees and long-term contractors
are trained in safety intervention, thereby
raising their safety awareness and giving
them the skills to intervene if they observe
unsafe behaviour. Combined with the Group’s
behaviour-based safety programme, this
training has led to increased reporting of
hazards and near-misses, which allows the
Group to take remedial action to reduce the
risk of incidents.
Health
In 2007, BG Group launched a Pressure and
Stress Management Standard. This includes
programmes on stress prevention and
management for employees and managers.
BG Group has a global employee assistance
programme that provides independent,
conﬁdential support and advice, anonymously
if required. In 2007, 4.5% of UK-based
employees used this service. In many of 
our overseas locations, employees also 
have the option of a locally-based service.
Security
The personal security of employees and
contractors is the Group’s most important
security objective. BG Group also seeks to
protect its physical assets, data and reputation.
Many of our employees travel abroad, or 
work in countries with unfamiliar customs
and differing levels of security threat. All
employees who travel internationally are
required to attend regular security brieﬁngs.
In countries considered to be high risk, travel
security plans are put in place.
SOCIETY
Social performance
During the year, BG Group developed a new
Social Performance Policy and Standard,
which are based on the International Finance
Corporation standards and which will be
rolled out in 2008.
BG Group’s social performance aim is to
support the Group's business objectives by
managing our operational risks and aligning
our businesses with host government
interests. Through this, we aim to make a
positive and enduring contribution to the
sustainable development of host
communities and countries. 
The Group’s social performance objectives are
met by establishing and maintaining effective
relationships with interested and affected
stakeholders; by avoiding or minimising the
negative impacts of our activities; and by
creating and delivering on opportunities to
enhance beneﬁts to the societies in which 
we operate.
Human rights
BG Group’s support for human rights is 
based on recognition of the principles in the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
core International Labour Organization
conventions on equality, freedom of association
and abolition of forced and child labour.
The Group’s ability to safeguard human
rights is related to the degree of control it is
able to exert. Within its operations, BG Group
protects the human rights of employees
through policies that cover equal opportunity
and non-discrimination, security and labour
standards. BG Group requires all key
contracts to include the expectation that
contractors will apply BG Group or equivalent
Business Principles, including the
commitment to human rights.
During 2007, BG Group’s Governance and 
Risk Committee approved a new human
rights management system for all assets. In
addition, the Group produced and rolled out
an implementation guide for the Voluntary
Principles on Security and Human Rights. 
Sustainable development 
BG Group seeks to ensure its operations
deliver positive and enduring beneﬁts to host
countries and communities, whilst working
2
4
6
8
10
07 06 05
(a) Based on data not available at the time 
 of production of the BG Group 2006
 Annual Report and Accounts, which  
 quoted 6.0 million tonnes per annum.
9.4
6.2
(a)
6.5
Greenhouse gas emissions from 
BG Group-operated facilities 
(million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent)
1
2
3
4
5
07 06 05
4.2
(a)
3.6
3.9
Voluntary contributions to social 
and educational projects (£m)
(a) Includes a one-off and now complete 
      project in Brazil for £0.4 million.
BG061_p38-41_v26.qxp:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:44  Page 40 41
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
responsibly in line with our Business
Principles. The Group’s commitment to
sustainable development is delivered through:
• an environmental policy that is based 
on going beyond compliance with local
regulations to meet internationally 
accepted best practice;
• the creation of a new Social Performance
Standard (see page 40); and 
• the aim of working with host governments
to maximise the economic beneﬁts of Group
investments to host country economies. 
The Group has commissioned two
independent institutes, in Egypt and India, to
conduct detailed studies to identify the direct,
indirect and induced economic effects of the
Group’s operations on employment and
income and their linkages with the rest of the
economy. These are being supplemented by
social studies to explore how the Group’s
activities can be integrated into sustainable
development strategies in those countries. 
BG Group continues to support the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which
is working towards greater transparency for
revenue management within the extractive
industry. The Group continues to comply with
national regulations and policies related to
revenue disclosure. 
Employee involvement and social investment
BG Group supports the involvement of
employees in charity and community
organisations. The Group donates employee
time to organised volunteering schemes and
operates a Group-wide matched funding
scheme for employees who raise money 
for charity.
The BG Energy Challenge series of fundraising
events has now grown to include seven
countries. These team-building activities,
involving intellectual and physical challenges,
have now raised more than £3.7 million for
charities worldwide since 1996.
In 2007, BG Group spent a total of £3.9 million
on voluntary social investment (2006
£4.2 million). The Group has had a broadly
consistent discretionary social investment
spend over the last three years, although
2006 saw additional expenditure on a major
one-off project (see graph on page 40).
ENVIRONMENT
Climate change is a critical issue for energy
companies. During 2007 , the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) completed 
its Fourth Assessment Report, which sets out
the scientiﬁc consensus that there is now a
“very high conﬁdence” that climate change is
occurring and is being driven by man-made
emissions of GHGs. 
The challenge for society is to meet growing
energy needs, whilst managing the growth
of, and ultimately reducing, emissions of
GHGs. The scale of energy demand is such
that fossil fuels will continue to be a major
energy source in the near future. Natural gas
is the lowest carbon fossil fuel, and as a result
is well-placed to help satisfy energy demand
whilst also contributing to strategies to limit
carbon emissions.
During 2007 , the corporate HSSE management
system was strengthened further. BG Group
continues to drive environmental performance
at a country level via environment management
systems of an international standard. Of BG
Group major operated assets, 77% have been
certiﬁed to the international environmental
management standard ISO 14001. The Group’s
Armada asset is currently developing a new
system that will bring all BG Group UKCS
upstream assets on to one certiﬁcation.
During 2007, BG Group increased generation
capacity through the acquisition of operating
CCGT power stations in the US and by
increasing the company interest in BG Italia
co-generation facilities (see page 26). The US
power stations, taken as a whole, operate 
at higher efﬁciencies than US average gas
generation; co-generation is also one of the
most efﬁcient methods of energy generation.
These facilities were operational and emitting
GHGs before their acquisition by BG Group. On
acquisition, emissions were transferred into
BG Group totals. The impact is signiﬁcant. 
In 2007, operations under BG Group control
emitted 9.4 million tonnes carbon dioxide
equivalent (CO
2
e), an increase of 3.2 million
tonnes (52%) over 2006. BG Group also
measures emissions on an equity-stake basis.
It reports those emissions as a proportion of
the total associated with each operation that
reﬂects the extent of the Group's equity share
in that operation, regardless of control. Equity
share emissions from BG Group operated and
non-operated activities rose by 3.5 million
tonnes (30%) to 15.2 million tonnes CO
2
e.
Adjusted
(a)
emissions data shows an increase
in emissions from operated sites of 0.5 million
tonnes CO
2
e (8%) from 2006 to 2007. Equity
share emissions on the same basis rose by
1.2 million tonnes CO
2
e (10%). The principal
reasons for these like-for-like operational
increases were increased world-wide drilling
activity, an increase in the size of our LNG ﬂeet
(see page 23), and full year emissions from
Dighton power station, acquired in
October 2006.
(a) Emissions data is adjusted to allow a like-for-like
comparison between successive years, removing 
the effect of major acquisitions or divestments. 
For these purposes, major acquisitions or divestments 
are those which added or removed more than 5% 
of the Group’s total GHG emissions in 2006 or 2007.
Greenhouse gas emissions targets
BG Group has committed to investing 
in operational and new project
improvements to deliver one million
tonnes of sustainable GHG reductions 
by 2012 – approximately 8% of forecasted
2012 Group GHG emissions. This target
represents the intended outcome of
measures taken between 2006 and 2012
to reduce the rate of emissions growth
measured against a ‘no-action’ base case. 
The Group Enhanced GHG Management
Programme, set up in 2006, continued to
drive GHG reductions from positive
actions, achieving the internal target 
of 120 000 tonnes reduction in 2007. 
In addition to these operational measures,
close attention is being paid to the design
of new facilities to ensure that GHG
emissions reduction opportunities 
are incorporated at the design stage. 
More information on the Group target is
available in the BG Group 2007 Corporate
Responsibility Report.
Tunisia
The amine regeneration system
introduced in 2007 at the
Hannibal gas plant in Tunisia 
has reduced annual greenhouse
gas emissions by more than
30 000 tonnes.
For more information visit
www.bg-group.com/investors
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p38-41_v26.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:48  Page 41 42
Risk factors
Risk factors
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
BG Group’s business, results, ﬁnancial
condition and reputation could be affected
by various risks. Not all these risks are within
the Group’s control and the Group may be
adversely affected by other risks besides
those listed below. Actions being taken by
management to mitigate some of these risks
are identiﬁed where appropriate. Investors
should carefully consider these risks in
conjunction with the Legal Notice set out 
on page 141.
FLUCTUATING MARKET CONDITIONS
Commodity prices
BG Group’s results are sensitive to crude oil
and natural gas prices which are dependent
on a number of factors impacting upon world
supply and demand. The Group’s exposure to
short-term changes in commodity prices is
mitigated by the predominance of gas in its
portfolio and the use of long-term gas
contracts, which are not directly or
immediately linked to short-term changes 
in commodity prices. 
The Group’s exposure to commodity prices
also varies according to a number of factors,
including the mix of production and sales.
The Group estimates that, other factors 
being constant, a US$1.00 rise (or fall) in the
Brent oil price would increase (or decrease)
operating proﬁt in 2008 by around 
£40 million to £50 million. 
Over the medium term, commodity price
increases can cause supply or capacity
constraints in areas such as specialist staff,
construction or operations. This can in turn
create cost pressure on BG Group’s operating
and capital costs, which affect ongoing
ﬁnancial performance. 
The Group does not, as a matter of course,
hedge all commodity prices, but may hedge
certain LNG contracts and gas and oil revenue
streams from time to time. In marketing its
gas supply portfolio, the Group undertakes
commodity hedging and trading activities
including the use of natural gas futures
contracts, ﬁnancial and physical forward-
based contracts and swap contracts. The
potential exposure to ﬂuctuations in natural
gas sales prices is also mitigated within
certain LNG purchase contracts where the
gas suppliers share price risk with BG Group. 
Fluctuations in exchange rates
The Group’s cash ﬂow, income statement and
balance sheet are reported in pounds Sterling
and may be affected by ﬂuctuations in
exchange rates. A substantial proportion of
the Group’s business activity is conducted in
US Dollars and the Group holds substantial
US Dollar-denominated assets. The Group
mitigates its exposure to its holding of US
Dollar-denominated assets by borrowing in,
or swapping, the majority of its borrowing
into US Dollars. In general, the Group does
not hedge US Dollar-denominated
transactions, although it may do so for
speciﬁc transactions, as authorised by the
Finance Committee. BG Group estimates
that, in 2008, other factors being constant, 
a 10 cent strengthening (or weakening) in 
the US Dollar against pound Sterling, would
increase (or decrease) operating proﬁt by
approximately £140 million to £160 million.
The Group’s net balance sheet exposure to
currencies other than the US Dollar or pound
Sterling, primarily to the Brazilian Real, is
managed on a case-by-case basis. The Group
mitigates its exposure to transactions in
currencies other than pound Sterling or US
Dollars by hedging certain expected cash
ﬂows into pound Sterling or US Dollars.
Subsidiary undertakings that borrow without
recourse to the Group are generally required
to borrow in, or swap borrowing into, their
respective functional currency.
Competition
Across the world there is strong competition
in the energy sector. As a global business, BG
Group faces increasing competition both
from the National Oil Companies (NOCs),
which control a substantial percentage of 
the world’s reserves, and the International 
Oil Companies (IOCs). This competition could
make securing access to acreage, reserves
and resources more challenging. 
The Group also competes with other forms 
of energy available to consumers. Policies 
and regulations at the international level 
to tackle climate change will increasingly
affect the business environment, presenting
new challenges. Changes in the usage 
of alternative sources of energy such as
renewables, liquid bio-fuels, hydroelectric
power and nuclear power may have an
impact on the Group’s ability to maintain
market position. Failure to adequately
analyse, understand or respond to the
competitive environment could have an
impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial position. 
RESERVES GROWTH AND PROJECT DELIVERY
Strategic balance of the BG Group portfolio 
BG Group has a global portfolio of assets and
opportunities across its business segments.
Failure to manage this portfolio effectively
could have a material impact on the Group’s
business. The Group conducts regular reviews
of its portfolio balance, as appropriate, looking
at numerous factors including segmental
weighting, geographical weighting, political
risk, and gas/oil mix. Nevertheless, the Group
may still be exposed to risk factors such as:
shifts in the demand for different hydrocarbon
products as sources of energy; adverse
changes in the business environment;
increased taxes; and governmental
regulation. Inability to leverage its market
position and skills to access upstream
reserves can also have a material impact 
on the Group’s strategy in the long-term. 
LNG is an increasingly important element of
the Group’s business, and growth in this area
is dependent upon the level of success the
Group achieves in connecting competitively
priced gas to high value markets. This could
be affected by factors such as: barriers to 
the purchase or development of LNG export
projects; environmental, permitting or other
planning restrictions; and the global demand
for LNG. 
Finding new reserves
BG Group’s future gas and oil production is
dependent upon ﬁnding, acquiring and
developing new reserves. In general, the rate
of production from natural gas and oil
reservoirs declines as reserves are depleted.
The Group needs to replace these depleted
reserves with new proved reserves cost-
effectively and on a consistent basis. This
could be affected by a number of factors
including: barriers to gaining new exploration
acreage; inaccurate interpretation of
geological and engineering data; unexpected
drilling conditions or equipment failure;
inadequate resources including drilling rigs,
BG061_p42-45_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:58  Page 42 Reporting and
Performance
Risk 
Identiﬁcation
Risk Assessment:
Prioritise risks,
Ownership
Existing 
Controls 
New Mitigation
and Action Plans
Execute 
Action Plans
Monitoring and 
Assurance
2
3
6
7
Scope, Business
Objectives and
Strategies
1
4 5
43
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
skilled personnel, contractors, materials and
supplies; and disruptions to the successful
implementation of the drilling programme. 
Developing Reserves
Following the creation of exploration or new
venture opportunities, certain activities are
performed before an investment decision 
or “sanction” is made by management. 
These activities include commercialisation,
feasibility studies, concept selection and
deﬁnition. There are a number of risks during
the pre-sanction phases, including sub-
surface, engineering, commercial and
regulatory risks. The principal risk prior to
sanction is failure to assess accurately the
project schedule and cost. Failure to select
the most suitable development concept
based on full ‘life cycle’ understanding of the
project can expose projects to additional risk
and cost. 
If the Group is not successful in securing
appropriate long-term commercial
agreements, in particular related to gas 
and LNG sales and transportation, it may be
unable to commercialise its reserves, thus
adversely impacting the Group’s cash ﬂow
and income. If the Group fails to adopt an
appropriate procurement and project
management strategy, it may experience
delays to project schedule and cost. Gas-
related projects often require a chain of
commercial agreements, frequently amongst
different parties. Failure to complete this
chain or to apportion risks appropriately 
prior to project sanction can leave projects
exposed to commercial risks that could affect
the project economics. 
Principal regulatory risks during the pre-
sanction phase are failure to negotiate
appropriate agreements, where required,
with host governments, lack of appreciation
of the regulatory framework in the host
country and failure to gain applicable
permits, licences or approvals from the
relevant local authorities to carry out or
operate certain works. 
There are numerous uncertainties inherent 
in estimating oil and gas reserves. Reserves
are estimated using available geological,
technical and economic information. The
process involves informed judgements and
Business Risk Management Process
The Business Risk
Management Process 
is a continuous and
systematic process 
of identiﬁcation,
prioritisation,
mitigation, monitoring
and reporting of risks
that may impact the
business plan objectives
of the Group.
reviews these arrangements to ensure a high
level of conﬁdence in its ability to perform
and to mitigate against any such liabilities
should they arise. 
Project Delivery
BG Group’s future gas and oil production 
is to a signiﬁcant extent dependent upon 
the successful completion of development
projects within budget, cost and
speciﬁcations. The delivery of these projects 
is subject to HSSE, technical, commercial,
legal, contractor and economic risks.
Development projects may be delayed or
unsuccessful for many reasons, including:
cost and time overruns of projects under
construction; failure to comply with legal 
and regulatory requirements; equipment
shortages; availability, competence and
capability of human resources and
contractors; unscheduled outages;
mechanical and technical difﬁculties; and 
gas pipeline system constraints. Projects may
also require the use of new and advanced
technologies, which can be expensive to
develop, purchase and implement and may
not function as expected. 
Efﬁcient Operations
The integrity of the Group’s assets can be
affected by a number of factors, including
unplanned shutdowns and equipment failure.
Failure to have common, robust systems 
and processes in place across the Group may
adversely impact plant availability, production
volumes and ultimately cash ﬂow. Failure to
have good asset integrity and process safety
practices could result in a safety or
environmental incident. 
Business activities conducted by the Group
are often conducted with joint venture
partners and some assets are under the 
day-to-day management of these partners
and may therefore be subject to risks that are
outside the control of the Group. The location
therefore estimates of reserves are not 
exact measurements and can be subject 
to revision. Published reserves estimates 
may also be subject to correction in the
application of published rules and guidance. 
Commercial
E&P operations are typically conducted under
licences granted to BG Group and its partners
(collectively the Contractors) by the state or
national government or by entry into a
Production Sharing Contract (PSC) between
the Contractors and the state or national
government (generally represented by a
state-owned company). The terms and
conditions of the licences and PSCs vary 
from country to country. 
Licences generally give the Contractors the
right to explore for, and exploit a discovery of,
hydrocarbon resources whilst bearing the risk
of, and providing funding for, the exploration,
development and production activities.
Licences granted by a state generally require
Contractors to be jointly and severally liable,
which means that the Group may be at risk
for liabilities to host states if its partners fail
to perform their contractual obligations or
deliver their share of the E&P operations. 
A PSC is an enforceable contract setting out
the rules governing the co-operation between
the Contractors and the host state. The
Contractors usually bear the risk of funding
the exploration, development and production
operations, although the state company 
may participate in the funding of the
development. Under the terms set out in the
PSC, the Contractors recover their approved
costs from the future production revenues
and, in exchange for the risk of the
investment, enjoy a share of the excess
production revenues.
Financial and reputational exposure exists 
for failure to perform under its commercial
agreements and the Group continually
BG061_p42-45_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  18/3/08  08:35  Page 43 44 Risk factors continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
suitable regulations but with no guarantee
that account will be taken of its
representations. Regulatory frameworks 
will continue to evolve as markets mature 
and this will also affect the Group.
Stakeholder Engagement 
A number of stakeholders (including
employees, investors, media, governments,
civil society groups, non-governmental
organisations and those living in local
communities affected by BG Group’s
operations) have legitimate interests in the
Group’s business. The Group’s reputation
and/or share price could suffer due to
inappropriate or inadequate engagement
with stakeholders, including, for example:
failure to develop proactive stakeholder
engagement strategies, delivery of
inconsistent messaging to key stakeholders
on business objectives and strategy; failure 
to provide adequate explanations if
performance targets are not met or if
performance is perceived as poor against
competitors; and inadequate responses to
any crisis (including ﬁnancial market
challenges, such as a hostile bid) or a major
HSSE incident.
Corporate Responsibility
BG Group deﬁnes corporate responsibility 
as the Business Principles in practice (see
Corporate Responsibility page 38 for further
information). BG Group’s failure to implement
its Business Principles and/or any ongoing or
damaging investigations of BG Group could
impact the Group’s reputation and/or share
price. Each of the following risks could affect
the Group’s ability to deliver projects on time
and within budget and damage BG Group’s
reputation: failure to consider and manage
environmental impacts, social consequences
and human rights in investment decisions,
project planning and operational
management; failure to identify stakeholder
expectations; and weak governance and
internal controls, including the ineffective
implementation of anti-corruption policies. 
Brindisi LNG terminal criminal and other
proceedings 
The Court of Brindisi is pursuing a criminal
investigation in connection with alleged
improper conduct associated with the
authorisation process for the planned Brindisi
of some of the Group’s operations may
expose them to natural hazards such as
hurricanes, ﬂooding and earthquakes, each 
of which could materially impact the Group’s
ability to deliver its products or services. 
Individual segments of the Group’s activities
are subject to speciﬁc operational and
production risks. In the E&P segment, failure
to adopt the correct reservoir and well
management strategy could adversely affect
the ultimate reserves recovery from the ﬁeld
and, consequently, reduce long-term Group
proﬁtability and cash ﬂow. Failure to manage
effectively the global LNG chain, including
shipping capacity and movements, port
schedules, lifting and delivery timetables and
the related impact of weather conditions,
may lead to market opportunities being
missed, penalty payments or other factors
adversely affecting the Group’s ﬁnancial
performance. The successful management of
daily supply and demand across the Group’s
T&D assets is critical to ensure consumers’
supplies are secure. 
Health, Safety, Security & Environment 
A major HSSE incident could result in injury
or loss of life, damage to the environment or
destruction of facilities, each of which could
have a material impact on BG Group.
BG Group recognises that the protection 
of the health and safety of its employees, 
and others affected by its operations, is an
essential element in delivering business
performance, as are the security of physical
and intellectual assets and the protection 
of the natural environment.
Policies and measures at the international 
and national level to tackle climate change 
will increasingly affect business conditions,
presenting environmental and regulatory risks.
Similarly, measures to tackle loss of biodiversity
may limit access to oil and gas resources in
areas deemed to be biologically sensitive. 
The increased threats from international
terrorism and violent crime could also interrupt
the Group’s operations to a material extent. 
POLITICAL, REGULATORY AND STAKEHOLDER
Political context
The success of the Group depends in part on
understanding and managing the political
and other contextual issues in the many
diverse countries in which it does business.
Speciﬁc areas of country risk that could have
an effect on BG Group’s business and
reputation include: international disputes
and conﬂict; the imposition of international
sanctions; civil disorder; government
instability; changes in government policy,
laws, regulations, standards or ﬁscal terms;
re-interpretation of existing tax laws;
government intervention in licence awards;
expropriation of assets; cancellation,
variation or breach of contractual rights; and
political obstacles to project approvals and
delivery. Effective stakeholder engagement
(see below) is a key component of political
and contextual risk management.
Regulation
BG Group’s business activities are conducted
in many different countries and are therefore
subject to a broad range of legislation and
regulation. BG Group faces value erosion if
the conditions attached to licences, which
govern operations, are not properly managed
or delivered. In addition, future growth of
assets may be affected if required regulatory
authorisations are not obtained. 
The Group’s T&D companies mainly operate
under a form of licence or concession
agreement awarded by the state or national
government. Normally, the tariff that gas
customers are charged is determined by the
regulator and reviewed periodically in line
with licence terms and conditions. The Group
may be at risk of unfavourable tariff reviews
which may have an impact on T&D income
and growth.
The Group’s LNG and gas marketing activities
also operate within market rules set down 
by the respective regulator. Typically, these
regulations evolve over time. The Group faces
value erosion if it does not respond to changes
in these market rules and ensure compliance.
Many of the countries in which the Group
conducts, and expects to conduct business
are developing new regulatory frameworks.
These regulatory frameworks, and their
interpretation and application by
administrative agencies, may be speciﬁc 
to a given market and untested. BG Group
may be offered the opportunity to help shape
BG061_p42-45_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  10:58  Page 44 45
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
LNG regasiﬁcation terminal. Further details 
of the criminal proceedings are provided in
note 27, on page 113. As part of the criminal
investigation, the Brindisi LNG terminal 
site was seized by the Italian authorities 
in February 2007. It is not possible at this 
time to predict with any certainty when the
seizure order will be lifted or the outcome 
of the criminal proceedings. It is also not
possible to predict whether there might 
be additional investigations by the Italian
authorities resulting from the circumstances
surrounding the current investigations. 
If the allegations of improper conduct 
are proven to be well-founded, BG Group
entities could face a wide range of sanctions
that could be imposed by the competent
authorities, including criminal and civil ﬁnes,
penalties, the revocation of authorisations
and injunctive sanctions. Moreover,
detecting, investigating and resolving such
matters could be expensive and consume
signiﬁcant time, attention and resources 
of BG Group management. 
There are various other legal proceedings
ongoing relating to the Brindisi LNG
regasiﬁcation terminal, for example relating
to the suspension of the original ‘ Article 8’
approval (see operating review, page 23),
consents necessary for the construction work
and environmental procedures. The impact of
these proceedings cannot yet be quantiﬁed
but could delay or deny BG Group access to
the Brindisi LNG terminal site. 
HUMAN RESOURCE AND ORGANISATION 
BG Group’s performance and its ability to
mitigate signiﬁcant risks within its control
depend on the skills and efforts of its
employees and management teams. Future
success will depend to a large extent on the
Group’s continued ability to attract, retain,
motivate and organise its highly skilled and
qualiﬁed personnel. This in turn will be
impacted by competition for human
resources. If the Group loses the services of
key people or is unable to attract and retain
employees with the right capabilities and
experience, it could have an effect on the
Group’s business and operations. 
Effective organisation of the Group’s human
resources relies upon the development and
delivery of an organisational design aligned
to the Group’s business objectives. Failure to
effectively implement organisational design,
or to adapt the organisation as the Group
grows, could have a material adverse effect
on the delivery of business objectives. The
Group regularly reviews its organisational
design to align it to the Group’s business
objectives and a new three region structure
and new Senior Vice President roles reporting
to the Group Executive Committee have been
implemented with effect from 1 January 2008.
TREASURY, CREDIT AND INSURANCE 
Interest rate and liquidity risk
The Group’s ﬁnancing costs may be
signiﬁcantly affected by interest rate
volatility. The Group is also exposed to
liquidity risks, including risks associated with
reﬁnancing borrowings as they mature, the
risk that borrowing facilities are not available
to meet cash requirements, and the risk that
ﬁnancial assets cannot readily be converted
to cash without loss of value. Failure to
manage ﬁnancing risks could have a material
impact on the Group’s cash ﬂow, balance
sheet and ﬁnancial position. 
The Group’s interest rate management policy
requires that the interest rate obligations 
of BGEH Borrowers be substantially ﬂoating,
and sets limits on the maximum amount 
of ﬁxed rate exposure from time to time. 
The Group manages liquidity risk by
maintaining adequate committed borrowing
facilities and holding its ﬁnancial assets
primarily in short-term, highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to
known amounts of cash. Reﬁnancing risk is
managed by limiting the amount of borrowing
that matures within any speciﬁc period. 
Credit
BG Group is exposed to credit risks, being the
loss that would be recognised if counterparties
failed to, or were unable to, meet their
payment obligations. These risks may arise 
in certain agreements in relation to amounts
owed for physical product sales, the use of
derivative instruments and the investment 
of surplus cash balances. The Group is also
exposed to political and economic risk events,
which may cause non-payment of foreign
currency obligations to BG Group.
The Group considers each counterparty’s
ﬁnancial condition prior to entering into
commercial contracts, trading sales
agreements, swaps, futures and options
contracts. Credit exposures are monitored for
individual transaction and concentration risk.
Where multiple transactions are undertaken
with a single counterparty, or group of related
counterparties, the Group may enter into a
netting arrangement to reduce the Group’s
exposure to credit risk. Currently, the Group
makes wide use of standard International
Swaps and Derivative Association (ISDA)
documentation for ﬁnancial transactions. This
provides netting of transactions covered by
the speciﬁc ISDA documentation. For physical
commodity trading, BG Group seeks to put in
place bespoke master netting agreements or
European Federation of Energy Traders (EFET),
North American Energy Standards Board
(NAESB) and National Balancing Point (NBP)
agreements, as appropriate. 
Insurance
A comprehensive insurance programme is
maintained to mitigate signiﬁcant losses,
which, as is consistent with good industry
practice, includes cover for physical damage,
removal of debris, control of wells, re-drill,
pollution and employer’s and third-party
liabilities. Nevertheless, some of the major risks
involved in BG Group’s activities cannot, or may
not, reasonably and economically be insured. 
The programme is subject to certain limits,
deductibles, and terms and conditions. In
addition, insurance premium costs are subject
to changes based on the overall loss experience
of the insurance markets accessed. 
BG061_p42-45_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  19:25  Page 45 46 Board of Directors
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
1. Sir Robert Wilson KCMG (64)
Chairman
Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Chairman
with effect from 1 January 2004, having been
a non-executive Director since September
2002. He was chairman of Rio Tinto plc from
1997 to 2003 and prior to that was chief
executive between 1991 and 1997. He is also
chairman of The Economist Group and a 
non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline
plc. He has previously been a non-executive
director of Diageo plc, BP plc and The Boots
Company PLC (now Alliance Boots plc). 
(b), (d), (e), (f), (g)
2. Frank Chapman (54)
Chief Executive
Frank Chapman was appointed Chief
Executive in October 2000, having been
appointed to the Board of BG plc in February
1997. He joined British Gas plc in November
1996 as Managing Director, Exploration and
Production. He is an engineer and has worked
in the oil and gas industry for 33 years. Prior
to joining the Company, he spent a total of 
22 years with Shell and BP . (a), (b), (d), (g)
3. Ashley Almanza (44)
Chief Financial Officer
Ashley Almanza was appointed Chief Financial
Officer in August 2002. He is responsible for
Group finance, tax, treasury, investor relations,
mergers and acquisitions, internal audit and
secretariat. He joined British Gas plc in 1993
and has held a number of key management
roles, including Group Finance Director and
Group Financial Controller. A chartered
accountant, he has worked previously in
South Africa and the UK. He is currently
chairman of The 100 Group, which represents
finance directors of the UK's largest
companies. (a), (b), (d)
4. Peter Backhouse (56)
Non-Executive Director
Peter Backhouse was appointed to the Board
as a non-executive Director with effect from
19 July 2000. He was formerly executive vice
president, refining and marketing at BP
Amoco plc. Previous roles at BP included
deputy chief executive of BP Oil and chief
executive of BP Oil Europe. He gained
considerable gas experience in international
LNG and in UK natural gas as head of BP’s 
UK gas marketing business. He is a member 
of the Advisory Board of Carlyle/Riverstone
Energy Partners, a US private equity fund. 
(c), (g)
5. Sir John Coles GCMG (70)
Non-Executive Director
Sir John Coles was appointed to the Board 
as a non-executive Director on 1 March 1998.
Prior to that he had a 37 year career with the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
and retired as Permanent Under-Secretary of
State in the FCO and Head of the Diplomatic
Service in November 1997. (g)
6. Paul Collins (71)
Non-Executive Director
Paul Collins was appointed to the Board as 
a non-executive Director with effect from
23 October 2000 after a long career with
Citigroup Inc. The Board nominated him 
as the Senior Independent Director from 
4 May 2005. He joined Citicorp in 1961 and
subsequently served as the chief investment
officer, headed the financial markets 
division, corporate planning, finance and
administration, and Europe, Africa and the
Middle East. He was appointed a director of
Citicorp and its principal subsidiary, Citibank,
in 1985 and vice-chairman in 1988. He is a
non-executive director of Actis Capital LLP
and Enstar Group Limited. (c), (e), (f)
12 3
45 6
Membership of committees
(a) Group Executive
(b) Chairman’s
(c) Audit
(d) Finance
(e) Nominations
(f) Remuneration
(g) Corporate Responsibility
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p46-49_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:02  Page 46 47
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
7. Jürgen Dormann (68)
Non-Executive Director
Jürgen Dormann was appointed to the Board
as a non-executive Director with effect from
1 June 2005. He is chairman of the board at
Adecco S.A. (Switzerland), vice chairman of
the board at Sanofi-Aventis S.A. (France) and
is a member of the board at IBM Corporation.
He was chairman of Swiss-based ABB Ltd
from November 2001 to May 2007, having
been a non-executive director since May
1998. Prior to his roles at ABB, he had a
successful career at Hoechst and Aventis
spanning almost 40 years. (f), (g)
8. Baroness Hogg (61)
Non-Executive Director
Baroness Hogg was appointed to the 
Board as a non-executive Director with 
effect from 27 January 2005. She is a former
head of the Prime Minister’s Policy Unit 
and has extensive experience of business,
government and the media. She is chairman
of 3i Group plc and Frontier Economics Ltd, 
a non-executive director of Carnival plc and
Carnival Corporation and is deputy chair of
the Financial Reporting Council. (c), (e), (f)
9. Dr John Hood (56)
Non-Executive Director
Dr Hood was appointed to the Board as a 
non-executive Director with effect from 
26 April 2007. He has been Vice-Chancellor of
the University of Oxford since October 2004.
He was formerly Vice-Chancellor of the
University of Auckland and a member of the
Growth and Innovation Advisory Board and 
the Enterprise Council of the Prime Minister 
of New Zealand. He has also been a director of
a number of New Zealand-based companies,
including the Fonterra Co-operative Group
Limited and ASB Bank Limited, a subsidiary of
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and was
chairman of T onkin & T aylor Limited. (c), (g)
10. Lord Sharman (65)
Non-Executive Director
Lord Sharman was appointed to the Board 
as a non-executive Director with effect 
from 23 October 2000. He is non-executive
chairman of Aegis Group plc and Aviva plc,
and a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier
plc. A chartered accountant, he was chairman
of KPMG International from 1997 to 1999,
having been senior partner since 1994. (c)
11. Philippe Varin (55)
Non-Executive Director
Philippe Varin was appointed to the Board 
as a non-executive Director with effect from
2 May 2006. He became chief executive of
Corus Group plc in May 2003. Prior to joining
Corus, he spent 25 years with the Pechiney
Group, which he joined in 1978 as a
researcher. He subsequently served as 
vice-president, Engineering and Research and
as project director for the construction of the
Dunkirk (France) aluminium smelter. He later
worked as group financial controller, based
first in Paris then in Chicago at American
National Can’s headquarters. In March 1999,
he was appointed senior executive vice
president of the Aluminium Sector and a
member of Pechiney’s executive committee.
He is also a non-executive director of Tata
Steel. (c), (f)
78 9
10 11
William Friedrich (59)
During 2007, William Friedrich was Deputy
Chief Executive. He stepped down from
the Board and Group Executive Committee
on 13 December 2007 and will retire from
the Company in July 2008.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p46-49_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:02  Page 47 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
The members of the Group Executive
Committee are the Executive Directors and
those senior managers whose details are set
out below. The Secretary to the Committee 
is Keith Hubber. The Committee has primary
authority for the day-to-day management 
of the Group’s operations within agreed
limits set by the Board.
1. Frank Chapman (54)*
Chief Executive
(h), (i), (j), (l), (m)
2. Ashley Almanza (44)*
Chief Financial Officer
(j), (k), (o)
3. Mark Carne (49)
Executive Vice President & Managing
Director, Europe and Central Asia
Mark Carne joined BG Group plc in May 2005.
He is responsible for the Group’s activities 
in the UK, Italy, Norway and Kazakhstan and
business development activities elsewhere 
in the region. He formerly worked for Shell
where he gained extensive international
industry experience, including general
management roles in the UK, Europe, Brunei
and Oman, covering operations, engineering,
commercial and business development. (k), (l)
4. Stuart Fysh (51)
Executive Vice President & Managing
Director, Africa, Middle East and Asia
Stuart Fysh joined BG plc in 1998 and was
appointed Executive Vice President in
November 2003. He is currently responsible 
for the Group’s activities across Africa, the
Middle East and Asia. He previously spent 
17 years with the mining, steel and petroleum
conglomerate BHP , where his various roles
included commercial, business development,
corporate planning and research and
development. He has lived and worked in
Australia, Pakistan, India, Singapore and Egypt.
(k), (l)
5. Martin Houston (50)
Executive Vice President & Managing
Director, Americas and Global LNG
Martin Houston joined British Gas in 1983 
and was appointed Executive Vice President 
in 2000. Based in Houston, he is responsible 
for the Group’s activities in the Americas and
Australia, and for the Group’s Global LNG
activities. His extensive international
experience has been gained through various
commercial and general management roles.
He played a leading role in the development 
of the Group’s LNG business. He is a non-
executive director of Severn T rent Plc and 
a fellow of the Geological Society of London. 
(k), (l)
6. Charles Bland (58)
Executive Vice President
Policy & Corporate Affairs
Charles Bland joined BG plc in 1999 and 
was appointed to his current position in 2002. 
He is responsible for government and public
affairs, brand and communications, Corporate
Responsibility policy and social performance.
His previous roles at BG Group have included
President, BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President,
Government Affairs. Before joining the
Company, he worked in UK Government,
holding various posts in the Ministry of
Defence. (j), (n)
12 3
45 6
48
Membership of committees
(h) Portfolio Development
(i) Exploration and Appraisal
(j) Investment
(k) Group Performance
(l) HSSE
(m) People and Organisation
(n) Governance and Risk
(o) Energy Trading and Credit Risk
(p) Reserves
* see page 46 for biographical details
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p46-49_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:03  Page 48 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
7. Jørn Berget (55)
Executive Vice President & Managing Director
BG Advance
Jørn Berget joined BG Group plc in November
2004. He is responsible for Group strategy,
exploration, developments, projects,
operations, HSSE and information
management. BG Advance is also providing
the Group’s corporate technical and
commercial assurance and services, including
resourcing and development of staff
capabilities. He joined the Company from
Shell and has over 30 years’ international
experience in the oil and gas industry,
covering all aspects of the exploration and
production business with assignments in the
UK, Europe, the Gulf, Far East, South America
and the USA. (i), (j), (k), (l), (p)
8. Peter Duffy (46)
Executive Vice President
Human Resources
Peter Duffy joined BG Group plc in 2001,
when he was appointed to his current
position with responsibility for all matters
relating to human resources strategy and
policy. He has extensive international human
resource management experience, particularly
in the area of organisation development,
resourcing and performance enhancement.
He previously worked for TRW Inc, LucasVarity
plc and British Aerospace plc (now BAE
Systems plc). (l), (m)
9. Graham Vinter (52)
General Counsel
Graham Vinter joined BG Group plc as
General Counsel in November 2007. He has
responsibility for the legal affairs of the
Group. Prior to becoming General Counsel, 
he spent 27 years with the international law
firm, Allen & Overy LLP . He was a partner
there for just under 20 years and was global
head of projects from 1996-2007. His
experience includes advising on energy
transactions in Europe, the Middle East, 
Asia and elsewhere. (j), (n)
10. Keith Hubber (43)
Company Secretary
Keith Hubber joined BG Group plc in 2001 
and is responsible for all matters relating to
the Board, its committees and governance.
Prior to becoming Company Secretary on
5 November 2007, he held a number of 
roles within the Group’s Legal Department. 
He acted as General Counsel from May to
November 2007, having previously been Chief
Counsel, Corporate from July 2004. Before
joining BG Group, he worked as a lawyer in
private practice in both London and Bristol
following service as an officer in the Royal
Navy. (n)
9
78
10
49
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Rick Waddell (48)
During 2007, Rick Waddell was Executive
Vice President and Managing Director,
South America. Shortly after the end of
the reporting period he stepped down
from the Group Executive Committee. He
has indicated his intention to pursue his
career outside the Company and will leave
in September 2008. Until then, he will
work with Martin Houston in support of
the new Americas and Global LNG region.
BG061_p46-49_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:03  Page 49 50
Corporate Governance 
Governance Framework
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 
There are three elements to BG Group’s
Governance Framework: the Group’s
organisation and structure; the Internal
Control Framework; and independent
assurance. These are described as follows: 
Organisation and structure 
This section sets out details of the organisation
and structure, and the procedures that ensure
it is robust and effective in meeting the highest
standards of corporate governance.
The Group’s organisation and structure is
established and overseen by the Board and is
designed to allow for effective and efﬁcient
decision-making. 
A diagram of the BG Group Board and
committee structure is set out on page 55.
The membership of each of the principal
Board committees is shown on pages
56 and 57.
The Board has delegated authority to 
its committees on speciﬁc matters, which 
are set out in written terms of reference. 
The terms of reference of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations Committees
are reviewed annually by the Board and
published on BG Group’s website, together
with the terms of reference for the Corporate
Responsibility, Chairman’s and Group
Executive Committees. Copies are also
available from the Company Secretary upon
request. Minutes of the meetings of these
committees are circulated to all Directors. 
Board of Directors 
The Board is responsible to BG Group’s
shareholders for creating and delivering
sustainable shareholder value through the
management of the Group’s businesses
within the Governance Framework. The
Board’s role is to set the Group’s strategy and
to ensure that appropriate levels of ﬁnancial
and human resources are made available to
deliver it. 
As well as oversight responsibility for
ﬁnancial performance, internal controls and
risk management of the Group, the Board 
has a formal schedule of matters speciﬁcally
reserved to it for decision. This schedule of
The Board of Directors of BG Group is
committed to the highest standards of
corporate governance, which it believes are
critical to business integrity and performance,
and to maintaining investor conﬁdence. 
In order to ensure the highest standards 
of corporate governance are observed, 
the Company operates within a 
Governance Framework.
The Governance Framework complements
the beliefs and behaviours as set out in 
the BG Group Business Principles, details 
of which can be found on page 38.
The Company’s shares are listed on the
London Stock Exchange. This report 
explains how the Governance Framework 
is structured and implemented across the
Group in support of the statements by the
Board that the Company complies with 
the UK Financial Reporting Council’s
Combined Code on Corporate Governance
(the Combined Code).
In September 2007 , BG Group de-listed its
ordinary shares from the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) and submitted an application
to de-register from the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) under the US Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. 
On 20 December 2007 , BG Group’s application
to de-register its shares became effective and 
as a consequence, the Company is no longer
obliged to comply with the US corporate
governance requirements. However, key
elements of the US governance regime have
been retained as best practice, as set out on
page 56.
Effective governance is at
the core of BG Group’s
ability to operate
successfully in the global
business environment.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  18/3/08  09:40  Page 50 51
matters, which is non-exhaustive, is set out
on page 52. In addition, during the year, the
Board reserved to itself the oversight of all
matters relating to safety and asset integrity. 
A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities
for preparing the Financial Statements,
including a statement regarding the status 
of the Company as a going concern, is set out
on page 60. 
Board composition 
The Board is made up of a non-executive
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer and eight independent
non-executive Directors. A list of the
individual Directors, their biographies and
details of their committee membership are
provided on pages 46 and 47. 
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive
are separate and their responsibilities are
clearly established, set out in writing and
agreed by the Board. This description of the
roles and responsibilities of the Chairman
and Chief Executive is also available on 
BG Group’s website. 
The Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, is responsible
for the workings and leadership of the Board
and for the balance of its membership. The
Chief Executive, Frank Chapman, is responsible
for leading and managing the business within
the authorities delegated by the Board. 
The non-executive Directors provide
experience and skills from a number of private
sector and government backgrounds. They are
key to the formulation and development of 
the Group’s strategy and also to reviewing and
monitoring the performance of management,
the integrity of ﬁnancial information, and
internal controls and risk management.
Paul Collins, a non-executive Director since
October 2000, is the Senior Independent
Director nominated by the Board, and is
available to shareholders as an alternative
point of contact to the Chairman, Chief
Executive and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. The role
of the Senior Independent Director is clearly
established, set out in writing and agreed 
by the Board. This description of the role is
published on BG Group’s website. The Senior
Independent Director is expected to commit
at least three to four days per year to the 
role, and signiﬁcantly more in exceptional
circumstances. This is in addition to the
expected time commitment in his capacity 
as a non-executive Director. 
All Directors are subject to election by
shareholders at the ﬁrst Annual General
Meeting (AGM) following their appointment 
by the Board. Thereafter, in accordance with
the Combined Code and the Company’s
Articles of Association, they are subject to 
re-election every three years. Based on these
criteria, the Nominations Committee has made
recommendations to the Board in respect 
of the election of Dr John Hood and the re-
election of Sir John Coles and Baroness Hogg 
at the 2008 AGM. The Board considered and
endorsed these recommendations and
concluded that the performance of these
Directors is effective and that they have
demonstrated commitment to the role. 
BG Group maintains liability insurance for 
its Directors and ofﬁcers, and also provides
certain indemnities for its Directors and the
Company Secretary and members of the
Group Executive Committee. Further details
are set out on page 59. 
Director independence 
The Combined Code includes provisions for a
company’s board to assess the independence
of each non-executive director. The outcome
of this assessment is presented to the Board.
This assessment was applied in respect of the
appointment of Dr John Hood to the Board
during 2007. The Nominations Committee
reviewed the proposed appointment and
determined that he was independent at the
time of his appointment. 
The Board undertakes an annual review 
of the independence of its non-executive
Directors in accordance with the criteria set
out in the Combined Code. Following this
review in 2007, the Board has concluded that
each of the non-executive Directors, with the
exception of the Chairman, is independent. 
At the time of his original appointment, 
on 1 January 2004, the Chairman was also
considered independent by the Board.
However, in accordance with the Combined
Code, the ongoing test of independence 
for the Chairman is not appropriate, and
accordingly, this was not a factor relevant to
his re-appointment as Chairman for a second
three year term effective from 1 January 2007. 
The Board has therefore determined that,
other than Sir John Coles (in respect of his
length of service on the Board), none of its
non-executive Directors: 
• has been an employee of the Company or
Group within the last ﬁve years; 
• has, or has had within the last three years, 
a material business relationship with the
Company either directly or as a partner,
shareholder, director or senior employee 
of a body that has such a relationship with
the Company; 
• has received or receives additional
remuneration from the Company 
apart from a Director’s fee, participates 
in the Company’s share option or a 
performance-related pay scheme, or is a
member of the Company’s pension scheme; 
ORGANISATION
AND 
STRUCTURE
INDEPENDENT
ASSURANCE
 INTERNAL
CONTROL
FRAMEWORK
BG GROUP SHAREHOLDERS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Governance Framework
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:12  Page 51 52 Governance Framework continued
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
In addition to those meetings, the Board
focuses on the Group’s strategy at an annual
two day planning conference. 
Guidelines are in place concerning the
content, timeliness and presentation of Board
and committee papers from management, to
ensure that the Board is properly briefed.
Opportunities are provided within the
scheduled meeting programme for non-
executive Directors to meet, without the
Chairman or Executive Directors being present,
and under the guidance of Paul Collins, the
Senior Independent Director.
Board effectiveness 
Directors’ induction and professional
development 
All Directors appointed to the Board receive 
a full induction brieﬁng tailored to their
individual needs, taking into account their
qualiﬁcations and experience.
Ongoing professional development is
provided to Directors to meet their particular
requirements. Directors received regular
brieﬁngs during 2007 on key relevant and
topical issues, including legislative, corporate
governance, ﬁnancial reporting and
operational matters. In particular, the
Directors received a series of presentations
and teach-ins in relation to the codiﬁed
directors’ duties introduced by the Companies
Act 2006, some of which came into effect 
in October 2007, with the remainder coming
into effect in October 2008. 
Board evaluation 
An evaluation of the performance of 
the Board, its principal committees, the
individual non-executive Directors and the
Chairman, was conducted during the year.
The Board and committee evaluations were
facilitated by external consultants on behalf
of the Chairman and the chairmen of the
Board committees, and comprised a series of
one-to-one interviews between a facilitator
and each Director.
The interviews were based upon a number of
key areas covering Group strategy, succession
planning, Board size and the relationship
between the Board and its committees.
• has close family ties with any of the
Company’s advisers, Directors or senior
employees; 
• holds cross-directorships or has signiﬁcant
links with other Directors through
involvement in other companies or bodies; 
• represents a signiﬁcant shareholder; or 
• has served on the Board for more than nine
years from the date of his/her ﬁrst election. 
Sir John Coles, who will have served on 
the Board for ten years on 23 April 2008, 
is considered by the Board to retain
independence of character and judgment. 
In accordance with provision A.7.2 of the
Combined Code, which requires non-executive
Directors serving more than nine years to be
subject to annual re-election, he will stand
for re-election at this year’s AGM. He was 
last re-elected at the AGM in 2007. 
Company Secretary 
The Company Secretary, Keith Hubber, is
responsible for advising the Board, through
the Chairman, on all governance matters. 
The Directors have full access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary, who
is also responsible to the Board for: ensuring
that correct Board procedures are followed;
ensuring effective communication ﬂows
within the Board and its committees, and
between senior management and 
non-executive Directors; and facilitating
induction and assisting with the professional
development of Directors. In addition, any
Director, who believes it may be required in
the furtherance of his or her duties, may take
independent professional advice at the cost
of the Company.
Board meetings and table of attendance 
Directors are expected, wherever possible, 
to attend all Board meetings, relevant
committee meetings and the AGM.
The Board has regular scheduled meetings
throughout the year. Additional meetings of
the Board are held as and when necessary.
During 2007, the Board met nine times. A
table detailing the Directors’ attendance at
each of the Company’s Board and committee
meetings during 2007 is set out on page 53. 
Matters reserved to the Board 
1 Approval of the Group vision, values and
overall Governance Framework. 
2 Approval of the Company’s Annual Report
and Accounts, Remuneration Report and
Quarterly Financial Statements.
3 Approval of any interim dividend and
recommendation of the final dividend. 
4 Approval of Group financial policy.
5 Approval of material capital projects,
investments, acquisitions and disposals 
by any Group company. 
6 Approval of the Company’s long-term finance
plan and annual capital and revenue budget.
7 Approval of any significant change in 
Group accounting policies or practices. 
8 Approval of all circulars, listing particulars,
resolutions and corresponding
documentation sent to shareholders.
9 Approval of changes in the capital structure
of the Company or its status as a plc and, in
particular, the issue or allotment of shares 
in the Company otherwise than pursuant to
Company-approved employee share schemes.
10 Approval of material changes to the
Company’s pension schemes rules, any
change of T rustee, or material changes to
funding and management arrangements. 
11 Appointment, re-appointment and removal 
of the Chairman and Directors and the
recommendation to shareholders of their
election or re-election under the Articles of
Association; the appointment and removal 
of the Company Secretary.
12 Approval of the division of responsibilities
between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
13 Establishing committees of the Board,
approving their terms of reference 
(including membership and financial
authority), reviewing their activities and,
where appropriate, ratifying their decisions.
14 Recommendation to shareholders for the
appointment, re-appointment or removal 
of the Auditors.
15 Oversight of safety and asset integrity
matters.
16 Approval of this schedule of matters 
reserved to the Board.
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  18/3/08  09:40  Page 52 53
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2007 Board and committee attendance 
Corporate Group
Chairman’s Audit Remuneration Responsibility Nominations Finance Executive
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 9 20 7 5 6 3 4 9
Sir Robert Wilson
(a)
920 – 4 6 3 4 –
Frank Chapman 9 19 – – 6 – 4 9
William Friedrich
(b)
915 – – 5 – 4 7
Ashley Almanza 9 18 – – – – 4 9
Peter Backhouse 9 – 7 – 6 – – –
Sir John Coles 9 – – – 6 – – –
Paul Collins 8 – 6 5 – 3 – –
Jürgen Dormann 8 – – 3 5 – – –
Dr John Hood
(c)
6– 3– 4–––
Baroness Hogg 9 – 7 5 – 3 – –
Lord Sharman 9 – 7 – – – – –
Philippe Varin 8 – 6 4 – – – –
(a) Sir Robert Wilson joined the Remuneration Committee on 6 February 2007.
(b) William Friedrich stepped down from the Board, Chairman’s Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee, Finance Committee and Group Executive Committee
on 13 December 2007.
(c) Dr John Hood joined the Board on 26 April 2007. He became a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Audit Committee on 17 May 2007.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The results of the reviews were then
considered with the Chairman and Senior
Independent Director and subsequently
discussed collectively by the Board as a whole.
The performance of individual non-executive
Directors is evaluated by the Chairman, with
input from the committee chairmen and the
Executive Directors. The performance of the
Chief Executive is evaluated by the Chairman
and non-executive Directors. The performance
of the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is evaluated by
the Chief Executive in consultation with the
Chairman and other non-executive Directors. 
The evaluation of the Chairman was led by
Paul Collins, the Senior Independent Director,
and involved individual meetings with each
of the Executive Directors, followed by a
group review with the non-executive
Directors, excluding the Chairman. 
The Directors have concluded that, following
this evaluation, the Board and its committees
operate effectively and also consider that
each Director is contributing effectively and
demonstrates commitment to the role. 
Relationship with shareholders and Annual
General Meeting 
The Board recognises the importance of
maintaining an ongoing relationship with 
the Company’s shareholders based on
frequent dialogue. The Board is accountable
to shareholders for the performance and
activities of the Group and it is proactive in
obtaining an understanding of shareholder
views on a number of matters. 
Regular meetings with institutional
shareholders are held with the Chief
Executive and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
and, where appropriate, the Chairman,
following the announcement of quarterly
and annual results. This ensures that the
investor community receives a balanced 
and comprehensive view of the Group’s
performance and the issues it faces. In
addition, the Board regularly monitors 
the views of shareholders and considers
reports from its investor relations advisers
concerning institutional shareholder
feedback. The Chairman and non-executive
Directors are also given the opportunity to
meet institutional shareholders and to
discuss topical issues. 
The Company, through its Investor Relations
team, responds to a variety of enquiries from
shareholders and an email communication
facility is available on the Group’s website 
for this purpose. 
In 2007, shareholders approved changes to 
the Company’s Articles of Association to allow
electronic communications in accordance with
the Companies Act 2006. Shareholders were
invited to elect whether, in future, to view
shareholder communications on BG Group’s
website or to continue to receive hard copy
communications. Those shareholders who 
did not inform the Company of their
preferences were deemed to have agreed 
to view documents on BG Group’s website.
Shareholders are entitled to change the 
way in which they receive shareholder
communications at any time, and details 
of how to do so are set out on page 129.
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:12  Page 53 54 Governance Framework continued
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
These arrangements ensure that shareholders
can choose to receive communications in the
most appropriate way for them, while
allowing the Company to take advantage of
the environmental and cost beneﬁts arising
from reduced paper usage, printing and
distribution costs.
The Company’s AGM will be held on
14 May 2008 at the International Convention
Centre in Birmingham. The AGM is an
opportunity for shareholders who are able 
to attend to ask questions of the full Board 
of Directors, including the chairmen of 
the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate
Responsibility and Nominations Committees,
and the Company Secretary. The Notice of
AGM, which includes full details of this 
year’s AGM, is set out on pages 131 to 138. 
Internal Control Framework 
The second element of BG Group’s
Governance Framework is the Internal
Control Framework (ICF), which deﬁnes 
the way in which the Group operates. It
comprises the Group’s Business Principles,
policies, processes, standards and guidelines.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the
Group’s system of internal controls and it
oversees the review, compliance and
assurance processes that have been designed
to ensure there is an effective control
environment. The Board’s role is undertaken
in accordance with the guidance set out in
the Combined Code and as set out in the 
US recognised Committee of Sponsoring
Organisations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) framework, which has been adopted
by the Audit Committee. The COSO
framework provides reasonable, rather than
absolute, assurance against material loss or
misstatement and is designed to manage,
rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives.
Each year, conﬁrmation is sought that all
assets and functions across the Group have,
throughout the year, complied with a series
of core controls comprising mandatory
policies, processes or standards from the 
ICF that signiﬁcantly contribute to the
identiﬁcation and mitigation of one or more
risks relating to the achievement of the
Group’s objectives. The Board, through the
Chief Executive, asks each member of the
Group Executive Committee (GEC) to
complete and submit to the Chief Executive a
Letter of Assurance (LOA), which provides this
conﬁrmation for the areas of the business for
which they are accountable. A Governance
Self-Assessment (GSA) questionnaire, based
on the core controls, is also completed by 
the management level reporting directly to
members of the GEC, in order to complement
and support the LOA. Any exceptions arising
from the GSA questionnaires are collated and
analysed to support the determination of the
effectiveness of the ICF during the year. 
The Disclosure Committee, through formal
and systematic enquiries of, and interviews
with, each member of the GEC and the 
Group Financial Controller, has evaluated 
the individual LOAs submitted to the Chief
Executive. The outcome of this process has
been reported to the Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. 
In turn, a report was presented to the Audit
Committee setting out the process followed
by management and the outcome of the
review. The Audit Committee reviewed this
report with management, the external
Auditors and Group Audit and, based on 
that review, reported to the Board on the
effectiveness of BG Group’s ICF in 2007.
Taking into account the processes that have
been designed and implemented for 2007,
the Board has concluded that the Group’s
system of internal controls was effective as 
at 31 December 2007.
Risk management 
The objective of risk management within 
BG Group is to improve performance and
decision-making through the identiﬁcation,
evaluation and management of key risks. 
To achieve this, a business risk management
process has been established to identify,
evaluate and assist with the management 
of the risks faced by the Group. The process
operates on a mandatory basis across the
Group and provides the Audit Committee
with assurance that the major risks faced 
by the Group have been identiﬁed and are
regularly assessed, and that, wherever
possible, there are controls in place to
manage these risks. 
BG Group views risk management as an
integral part of good business practice. Risk
assessment and evaluation are incorporated
into the key business processes, including
strategy and business planning, investment
appraisal, performance management and
Health, Safety, Security and Environment
(HSSE) management processes. 
The risk management process is reviewed 
by the Governance & Risk Committee on
behalf of the GEC, and the Audit Committee
oversees the design and effectiveness of the
process on behalf of the Board. 
Independent assurance 
The third element of BG Group’s Governance
Framework is independent assurance, which
is provided primarily by Group Audit, the
independent external Auditors and other
external advisers. 
Group Audit provides assurance to the Board,
Audit Committee, GEC and management 
that effective and efﬁcient internal control
processes are in place to identify and manage
business risk across the Group. In particular,
Group Audit: 
• provides an independent assessment of the
Group’s system of risk management and
internal control; 
• assists management by carrying out
independent appraisals of the effectiveness
of the internal control environment and
making recommendations for
improvement; and 
• supports development of the Group’s
governance and business risk management
policies.
The independent external Auditors’ report 
to shareholders and their audit opinion on
the applicable section of the Financial
Statements are set out on page 72. 
The external reserves consultant, Degolyer 
& MacNaughton, provides an independent
review on certain of BG Group’s gas and 
oil reserves.
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  18/3/08  09:40  Page 54 55
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
STATEMENTS OF COMPLIANCE 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance
As a UK listed company, BG Group is required
to state whether it has complied with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code throughout 2007 and, where
the provisions have not been complied with,
to provide an explanation. BG Group is also
required to explain how it has applied the
principles set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code relating to Directors, their
remuneration, accountability and audit, 
and relations with shareholders. 
The Directors consider that the Company 
has complied with the provisions set out in
Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout
the year ended 31 December 2007, other than
provision D.2.4, which states that the
company should arrange for the notice 
of AGM and related papers to be sent to
shareholders at least 20 working days before
the meeting. It has been BG Group’s practice
to comply with this provision and it continues
to be the Company’s intention to do so.
However, in 2007, 21 clear days’ (equivalent 
to 14 working days’) notice of the AGM was
given to shareholders in accordance with the
Company’s Articles of Association to allow
the Directors sufﬁcient time to consider the
investigation into alleged improper conduct
relating to the Brindisi LNG authorisation
process reported to shareholders in the 2006
Annual Report and Accounts.
BG GROUP PLC
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY
COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN’S 
COMMITTEE
FINANCE 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATIONS 
COMMITTEE 
RESERVES 
COMMITTEE
GROUP 
EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE
Portfolio Development 
Committee
Exploration & Appraisal
Committee
Investment Committee 
Group Performance
Committee 
HSSE Committee
People & Organisation
Committee
Governance & Risk 
Committee
Energy Trading & Credit Risk 
Committee
BG Group Board and committee structure
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:12  Page 55 56 Governance Framework continued
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Disclosure Committee, a sub-committee of
the Governance & Risk Committee, which
met with each of the control owners to
review their design and to obtain assurance
on their effectiveness. 
Following the review by the Disclosure
Committee, management concluded that, as
at 31 December 2007, the Group’s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective. 
COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are
Lord Sharman (Chairman), Peter Backhouse,
Paul Collins, Baroness Hogg, Philippe Varin
and Dr John Hood who joined the Committee
on 17 May 2007. The Secretary to the
Committee is Alan McCulloch, Deputy
Company Secretary. All members of the
Committee are deemed to be independent
and the Committee has concluded that its
membership meets the requirements of the
Combined Code. The Board has determined
that Lord Sharman, a chartered accountant,
has “recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience”
as required by the Combined Code.
During the year, the Committee met on seven
occasions. The meetings of the Committee
are normally attended by the Chairman, the
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, the Group Financial
Controller, the Head of Group Audit and
representatives of the external Auditors. In
addition, the Committee meets privately with
the external Auditors at least twice each year.
The Committee assists the Board in fulﬁlling
its responsibilities in respect of:
• overseeing the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting
process, including the internal control
structure and procedures for ﬁnancial
reporting and monitoring the integrity 
and appropriateness of the Group’s
Financial Statements;
• the manner in which the Group’s
management ensures and monitors the
adequacy of ﬁnancial, operational and
compliance internal controls and business
risk management processes designed to
manage signiﬁcant risk exposures; 
CONSEQUENCES OF DE-LISTING FROM NYSE
AND DE-REGISTERING FROM SEC
Following the de-listing of BG Group’s ordinary
shares from the NYSE in September 2007,
the Company has retained its American
Depositary Receipt (ADR) programme as a
Level 1 programme. BG Group’s ADRs are now
listed on the Premier Tier of OTCQX. Further
information can be found at www.otcqx.com 
Prior to de-registration from the SEC under
the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, the
management of the Group, in accordance
with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), was responsible
for establishing and maintaining an adequate
system of internal controls over ﬁnancial
reporting for the Group and used the COSO
framework to evaluate the effectiveness of
that system. Following de-registration,
BG Group is no longer required to comply 
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; however, the
Directors recognise the beneﬁts of the system
of internal controls over ﬁnancial reporting
established under that act and have therefore
retained the key elements of the internal
controls over ﬁnancial reporting, including the
COSO framework, under a ﬁnancial control
assurance programme.
DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Disclosure controls and procedures were
required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; however,
the beneﬁt of these has also been recognised
and therefore they have been retained as 
best practice. They are designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed 
is accumulated and communicated to
management, including the Chief Executive
and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, to allow
timely decisions regarding the disclosure 
of information externally. These disclosure
controls and procedures relate to the 
Annual Report and Accounts, quarterly
ﬁnancial releases, press releases and external
presentations, annual investor presentations,
the Corporate Responsibility Report and the
Group’s annual Data Book publication. 
For 2007, a review of these disclosure controls
and procedures has been undertaken by the
• the appointment, compensation,
independence and performance of the
Group’s external Auditors; and
• the independence and performance of
Group Audit.
Speciﬁcally, the Audit Committee:
• regularly reviews the external and internal
audit work plans;
• oversees and reviews the procedures for 
the receipt, retention and treatment of
complaints relating to ﬁnancial matters,
internal accounting controls and auditing,
and the Group’s Whistleblowing policy;
• requests, receives and reviews reports from
management on actions taken to address
risk areas identiﬁed by management and/or
the internal audit process;
• reviews with management, and external
and internal auditors, the signiﬁcant risk
exposures and the processes established to
identify, monitor, control and report them;
• annually reviews the control environment
within a speciﬁc asset;
• annually evaluates, on behalf of the Board,
the design and effectiveness of the internal
control structure, the Group’s ﬁnancial
reporting procedures and the Group’s
disclosure controls and procedures; and
• annually evaluates the design and
effectiveness of the processes established to
estimate, aggregate and report the Group’s
various categories of oil and gas reserves.
During the year the principal activities of the
Committee included reviews of the following:
• quarterly, interim and full year ﬁnancial results;
• the year end oil and gas reserves booking
process;
• the delivery of the 2007 internal Group
Audit plan and approval of the 2008 plan;
• quarterly and full year internal control and
assurance reports from Group Audit;
• the 2007 external audit plan and associated
audit fees;
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  18/3/08  09:40  Page 56 57
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
• recommended to the Board, the Directors
standing for election and re-election at this
year’s AGM; and
• reviewed its Terms of Reference.
Chairman’s Committee
The members of the Chairman’s Committee
are Sir Robert Wilson (Chairman),
Frank Chapman and Ashley Almanza. The
Secretary to the Committee is Keith Hubber.
The role of the Chairman’s Committee is to
advise and assist the Chairman in the
preparation for Board meetings. The
Committee also acts on behalf of the Board
between scheduled meetings, within clearly
deﬁned delegated authority.
Finance Committee
The members of the Finance Committee 
are Sir Robert Wilson (Chairman),
Frank Chapman and Ashley Almanza. The
Secretary to the Committee is Keith Hubber.
The Committee is responsible for ﬁnance 
and treasury policy decisions.
Group Executive Committee
The Committee has primary authority for 
the day-to-day management of the Group’s
operations, within agreed limits set by the
Board. Details of the membership of the GEC
are set out on pages 48 and 49. 
• the budget and framework for the supply of
non-audit services by the external Auditors,
the independence and objectivity of the
external Auditors and the effectiveness 
of the external audit process;
• the control environment within BG Trinidad
and Tobago, and Atlantic LNG;
• the Group’s Internal Control Framework,
including the business risk management
process;
• reports in relation to matters raised through
whistleblowing and fraud processes;
• the establishment of a ﬁnancial controls
and assurance programme to replace the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 programme;
• decommissioning provisions and liabilities,
together with the process undertaken to
review the Group’s decommissioning and
site restoration obligations;
• relevant disclosures in this Report; and
• its Terms of Reference.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The members of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee are Sir John Coles (Chairman),
Sir Robert Wilson, Frank Chapman,
Peter Backhouse, Jürgen Dormann and
Dr John Hood who joined the Committee on 
17 May 2007. The Secretary to the Committee 
is Keith Hubber. The role of the Committee 
is to assist the Board in providing strategic
leadership, direction and oversight on all
Corporate Responsibility issues, including
health, security and environment, community
relations, human rights, business principles and
sustainable development within the Group.
The Committee met on six occasions during
the year and meetings are normally attended
by the Executive Vice President, Policy and
Corporate Affairs.
In 2007, the principal activities of the
Corporate Responsibility Committee included:
• a review of BG Group’s Business Principles;
• assurance that BG Group would be able to
conduct its business in accordance with the
Business Principles in new areas of activity;
• a review of security management issues;
• a review of community relations;
• approval of a social performance policy to
govern the implementation of the “social”
element of the Business Principles;
• a review of the Group strategy for managing
greenhouse gas emissions and climate
change; and
• receiving regular reports on health, security
and environment.
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration
Committee are Baroness Hogg (Chairman),
Paul Collins, Jürgen Dormann, Philippe Varin
and Sir Robert Wilson who joined the
Committee on 6 February 2007. The Secretary
to the Committee is Keith Hubber. The
Committee is responsible for setting,
reviewing and recommending to the Board
for approval, BG Group’s overall remuneration
policy and strategy. Full details are set out in
the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 71.
Nominations Committee
The members of the Nominations Committee
are Sir Robert Wilson (Chairman), Paul Collins
and Baroness Hogg. The Secretary to the
Committee is Keith Hubber. The role of the
Committee is to review the structure and
composition of the Board, to identify
candidates to ﬁll Board vacancies, including
their election and subsequent re-election by
shareholders, and to review its own
performance on an annual basis.
The Committee met on three occasions
during the year. Meetings are normally
attended by the Chief Executive.
During the year, the Committee:
• evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge
and experience on the Board;
• identiﬁed, using external boardroom search
consultants, potential new non-executive
Director candidates;
• following a review of candidates,
recommended to the Board the appointment
of Dr John Hood as an independent 
non-executive Director of the Company;
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p50-57_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  11:12  Page 57 www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
Other statutory information 
 
58 
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND 
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the profit before tax was 
£3 039m (2006 £3 285m). A final dividend of 5.76p per ordinary share 
is proposed (2006 4.20p), making a total dividend for 2007 of 9.36p 
(2006 7.20p). The results are dealt with more fully in the Financial 
Statements (pages 73 to 120) and summarised in the Financial 
Review (pages 28 to 37). 
The trustees of the BG Group New Employees Share Trust and the 
BG Group Share Incentive Plan have waived their right to receive 
dividends over 154 978 and 26 618 shares respectively. 
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS 
At 4 March 2008, the following voting interests in the ordinary 
share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Financial 
Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (which 
replaced Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, with effect from 
20 January 2007), had been notified to the Directors: 
Legal & General Group Plc 
and/or its subsidiaries  181 148 616 ordinary shares – 5.42% 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.00 pm on 
Wednesday 14 May 2008 at the International Convention Centre, 
Birmingham. The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 131 to 138 
of this document. An explanation of the proposed resolutions, 
including the proposed amendments to the Company’s Articles 
of Association, is set out on pages 132 to 137. 
A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be published 
on the BG Group website. 
SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS 
Voting rights 
When a shareholder is entitled to attend a general meeting 
and vote, where there is a poll, subject to any special rights or 
restrictions attaching to any class of shares, if he is entitled to be 
present and to vote, he has one vote for every share that he holds. 
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise 
all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general 
meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the 
rights attached to a different share or shares. 
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice 
of the meeting can give a time by which people must be entered on 
the Register which must not be more than 48 hours before the 
meeting. Unless provided otherwise in the Articles, the only people 
who can attend or vote at general meetings are shareholders who 
have paid the Company all calls, and all other sums, relating to the 
shares that are due at the time of the meeting. 
Restrictions on shareholders’ rights 
If a shareholder has been properly served with a notice under 
Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information about 
interests in shares, and has failed to supply such information within 
14 days of the notice, then (subject to the Articles and unless the 
Directors otherwise decide) the shareholder is not (for so long as the 
default continues) entitled to attend or vote at a shareholders’ 
meeting or to exercise any other right in relation to a meeting as 
holder of any shares held by the shareholder in default. Any person 
who acquires shares in relation to which a default has occurred 
(Default Shares) is subject to the same restrictions unless:  
 the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover 
or one which, to the Directors’ satisfaction, is a bona fide sale 
to a person unconnected with the shareholder; or 
 the transfer was by a shareholder who was not himself in default 
in supplying the information required by the notice and (a) the 
transfer is of only part of his holding, and (b) the transfer is 
accompanied by a certificate in a form satisfactory to the 
Directors stating that, after due and careful enquiries, the 
shareholder is satisfied that none of the shares included in the 
transfer are Default Shares. Where the Default Shares represent 
0.25% or more of the existing shares of a class, the Directors can, 
in their absolute discretion, by notice to the shareholder direct 
that (a) any dividend or other money which would otherwise be 
payable on the Default Shares shall be retained by the Company 
(without any liability to pay interest when that dividend or 
money is finally paid to the shareholder), and/or (b) the 
shareholder will not be allowed to choose to receive shares in 
place of dividends, and/or (c) no transfer of any of the shares 
held by the shareholder will be registered unless one of the 
provisos specified above is satisfied. 
Variation of rights 
If the Company’s share capital is split into different classes of shares, 
subject to the relevant English law and unless the Articles or rights 
attaching to any class of shares provide otherwise, the special 
rights which are attached to any of these classes can be varied 
or abrogated as provided by those rights or approved by a special 
resolution passed at a separate meeting of that class. Alternatively, 
the holders of at least three-quarters of the existing shares of the 
class (by nominal value) can give their consent in writing.  
Alteration of share capital 
The shareholders can by ordinary resolution (a) increase the 
Company’s authorised share capital, (b) consolidate, or consolidate 
and then divide, all or any of the Company’s share capital into 
shares of a larger nominal amount than the existing shares, (c) 
cancel any shares which have not been taken, or agreed to be taken, 
by any person at the date of the resolution, and reduce the amount 
of the Company’s share capital by the amount of the cancelled 
shares, and (d) subject to the relevant English law divide some or all 
of the Company’s shares into shares which are of a smaller nominal 
amount than is fixed in the Memorandum. The shareholders can, 
subject to the relevant English law, pass a special resolution to (a) 
reduce the Company’s authorised share capital in any way, or (b) 
reduce any capital redemption reserve, share premium account 
or other undistributable reserve in any way. The Company can, 
subject to the relevant English law, buy back, or agree to buy back 
in the future, any shares of any class. However, if the Company has 
existing shares which are admitted to the Official List of the London 
Stock Exchange and which are convertible into equity shares, then 
the Company can only buy back equity shares of that class if either 
the terms of issue of the convertible shares permit the Company to 
buy back equity shares or the buy back or agreement to buy back 
has been approved by a special resolution passed by such holders. 
Dividends 
The shareholders can declare final dividends by ordinary resolution. 
No dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. 
No interim dividend shall be paid on shares which carry deferred 
or non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, any preferential 
dividend is in arrears. Unless the rights attaching to shares or the 
terms of any shares provide otherwise, dividends are paid based 
on the amounts which have been paid up on the shares in the 
relevant period. 
The Directors can recommend the shareholders to pass an ordinary 
resolution to direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by distributing 
specific assets. The Directors must give effect to such a resolution. 
If a dividend has not been claimed for one year, the Directors may 
invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of the 
Company until the dividend is claimed. Any dividend which has not 
been claimed for 12 years may be forfeited and belong to the 
Company if the Directors so decide.  BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
59
Winding up 
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the authority 
of a special resolution and any other sanction required by relevant 
law, divide among the shareholders all or part of the assets of the 
Company or transfer any part of the assets to trustees on trust for 
the benefit of the shareholders. No past or present shareholder can 
be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the 
Articles which carries a liability. 
Rights of foreign shareholders 
There are no limitations imposed by the relevant English law or 
the Articles on the rights to own securities, including the rights 
of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting 
rights on the securities. 
Notification of the acquisition or disposal of  
major shareholdings 
Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires disclosure 
to the issuer by (a) holders of shares with voting rights attached, 
(b) those entitled to exercise voting rights, and (c) those holding 
financial instruments which result in a right to acquire shares with 
voting rights already in issue, when their interests reach, exceed, 
or fall below 3%, and every percentage point above 3%. 
TRANSFER OF SHARES 
Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of issue 
of any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or all of his shares. 
However, the Directors can refuse to register a transfer (a) in 
certificated form, if such shares are not fully paid up or the evidence 
of entitlement to such shares is missing, (b) if it is in respect of more 
than one class of share, (c) if it is in favour of more than four persons 
jointly, or (d) if it is not properly stamped where required. However, 
if any of those shares have been admitted to the Official List of the 
London Stock Exchange, the Directors cannot refuse to register a 
transfer if this would stop dealings in the shares from taking place 
on an open and proper basis. 
If the Directors decide not to register a transfer, they must notify the 
person to whom the shares were to be transferred within two months.  
The Directors can decide to suspend the registration of transfers  
by closing the Register, but the Register cannot be closed for more 
than 30 days per year. In the case of shares in uncertificated  
form, the Register must not be closed without the consent of 
the operator of a relevant system (currently Euroclear UK & 
Ireland Limited, the operator of a relevant system under the 
UK CREST Regulations). 
AUDITORS 
Resolutions to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors 
to the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine 
their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM. 
SHARE CAPITAL 
In order to enable the Company to return value to shareholders, 
the Company was given authority at the 2007 AGM to make market 
purchases of up to 340 099 309 of its own ordinary 10p shares at 
a maximum price per share of 105% of the average middle market 
closing price of the shares for the five trading days prior to the relevant 
purchase. This authority will expire at the 2008 AGM and approval from 
shareholders will be sought at that meeting to renew the authority for 
a further year. During February 2008, the Group completed the share 
repurchase programme of £750 million, announced in February 2007, 
having repurchased 88 million ordinary shares of 10p each at an average 
price of £8.51 per share. For further information and details of shares 
repurchased and those issued during the year, see pages 136-137 and 
note 26 to the accounts on pages 111-112.  
DIRECTORS 
Dr John Hood was appointed to the Board as non-executive Director 
on 26 April 2007. Newly-appointed Directors are required to retire at 
the first AGM following their appointment and to seek election by 
shareholders. He will therefore be seeking election by shareholders 
at the 2008 AGM. 
In addition, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every 
three years. Accordingly, Baroness Hogg will retire and be proposed 
for re-election by shareholders at the 2008 AGM. Baroness Hogg 
was first elected by shareholders at the 2005 AGM. Sir John Coles 
was first elected to the Board of BG plc at its AGM in April 1998 and 
therefore will have served on the Board for more than ten years at 
the date of the 2008 AGM. In accordance with provision A.7.2 of the 
Combined Code, he is subject to re-election on an annual basis. He 
was last re-elected at the 2007 AGM. Further details, including the 
Board’s reasons for proposing their re-election, are set out in the 
Notice of AGM on pages 131 to 138. 
For information relating to the powers of the Company’s Directors 
please see page 130. 
INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE 
BG Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers. 
The Directors, Company Secretary and members of the Group 
Executive Committee have also been granted a qualifying third-
party indemnity provision, under Section 234 of the Companies Act 
2006, which remains in force. Neither the Company’s indemnity nor 
insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proved to 
have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS – CHANGE OF CONTROL 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid. 
Under the agreement governing the Company's equity investment 
in Comgas, in the event of a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid, Shell Gas B.V. has the right to acquire the 
Company's equity at market value. 
It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan may claim to have  
a right to acquire BG Group’s interest in the Final PSC governing  
the operation of the Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field  
(BG Group 32.5%) (or the shares in the company holding that 
interest) in the event of a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid.  
As at 31 December 2007, BG Energy Holdings Limited had bilateral 
committed multi-currency revolving borrowing facilities with  
a number of its relationship banks in an aggregate amount of  
US$ 1 040 million. All are currently undrawn. When taken together, 
these facilities are significant to the ongoing liquidity of the Group 
and repayment of any or all of them may be demanded upon 
a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid. 
No other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon 
a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are 
considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on 
the business of the Group as a whole. 
EMPLOYEES 
Employees are informed about significant business issues and the 
Group’s performance using electronic mail, webcasts, the Group’s 
intranet and in-house publications, as well as DVDs and briefing 
meetings at each business location. When appropriate, consultation 
with employee and union representatives also takes place.  www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
Other statutory information continued 
 
 
60 
The Group takes the issues of equality and diversity seriously and 
encourages its partners to do likewise. By using the talent and skills 
available in all groups and communities in the countries in which it 
operates, the Group is able to build a strong foundation for the lasting 
success of its business. This is achieved by using appropriate recruitment 
and selection techniques, ensuring equality of employment 
opportunities and equal access to development opportunities.  
The Group is also committed to providing a work environment free 
from harassment and discrimination. This commitment is included 
in the Group’s policy on Human Resources. The policy is available 
on the BG Group website. The Group remains committed to the 
full and fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job 
applications, training, promotion and career development. Every 
effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who 
are unable to continue in their existing job because of disability. 
Equally, the Group encourages its partners to take a similar 
approach to these issues where Group policies are not able 
to be implemented directly.  
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company 
and a significant number participate in the Group’s share schemes. 
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 
During 2007, the Group donated around £0.3m to registered 
charities in the UK. By adding contributions of cash, employee time 
and equipment to community groups in the UK (in accordance with 
the London Benchmarking Group model), this figure rises to around 
£0.4m. More information on the Group’s charitable donations and 
community involvement can be found in the 2007 Corporate 
Responsibility Report, which is available on the Group’s website. 
Under its Business Principles, the Group’s policy is not to make 
donations for political purposes. In 2007, no donations were made 
in any EU member state for political purposes, as defined in Section 
364 of the Companies Act 2006. 
For further information on BG Group’s social investment policy, 
see page 41. 
SUPPLIERS 
The Group aims to adopt fair payment practices in line with 
each country in which it operates and aims to pay all its creditors 
promptly and in accordance with contractual and other legal 
obligations. It is the Group’s policy to agree the payment terms 
with each supplier at the start of business and to ensure that 
they are aware of the terms of payment.  
The Group had 19 days’ purchases outstanding at 31 December 2007 
(2006 25 days’) based on the average daily amount invoiced by 
suppliers during the year. 
GOING CONCERN 
The Directors are satisfied that the Group’s and the Company’s 
activities are sustainable for the foreseeable future, and that the 
business is a going concern and the accounts have therefore been 
prepared on this basis. 
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE 
The Audit Committee annually agrees a framework of non-audit 
activities for the external auditors, which are described with 
sufficient specificity to enable the Committee to ensure that the 
proposed activities will not compromise the independence of the 
external auditors. For each activity, the Committee approves 
a budget for the financial year.  
Accordingly, the Audit Committee is deemed to have given its  
pre-approval in respect of individual assignments where the fees 
fall within the agreed framework and agreed budget for that service. 
Pre-approval of assignments which are either outside the agreed 
framework, or are within the agreed framework but not within  
the agreed budget, are delegated to the Audit Committee 
Chairman or, in his absence, any other member of the Committee. 
The Committee regularly reviews a list of all the non-audit services 
provided by the external auditors, the specific nature of the work 
and the fees involved. 
STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS 
As required by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the 
Directors has approved this report and confirmed that, so far as 
he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information (being 
information needed by the Auditors in connection with preparing 
their Audit report) of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware, 
and he/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make him/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are 
aware of that information. 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PREPARING THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare 
financial statements and a Remuneration Report for each financial year 
that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and 
of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of 
the Company and the Group for the financial year. 
The Directors consider that, in preparing the Financial Statements 
on pages 73 to 120, the Company has used appropriate accounting 
policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and 
prudent judgments and estimates, and all applicable accounting 
standards have been followed. The Company has complied with  
UK disclosure requirements in this report in order to present a 
consistent picture to all shareholders. 
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company 
keeps accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the 
financial position of the Company and of the Group and that enable 
them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the 
Companies Act 1985. 
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and have 
adopted a control framework for application across the Group. 
The Directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, have asked 
the Auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever 
inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purposes of 
enabling them to give their Audit report. 
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee continues to review 
the adequacy of the system of internal control adopted by the Group. 
A copy of the Financial Statements of the Company is placed on the 
BG Group website. The work carried out by the Auditors does not 
involve consideration of the maintenance of the BG Group website 
and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since 
they were initially presented on the website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
By order of the Board 
Keith Hubber 
Company Secretary 
12 March 2008 
Registered Office: 
100 Thames Valley Park Drive 
Reading  
Berkshire RG6 1PT 
Registered in England & Wales No. 3690065   DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
Remuneration Report 
 
61
Baroness Hogg
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
 
15BDear Shareholder 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’  
Report on remuneration for 2007 for which we will be seeking 
approval from shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.  
The Remuneration Committee is focused on ensuring the 
remuneration policy enables the Group to attract, retain  
and motivate the executive talent required for the successful 
delivery of our integrated gas strategy. 
During 2007, the Committee reviewed BG Group’s approach to 
executive remuneration and the use of share-based incentives 
across the Group, against the international oil and gas market  
in which we compete for talent. The review was prompted by the 
continued evolution of BG Group and the need to compete with 
remuneration practices in new geographical areas and markets,  
at a time when the employment market within the oil and gas 
industry is becoming ever more challenging.  
In order to ensure that BG Group can recruit and retain high  
quality management in a global market for talent, BG Group  
needs to offer arrangements that are competitive with all industry 
participants. Following consultation with our major shareholders, 
the Committee is seeking formal shareholder approval for a new 
Long Term Incentive Plan and has made some amendments to the 
Annual Incentive Scheme for 2008. The Committee is also seeking 
approval to replace our Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme 
which are reaching the end of their ten year lives.  
The Committee appreciates your support for these changes,  
which we believe are in shareholders’ interests.  
16BBaroness Hogg 
17BChairman of the Remuneration Committee  
12 March 2008 
0BAUDIT NOTES 
In accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985,  
as inserted by the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations  
2002 (the Regulations), the following sections of the report have 
been audited: Directors’ Remuneration; Directors’ Interests  
in Shares under the BG Group Long Term Incentive Scheme; 
Directors’ Interests in ordinary shares; and the table and notes  
in the Pensions section of the report. The remaining sections  
are not subject to audit.  
18B REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are: 
• setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval 
the Company’s overall remuneration policy and strategy; 
• setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration 
arrangements for the Chairman, Chief Executive and Executive 
Directors, including terms and conditions of employment and 
any changes; 
• setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration 
arrangements for the Group Executive Committee (GEC) 
members and the Company Secretary, including terms and 
conditions of employment and any changes; 
• approving the rules, and launch, of any Company share, share 
option or cash-based incentive scheme, and the grant, award, 
allocation or issue of shares, share options or payments under 
any such scheme; and 
• approving changes to the BG Pension Scheme rules or  
changes to funding and management arrangements. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the 
BG Group website ( Hwww.bg-group.com H) and copies are available  
on request. 
The Committee comprises the Chairman and independent  
non-executive Directors. The Committee meets on at least  
four occasions each year. The members during the year were: 
Baroness Hogg (Chairman) 
Sir Robert Wilson 
Paul Collins 
Jürgen Dormann 
Philippe Varin 
Keith Hubber, Company Secretary (and his predecessors Ben 
Mathews until July 2007 and Alan McCulloch (acting) until 
November 2007), attends meetings as Secretary to the Committee.  
The following individuals attend meetings by invitation and provide 
advice to the Committee to enable it to make informed decisions: 
• Frank Chapman, Chief Executive; and 
• Robert Booker, Head of Performance and Reward. 
No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is  
being discussed. 
The Committee also meets without management and receives 
information and independent executive remuneration advice  
from Kepler Associates
(a)
, an external consultancy firm appointed  
by the Committee. During 2007, Kepler Associates provided advice 
to the Committee on market trends, incentive schemes and other 
remuneration issues. Kepler Associates does not advise the 
Company on any other issues. 
Other external advisers also provide support and advice in relation 
to executive remuneration to the Committee. Towers Perrin
(a)
 
                                                                                    
(a) Kepler Associates, Towers Perrin, Herbert Smith LLP, Linklaters LLP and Watson 
Wyatt have given, and not withdrawn, their written consent to the issue of this 
document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the 
form and content in which they appear. A copy of each consent letter is available 
for inspection at BG Group plc, 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire, 
RG6 1PT. Other than in the provision of the services outlined in this Report, 
neither Kepler Associates, nor Watson Wyatt provides any services to the Group  
nor has any connection with the Group.  Towers Perrin have been appointed  
to manage the design and implementation of a Flexible Benefits scheme.  www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report continued 
 
62 
provides general compensation and benefits advice and information 
to the Committee and to BG Group management. Herbert Smith  
LLP
(a) 
provides legal advice and services on share schemes (as well  
as other legal services to the Group and to the trustees of the 
Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme
(b)
). Linklaters LLP
(a)
 provides 
legal advice on employee incentives (as well as other legal  
services to the Group). Watson Wyatt
(a)
 provides actuarial advice  
to the Committee, the Group, and the Trustees of the BG Pension 
Scheme and the Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme as well as 
other general consultancy services to the Group. These advisers are 
appointed by management or the relevant trustees as appropriate. 
5BREMUNERATION POLICY 
The central premise of BG Group’s remuneration policy is that,  
while reward arrangements should be market competitive, 
employees should look to performance-related incentives rather 
than base salaries to earn above-average reward. Performance-
related incentive schemes form a significant proportion of the  
total reward package for executives and are designed to align  
their interests with those of shareholders and establish a clear  
link between pay and performance. 
In defining BG Group’s remuneration policy, the Committee takes 
into account advice received from external consultants and also best 
practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies, including 
the principles and guidelines on executive remuneration issued by 
the Association of British Insurers (ABI).  
To implement the policy, BG Group has a well-developed, Group-
wide performance management system and, during 2007, operated 
three complementary performance-related incentive schemes for 
executives: 
 the Annual Incentive Scheme (AIS) – designed to focus executives 
on the business priorities of the financial year and to reinforce 
the individual and Company performance ethic; 
 the Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS) – aims to motivate 
participants to maximise total shareholder return (TSR)
(c)
F  
as measured against a comparator group of international  
oil and gas companies over a period of three years; and 
 the Company Share Option Scheme (CSOS) – aims to drive real 
earnings growth over the long term. The mechanism used for 
measuring this is the growth in the Group’s earnings per share 
(EPS)
(d) 
relative to the growth in the Retail Prices Index, excluding 
mortgage interest repayments (RPIX). 
The three schemes complement each other and enable the 
measurement and reward of both short- and long-term 
performance. The Committee considers that the three year  
vesting period for the LTIS and the CSOS is appropriate.  
                                                                                    
(a) See footnote on page 61.
 
(b)
 
The Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme is a BG Group pension scheme. 
(c) TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a company’s 
shares over a period. It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value  
of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.  
TSR is calculated on a common currency basis to ensure that international 
comparisons are fair. The Committee believes that TSR is an appropriate 
measure of relative performance. 
(d) EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year (on a Business 
Performance measure) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in 
issue and ranking for dividend during the year. The Committee believes that EPS 
provides an appropriate measure of company growth. EPS is published quarterly 
when BG Group reports its results. For grants made on or after 21 July 2004, the 
Group’s published EPS is adjusted to take into account the volatility of both 
commodity prices and exchange rates. This adjustment is independently 
reviewed. See page 64 for further details. 
 
1BREVIEW OF REMUNERATION 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the remuneration 
arrangements for Executive Directors and the share-based 
arrangements used more widely throughout the Group. 
Remuneration was benchmarked on a total reward basis (i.e.  
including salaries, incentives and pensions) against the FTSE  
30 (excluding financial services companies) and the international  
oil and gas companies in our current and proposed TSR  
comparator groups.  
As a result of the review, the Committee decided to make and 
propose certain changes to the incentive arrangements for  
2008 in order for BG Group to maintain its competitive position: 
 for 2008, GEC annual incentive awards greater than 100%  
of salary will be deferred into shares that will not be released  
to the individual for a period of three years; 
 for 2008, the maximum annual incentive opportunity for the 
Chief Executive will be increased from 150% to 200% of salary, 
and for the Chief Financial Officer from 125% to 150% of salary. 
Superior levels of performance will be required to achieve  
these new higher incentive levels; 
 shareholder approval is being sought for the new Long Term 
Incentive Plan 2008 (LTIP) to replace the CSOS and the LTIS. In 
2008, LTIP awards to Executive Directors and members of the 
GEC will be made via Performance Share Awards, subject to  
a face value limit of six times salary and an Estimated Present 
Value (EPV) limit of 250% of salary.  All other eligible employees 
will be subject to the EPV limit of 250% of salary and may  
receive Performance Share Awards, Group Share Awards, or  
a combination, at the discretion of the Company. In subsequent 
financial years, Executive Directors and members of the GEC  
may receive Performance Share Awards, Market Value Options  
or a combination of these at the discretion of the Company.  
In addition to the above awards, other eligible employees  
may also receive Group Share Awards or a combination of  
these awards at the discretion of the Company. All awards  
to participants will be subject to an individual EPV limit of 300%  
of salary. Further details are set out on pages 133 to 135; and 
 shareholder approval is also being sought to replace the Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) and the Sharesave Scheme, which are 
reaching the end of their ten year lives.  
2BCOMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION 
The current remuneration package for Executive Directors 
comprises performance-related and non-performance-related 
components. The performance-related components are the 
incentive schemes referred to above and the non-performance-
related components are base salary, taxable benefits and pension 
entitlements. In addition, the Executive Directors are eligible  
to participate in the Company’s all-employee share schemes.  
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group have  
been taken into account by the Committee in determining the 
remuneration packages for Executive Directors. The Committee  
has also followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined 
Code that relate to the design of performance-related remuneration. 
The proportion of each Executive Director’s total remuneration  
that is performance-related is significant even for target 
performance. For stretch performance, the proportion of total 
remuneration that is performance-related is higher, as is the  
total amount of remuneration payable. 
The average proportion of remuneration (including pension) that 
was performance-related in 2007 is illustrated by the following 
chart. In estimating the relative importance of those elements  
of remuneration that are, and those that are not, performance-
related as required by the Regulations, a number of assumptions 
have had to be made about the Company’s share price growth  
and TSR, relative to the Company’s comparator group, over the  
next three years.  BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
 
63
Performance related pay
Non-related performance-related pay
Composition of Remuneration package for 
Executive Directors (Average)
As a % of total remuneration (including pension)
Target performance Stretch performance
48% 52%
25%
75%
 
Base salaries  
Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed each year with any 
changes normally taking effect from 1 April. This review takes  
into account individual performance, experience and market 
competitiveness. Pensionable salary is derived from base  
salary only.  
In line with our remuneration policy, the Committee benchmarks 
Executive Directors’ salaries against a comparator group, which,  
for the 2007 salary review, was the FTSE 30 excluding financial 
services companies. Executive Director salaries are between  
the median and upper quartile for this comparator group. The 
Committee believes this positioning is appropriate given the 
significantly higher total reward levels at other international  
oil and gas companies with which BG Group competes for talent.  
12BAnnual Incentive Scheme (AIS) 
The Group operates a cash-based annual incentive scheme,  
which in 2007 provided an incentive opportunity in the range  
of 0% to 150% of base salary (0% to 200% for 2008). 
At the start of the incentive year (1 January), the Board sets 
challenging budget and stretch financial performance targets  
and the Committee endorses other performance measures,  
notably with respect to health, safety and environmental  
indicators. Bonuses at the higher end of the range are payable  
only for demonstrably superior Group and individual performance.  
For the Executive Directors, the performance measures for the  
2007 incentive year were EPS
(a)
, return on average capital employed
(b)
 
(ROACE) and performance against a Health, Safety and Environment 
(HSE) balanced scorecard
(c)
. The weighting of each of these metrics  
is illustrated on the next chart: 
                                                                                    
(a) Actual results are adjusted to exclude the volatility of upstream prices,  
the US$/UK£ exchange rate, the volatility of natural gas prices on contracted 
LNG cargoes and the Comgas regulatory current account.  
(b) Average capital employed consists of total equity excluding commodity financial 
instruments (including associated deferred tax) and net funds/borrowings, 
averaged between the start and the end of the year. Average capital employed is 
adjusted to exclude the volatility of upstream prices and the US$/UK£ exchange 
rate. Return on average capital employed represents Business Performance† 
profit after tax excluding net finance income/costs on net funds/borrowings, 
adjusted as in (a), as a percentage of average capital employed. 
(c) The HSE balanced scorecard measures performance across a range of leading and 
lagging indicators reflecting the Group’s commitment to HSE, and is designed to 
ensure that HSE performance is explicitly considered within the incentive framework.  
 The adjustments in (a) and (b) are independently reviewed. 
EPS and ROACE (75% and 25% respectively)
HSE
Annual Incentive Scheme organisational 
performance measures
Weighting of 2007 performance metrics for Executive Directors
Target performance
15%
85%
 
In determining the actual incentive payment, the Committee 
considers these results against the context of the overall 
performance of the business and of the individual. The  
review of the overall performance of the business takes into 
consideration such factors as operational performance, strategy  
and business development activities and performance against 
industry peers. The review of individual performance takes  
into consideration achievements against the individual’s personal 
performance contract.  
For the 2007 incentive year, financial performance against both the 
EPS and ROACE targets and performance against the HSE balanced 
scorecard were rated as stretch. Taking into account these results 
and overall business and individual performance, the Committee 
has awarded the Chief Executive an AIS payment of 140% of base 
salary, the former Deputy Chief Executive an AIS payment of 100%  
of base salary and the Chief Financial Officer an AIS payment of 110% 
of base salary. Payments in respect of the 2007 incentive year were 
made in March 2008. 
13BLong-term incentives  
The narrative below relates to the current schemes that operated 
during the 2007 financial year. As noted above, approval is being 
sought for the introduction of a new LTIP, which will replace these 
schemes. Further details of the LTIP can be found on pages 133 to 135. 
When making the decision on the level of award, the Committee 
takes into consideration a number of factors including face value, 
EPV and scheme dilution limits. 
The face value of an award is equal to the number of shares, or 
shares under option, multiplied by the relevant share price. The 
relevant share price of an LTIS award is the average share price  
for the 12 months immediately prior to the date of award. The 
relevant share price for a CSOS award is the average share price  
for the three dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant.  
The rules of the LTIS and CSOS each permit a maximum award with 
a face value equal to 400% of salary in each year. The maximum 
combined award granted during 2007 was 400% of salary in LTIS 
and 400% of salary in CSOS.  
EPV is a measure that describes the economic or fair value of an 
award. The measure takes account of the performance conditions 
and the risk that grants and allocations may be forfeited.  
EPV is calculated independently by Kepler Associates. 
† For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results,  
see note 2, page 82.  www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report continued 
 
64 
19BLong Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS)  
A limited number of key employees are allocated Company shares  
under the LTIS. This allocation marks the beginning of a three year 
performance period. The Company’s TSR performance against that  
of a comparator group of companies over the three year period will 
determine what proportion of the allocated shares will be transferred 
into the ownership of the employee. There is no retest provision.  
In the event of a change of control, vesting of shares under the LTIS 
is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to which the 
performance conditions had been met at the time. Time pro-rating 
will apply if the Remuneration Committee determines that this  
is appropriate given the circumstances of the change of control. 
For the 2004 allocation, the comparator group comprised  
21 companies, including BG Group plc.  The Committee considered 
that this group represented an appropriate set of international oil 
and gas companies against which the performance of BG Group 
could be compared by shareholders. 
For the 2005 allocation, the group was reduced to 19, due to the 
merger of Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. and Shell Transport and 
Trading Co. plc to form Royal Dutch Shell plc and the acquisition  
of Unocal Corporation by Chevron Texaco Corporation (now called 
Chevron Corporation). 
For the 2006 allocation, the group was reduced to 17, due to the 
acquisition of Burlington Resources Inc. by ConocoPhillips and  
the acquisition of Kerr-McGee Corporation by Anadarko  
Petroleum Corporation.  
For the 2007 allocation, the group was reduced further  
to 16, due to the merger of Statoil ASA and Norsk Hydro  
ASA's petroleum activities. 
The other companies in the comparator group are currently  
as follows: 
• Anadarko Petroleum 
Corporation 
• BP plc 
• Chevron  
Corporation 
• ConocoPhillips 
• Duke Energy 
Corporation 
• El Paso  
Corporation  
• ENI S.p.A.  
• Exxon Mobil 
Corporation 
• Hess Corporation 
• Marathon Oil 
Corporation 
• Occidental Petroleum 
Corporation  
• Repsol YPF S.A.  
• Royal Dutch Shell plc 
• StatoilHydro ASA 
(formerly Statoil ASA 
and Norsk Hydro ASA)  
• Total S.A. 
Of these companies, nine are headquartered in the USA, one in  
the UK and five elsewhere in Europe. 
The Committee reviews this comparator group prior to making  
any award under the LTIS. 
The Committee has set the following performance conditions  
for allocations made under the LTIS: 
BG Group’s TSR position  
in comparator group % of allocated shares transferred 
Top 100 
Upper quartile 75 
Median 30 
Below median All allocated shares are forfeited 
Where performance is between upper quartile (UQ) and top  
(T) or between median (M) and UQ, the percentage of shares  
to be transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.  
These performance conditions are illustrated by the graph below: 
 
20BLTIS performance conditions 
% of allocated shares transferred 
30
75
100
T UQ M
 
The performance period for the 2004 allocation ended on  
2 September 2007. BG Group’s final TSR for this period relative  
to the TSRs of companies in the relevant comparator group was 
measured by the independent TSR monitoring service of Alithos 
Limited and reviewed by Kepler Associates. This analysis placed  
BG Group in sixth position. The Committee therefore decided,  
in accordance with the performance condition for the 2004 
allocation, that 75% of the original allocation of shares had vested 
and, accordingly, these shares were transferred to the participating 
employees on 6 September 2007.  
14BCompany Share Option Scheme (CSOS) 
Approximately 2 800 employees are currently eligible to participate 
in the CSOS, including all UK payroll employees and those overseas 
employees above a certain grade.  
The Company grants an option over its shares to each eligible 
employee and the option price is set at the fair market value  
at the time of the grant. As described below, the CSOS measures 
performance according to EPS growth relative to the growth in the 
RPIX. The Committee considers that an EPS performance measure 
ensures that employees receive rewards only when the Company 
has achieved sustained earnings growth during the performance 
period. The calculation of EPS growth for grants made on or after  
21 July 2004 has been made using constant commodity prices  
and constant exchange rates.  
During the transition to the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS), EPS growth figures are being calculated on  
a consistent basis by restating prior years’ results in compliance  
with IFRS.  
To the extent that the performance target has been met three years 
from the date of grant, the option may be exercised (in whole or in 
part) at any time up to the expiry of ten years from the date of grant. 
There is no retest provision.  
As in prior years, the levels of grant made to individual employees in 
2007 were differentiated based on each individual’s performance  
to date and expectation of future contributions. For the 2007 grant,  
the Committee set the following performance targets: 
% EPS growth over RPIX (over 3 years) % of options that are exercisable 
30 or greater 100 
15 50 
Less than 15 Options are forfeited 
A proportion of between half and all of the options will  
be exercisable if the Company achieves EPS growth over  
three years of RPIX plus between 15% and 30%, respectively.  BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
 
65
These targets are the same as those that apply to the 2005 and  
2006 grants (and applied to the 2004 grant) and are considered  
by the Committee to be particularly demanding.  
These performance targets are illustrated by the graph below: 
21BCSOS performance conditions 
% of options exercisable 
% EPS growth over three years in excess of RPIX
50
100
30% 15%
 
Over the three year performance period for the 2004 CSOS grant, 
the Company’s EPS growth above the growth in the RPIX exceeded 
30%. As a result, 100% of the shares under the option granted  
to employees in September 2004 are exercisable prior to  
September 2014.  
In the event of a change of control, exercise of an option under  
the CSOS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to 
which the performance condition had been satisfied at the time.  
22BAll-employee share schemes 
In order to encourage share ownership, the Company currently 
provides two all-employee share schemes for its UK employees,  
the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme. 
23BShare Incentive Plan (SIP)  
The BG Group SIP is approved by HM Revenue & Customs. There  
are two parts to the SIP – the Partnership Shares Plan and the  
Free Shares Plan. 
24B(a) Partnership Shares 
Eligible employees are offered the opportunity to buy Company 
shares from pre-tax earnings as part of a regular share purchase 
plan. Shares are currently purchased every six months using 
employees’ accumulated deductions and are placed in trust.  
At 31 December 2007, 63.6% of eligible employees were participating  
in this plan. Of those participating, 75% were contributing the 
maximum of £125 per month. 
25B(b) Free Shares 
A Free Shares award of a maximum of 410 shares, representing the 
value of the £3 000 statutory limit, was made on 25 April 2007 to  
all eligible employees in the UK, based on the Group’s performance 
during 2006. These shares will be held in trust for up to five years.  
For 2008, the Committee may approve the award of Free Shares  
in the Company up to the statutory limit for each individual.  
This number will be determined based on the Group’s  
performance during 2007. 
26BSharesave Scheme 
The Company continued to operate the BG Group Sharesave 
Scheme in 2007. The scheme is approved by HM Revenue  
& Customs and enables eligible employees to acquire the 
Company’s shares with the proceeds of a monthly savings contract. 
The contract period is three years. At 31 December 2007, 74.4%  
of eligible employees were participating in the Sharesave Scheme, 
contributing an average monthly payment of £221.22. Of those 
participating, 75.3% were contributing the statutory maximum  
of £250 per month. 
6BPENSIONS 
The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are  
detailed on page 70. 
As detailed in note 29, page 115, BG Group operates a number  
of pension plans across the Group. Outside the UK, these plans are 
generally defined contribution (or money purchase) arrangements. 
In April 2007, a defined contribution plan was introduced in the UK 
for new hires. Employees who were already members of the defined 
benefit scheme continue to accrue benefits in that scheme. 
3BDILUTION 
The ABI has published guidelines relating to the disclosure of 
commitments to issue new shares or re-issue Treasury shares under 
a company’s share-based schemes. In the event of all options and 
awards outstanding as at 31 December 2007 under BG Group’s  
CSOS (under which options are currently satisfied by the issue of 
new shares) and LTIS (under which awards are currently satisfied  
by the re-issue of Treasury shares) becoming exercisable/vesting 
respectively, the resulting issue of new shares and re-issue  
of Treasury shares would amount to 2.03% of the issued share  
capital at that date. 
In the event of all options outstanding as at 31 December 2007 
under BG Group’s Sharesave Scheme (which involves the issue  
of new shares) becoming exercisable, the resulting issue would 
represent 0.07% of the issued ordinary share capital at that date. 
Partnership and Free Share awards made under the SIP during  
2007 were satisfied by the re-issue of Treasury shares. These  
awards represented 0.002% of the issued share capital as at  
31 December 2007. 
The Company’s intention is to continue to satisfy the future exercise 
of options and vesting awards under the above schemes by the issue 
of new shares and re-issue of Treasury shares as described above. 
4BSHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES 
The Committee has adopted guidelines for Executive Directors,  
GEC members and certain other senior employees to encourage 
substantial long-term share ownership. These require that, over a 
period of five years from the introduction of the guidelines in 2002 
(or date of appointment, if later), Executive Directors build up, and 
then retain, a holding of shares with a value equivalent to 200% of 
base salary. The required holding for other members of the GEC is 
100% of base salary and for certain other senior employees is 50% of 
base salary. The guidelines require that, in relation to the 2002 and 
later LTIS allocations, vested shares (net of tax) should be retained 
by the individual until the required shareholding level is reached. 
7BSERVICE CONTRACTS 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts, including arrangements 
for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and 
are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality 
required to manage the Company. The Committee considers that  
a rolling contract with a notice period of one year is appropriate.  
In line with the Company’s policy, the Executive Directors’ service 
contracts contain change of control provisions. Should the Directors’ 
employment be terminated within 12 months of a change of control, 
they are entitled to liquidated damages. The amount of liquidated 
damages is equal to one year’s gross salary and a credit of one year’s 
pensionable service (less any deductions the employer is required to 
make), which the Committee considers to be a genuine pre-estimate 
of loss. The Committee considers that these provisions assist with 
recruitment and retention and that their inclusion is therefore in  
the best interests of shareholders.  www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report continued 
 
66 
Other than change of control, the Executive Directors’ service 
contracts do not contain provisions for compensation in the  
event of early termination. When calculating termination payments,  
the Committee takes into account a variety of factors, including 
individual and Company performance, the obligation for the 
Director to mitigate his or her own loss (for example, by gaining new 
employment) and the Director’s length of service. Further details of 
the Executive Directors’ service contracts can be found on page 67. 
8BSENIOR EXECUTIVES BELOW THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior 
employees below the Executive Directors is entirely consistent with 
that for the Executive Directors. These senior executives all have  
a significant portion of their reward package linked to performance. 
They all qualify for AIS, CSOS and LTIS, and their financial targets  
are the same as, or cascaded from, the targets for the Executive 
Directors. The Committee reviews and approves the individual 
remuneration packages for the GEC members and the Company 
Secretary in accordance with the overriding objectives of our 
remuneration policy. Their individual performance is reviewed  
and their increases in base salary, AIS payments, and CSOS and LTIS 
awards are subject to approval by the Committee each year. Under 
the proposed new LTIP, senior employees will continue to be treated 
consistently with the Executive Directors and members of the GEC, 
with the exception that a portion of the LTIP may additionally  
be made other than in Performance Shares, but still subject  
to the overall plan limits.  
9BNON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
The Board aims to recruit non-executive Directors of a high  
calibre, with broad commercial, international or other relevant  
experience. Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board  
on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee. Their 
appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to election 
by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.  
Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, they  
are generally re-appointed for a second term of three years,  
subject to re-election by shareholders. There is no notice period  
and no provision for termination payments.  
The terms of engagement of the non-executive Directors are  
set out in a letter of appointment. 
The basic annual fee paid to non-executive Directors is £65 000. 
Additional fees are also payable, for example, for membership  
of, or chairing, a committee of the Board or acting as Senior 
Independent Director. Fees are reviewed every two years, taking  
into account time commitment, competition for high quality non-
executive directors and market movements. The next review will  
be effective 1 July 2008. 
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the 
Company’s share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes. 
10BCHAIRMAN 
Sir Robert Wilson was initially appointed as Chairman with  
effect from 1 January 2004 and was re-appointed with effect  
from 1 January 2007. In line with the non-executive Directors,  
Sir Robert’s re-appointment is for a three year term and there  
is no notice period and no provision for payment in the event of 
early termination. The fee paid to Sir Robert Wilson is £625 000 per 
annum, which is next subject to review effective 1 January 2009. 
11BPERFORMANCE GRAPH  
The graph below shows BG Group’s TSR performance for the five 
year period ended 31 December 2007 (calculated in accordance  
with the Regulations) against the performance of the FTSE 100.  
The FTSE 100 was chosen because this is a recognised broad  
equity market index of which the Company is a member. 
Historical TSR Performance  
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 
holding over ﬁve years 
FTSE 100 comparison based on spot values
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
07 06 05 04 03 02
FTSE 100
BG Group
 
  BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
67
The following section of this report provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment and share interests  
of all the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
INDIVIDUAL REMUNERATION FOR THE YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 
 Salary/fees Taxable benefit (a) Bonus Total 
 
2007 
£ 
2006 
£ 
2007 
£ 
2006 
£ 
2007 
£ 
2006 
£ 
2007 
£ 
2006 
£ 
Sir Robert Wilson 625 000 550 000 2 394 2 945 – – 627 394 552 945 
Ashley Almanza
(c)(d)(e)
 604 493 544 500 3 910 2 892 660 000 540 000 1 268 403 1 087 392 
Frank Chapman
(c)(d)(e)
 996 593 901 600 4 161 4 154 1  400 000 900 000 2 400 754 1 805 754 
Peter Backhouse
(b)
 75 000 76 250 108 331 – – 75 108 76 581 
Sir John Coles
(b)(f)
 80 000 83 750 244 331 – – 80 244 84 081 
Paul Collins
(b)
 95 000 91 250 244 331 – – 95 244 91 581 
Jürgen Dormann
(b)
 75 000 71 250 108 331 – – 75 108 71 581 
Baroness Hogg
(b)
 85 000 78 750 244 331 – – 85 244 79 081 
Dr John Hood
(b)
 48 645 – 108 – – – 48 753 – 
Lord Sharman
(b)
 85 000 78 750 244 331 – – 85 244 79 081 
Philippe Varin
(b)
 75 000 44 469 244 331 – – 75 244 44 800 
Former Directors  
William Friedrich
(c)(d)(e)(g)
 713 897 682 379 25 025 46 388 745 000 690 000 1 483 922 1 418 767 
Sir Richard Giordano
(h)
 – – 20 915 49 628 – – 20 915 49 628 
(a) Taxable benefits include items such as company car, driver, financial advice, gifts and medical insurance. 
(b) Each non-executive Director was paid a fee of £57 500 per annum until 30 June 2006. From 1 July 2006, this increased to £65 000 per annum. A fee of £5 000 per annum  
is also paid for membership of each of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees, other than for the chairmen of those committees. The chairmen 
of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees received additional fees of £15 000, £10 000 and £10 000 per annum respectively until 30 June 2006. 
From 1 July 2006, these fees increased to £20 000 per annum for chairing the Audit Committee and £15 000 per annum for chairing the Corporate Responsibility and 
Remuneration committees. Paul Collins received a fee of £20 000 per annum as Senior Independent Director.  
(c) Bonus figures for 2006 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2006 incentive year that were made in March 2007. Bonus figures for 2007 represent payments 
under the AIS in respect of the 2007 incentive year that will be made in March 2008. 
(d) Salary figures for Executive Directors include Free Shares to the value of £3 000 received under the SIP in April 2006 and £2 993 in April 2007. In 2008, Ashley Almanza,  
Frank Chapman and William Friedrich will be eligible to receive up to a further £3 000 worth of Free Shares under the SIP. 
(e) Salary figures for Ashley Almanza and Frank Chapman for both 2006 and 2007, and for William Friedrich for part of 2006 and all of 2007, include a cash allowance in  
lieu of a company car. 
(f) In 2006, Sir John Coles received a payment of £5 000 in respect of an overseas trip. 
(g) William Friedrich, who is a US citizen and retired as a Director on 13 December 2007, is covered by long-term care insurance if he returns to the USA. The value of the taxable 
benefit for 2007 was £7 895. Cover is being paid by ten instalments, the first of which was paid in 2002. 
(h) Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman and Director on 31 December 2003. Sir Richard continues to be entitled to private medical insurance and long-term care insurance. 
The long-term care insurance is being paid by ten instalments, the first of which was paid in 2002. 
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below: 
 
Contract 
date 
Unexpired  
term 
Notice  
period 
Compensation   
payable   
upon early   
termination (a)
Ashley Almanza 01 Aug 02 rolling 1yr 1yr n/a  
Frank Chapman 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n/a  
William Friedrich
(b)
 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n/a  
(a) Other than the change of control provisions, the Executive Directors’ service contracts do not contain provisions for compensation payable upon early termination. 
(b) William Friedrich retired as a Director on 13 December 2007. 
Change of control 
As described on page 65, the Executive Directors’ service contracts contain change of control provisions. 
For the purposes of these provisions, a change of control is deemed to occur if the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company;  
or if 50% or more of the voting rights of the Company or the right to appoint or remove the majority of the Board of the Company become 
vested in any individual or body or group of individuals or bodies acting in concert; or if all or substantially all of the business, assets and 
undertakings of the Company become owned by any person, firm or company (other than a subsidiary or associated company). A change  
of control is also deemed to occur if the whole of the issued capital of BG Energy Holdings Limited or a substantial part of the undertaking  
of that company (including its subsidiaries) is transferred to another company, unless that transferee company is a subsidiary of the  
Company, or a company ultimately owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the ultimate owners of the Company.   www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report continued 
 
68 
Change of Control continued 
However, a change of control does not occur if (and only if) through a process of reconstruction the Company becomes a subsidiary of another 
company owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the shareholders of the Company. The Executive Directors’ service contracts 
provide that any payments made pursuant to these provisions will be made, less any deductions the employer is required to make. Any such 
payments shall be in full and final settlement of any claims the Executive Director may have against the employer or any associated company 
arising out of the termination of employment, except for any personal injury claim, any claim in respect of accrued pension rights, or statutory 
employment protection claims. 
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
 
Date of letter of 
appointment or 
re-appointment 
Unexpired 
term  
Sir Robert Wilson
(a)
 14 Dec 06 1yr 9mths 
Peter Backhouse 3 Jan 07  2yrs 2mths 
Sir John Coles 24 Jan 07 1yr 2mths 
Paul Collins 5 Feb 07 2yrs 2mths 
Jürgen Dormann 23 May 05 1yr 2mths 
Baroness Hogg 9 Feb 05 2mths 
Dr John Hood
(b)
 28 Apr 07 3yrs 2mths 
Lord Sharman 8 Jan 07 2yrs 2mths 
Philippe Varin
 
 2 May 06 1yr 2mths 
The non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not contain any notice period or provision for compensation in the event of early 
termination of their appointment.  
(a) Sir Robert Wilson was re-appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2007. This is subject to his re-election by shareholders at the 2009 AGM. 
(b) The unexpired term is subject to election by shareholders at the 2008 AGM. 
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES UNDER THE BG GROUP LONG TERM INCENTIVE SCHEME 
Award date 
Market price  
at date of 
award 
Notional 
allocations of 
shares as at 
1 Jan 2007 
Notional 
allocations 
of shares 
made during 
the year 
Shares vested 
during the year  
End of   
performance   
period (b) Vesting date 
Value  
vested 
Notional      
 allocations of      
shares as at      
31 Dec 2007 (d)
Ashley Almanza         
 03 Sep 04
(a)
 £3.5000 400 000  300 000 02 Sep 07 03 Sep 07
(c)
 £2 473 500 – 
 02 Sep 05 £5.0775 371 563   01 Sep 08 02 Sep 08  371 563 
 04 Sep 06 £6.8400 255 330   03 Sep 09 04 Sep 09  255 330 
 05 Sep 07 £7.8650  258 016  04 Sep 10 05 Sep 10  258 016 
Totals  1 026 893      884 909 
Frank Chapman         
 03 Sep 04
(a)
 £3.5000 750 000  562 500 02 Sep 07 03 Sep 07
(c)
 £4 637 812 – 
 02 Sep 05 £5.0775 673 768   01 Sep 08 02 Sep 08  673 768 
 04 Sep 06 £6.8400 516 738   03 Sep 09 04 Sep 09  516 738 
 05 Sep 07 £7.8650  553 426  04 Sep 10 05 Sep 10  553 426 
Totals  1 940 506      1 743 932 
William Friedrich
(d)
         
 03 Sep 04
(a)
 £3.5000 580 000  435 000 02 Sep 07 03 Sep 07
(c)
 £3 586 575 – 
 02 Sep 05 £5.0775 480 555   01 Sep 08 02 Sep 08  480 555 
 04 Sep 06 £6.8400 326 254   03 Sep 09 04 Sep 09  326 254 
 05 Sep 07 £7.8650  320 369 04 Sep 10 05 Sep 10  320 369 
Totals  1 386 809      1 127 178 
(a) As a result of the performance criteria measured in September 2007, 75% of the September 2004 notional allocation was transferred to the Executive Directors  
on 6 September 2007. 
(b) The transfer of shares is dependent on the achievement of performance criteria at the end of a three year performance period. The performance conditions for the  
scheme are set out on page 64. 
(c) The market price on the date of vesting, 3 September 2007, was £7.815 and on the date of transfer, 6 September 2007, was £8.245. 
(d) William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group. 
The Executive Directors also have a deemed beneficial interest in 154 978 shares as potential beneficiaries in the BG Group New  
Employees Share Trust.  BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
69
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES 
OPTIONS 
The number of share options held by the Directors under the BG Group Sharesave Scheme was as follows:  
 
Options as at  
1 Jan 2007 
Exercised 
in year 
Granted 
in year 
Lapsed 
in year 
Options as at 
31 Dec 2007 
Exercise  
price 
Earliest 
normal exercise 
date 
Expiry 
date 
Ashley Almanza 3 458 3 458
(a)
1 340 – 1 340 £7.16 Feb 2011 Aug 2011 
Frank Chapman 2 398 – – – 2 398 £3.95 Nov 2008 May 2009 
William Friedrich
(b)
 1 606 – – – 1 606 £5.82 Nov 2009 May 2010 
(a) The market price on 1 November 2007, the date of exercise, was £8.81. The total gain on exercise was £20 990. This option was exercisable from 1 November 2007  
to 30 April 2008 at an option price of £2.74. 
(b) William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group. 
The number of share options held by the Directors under the BG Group CSOS was as follows:  
 
Options as at  
1 Jan 2007 
Exercised 
in year 
Granted 
in year 
Lapsed 
in year 
Options as at 
31 Dec 2007 
Exercise  
price 
Earliest 
normal exercise 
date 
Expiry 
date 
Ashley Almanza 204 066 204 066
(a)
– – – £2.7050 Sep 2006 Sep 2013 
 250 000 250 000
(a)
– – – £3.4733 Sep 2007 Sep 2014 
 337 892 – – – 337 892 £4.9942 Sep 2008 Sep 2015 
 308 228 – – – 308 228 £6.8983 Sep 2009 Sep 2016 
 – – 303 030 – 303 030 £7.9200 Sep 2010 Sep 2017 
Frank Chapman 156 424 – – – 156 424 £2.6850 Nov 2003 Nov 2010 
 382 304 – – – 382 304 £2.5634 Nov 2004 Nov 2011 
 409 136 – – – 409 136 £2.5175 Sep 2005 Sep 2012 
 440 406 – – – 440 406 £2.7050 Sep 2006 Sep 2013 
 500 000 – – – 500 000 £3.4733 Sep 2007 Sep 2014 
 612 711 – – – 612 711 £4.9942 Sep 2008 Sep 2015 
 521 868 – – – 521 868 £6.8983 Sep 2009 Sep 2016 
 – – 505 050 – 505 050 £7.9200 Sep 2010 Sep 2017 
William Friedrich
(b)
 155 307 155 307
(c)
– – – £2.6850 Nov 2003 Nov 2010 
 378 403 378 403
(c)
– – – £2.5634 Nov 2004 Nov 2011 
 343 435 – – – 343 435 £2.5175 Sep 2005 Sep 2012 
 362 292 – – – 362 292 £2.7050 Sep 2006 Sep 2013 
 380 000 – – – 380 000 £3.4733 Sep 2007 Sep 2014 
 437 007 – – – 437 007 £4.9942 Sep 2008 Sep 2015 
 393 847 – – – 393 847 £6.8983 Sep 2009 Sep 2016 
 – – 376 262 – 376 262 £7.9200 Sep 2010 Sep 2017 
(a) The market price on 6 September 2007, the date of exercise, was £8.245. The total gain on exercise was £2 323 451. 
(b) William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group. 
(c)  The market price on 15 May 2007, the date of exercise, was £7.63. The total gain on exercise was £2 685 210. 
The performance measure for the CSOS is set out on pages 64 and 65. 
The closing price of an ordinary share on 31 December 2007 was £11.50. The range during the year was £11.52 (high) and £6.325 (low).  
All market price figures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.   www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report continued 
 
70 
ORDINARY SHARES 
The Directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the financial year were as follows: 
 
Beneficial interests 
in ordinary shares (a) 
 
As at 
1 Jan 2007 (b) 
As at 
31 Dec 2007 (c) 
Sir Robert Wilson 80 000 80 000 
Ashley Almanza 176 591 320 914 
Frank Chapman 435 815 718 320 
William Friedrich
(d)
 619 593 626 872 
Peter Backhouse 20 500 20 500 
Sir John Coles 5 829 5 829 
Paul Collins
(e)
 100 000 100 000 
Jürgen Dormann  22 000 22 000 
Baroness Hogg  5 904 6 585 
Dr John Hood (appointed 26 April 2007) – – 
Lord Sharman 1 956 1 956 
Philippe Varin  5 000 5 000 
(a) Beneficial interests including shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group SIP. 
(b) Or on date of appointment if later. 
(c)  Or on date of retirement if earlier. 
(d) William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group. At that date, he held 77 740 ordinary 
shares in the form of 15 548 American Depositary Shares (ADSs). Each ADS represents five ordinary shares. 
(e) Paul Collins’ holding is in the form of 20 000 ADSs. 
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings between  
1 January 2008 and 12 March 2008. 
As of 12 March 2008, the Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company represent less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company. 
PENSIONS  
The basis on which retirement benefits are calculated for Frank Chapman, William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza has not changed during the 
year. They receive an accrual of benefits designed to target a pension of two-thirds of their final 12 months’ salary on retirement from BG Group 
at age 60, inclusive of retained benefits. As is the case for all other UK employees who became pension scheme members before 6 April 2006, 
they cannot be paid an immediate pension before age 60 on a non-actuarially reduced basis unless they have attained age 55 and completed 
ten years’ service with the Group (including pensionable service transferred from previous employment) and the Company expressly agrees  
to payment on an unreduced basis, or they are over the age of 50 and have been made redundant, or in the event of incapacity. UK employees 
who became pension scheme members on or after 6 April 2006 cannot be paid a non-actuarially reduced pension until age 60, other than in 
the event of incapacity. Pensions in payment are increased in line with retail price inflation. An adult dependant’s pension is payable on death 
in service, equal to two-thirds of that payable to the pension scheme member based on potential service to age 65. On death in retirement, an 
adult dependant’s pension is payable equal to two-thirds of the member’s pension prior to exchanging any of it for a cash lump sum. 
All the Executive Directors were members of the BG Pension Scheme (BGPS) and the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme (BGSBS) throughout 
the year. The BGPS is a funded, registered pension scheme and the BGSBS is an unfunded, unregistered pension scheme. The allocation of the 
Executive Directors’ benefits between the registered and unregistered schemes changed after 6 April 2006, when a new pensions taxation 
regime came into force. Their BGPS benefits are limited to the “lifetime allowance” and the balance of their benefits is provided by the BGSBS. 
Frank Chapman elected “enhanced protection” under the new regime and therefore has a personal lifetime allowance that is based on the 
value of his accrued BGPS benefits at 6 April 2006. 
A provision has been made in the Company's accounts in respect of the obligations for unfunded post-retirement benefits. 
As part of the changes made in response to the new pensions taxation regime, the “earnings cap” was removed in 2006 as a limit on  
BGPS benefits for all members including the Executive Directors. The Company made two additional contributions to the BGPS to cover  
the consequential increase in BGPS liability and the second of these payments was made in January 2007. There has been a corresponding 
reduction in the provision in the Company’s accounts.  BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
71
Directors’ pension provisions were as follows:  
 
Director’s 
contributions in 
year to 
31 Dec 2007 
£000 
Age at 
31 Dec 2007 
Increase in accrued  
annual pension in year  
to 31 Dec 2007 
£000 pa  
(a)                               (b) 
Total accrued 
annual 
pension at 
 31 Dec 2007 
£000 pa 
Retirement 
age 
Ashley Almanza 17 44 30 25 155 60 
Frank Chapman 17 54 73 57 510 60 
William Friedrich
(c)
 17 58 65 52 451 60 
 
 
Transfer value of 
accrued pension as at 
31 Dec 2006(d) 
£000 
Transfer value of  
accrued pension as at  
31 Dec 2007(d) 
£000 
Increase in transfer value 
over the year less Director’s 
own contributions 
£000 
Ashley Almanza 1 296 1 637 324 
Frank Chapman 7 233 8 755 1 505 
William Friedrich
(c)
 7 895 9 683 1 771 
(a) Actual increase. 
(b) Increase net of price inflation. 
(c) William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group and continues to accrue pension. 
(d) The transfer values shown at the end of 2006 and 2007 represent the value of each Executive Director’s accrued pension based on total service completed to the relevant 
date. The accrued pensions are the amounts that would have been paid if the Executive Director had left service at the relevant date. The transfer values are calculated  
in accordance with guidance note GN11 issued by the Board for Actuarial Standards. 
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, it is Company policy to allow each of them to accept one external appointment as a  
non-executive director of another company, the fees for which would be retained by the individual Director. William Friedrich is a non-executive 
director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc (RBS) and is a member of its audit committee. In this capacity he receives a total annual fee  
of £100 000, which he retains. RBS is one of a number of relationship banks providing a variety of commercial banking and other financial 
services to BG Group. 
By order of the Board 
Baroness Hogg 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
12 March 2008 
Registered office: 
100 Thames Valley Park Drive 
Reading 
Berkshire RG6 1PT 
Registered in England & Wales No. 3690065  www.bg-group.com
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of BG Group plc 
 
72 
We have audited the Group and parent company Financial 
Statements (the “Financial Statements”) of BG Group plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, the balance sheets, the cash flow statements, 
the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense,  
and the related notes. These Financial Statements have been 
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have 
also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that  
is described as having been audited. 
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Financial Reporting  
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set  
out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities. 
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the  
part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance  
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including  
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the 
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose 
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior  
consent in writing. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial 
Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial 
Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited 
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements,  
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether  
in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is 
consistent with the Financial Statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has  
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all  
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or  
if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration  
and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement  
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
Combined Code (2006) specified for our review by the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.  
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements  
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion  
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance 
procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report  
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial 
Statements. The other information comprises only the other items 
listed in the contents section of the Annual Report, excluding the 
2007 audited Financial Statements and the auditable part of the 
Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our report  
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the Financial Statements. Our responsibilities 
do not extend to any other information. 
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and  
the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes  
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made  
by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements,  
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary  
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the 
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity  
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall 
adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial 
Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited. 
OPINION 
In our opinion: 
• the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view,  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,  
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007  
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
• the parent company Financial Statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended; 
• the Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration 
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial 
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent  
with the Financial Statements. 
 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London 
12 March 2008  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Principal accounting policies 
 
73
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2007  
have been prepared in accordance with International Financial  
Reporting Standards (IFRS), and International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations. These include 
standards and interpretations adopted by the EU. In addition,  
the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with 
those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. The Financial Statements have been prepared 
primarily using historical cost principles except that, as disclosed  
in the accounting policies below, certain items, including derivatives,  
are measured at fair value. 
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires 
management to make judgments and assumptions that affect  
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of 
contingencies at the date of the Financial Statements and the 
reported revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  
Actual results could differ from these estimates. BG Group  
believes that the accounting policies associated with exploration 
expenditure, depreciation, decommissioning, impairments,  
financial instruments including commodity contracts, and  
revenue recognition are the policies where changes in estimates  
and assumptions could have a significant impact on the Financial 
Statements. Further discussion on these policies, estimates and 
judgments can be found in the Financial review, pages 28 to 37;  
note 6, page 93; note 11, page 96; and note 21, page 104. 
The presentation adopted by the Group for its results under  
IFRS is explained in note 2, page 82.  
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION 
The Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts 
of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the 
results of its share of jointly controlled entities and associates using 
the equity method of accounting. Consistent accounting policies 
have been used to prepare the consolidated Financial Statements. 
Most of BG Group’s Exploration and Production activity is conducted 
through jointly controlled operations. BG Group accounts for its own 
share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with these 
jointly controlled operations using the proportional consolidation 
method. 
The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated 
from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company. 
For the Company Financial Statements only, investments  
in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision  
for impairment. 
PRESENTATION OF RESULTS 
The Group presents its results in the income statement  
to separately identify the contribution of disposals, certain  
re-measurements and impairments in order to provide  
readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the  
underlying operating performance of the Group’s ongoing  
business, see note 2, page 82 and note 10, page 96. 
SEGMENT REPORTING 
The Group’s primary format for segment reporting is business 
segments and the secondary format is geographical segments.  
This reflects the fact that the risks and returns of the Group’s 
operations are primarily based on its business activities rather  
than the geographical location of the Group’s operations. 
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL 
In the event of a business combination, fair values are attributed  
to the net assets acquired. Goodwill, which represents the 
difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of 
the net assets acquired, is capitalised and subject to an impairment  
review at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired. Goodwill 
is treated as an asset of the relevant entity to which it relates, 
including foreign entities. Accordingly, it is re-translated into pounds 
Sterling at the closing rate of exchange at each balance sheet date. 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT EXCLUDING 
DECOMMISSIONING ASSETS 
All property, plant and equipment is carried at depreciated  
historical cost. Additions represent new, or replacements  
of specific components of, property, plant and equipment. 
Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and 
equipment (including government grants) are included in creditors 
as deferred income and credited to the income statement over  
the life of the assets. Finance costs associated with borrowings  
used to finance major capital projects are capitalised up to the  
point at which the asset is ready for its intended use. 
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other property, plant and 
equipment, except exploration and production assets, is depreciated 
on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical 
cost less residual value of individual assets over their estimated 
useful economic lives. The depreciation periods for the principal 
categories of assets are as follows: 
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years 
Mains, services and meters up to 60 years 
Plant and machinery 5 to 30 years 
Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years 
Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the 
commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the 
unit of production method based on the proved developed reserves 
of those fields, except that a basis of total proved reserves is used 
for acquired interests and for facilities. Changes in these estimates 
are dealt with prospectively. 
Asset lives are kept under review and complete asset life reviews are 
conducted periodically. Residual values are reassessed annually. 
Intangible assets in respect of contractual rights are recognised  
at cost less amortisation. They are amortised on a straight-line  
basis over the term of the related contracts. 
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
Any impairment of non-current assets is calculated as the difference 
between the carrying values of cash generating units (including 
associated goodwill) and their recoverable amount, being the higher 
of the estimated value in use or fair value less costs to sell at the 
date the impairment loss is recognised. Value in use represents the 
net present value of expected future cash flows discounted on  
a pre-tax basis.  
ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 
When an asset or disposal group’s carrying value will be  
recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use, it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower 
of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation  
is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.  www.bg-group.com
Principal accounting policies continued 
 
 
74 
INVENTORIES 
Inventories, including inventories of gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
and oil held for sale in the ordinary course of business, are stated at 
weighted average historical cost less provision for deterioration and 
obsolescence or, if lower, net realisable value.  
REVENUE RECOGNITION 
Revenue associated with exploration and production sales (of crude 
oil and petroleum products including natural gas) is recorded  
when title passes to the customer. Revenue from the production  
of natural gas and oil in which the Group has an interest with other 
producers is recognised based on the Group’s working interest and 
the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts (entitlement 
method). Differences between production sold and the Group’s 
share of production are not significant. 
Sales of LNG and associated products are recognised when title 
passes to the customer. LNG shipping revenue is recognised over  
the period of the relevant contract. 
Revenue from gas transmission and distribution activities is 
recognised in the same period in which the related volumes  
are delivered to the customer. 
For power stations which are contracted based on availability, 
revenue is recognised based on the availability status of the power 
station to produce at a given point in time. Where power output  
is sold under pool or other contractual arrangements and where 
revenue is linked to the costs of actual production, revenue is 
recognised when the output is delivered. 
All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer. 
EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE 
BG Group uses the ‘successful efforts’ method of accounting for 
exploration expenditure. Exploration expenditure, including licence 
acquisition costs, is capitalised as an intangible asset when incurred 
and certain expenditure, such as geological and geophysical 
exploration costs, is expensed. A review of each licence or field is 
carried out, at least annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves 
have been discovered. When proved reserves are determined,  
the relevant expenditure, including licence acquisition costs,  
is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated  
on a unit of production basis. Expenditure deemed to be 
unsuccessful is written off to the income statement. Exploration 
expenditure is assessed for impairment when facts and 
circumstances suggest that its carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount. For the purposes of impairment testing, 
exploration and production assets may be aggregated into 
appropriate cash generating units based on considerations 
including geographical location, the use of common facilities  
and marketing arrangements.  
DECOMMISSIONING COSTS 
Where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred,  
provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost  
of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields. 
When this provision gives access to future economic benefits,  
an asset is recognised and then subsequently depreciated in line 
with the life of the underlying producing field, otherwise the costs 
are charged to the income statement. The unwinding of the 
discount on the provision is included in the income statement 
within finance costs. Any changes to estimated costs or discount 
rates are dealt with prospectively. 
FOREIGN CURRENCIES 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated into pounds Sterling (the functional 
currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the 
Group) at closing rates of exchange. Trading results of overseas 
subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates 
are translated into pounds Sterling at average rates of exchange. 
Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net 
assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves. Any 
differences arising from 1 January 2003, the date of transition  
to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity. 
Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities are taken  
to the income statement, with the exception of exchange 
differences on monetary items that form part of a net investment  
in a foreign operation. These differences are taken to reserves until  
the related net investment is disposed of. All other exchange 
movements are dealt with through the income statement. 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits with  
a maturity of three months or less, and other short-term highly 
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known  
amounts of cash. 
DEFERRED TAX 
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability  
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax  
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the  
Financial Statements. Currently enacted tax rates are used in  
the determination of deferred income tax. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit 
will be available, against which the temporary differences can be 
utilised. 
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, 
except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
LEASES 
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in 
property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments as determined at  
the inception of the lease. The obligations relating to finance leases,  
net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are determined 
at the inception of the lease and included within borrowings.  
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to 
accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant  
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for  
each accounting period. 
The Group has certain long-term arrangements under which it has 
acquired all of the capacity of certain property, plant and equipment.  
In circumstances where it is considered that the Group has the 
majority of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant, the 
arrangement is considered to contain a finance lease. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised  
and subsequently measured at fair value. 
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group’s treasury 
operations include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps,   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
75
cross currency interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements  
and forward exchange contracts. 
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges  
in line with the Group’s risk management policies. Gains and losses 
arising from the re-measurement of these financial instruments  
are either recognised in the income statement or deferred in equity 
depending on the type of hedging relationship. When a hedging 
instrument is sold or expires, any cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in equity remains in equity until the hedged transaction 
is recognised in the income statement.  
Movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments  
not included in hedging relationships are recognised in the income 
statement.  
Loans held by the Group are initially measured at fair value and 
subsequently carried at amortised cost except where they form the 
underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship 
when the carrying value is adjusted to reflect fair value movements 
associated with the hedged risks. Such adjustments are reported in 
the income statement.  
Other financial instruments such as receivable balances are 
measured at amortised cost less impairments. Liabilities associated 
with financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair 
value and re-measured at each balance sheet date. 
COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS 
Within the ordinary course of business the Group routinely enters 
into sale and purchase transactions for commodities. The majority 
of these transactions take the form of contracts that were entered 
into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery  
of the commodity in accordance with the Group’s expected sale, 
purchase or usage requirements. Such contracts are not within the 
scope of IAS 39. 
Certain long-term gas sales contracts operating in the UK gas 
market have terms within the contract that constitute written 
options, and accordingly they fall within the scope of IAS 39. In 
addition, commodity instruments are used to manage certain  
price exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location  
of its physical gas and LNG commitments. These contracts are 
recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with movements in  
fair value recognised in the income statement, see Presentation  
of results above, note 2, page 82, and note 10, page 96. 
The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments  
to manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity 
prices. Such contracts include physical and net settled forwards, 
futures, swaps and options. Where these derivatives have been 
designated as cash flow hedges of underlying commodity  
price exposures, certain gains and losses attributable to these 
instruments are deferred in equity and recognised in the income 
statement when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises. 
All other commodity contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are 
measured at fair value with gains and losses taken to the income 
statement. 
Gas contracts and related derivative instruments associated with 
the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party gas are presented  
on a net basis within other operating income.  
PENSIONS 
The amount recognised on the balance sheet in respect of liabilities 
for defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans 
represents the present value of the obligations offset by the  
fair value of plan assets and excluding actuarial gains and losses  
not recognised.  
The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits  
is charged to the income statement over the periods benefiting  
from the employees’ services. Current service costs are reflected  
in operating profit and financing costs are reflected in finance  
costs in the period in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses 
that exceed the greater of 10% of plan assets or plan obligations  
are spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees 
participating in the plan and are reflected in operating profit. 
Contributions made to defined contribution pension plans  
are charged to the income statement when payable. 
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is 
charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the 
related share options or share allocations. The cost is based on  
the fair value of the options or shares allocated and the number  
of awards expected to vest. The fair value of each option or share  
is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model  
or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of award. 
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair  
value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions  
are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number  
of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the 
number actually vesting. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE 
All research and advertising expenditure is written off as incurred. 
Development expenditure is written off as incurred unless it meets 
the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Where 
the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised  
and amortised over their useful economic lives.  www.bg-group.com
Consolidated income statement 
The accounting policies on pages 73 to 75 together with the notes on pages 81 to 120 form part of these accounts. 
 
76 
 
 for the year ended 31 December  
 
 2007 2006 
 
Notes 
Business 
Performance 
£m 
Disposals, re- 
measurements 
and impairments 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Business 
Performance 
£m 
Disposals, re- 
measurements 
and impairments 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Group revenue 2 8 291 – 8 291 7 136 – 7 136 
Other operating income 3, 6 39 (172) (133) 134 404 538 
Group revenue and other operating income 2 8 330 (172) 8 158 7 270 404 7 674 
Operating costs 4, 6 (5 329) – (5 329) (4 400) (104) (4 504)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of non-current assets  6 – 19 19 – (49) (49)
Operating profit/(loss)
(a) 
2 3 001 (153) 2 848 2 870 251 3 121 
Finance income 6, 7 146 6 152 104 23 127 
Finance costs 6, 7 (120) (4) (124) (80) (22) (102)
Share of post-tax results from  
joint ventures and associates 2 163 – 163 139 – 139 
Profit/(loss) before tax  3 190 (151) 3 039 3 033 252 3 285 
Taxation 6, 8 (1 354) 115 (1 239) (1 348) (113) (1 461)
Profit/(loss) for the year 2, 6 1 836 (36) 1 800 1 685 139 1 824 
Profit attributable to:        
 Shareholders (earnings) 2, 6 1 783 (37) 1 746 1 640 139 1 779 
 Minority interests 2, 6 53 1 54 45 – 45 
  1 836 (36) 1 800 1 685 139 1 824 
        
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)        
Basic 10 52.7 (1.1) 51.6 47.4 4.0 51.4 
Diluted 10 52.2 (1.1) 51.1  47.0 4.0 51.0 
        
Total operating profit/(loss) including share of  
pre-tax operating results from joint ventures 
and associates 2 3 248 (153) 3 095 3 103 251 3 354 
(a) Operating profit/(loss) is before share of results from joint ventures and associates. 
The results for the year are derived solely from continuing operations.  
For information on dividends paid and proposed in the year see note 9, page 95.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 
The accounting policies on pages 73 to 75 together with the notes on pages 81 to 120 form part of these accounts. 
 
77
 
THE GROUP 
for the year ended 31 December 
 Note 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Profit for the year  1 800 1 824 
Net fair value gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges  26 (121) 103 
Transfers to income statement on cash flow hedges 26 (7) (1)
Net fair value gains on net investment hedges 26 6 80 
Tax on cash flow and net investment hedges 26 36 (55)
Currency translation adjustments
(a)
 26 101 (575)
Net gains/(losses) recognised directly in equity  15 (448)
    
Total recognised income for the year  1 815 1 376 
Attributable to:    
 Shareholders  1 748 1 337 
 Minority interests  67 39 
  1 815 1 376 
(a) In 2007, a £7m gain (2006 £1m loss) was transferred to the income statement as part of the profit/(loss) on disposal of foreign operations.  
There are no movements recognised through the Company’s statement of recognised income and expense in 2007 or 2006 except profit for the 
year of £695m (2006 £1 041m). 
  www.bg-group.com
Balance sheets 
The accounting policies on pages 73 to 75 together with the notes on pages 81 to 120 form part of these accounts. 
 
78 
  as at 31 December 
  The Group The Company 
 Notes 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m  
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Assets      
Non-current assets      
Goodwill 11 385 328 – – 
Other intangible assets 12 823 694 – – 
Property, plant and equipment 13 7 426 5 960 – – 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14 – – 2 269 2 269 
Investments accounted for using equity method 14 1 157 1 086 – – 
Deferred tax assets 24 86 74 7 – 
Trade and other receivables 17 70 49 – – 
Commodity contracts and other derivative financial instruments 21 378 273 – – 
  10 325 8 464 2 276 2 269 
Current assets      
Inventories 16 382 247 – – 
Trade and other receivables 17 2 261 1 854 852 895 
Current tax receivable  52 – – – 
Commodity contracts and other derivative financial instruments 21 489 575 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 1 881 1 463 2 1 
  5 065 4 139 854 896 
      
Assets classified as held for sale 19 – 85 – – 
Total assets  15 390 12 688 3 130 3 165 
      
Liabilities      
Current liabilities      
Borrowings 20 (275) (103) – – 
Trade and other payables 22 (2 251) (1 618) (208) (11)
Current tax liabilities  (554) (357) (2) – 
Commodity contracts and other derivative financial instruments 21 (804) (741) – – 
  (3 884) (2 819) (210) (11)
Non-current liabilities     
Borrowings 20 (1 668) (1 559) – – 
Trade and other payables 22 (30) (21) – – 
Commodity contracts and other derivative financial instruments 21 (366) (90) – – 
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (1 258) (1 146) – – 
Retirement benefit obligations 29 (165) (167) – – 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 (662) (387) – – 
  (4 149) (3 370) – – 
     
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 19 – (34) – – 
Total liabilities  (8 033) (6 223) (210) (11)
      
Net assets  7 357 6 465 2 920 3 154 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Balance sheets continued 
The accounting policies on pages 73 to 75 together with the notes on pages 81 to 120 form part of these accounts. 
 
79
 
  as at 31 December 
  The Group The Company 
 Notes 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Equity 25, 26     
Ordinary shares  358 356 358 356 
Share premium  165 116 165 116 
Hedging reserve  (39) 51 – – 
Translation reserve  (164) (256) – – 
Other reserves  1 702 1 702 756 756 
Retained earnings  5 203 4 394 1 641 1 926 
Total shareholders’ equity  7 225 6 363 2 920 3 154 
Minority interest in equity  132 102 – – 
Total equity  7 357 6 465 2 920 3 154 
All inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation. Commitments and contingencies are shown in note 27, page 112. 
The accounts on pages 73 to 120 were approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 12 March 2008 by: 
Ashley Almanza, Chief Financial Officer  www.bg-group.com
Cash flow statements 
The accounting policies on pages 73 to 75 together with the notes on pages 81 to 120 form part of these accounts. 
 
80 
  for the year ended 31 December 
  The Group The Company 
 Notes 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m  
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Cash generated by operations 30 3 691 3 360  24 11 
Income taxes (paid)/received  (950) (979) 1 21 
Net cash inflow from operating activities  2 741 2 381  25 32 
Cash flows from investing activities       
Dividends received   148 193  677 1 047 
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary undertakings and 
investments  461 9  – – 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets  3 49  – – 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets  (1 718) (1 313) – – 
Loans (to)/from joint ventures and associates  (82) (66) – – 
Business combinations and investments
(a)
  (497) (67) – – 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities  (1 685) (1 195) 677 1 047 
Cash flows from financing activities      
Interest paid
(b)
  (129) (121) – – 
Interest received  132 135  35 – 
Dividends paid  (264) (246) (264) (246)
Dividends paid to minority  (37) (36) – – 
Net proceeds from issue of new borrowings
(c)
  444 214  – – 
Repayment of borrowings  (290) (192) – – 
Issue of shares 26 51 26  51 25 
Purchase of own shares  (555) (972) (555) (972)
Funding movements with subsidiary  – –  32 115 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (648) (1 192) (701) (1 078)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  408 (6) 1 1 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 18 1 463 1 516  1 – 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  10 (47) – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 18 1 881 1 463  2 1 
Major non-cash transactions included assets acquired during the year of £53m (2006 £199m) financed through finance lease arrangements and 
a provision of £156m to reflect the present obligation under retained capacity contracts in the Interconnector pipeline following the sale of the 
Group’s 25% equity interest in Interconnector (UK) Limited (see note 6, page 93). 
(a) In 2007, includes the purchase of the remaining equity (66.3%) of Serene S.p.A. (now BG Italia Power S.p.A.) net of cash acquired of £27m and the purchase of Lake Road and 
Masspower power plants (see note 15, page 100). In 2006, includes the purchase of the Dighton power plant and deferred consideration for the acquisition of BG Brindisi 
LNG S.p.A. which was acquired in 2005. 
(b) Includes capitalised interest of £37m (2006 £54m). 
(c) Includes net cash flows relating to short maturity financing items.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes to the accounts 
 
81
1 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  
The impact of new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations on BG Group’s Financial Statements for 2007 is set out below.  
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
The Group has adopted the disclosure requirements in respect of financial instruments set out in IFRS 7 for the first time in these Financial 
Statements. IFRS 7 requires disclosure of the significance of financial instruments for the Group’s financial position and performance; and 
qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments. This includes disclosures about credit  
risk, liquidity risk and market risk. This information can be found in note 21, page 104 and the Risk Factors section of the Business Review,  
pages 42 to 45. 
Additional interpretations issued by IFRIC were mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2007 but did not result in any changes to the 
Group’s accounting policies or disclosure.  
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and IFRIC during 2007 but have not yet been  
endorsed by the EU or adopted by the Group: 
Amendments to IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ 
The IASB issued amendments to IAS 23 in March 2007. The main change from the previous version of IAS 23 is the removal of the option  
of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use  
or sale. BG Group’s accounting policy is to capitalise costs associated with borrowings used to finance major capital projects and therefore  
the application of these amendments will not have a material impact on the Group’s results. The amendments to the standard are  applicable 
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. 
Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ 
The IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 in September 2007. The main changes from the previous version of IAS 1 are primarily in relation to the 
reporting of owner changes in equity and comprehensive income. The amended standard requires that all changes in equity with owners must 
be presented separately from non-owner changes in equity, with income and expenses associated with non-owner changes in equity being 
presented either in a statement of comprehensive income or a separate income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.  
The amended standard is applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The application of the amendments  
is not expected to have a material impact on the way in which the Group presents its Financial Statements. 
In addition, IFRIC issued IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ and IFRIC 14 ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding 
Requirements and their Interaction’.  Neither interpretation is expected to have a material impact on the Group’s Financial Statements. 
The Group will adopt the following standards and interpretations in 2008, subject to endorsement by the EU: 
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ 
IFRS 8 sets out the requirements for disclosure about an entity’s operating segments and also about an entity’s products and services, the 
geographical areas in which it operates and its major customers. This standard is mandatory for financial statements beginning on or after  
1 January 2009, although earlier application is permitted and BG Group intends to apply this standard in its Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2008. 
IFRIC 12 ‘Service Concession Arrangements’  
IFRIC 12 provides guidance on the accounting by operators for public-to-private service concession arrangements. It is applicable for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 although it has not yet been adopted by the EU. BG Group is currently reviewing the interpretation 
to determine the likely impact on the Group.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
82 
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS AND RESULTS PRESENTATION  
The primary reporting segments for BG Group’s operations in 2007 comprise Exploration and Production (E&P), Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), 
Transmission and Distribution (T&D), Power Generation (Power) and Other activities. E&P comprises exploration, development, production  
and marketing of hydrocarbons with a focus on natural gas. LNG combines the development and use of LNG import and export facilities with 
the purchase, shipping and sale of LNG and regasified natural gas. T&D develops, owns and operates major pipelines and distribution networks,  
and supplies natural gas through these to the end customer. Power develops, owns and operates natural gas-fired power generation plants 
around the world. Other activities primarily comprise business development expenditure and corporate costs. 
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. In 2007 most of the operations were managed in five main geographical  
areas: Europe and Central Asia, South America, Asia Pacific, North America and the Caribbean, and Mediterranean Basin and Africa. From 
1 January 2008, the Group’s Asia Pacific and Mediterranean Basin and Africa regions were consolidated into the newly created Africa, Middle 
East and Asia region. The Group’s South America and North America and Caribbean regions were consolidated into the newly created Americas  
and Global LNG region. The segmental analysis and results presentation on page 83 is aligned with the way the business was managed in 2007. 
Intra-group and inter-segment sales are settled at market prices and are generally based on the same prices as those charged to third parties 
(arm’s length principle). Group revenue, profit for the year, net assets, gross assets and gross liabilities, depreciation and amortisation and 
capital investment attributable to BG Group activities are shown on page 83, analysed by business segment and geographical segment.  
The presentation of BG Group’s results under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) separately identifies the effect of the  
re-measurement of certain financial instruments and profits and losses on the disposal and impairment of non-current assets and businesses. 
Results excluding disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments (‘Business Performance’) are presented in order to provide readers with 
a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Group’s ongoing business. Further information on Business 
Performance is given on page 140. 
Disposals, re-measurements and impairments include unrealised gains and losses in respect of certain long-term UK gas sales contracts 
classified as derivatives under IAS 39, commodity instruments used to manage certain price exposures in respect of optimising the timing  
and location of physical gas and LNG commitments, and financial instruments used to manage foreign exchange and interest rate exposure. 
The separate presentation of these items best reflects the underlying performance of the business since it distinguishes between the 
temporary timing differences associated with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and actual realised gains and losses. Under IFRS the results 
from jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) and associates are presented net of tax and finance costs on the face of the income statement.  
It is also relevant to present the operating profit of the Group including results of joint ventures and associates before interest and tax.  
The following tables provide a reconciliation between the overall results and Business Performance and operating profit including and 
excluding the results of joint ventures and associates.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
83
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS AND RESULTS PRESENTATION continued 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 
Analysed by business segment 
 
Business Performance 
Disposals, re-measurements  
and impairments Total 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Group revenue        
Exploration and Production 4 063 3 902 – – 4 063 3 902 
Liquefied Natural Gas 3 038 2 334 – – 3 038 2 334 
Transmission and Distribution 978 877 – – 978 877 
Power Generation 521 248 – – 521 248 
Other activities 7 8 – – 7 8 
Less: intra-group sales
(a)
 (316) (233) – – (316) (233)
Group revenue 8 291 7 136 – – 8 291 7 136 
Other operating income 39 134 (172) 404 (133) 538 
Group revenue and other operating income 8 330 7 270 (172) 404 8 158 7 674 
Operating profit/(loss) before share of results from 
joint ventures and associates
(b)
       
Exploration and Production 2 387 2 457 (154) 337 2 233 2 794 
Liquefied Natural Gas 394 248 – (69) 394 179 
Transmission and Distribution 213 190 1 1 214 191 
Power Generation 44 18 – – 44 18 
Other activities (37) (43) – (18) (37) (61)
 3 001 2 870 (153) 251 2 848 3 121 
Pre-tax share of operating results of joint ventures 
and associates       
Liquefied Natural Gas 127 104 – – 127 104 
Transmission and Distribution 34 41 – – 34 41 
Power Generation 86 88 – – 86 88 
 247 233 – – 247 233 
Total operating profit/(loss)       
Exploration and Production 2 387 2 457 (154) 337 2 233 2 794 
Liquefied Natural Gas 521 352 – (69) 521 283 
Transmission and Distribution 247 231 1 1 248 232 
Power Generation 130 106 – – 130 106 
Other activities (37) (43) – (18) (37) (61)
 3 248 3 103 (153) 251 3 095 3 354 
Net finance costs       
Finance income 146 104 6 23 152 127 
Finance costs (120) (80) (4) (22) (124) (102)
Share of joint ventures and associates (53) (67) – – (53) (67)
 (27) (43) 2 1 (25) (42)
Taxation       
Taxation (1 354) (1 348) 115 (113) (1 239) (1 461)
Share of joint ventures and associates (31) (27) – – (31) (27)
 (1 385) (1 375) 115 (113) (1 270) (1 488)
Profit for the year 1 836 1 685 (36) 139 1 800 1 824 
Profit attributable to:       
 Shareholders (earnings) 1 783 1 640 (37) 139 1 746 1 779 
 Minority interests  53 45 1 – 54 45 
 1 836 1 685 (36) 139 1 800 1 824 
(a) Intra-group sales are attributable to segments as follows: E&P £237m (2006 £233m), and LNG £79m (2006 £nil). 
(b) Operating profit/(loss) before share of results from joint ventures and associates includes disposals and provisions for impairment of £19m (2006 £(153)m), attributable  
to segments as follows: E&P £18m (2006 £(67)m), LNG £nil (2006 £(69)m), T&D £1m (2006 £1m) and Other activities £nil (2006 £(18)m). Also included are: (i) non-cash re-
measurements of £(172)m (2006 £404m), attributable to the E&P segment; and (ii) £104m (2006 £113m) of unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off and charged  
to the E&P segment.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
84 
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS AND RESULTS PRESENTATION continued 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 
Analysed by geographical segment 
 
Business Performance Disposals, re-measurements  
and impairments 
Total 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Group revenue
(a)
       
Europe and Central Asia 3 081 3 105 – – 3 081 3 105 
South America 877 806 – – 877 806 
Asia Pacific 1 594 801 – – 1 594 801 
North America and the Caribbean 2 051 1 583 – – 2 051 1 583 
Mediterranean Basin and Africa 688 841 – – 688 841 
Group revenue 8 291 7 136 – – 8 291 7 136 
Other operating income 39 134 (172) 404 (133) 538 
Group revenue and other operating income 8 330 7 270 (172) 404 8 158 7 674 
Operating profit/(loss) before share of results from 
joint ventures and associates
(b)
 
      
Europe and Central Asia 1 517 1 397 (170) 287 1 347 1 684 
South America 181 165 – – 181 165 
Asia Pacific 274 255 – (8) 274 247 
North America and the Caribbean 714 611 18 38 732 649 
Mediterranean Basin and Africa 315 442 (1) (66) 314 376 
 3 001 2 870 (153) 251 2 848 3 121 
Finance income     152 127 
Finance costs     (124) (102)
Share of post-tax results from joint ventures and associates    163 139 
Profit before tax     3 039 3 285 
Taxation     (1 239) (1 461)
Profit for the year     1 800 1 824 
Profit attributable to:       
 Shareholders (earnings)     1 746 1 779 
 Minority interests     54 45 
     1 800 1 824 
(a) Based on destination. 
(b) Based on location of operational management. 
JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
Analysed by business segment 
 Pre-tax share of operating results 
of joint ventures and associates 
Share of net finance costs and tax  
of joint ventures and associates 
Share of post-tax results from 
joint ventures and associates 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Liquefied Natural Gas 127 104 (49) (49) 78 55 
Transmission and Distribution 34 41 (6) (16) 28 25 
Power Generation 86 88 (29) (29) 57 59 
 247 233 (84) (94) 163 139 
 
Analysed by geographical segment 
 Pre-tax share of operating results 
of joint ventures and associates 
Share of net finance costs and tax  
of joint ventures and associates 
Share of post-tax results from 
joint ventures and associates 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Europe and Central Asia 43 54 (17) (26) 26 28 
South America 12 12 1 (3) 13 9 
Asia Pacific 65 63 (19) (16) 46 47 
North America and the Caribbean 99 85 (31) (29) 68 56 
Mediterranean Basin and Africa 28 19 (18) (20) 10 (1)
 247 233 (84) (94) 163 139  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
85
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS AND RESULTS PRESENTATION continued 
NET ASSETS, TOTAL ASSETS AND TOTAL LIABILITIES 
Analysed by business segment 
 Total assets (a) Total liabilities Net assets/(liabilities) (b) 
as at 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Exploration and Production  7 589 6 571 (2 418) (1 797) 5 171 4 774 
Liquefied Natural Gas  2 996 2 594 (969) (748) 2 027 1 846 
Transmission and Distribution  1 415 1 141 (383) (202) 1 032 939 
Power Generation 1 128 621 (82) (131) 1 046 490 
Other activities 56 58 (313) (101) (257) (43)
Net borrowings, net interest and tax 2 206 1 703 (3 868) (3 244) (1 662) (1 541)
 15 390 12 688 (8 033) (6 223) 7 357 6 465 
(a) Total assets includes investment in joint ventures and associates of £1 156m (2006 £1 085m), attributable to segments as follows: LNG £740m (2006 £639m),  
T&D £118m (2006 £110m) and Power £298m (2006 £336m).  
(b) Includes net assets classified as held for sale of £nil (2006 £51m), attributable to segments as follows: E&P £nil (2006 £62m) and Other activities £nil (2006 £(11)m).  
Further details on assets held for sale are given in note 19, page 102. 
Analysed by geographical segment 
 Total assets (a) Total liabilities Net assets/(liabilities) (b) 
as at 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Europe and Central Asia 4 551 3 978 (2 387) (1 655) 2 164 2 323 
South America 1 693 1 315 (251) (210) 1 442 1 105 
Asia Pacific 877 748 (195) (163) 682 585 
North America and the Caribbean 3 935 3 192 (1 032) (781) 2 903 2 411 
Mediterranean Basin and Africa 2 128 1 752 (300) (170) 1 828 1 582 
Net borrowings, net interest and tax 2 206 1 703 (3 868) (3 244) (1 662) (1 541)
 15 390 12 688 (8 033) (6 223) 7 357 6 465 
(a) Total assets includes investments in joint ventures and associates of £1 156m (2006 £1 085m), attributable to segments as follows: Europe and Central Asia £314m  
(2006 £318m), South America £155m (2006 £75m), Asia Pacific £190m (2006 £182m), North America and the Caribbean £429m (2006 £436m) and Mediterranean  
Basin and Africa £68m (2006 £74m).  
(b) Includes net assets classified as held for sale of £nil (2006 £51m), attributable to segments as follows: Europe and Central Asia £nil (2006 £(11)m), Mediterranean  
Basin and Africa £nil (2006 £62m). Further details on assets held for sale are given in note 19, page 102. 
DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT 
Analysed by business segment 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Exploration and Production
(a)
 555 585 
Liquefied Natural Gas
(b)
 46 141 
Transmission and Distribution 33 28 
Power Generation 42 19 
Other activities
(c)
 5 6 
 681 779 
 
Analysed by geographical segment 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Europe and Central Asia
(b)(c) 
364 383 
South America 36 30 
Asia Pacific 55 48 
North America and the Caribbean 102 87 
Mediterranean Basin and Africa
 (a) 
124 231 
 681 779 
(a) In 2006, includes a provision for impairment of £64m in respect of Mauritania Holdings B.V. which is held within the Mediterranean Basin and Africa segment.  
(b) In 2006, includes a provision for impairment of £104m in respect of Brindisi LNG S.p.A. which is held within the Europe and Central Asia segment. 
(c) In 2006, includes a provision for impairment of £3m in respect of Microgen which is included within the Europe and Central Asia segment.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
86 
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS AND RESULTS PRESENTATION continued 
CAPITAL INVESTMENT 
Analysed by business segment 
 Capital expenditure (a) Capital investment (b) 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Exploration and Production 1 652 1 165 1 652 1 165 
Liquefied Natural Gas 71 399 194 496 
Transmission and Distribution 116 122 117 123 
Power Generation
  
5 8 520
(c)
55
(c)
Other activities 14 8 14 8 
 1 858 1 702 2 497 1 847 
 
Analysed by geographical segment 
 Capital expenditure (a) Capital investment (b) 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Europe and Central Asia 627 491 753
(c)
530 
South America 172 198 248 199 
Asia Pacific 135 127 135 127 
North America and the Caribbean 303 549 740
(c)
654
(c)
Mediterranean Basin and Africa 621 337 621 337 
 1 858 1 702 2 497 1 847 
(a) Comprises expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. 
(b) Comprises expenditure on property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and investments, including business combinations. 
(c) Includes business combinations. Further details of 2007 business combinations are given in note 15, page 100. 
3 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 
Other operating income includes the results of the purchase and re-sale of third-party gas in the UK, income arising from asset optimisation 
activities undertaken by the Group’s US LNG operations and unrealised gains and losses arising from the mark-to-market of commodity based 
derivative instruments, including certain UK long-term gas sales contracts classified as derivatives under IAS 39. Further details of the use and 
valuation of commodity based financial instruments are shown in note 21, page 104. Further information on other operating income is given  
in note 6, page 93.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
87
4 OPERATING COSTS 
Included within the Group’s operating costs charged to the income statement were the following items: 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Raw materials, consumables and finished goods 2 675 2 199 
Inventory adjustments to net realisable value
(a)
 – 16 
   
Employee costs (see note 5(C), page 88) 440 381 
Less: Own work capitalised (48) (45)
 Employee costs included within Other exploration expenditure and 
  Research and development, below (25) (17)
 Employee costs included within Finance costs (1) (2)
 366 317 
Amounts written off Other intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment   
 Depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment (see note 13, page 97) 677 745 
 Amortisation and impairments of other intangible assets (see note 12, page 97) 4 34 
 Less impairments reported within profit/(loss) on disposal – (67)
 681 712 
   
 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off 104 113 
   
Other operating charges:   
 Other exploration expenditure 232 159 
 Lease rentals:   
  Plant and equipment 104 80 
  Other assets 22 19 
 Research and development 8 10 
 Tariffs, royalties, liquefaction and regasification costs 485 398 
   
Other costs
(b)
 652 481 
   
 5 329 4 504 
(a) Includes revaluation of LNG in storage. 
(b) Includes lifting, storage, marketing and general administration costs. 
ACCOUNTANTS’ FEES AND SERVICES 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has served as BG Group’s independent external auditors for each of the financial years in the two year period 
ended 31 December 2007, for which audited financial statements appear in this Annual Report and Accounts. The external Auditors are  
subject to re-appointment at the AGM. 
The following table presents the aggregate fees for professional services and other services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
to BG Group: 
 The Group 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Fees payable to the Group’s Auditors for the audit of both the Parent company and the Group’s Annual Report 
and Accounts 1.0 0.7 
   
Fees payable to the Group’s Auditors and its associates for other services: 
 
 
 The audit of the Parent’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.9 0.6 
  Other services pursuant to legislation
(a)
 0.6 1.3 
 Tax services
(b)
 0.1 0.8 
 Services relating to information technology 0.1 – 
  Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or 
  on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 0.1 0.1  
  All other services
(c)
 0.3 0.5 
 2.1 3.3 
 3.1 4.0  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
88 
4 OPERATING COSTS continued 
In 2007, £31 000 of audit fees relates to audits of the pension schemes (2006 £26 000). 
(a) Other services pursuant to legislation include costs relating to regulatory reporting including costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, prior  
to the Group’s decision to de-list from the New York Stock Exchange and to de-register and terminate its reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act  
of 1934.  Other services pursuant to legislation also includes costs relating to interim reviews. 
(b) Tax services include fees billed for tax compliance services, including the preparation of original and amended tax returns and claims for refund, tax consultations, such  
as assistance and representation in connection with tax audits and appeals, tax advice related to mergers and acquisitions, transfer pricing and requests for rulings  
or technical advice from tax authorities, tax planning services, and expatriate tax planning and services. 
(c) All other services fees include fees billed for quarterly reviews, attestation services, consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting standards, forensic 
accounting, control reviews and other advice. 
5 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES 
A)  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 2007 
£000 
2006 
£000 
Fees to non-executive Directors 1 244 1 074 
Salaries 2 306 2 119 
Benefits
(a)
 76 78 
Bonus 2 805 2 130 
Fees and benefits to former Directors 21 50 
Share-based payments 5 566 4 306 
 12 018 9 757 
(a) William Friedrich, a US citizen, is covered by post-retirement medical benefits and long-term care insurance if he returns to the USA. The amount charged to the 
consolidated income statement for the year in respect of this benefit is £46 975 (2006 £28 217). In 2007, three directors (2006 three) had pension benefits accruing  
under defined benefit schemes. 
 
B)  KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Fees to non-executive Directors 1 1 
Salaries  5 5 
Benefits
(a)
 1 – 
Bonus
(b)
 6 5 
Pension benefit 4 3 
Share-based payments 10 8 
 27 22 
The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Directors and the executive officers, defined  
as the Group Executive Committee (GEC) and the Company Secretary. 
(a) This includes £46 975 (2006 £28 217) for post-retirement medical benefits and long-term care insurance for William Friedrich who is a US citizen. 
(b) Bonus figures for 2007 represent payments under the Annual Incentive Scheme (AIS) in respect of the 2007 incentive year which will be made in 2008. Bonus figures  
for 2006 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2006 incentive year which were made in 2007.  
 
C) EMPLOYEE COSTS The Group The Company 
 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Wages and salaries 249 215 2 2 
Social security costs 25 21 1 1 
Pension charge
(a)
 55 54 – – 
Share-based payments (see note 5(E), below) 61 43 6 6 
Other including incentive schemes  50 48 3 2 
 440 381 12 11 
(a) The pension charge for the year ended 31 December 2007 includes £1m (2006 £2m) in respect of payments made for pension curtailments in redundancy, £1m (2006 £2m) 
of which has been provided in prior years as part of a restructuring provision.  The pension charge for the year ended 31 December 2007 includes £1m (2006 £2m) which  
is presented within finance costs (see note 7, page 94). The Company recognises a pension cost which represents employer contributions paid, as a subsidiary of the Group 
is defined as the sponsoring employer under IAS 19. 
In 2007, employee costs of £392m (2006 £336m) were charged to the income statement and £48m (2006 £45m) were capitalised.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
89
5 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES continued 
D)  AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DURING THE YEAR 
Employed in the UK Employed outside the UK 
 2007 
Number 
2006 
Number 
2007 
Number 
2006 
Number 
Exploration and Production 1 268 1 188 1 441 1 325 
Liquefied Natural Gas 110 119 346 250 
Transmission and Distribution 78 73 1 382 1 286 
Power Generation 195 186 76 22 
Other activities 12 69 41 147 
 1 663
(a)
1 635
(a) 
3 286 3 030 
(a) In 2007, three employees were employed by the parent company of the Group, BG Group plc (2006 four). 
E)  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS  
The cost recognised in respect of share-based payments for 2007 was £61m (2006 £43m) of which £35m (2006 £30m) related to equity-settled 
share-based payment transactions. 
Company Share Option Scheme 
Details of the Company Share Option Scheme (CSOS) are given on page 64. Details of share options held by Executive Directors under the CSOS 
are given on page 69. The first grants under the CSOS were made in November 2000. Further grants have been made in all subsequent years  
up to and including 2007. In 2007, grants of 12.9m (2006 14.8m) share options were made under the CSOS. 
The costs of this scheme are charged to the income statement over the vesting period, based upon the fair value of the share options at the grant 
date and the likelihood of allocations vesting under the scheme. In 2007, the charge in respect of the CSOS was £18m (2006 £15m).  
The fair value of share options granted during the year in respect of the CSOS is estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with  
the following assumptions: weighted average share price of £7.87 (2006 £6.84), exercise price of £7.92 (2006 £6.90), dividend yield of 1.0%  
(2006 1.0%), volatility of 22% (2006 21%), a risk-free rate of 5.16% (2006 4.70%) and an expected life of five years (2006 five years). The average 
value of share options granted during the year was £2.09 per share (2006 £1.70 per share). 
Expected volatility for the 2006 and 2007 awards was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over  
the previous five year period. For awards in prior years, a three year period was used in the absence of data in respect of BG Group’s share 
volatility over a five year period. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the  
effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.  
Long Term Incentive Scheme 
Details of the Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS) are given on page 64. Details of notional allocations to Executive Directors under the LTIS  
are given on page 68. In 2007, notional allocations of 4.0m ordinary shares (2006 3.6m ordinary shares) were made under the LTIS. 
The costs of this scheme are charged to the income statement over the vesting period, based upon the fair value of the shares at the award  
date, adjusted for the probability of market-related performance conditions being achieved. In 2007, the charge in respect of the LTIS was  
£12m (2006 £10m). 
The fair value of shares allocated during the year in respect of the LTIS is estimated using a Monte Carlo projection model with the following 
assumptions: weighted average share price of £7.87 (2006 £6.84), exercise price of £nil (2006 £nil), a risk-free rate of 4.9% (2006 5.2%) and a vesting 
period of three years (2006 three years). The model also contains assumptions for both the Group and each member of the LTIS comparator group  
(as set out on page 64) in respect of volatility, average share price growth and share price correlation. The fair value reflects the probability of  
market performance conditions being achieved. The fair value of shares allocated during the year was £4.38 per share (2006 £4.13 per share).  
The assumptions used in estimating the fair value of shares for the LTIS are based on US data because most of the companies in the LTIS 
comparator group are US-based. 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the share price over the previous three year period. Share price 
correlation was determined by calculating the historical correlation of the share price over the previous three year period. Average share  
price growth was determined from historical growth over the previous year.  
  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
90 
5 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES continued 
Sharesave Scheme 
Details of the Sharesave Scheme are given on page 65. Details of share options held by Executive Directors are given on page 69. In 2007,  
grants of 0.7m (2006 0.7m) share options were made under the Sharesave Scheme. 
The costs of this scheme are charged to the income statement over the vesting period, based upon the fair value of the share option  
at the grant date and the likelihood of allocations vesting under the scheme. In 2007, the charge in respect of the Sharesave Scheme  
was £1m (2006 £1m).  
The fair value of share options granted during the year in respect of the Sharesave Scheme is estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing 
model with the following assumptions: weighted average share price of £10.06 (2006 £6.84), exercise price of £7.16 (2006 £5.82), dividend yield 
of 1.0% (2006 1.0%), volatility of 25% (2006 22%), a weighted average risk-free rate of 4.47% (2006 4.74%) and a weighted average expected life  
of 3 years (2006 4.1 years). The average fair value of share options granted during the year was £3.76 per share (2006 £2.11 per share).  
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three year period.  
The expected life used in the model is based on the contractual terms in the Sharesave Scheme. 
Share Incentive Plan 
Details of the BG Group Share Incentive Plan (SIP) are given on page 65. During the year, 0.6m ordinary shares were awarded as Free Shares 
under the plan (2006 0.5m ordinary shares).  
Under IFRS 2 the charge to the income statement in respect of the award is based on the market value of the shares at the grant date.  
The fair value of the shares awarded during the year was £7.30 per share (2006 £7.73 per share). In 2007, the charge in respect of the  
SIP was £4m (2006 £4m).  
Cash-Settled Share-Based Payments 
Cash-settled share-based payments arise when the Group incurs a liability to transfer cash amounts that are based on the price (or value)  
of the Company’s shares. 
A charge of £4m has been made in respect of cash-settled CSOS awards (2006 £3m) the terms of which are the same as the equity-settled  
CSOS awards and a charge of £22m (2006 £10m) has been made in respect of social security costs on employee share option and share  
schemes. The charge for cash-settled CSOS awards and social security costs on employee share option and share schemes covers awards  
made before and after 7 November 2002. 
During the vesting period the costs of the cash-settled CSOS awards are charged to the income statement based on the fair value of the share 
option at the balance sheet date and the likelihood of allocations vesting under the scheme. The fair value of the non-vested cash-
settled options at the balance sheet date has been estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: 
share price of £11.50 (2006 £7.03), weighted average exercise price of £7.67 (2006 £4.72), dividend yield of 1.0% (2006 1.0%), volatility of 22.60% 
(2006 20.80%), a weighted average risk-free rate of 4.72% (2006 5.09%) and a weighted average expected life of five years (2006 three years). 
The average fair value of non-vested cash-settled CSOS awards at the balance sheet date was £5.04 (2006 £3.02). For awards that had vested, 
but not been exercised at the balance sheet date, the fair value was the intrinsic value of the award at the balance sheet date.  
The charge to the income statement in respect of social security costs has been calculated based on the fair value of the awards at the balance 
sheet date multiplied by the current employer’s National Insurance rate. 
The fair value of the awards that had not vested at the balance sheet date has been estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model or  
the Monte Carlo projection model where appropriate. For CSOS awards the following assumptions were used: share price of £11.50 (2006 £7.03), 
weighted average exercise price of £6.68 (2006 £5.10), dividend yield of 1.0% (2006 1.0%), volatility of 22.60% (2006 20.80%), a weighted average 
risk-free rate of 4.70% (2006 5.08%) and a weighted average expected life of four years (2006 four years). The average fair value of non-vested 
CSOS awards at the balance sheet date was £5.64 (2006 £2.81). For awards that had vested, but not been exercised at the balance sheet date, 
the fair value was the intrinsic value of the award at the balance sheet date.  
For the LTIS awards the following assumptions were used: share price of £11.50 (2006 £7.03), volatility of 24.80% (2006 22.34%), a weighted 
average risk-free rate of 4.69% (2006 5.20%), and a weighted average expected life of two years (2006 two years). The weighted average fair 
value of LTIS awards at the balance sheet date was £8.90 (2006 £3.40).   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
91
5 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES continued 
F)  ANALYSIS OF SHARE OPTIONS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2007 
 
Date of 
grant 
Number of 
shares 
m 
Weighted 
average 
option price 
£ 
Normal 
exercisable 
date 
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
Sharesave Scheme options      
 2002 0.03 2.19 2007 0yr 4mths 
 2003 0.12 2.19 2008 1yr 4mths 
 2004 0.54 2.74 2007/9 1yr 10mths 
 2005 0.43 3.95 2008/10 2yrs 1mth 
 2006 0.64 5.82 2009/11 3yrs 6mths 
 2007 0.69 7.16 2011 3yrs 6mths 
Company Share Option Scheme options
(a)
      
 2000 0.41 2.685 2010 2yrs 10mths 
 2001 1.02 2.5634 2011 3yrs 10mths 
 2002 2.21 2.5175 2012 4yrs 8mths 
 2003 4.28 2.705 2013 5yrs 8mths 
 2004 6.96 3.4733 2014 6yrs 8mths 
 2005 0.10 3.9658 2015 7yrs 1mth 
 2005 0.04 4.3883 2015 7yrs 5mths 
 2005 13.83 4.9942 2015 7yrs 8mths 
 2006 0.04 6.26 2016 8yrs 1mth 
 2006 13.42 6.8983 2016 8yrs 8mths 
 2007 12.74 7.92 2017 9yrs 8mths 
(a) For CSOS the normal exercisable date given above is the last date that the options are exercisable. This is the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Options can be exercised 
subject to performance conditions, from the third anniversary of the grant date. 
G)  WEIGHTED AVERAGE EXERCISE PRICE OF SHARE OPTIONS 
 
2007 
Sharesave 
Scheme 
options 
£ 
2007 
CSOS 
options 
£ 
2006 
Sharesave 
Scheme 
options 
£ 
2006 
CSOS 
options 
£ 
Outstanding as at 1 January  3.59 4.47 2.67 3.54 
Granted 7.16 7.92 5.82 6.90 
Exercised 2.65 3.08 2.28 2.64 
Forfeited 4.97 5.82 3.69 4.12 
Outstanding as at 31 December  4.96 5.60 3.59 4.47 
Exercisable as at 31 December  2.68 3.03 2.31 2.63  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
92 
5 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES continued 
H)  SUMMARY OF MOVEMENTS IN SHARE OPTIONS 
 
Sharesave 
Scheme options 
m 
CSOS 
options 
m 
2006   
Outstanding as at 1 January 2006 3.7 55.3 
Granted 0.7 14.8 
Exercised (1.4) (8.0)
Forfeited (0.1) (1.8)
Outstanding as at 31 December 2006 – number 2.9 60.3 
Exercisable as at 31 December 2006 – number 0.1 16.2 
Option price range as at 31 December 2006 (£) 2.19 – 5.82 2.35 – 6.89 
Option price range for exercised options (£) 2.19 – 3.95 2.35 – 4.99 
Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised in the year (£) 6.84 6.82 
 
2007   
Outstanding as at 1 January 2007 2.9 60.3 
Granted 0.7 12.9 
Exercised (1.0) (15.5) 
Forfeited (0.1) (2.6) 
Outstanding as at 31 December 2007 – number 2.5 55.1 
Exercisable as at 31 December 2007 – number 0.2 14.9 
Option price range as at 31 December 2007 (£) 2.19 — 7.16 2.52 — 7.92 
Option price range for exercised options (£) 2.19 — 5.82 2.52 — 6.90 
Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised in the year (£) 8.91 8.30  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
93
6 DISPOSALS, RE-MEASUREMENTS AND IMPAIRMENTS 
BG Group has separately identified profits and losses related to disposals, impairments and certain re-measurements of derivative instruments. 
A reconciliation of results before and after disposals, re-measurements and impairments is given in note 2, page 82. 
 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Other operating income:   
 Re-measurements of commodity contracts (172) 404 
Operating costs – (104)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of non-current assets  19 (49)
Finance income and costs:   
 Gains on re-measurements of financial instruments 6 23 
 Losses on re-measurements of financial instruments (4) (22)
   
Taxation 115 (113)
Profit/(loss) for the year (36) 139 
 Profit/(loss) attributable to:   
   Shareholders (earnings) (37) 139 
  Minority interests 1 – 
OTHER OPERATING INCOME 
Re-measurements included within Other operating income amount to a charge of £172m (2006 credit of £404m), £140m of this charge  
(2006 £366m of this credit) represents unrealised mark-to-market movements on certain long-term UK gas contracts. Whilst the activity 
surrounding these contracts involves the physical delivery of gas, the contracts fall within the scope of IAS 39 and meet the definition  
of a derivative instrument. Further information on commodity instruments is given in note 21, page 104. 
OPERATING COSTS 
2006 
In 2006, given the uncertainties surrounding the Brindisi LNG project, the Brindisi asset was subject to an impairment review.  The impairment 
review of the Brindisi regasification plant compared the value in use (using a pre-tax discount rate of 8%) with the carrying value of this asset, 
resulting in an impairment charge of £104m to operating costs (post-tax £97m). 
DISPOSAL OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
2007 
In December 2007, BG Group disposed of its exploration licences in Italy. This resulted in a gain on disposal of £1m. No tax arose on the disposal. 
In June 2007, the Group sold its 25% equity interest in Interconnector (UK) Limited whilst retaining its throughput capacity contracts with this 
company. This resulted in a pre- and post-tax gain on disposal of £157m. As part of this transaction, the Group reviewed the retained capacity 
contracts in the Interconnector pipeline and concluded that the obligations associated with these contracts exceed the benefit expected  
to be received from the Interconnector interest. Accordingly, a pre-tax provision of £156m (post-tax £124m) was made to reflect the present 
obligation under these contracts. The overall transaction generated a pre-tax gain on disposal of £1m (post-tax £33m). 
In April 2007, the Group disposed of selected Canadian assets. This resulted in a gain on disposal of £18m. No tax arose on the disposal.  
In January 2007, the Group disposed of its Mauritanian interests. This resulted in a loss on disposal of £1m. No tax arose on the disposal. 
2006 
In 2006, the Group made disposals of interests in certain non-core businesses, resulting in a net pre-tax loss of £7m. No tax arose  
on these disposals. 
In November 2006, the Group sold two LNG ships, which resulted in a £35m profit on disposal. No tax arose on these disposals. 
In December 2006, the Group committed to a plan to dispose of its interests in its Mauritania Holdings B.V. and Microgen businesses  
and accordingly reclassified these businesses as held for sale. As a result, they were revalued to fair value less disposal costs. Fair value  
was based on estimated disposal proceeds. This resulted in a pre-tax charge to the income statement of £77m (post-tax charge of £56m),  
including provision for impairment of £67m. Mauritania Holdings B.V. was sold in January 2007.  As at 31 December 2007, the closure  
of Microgen was complete. 
FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 
Re-measurements presented in finance income and costs relate primarily to certain derivatives used to hedge foreign exchange and interest 
rate risk, partly offset by foreign exchange movements on certain borrowings in subsidiaries.   www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
94 
7 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 
 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Interest receivable
(a)
 150 76 
Net fair value gains and losses on interest rate and currency exchange rate derivatives – 7 
Fair value hedge adjustments – 16 
Other interest income
(b)
 2 28 
Finance income 152 127 
   
Interest payable:
(a)
   
 On loans wholly repayable within five years (67) (37)
 On loans any part repayable after five years (8) (46)
Finance lease charges (56) (55)
Other interest charges (2) (3)
Less: interest capitalised
(c)
 37 54 
Unwinding of discount on provisions and pension obligations
(d)
 (24) (15)
Net fair value gains and losses on interest rate and currency exchange rate derivatives (1) – 
Fair value hedge adjustments (3) – 
Finance costs (124) (102)
   
Net finance income
(e)
 28 25 
(a) Interest receivable includes net exchange gains of £22m (2006 £35m loss). Interest payable includes net exchange losses of £nil (2006 £22m). Net exchange differences 
include the retranslation of certain borrowings in subsidiaries. Certain exposures relating to these borrowings are hedged using interest rate and currency derivative 
instruments; the net fair value gains and losses on such derivatives are reported separately. 
(b) Other interest income comprises interest receivable in relation to tax settlements. 
(c) Finance costs associated with general Group central borrowings used to finance major capital projects are capitalised up to the point that the project is ready for  
its intended use. The weighted average interest cost applicable to these borrowings is 6.7% per annum (2006 6.5%). Tax relief for capitalised interest is approximately  
£11m (2006 £16m). 
(d) Amount in respect of pension obligation represents the unwinding of discount on the plans’ liabilities offset by the expected return on the plans’ assets (see note  
29, page 115).  Also includes the unwinding of discount on decommissioning and other provisions (see note 23, page 109). 
(e) Excludes the Group’s share of net finance costs from joint ventures and associates of £53m (2006 £67m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
95
8 TAXATION 
 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Current tax   
UK – corporation tax at 30% and 50% (2006 30% and 50%) 946 763 
 – petroleum revenue tax at 50% (2006 50%) 26 23 
 – adjustments in respect of prior periods (29) 47 
 – less: double tax relief (433) (428)
UK tax charge 510 405 
Overseas tax charge 604 599 
 – adjustments in respect of prior periods 14 8 
Current tax charge  1 128 1 012 
Deferred tax   
Temporary differences 122 468 
Effect of changes in tax rates (6) (23)
Deferred petroleum revenue tax at 50% (2006 50%) (5) 4 
Tax charge 1 239 1 461 
The tax credit relating to disposals, re-measurements and impairments is £115m (2006 tax charge £113m). This consists of a tax credit on 
unrealised re-measurements of £83m (2006 tax charge £141m) and a tax credit on disposals and impairments of £32m (2006 tax credit £28m). 
The total tax charge reconciles with the charge calculated using the statutory rates of UK corporation tax as follows: 
 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Profit before taxation 3 039 3 285 
Tax at UK statutory rates on profit 1 046 1 151 
Effect on tax charge of:   
 Non tax-deductible or non-taxable items (7) 78 
 Overseas or petroleum revenue taxes at different rates to statutory rates 197 233 
 Effect of changes in tax rates (6) (23)
 Prior year and other adjustments including unrelieved overseas tax losses 9 22 
Tax charge 1 239 1 461 
9 DIVIDENDS 
  2007 2006 
   £m 
Pence per 
ordinary  
share £m 
Pence per 
ordinary 
share 
Prior year final dividend, paid in the year   143 4.20 144 4.09 
Interim dividend, paid in the year   121 3.60 103 3.00 
Total dividend paid in the year   264 7.80 247 7.09 
       
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007   194
(a)
5.76   
(a) Proposed final dividend is based on the shares in issue as at 31 December 2007 which are eligible for the dividend. 
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 5.76p takes the 2007 full year dividend to 9.36p per ordinary share. 
The final dividend of 4.20p (£143m) in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 was paid on 25 May 2007 to shareholders (4 June 2007  
to American Depositary Receipt (ADR) holders). The interim dividend was paid on 14 September 2007 to shareholders (21 September 2007  
to ADR holders). The proposed final dividend of 5.76p per ordinary share (£194m) in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2007  
is payable on 23 May 2008 to shareholders (2 June 2008 to ADR holders) on the register at the close of business on 11 April 2008.   www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
96 
10 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 
Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year for the Group of £1 746m (2006 £1 779m) by 3 385m  
(2006 3 464m), being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year. Earnings per ordinary share 
excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments have been presented in order to reflect the underlying performance of the Group.  
  2007 2006 
   £m 
Basic 
earnings  
per ordinary 
share 
pence £m 
Basic 
earnings 
per ordinary 
share 
pence 
Earnings   1 746 51.6 1 779 51.4 
Disposals, re-measurements and impairments 
(see note 6, page 93) 
 
37 1.1 (139) (4.0)
Earnings excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments   1 783 52.7 1 640 47.4 
The earnings figure used to calculate diluted earnings per ordinary share is the same as that used to calculate earnings per ordinary share given 
above divided by 3 417m (2006 3 488m), being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year as adjusted for dilutive 
equity instruments. A reconciliation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares used as the denominator in calculating the basic and 
diluted earnings per ordinary share is given below: 
  2007 
Shares 
m 
2006 
Shares 
m 
Basic  3 385 3 464 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:    
 Equity instruments outstanding during the year  32 24 
Diluted basis  3 417 3 488 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (including disposals, re-measurements and impairments) (pence)  51.1 51.0 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments) (pence)  52.2 47.0 
11 GOODWILL 
THE GROUP 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Cost and net book value as at 1 January 328 342 
Currency translation adjustments 57 (14)
Cost and net book value as at 31 December  385 328 
As at 31 December 2007, the majority of the goodwill recognised related to Comgas, which is classified within the Transmission and Distribution 
(T&D) segment and was defined as a cash generating unit (CGU) for impairment testing purposes. The Group tests goodwill annually for 
impairment or more frequently if there are indications that it might be impaired. No goodwill impairment has been recognised.  
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from the value in use calculations, using cash flow projections based on approved  
financial plans covering a five year period. The growth rate assumptions used in the plans were based on past performance and  
management’s expectations of market development. The annual growth rates in the business plan used to determine cash flows  
beyond the five year period are between 5% and 9% and do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.  
The projected cash flows were discounted using a nominal rate of 8% to arrive at value in use. The discount rate used is pre-tax and reflects 
risks relating to the T&D segment.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
97
12 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
THE GROUP 
 
Expenditure on unproved  
gas and oil reserves Other (a) Total 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006  
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Cost as at 1 January 648 532 56 156 704 688 
Additions 304 396 – 17 304 413 
Business combinations (see note 15, page 100) – – 13 – 13 – 
Disposals and unsuccessful exploration expenditure
(b)
 (192) (113) – – (192) (113)
Transfer to property, plant and equipment (13) (41) – (111) (13) (152)
Reclassified as assets held for sale – (69) – – – (69)
Currency translation adjustments 22 (57) (1) (6) 21 (63)
Cost as at 31 December 769 648 68 56 837 704 
Amortisation as at 1 January – – (10) (6) (10) (6)
Charge for the year – – (4) (4) (4) (4)
Provision for impairment – (30) – – – (30)
Reclassified as assets held for sale – 30 – – – 30 
Amortisation as at 31 December – – (14) (10) (14) (10)
Net book value as at 31 December 769 648 54 46 823 694 
(a) As at 31 December 2007, Other represents the contractual rights in respect of power sales and the purchase of LNG, regasification services and related gas sales at Elba 
Island in the USA. The estimated aggregate amortisation expense from 2008 to 2012 is £6m per annum.  The average remaining life of other intangibles is 11 years  
and 5 months (2006 14 years and 3 months). 
(b) Disposals and unsuccessful exploration expenditure includes £104m (2006 £113m) in respect of unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off. 
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
THE GROUP 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Mains, 
services and 
meters 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Motor 
vehicles  
and office 
equipment 
£m 
Exploration 
and 
production 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost as at 1 January 2007  68 469 1 580 327 7 614 10 058 
Additions 2 79 125 106 1 242 1 554 
Business combinations (see note 15, page 100) 25 – 512 1 – 538 
Disposals and transfers
(a)(b)
 (4)– (4)(6) (53)(67)
Currency translation adjustments 3 96 17 4 (23) 97 
Cost as at 31 December 2007 94 644 2 230 432 8 780 12 180 
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January 2007  (37) (42) (403) (161) (3 455) (4 098)
Provision for the year (1) (19) (93) (41) (523) (677)
Disposals and transfers
(a) 
 1 – 6 7 35 49 
Currency translation adjustments (1) (23) (10) (1) 7 (28)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December 2007 (38) (84) (500) (196) (3 936) (4 754)
Net book value as at 31 December 2007
(c)(d)(e)
 56 560 1 730
(f)
236 4 844 7 426  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
98 
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Mains, 
services and 
meters 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Motor 
vehicles  
and office 
equipment 
£m 
Exploration 
and 
production 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost as at 1 January 2006  56 390 1 245 280 7 346 9 317 
Additions 8 78 424 58 721 1 289 
Business combinations 5 – 39 – – 44 
Disposals and transfers
(a)(b)
 – 23 10 (3) 74 104 
Currency translation adjustments (1) (22) (126) (8) (482) (639)
Reclassified as assets held for sale – – (12) – (45) (57)
Cost as at 31 December 2006 68 469 1 580 327 7 614 10 058 
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January 2006  (37) (27) (276) (131) (3 016) (3 487)
Provision for the year – (14) (61) (32) (497) (604)
Provision for impairment – – (104) (3) (34) (141)
Disposals and transfers
(a) 
 – (6)27 1 – 22 
Currency translation adjustments – 5 10 4 81 100 
Reclassified as assets held for sale – – 1 – 11 12 
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December 2006 (37) (42) (403) (161) (3 455) (4 098)
Net book value as at 31 December 2006
(c)(d)(e)
 31 427 1 177
(f)
166 4 159 5 960 
Details of BG Group’s gas and oil reserves are given in Supplementary information – gas and oil (unaudited) on page 121. 
(a) In 2007, disposals primarily relate to the sale of selected Canadian assets (see note 6, page 93).  In 2006, disposals primarily relate to the disposals of two LNG ships.  
(b) Includes, within exploration and production, a transfer from other intangible assets of £13m (2006 £41m) and within plant and machinery, a transfer from other  
intangible assets of £nil (2006 £111m).  
(c) The Group’s net book value includes capitalised interest of £188m (2006 £163m) comprising exploration and production £123m (2006 £112m) and plant and machinery  
£65m (2006 £51m). A deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of this taxable temporary difference at current enacted rates. 
(d) Includes the net book value of decommissioning assets of £184m (2006 £105m) and expenditure on plant and machinery and exploration and production assets under 
construction of £1 167m (2006 £859m). 
(e) Assets capitalised and held under finance leases included in plant and machinery are: 
 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
 Cost 1 033 969 
 Accumulated depreciation (114) (80) 
 Net book value 919 889 
(f) Includes assets held under operating leases where BG Group is the lessor: 
 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
 Cost 187 186 
 Accumulated depreciation (72) (55) 
 Net book value 115 131 
The depreciation charge for the year relating to these assets was £17m (2006 £17m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
99
14 INVESTMENTS 
Investments represent long-term investments. 
THE GROUP 
 
Joint ventures Associates   
 
Share of 
net assets 
£m 
Loans 
£m 
Share of 
net assets 
£m 
Loans 
£m 
Other 
investments 
£m 
Total 
investments 
£m 
Carrying value as at 31 December 2006  240 184 254 407 1 1 086 
Investments 13 36 6 77 – 132 
Disposals, transfers and other loan movements
(a) 
– (11) (35) (30) – (76)
Share of retained profits less losses during the year
(b)
 8 – 12 – – 20 
Currency translation adjustments 1 – (1) (5) – (5)
Carrying value as at 31 December 2007 262 209 236 449 1 1 157 
(a) Included within associates is £35m relating to Serene S.p.A., which became a subsidiary on 14 February 2007. 
(b) Comprises share of post-tax results for the year of £163m, offset by share of dividends receivable by BG Group of £143m. 
The Group’s share of profits in MetroGAS and GASA for the year ended 31 December 2007 was £2m. The Group’s share of net assets at the end of the year remained negative, 
therefore the investment in these companies is held at nil carrying value. 
Analysis of BG Group’s share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses in joint ventures and associates is shown below: 
 Joint ventures Associates 
as at 31 December 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Share of assets – non-current assets 612 532 994 1 112 
 – current assets 143 160 225 286 
 755 692 1 219 1 398 
Share of liabilities – current liabilities (121) (198) (215) (239)
 – non-current liabilities (372) (254) (768) (905)
 (493) (452) (983) (1 144)
Share of net assets 262 240 236 254 
     
Share of revenue 310 304 687 843 
Share of operating costs (221) (218) (529) (696)
Share of operating profit  89 86 158 147 
Share of finance costs (14) (19) (39) (48)
Share of tax (18) (10) (13) (17)
Share of post-tax results 57 57 106 82 
Further information on principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates is given in note 31, page 119. 
THE COMPANY 
 
Subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m 
As at 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 2 269  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
100 
15 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
On 13 March 2007, in accordance with the Group’s US integrated gas strategy, BG Group acquired the Lake Road power plant for cash. Details  
of the net assets acquired are as follows: 
 
Book value 
at acquisition 
£m 
Fair value 
adjustments 
£m 
Fair value 
at acquisition 
£m 
Assets    
 Non-current: Property, plant and equipment 105 236 341 
  Other non-current assets – 10 10 
 Current: Inventories 3 – 3 
  Trade and other receivables 3 – 3 
Liabilities    
 Current: Trade and other payables (3) – (3)
  Commodity contracts (2) – (2)
Net assets 106 246 352 
Cash consideration   352 
The adjustments relate primarily to, but are not limited to, the revaluation of property, plant and equipment. 
The cash consideration of £352m included £1m of costs directly attributable to the combination. 
The Group’s results for the year include operating profit of £11m and profit after tax of £7m in respect of the Lake Road power plant. Had the 
acquisition date for this combination been at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that the Group’s consolidated revenue, operating profit  
and profit after tax would not have been materially different. 
In addition, BG Group acquired the remaining equity (66.3%) of Serene S.p.A. (now BG Italia Power S.p.A.) on 14 February 2007 and the Masspower 
power plant on 1 May 2007, both for cash consideration. Details of the net assets acquired are as follows: 
 
Book value 
at acquisition 
£m 
Fair value 
adjustments 
£m 
Fair value 
at acquisition 
£m 
Assets    
 Non-current: Intangible assets 4 9 13 
  Property, plant and equipment 119 78 197 
  Other non-current assets – 11 11 
 Current: Inventories 4 – 4 
  Trade and other receivables 53 – 53 
  Cash and cash equivalents 27 – 27 
Liabilities    
 Current: Trade and other payables (27) – (27)
  Borrowings (11) – (11)
 Non-current: Borrowings (29) – (29)
  Deferred tax (18) (24) (42)
  Other non-current liabilities (1) (5) (6)
Net assets 121 69 190 
Satisfied by:    
 Carrying value of equity method investment   35 
 Cash   155 
   190 
The adjustments relate primarily to, but are not limited to, the revaluation of property, plant and equipment. 
Included in the above are £87m of non-current assets attributable to the Masspower acquisition, the fair value of which is considered provisional  
as at 31 December 2007, pending finalisation of the fair value exercise. It is anticipated that finalisation of the initial accounting will not result in 
material adjustments to the net assets acquired. 
The cash consideration of £155m included £1m of costs directly attributable to the combinations. 
The Group’s results for the year include operating profit of £15m and profit after tax of £12m for the combined entities. If the combined entities  
had been acquired at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that BG Group’s consolidated revenue, operating profit and profit after tax would  
not have been materially different. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
101
16 INVENTORIES 
THE GROUP 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Raw materials and consumables 174 135 
Finished goods for resale 208 112 
 382 247 
 
17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
 The Group The Company 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Amounts falling due within one year     
Trade receivables 759 762 – – 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 852 895 
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates (see note 28, page 114) 46 38 – – 
Other receivables 205 114 – – 
Prepayments and accrued income 1 251 940 – – 
 2 261 1 854 852 895 
Amounts falling due after more than one year     
Other receivables 49 49 – – 
Prepayments and accrued income 21 – – – 
 70 49 – – 
     
Total receivables 2 331 1 903 852 895 
Trade receivables are stated net of provisions.  When management consider the recovery of a receivable to be improbable, a provision is made  
in full against the carrying value of the receivable. The movement in this provision is as follows: 
THE GROUP 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Provision as at 1 January  13 15 
Charge/(credit) for the year 3 – 
Transfers and other adjustments 1 (2)
Provision as at 31 December 17 13 
As at 31 December 2007, £90m (2006 £90m) of trade and other receivables were past due but not provided for, and an analysis of these receivables 
is as follows: 
THE GROUP 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Less than 3 months past due  59 63 
Between 3 and 6 months past due 5 2 
Between 6 and 12 months past due 2 – 
More than 12 months past due 24 25 
 90 90 
There are no past due or impaired receivables in the Company (2006 £nil).  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
102 
18 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
 The Group The Company 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 202 112 2 1 
Cash equivalent investments 1 679 1 351 – – 
 1 881 1 463 2 1 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits with a maturity of three months or less and other short-term highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash. 
The effective interest rates of the Group’s cash equivalent investments as at 31 December 2007 were between 2.9% and 7.8% (2006 3.6% and 7.1%). 
For further information on the interest rate composition of the Group’s financial assets see note 21, page 104. 
19 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 
THE GROUP 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Other intangible assets – 39 
Property, plant and equipment – 45 
Trade and other receivables – 1 
Assets classified as held for sale – 85 
   
Borrowings – (11)
Trade and other payables – (7)
Provision for other liabilities and charges – (16)
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale – (34)
   
Net assets classified as held for sale – 51 
As at 31 December 2007, BG Group did not have any assets held for sale. 
In 2006, assets held for sale represented the Group’s interest in Mauritania Holdings B.V. and the Microgen business. The sale of Mauritania 
Holdings B.V. was completed in January 2007 and was included within the E&P segment. During 2007, the Group took the decision to close  
the Microgen business and as at 31 December 2007 the business was closed. Microgen was included within the Other activities segment.  
Further details are shown in note 6, page 93.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
103
20 BORROWINGS 
The Group’s treasury policy and other borrowings information disclosed in the financing section on pages 34 and 36 of the Financial review form 
part of this note. 
THE GROUP 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Amounts falling due within one year   
Other loans – commercial paper 16 20 
  – bonds 198 44 
Bank loans and overdrafts 50 29 
Obligations under finance leases 11 10 
 275 103 
Amounts falling due after more than one year   
Other loans – bonds 283 477 
Bank loans and overdrafts 390 200 
Obligations under finance leases 995 882 
 1 668 1 559 
Gross borrowings 1 943 1 662 
As at 31 December 2007, Comgas had pledged trade receivables of £14m (2006 £10m) as security against certain of its borrowings. In the event  
of default under the loan agreements, the lender has the right to receive cash flows from the receivables pledged. Without default the entity will 
continue to collect the receivables and allocate new receivables as collateral. Details of guarantees in relation to borrowings are set out in note 27, 
page 112. 
MATURITY AND INTEREST RATE PROFILE OF THE GROUP’S BORROWINGS 
The following tables analyse the Group’s gross borrowings. These are repayable as follows: 
Gross borrowings (including obligations under finance leases) 
 
Fixed rate borrowings 
 
Total gross borrowings 
Amounts due: 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Within one year 12 14 275 103 
Between one and two years 10 14 132 241 
Between two and three years 11 12 73 95 
Between three and four years 12 13 66 44 
Between four and five years 11 14 308 44 
After five years 289 308 1 089 1 135 
 345 375 1 943 1 662 
For the purpose of the table above, debt with an initial maturity within one year, such as commercial paper, is treated as floating rate debt. 
As part of its interest rate risk strategy the Group has entered into interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedges of interest rate  
risk. The disclosure above is presented after the effect of these interest rate swaps. Further information on the fair value of the interest rate  
swaps is included in note 21, page 104. 
The effective post-swap interest rates as at 31 December 2007 were between 5% and 13% (2006 3% and 19%). For amounts falling due within  
one year the effective post-swap interest rates were between 5% and 8% (2006 3% and 19%). Fixed rate borrowings that are not in fair value  
hedge relationships mature between 2008 and 2028 (2006 mature between 2008 and 2028) and the interest rates are not subject to re-pricing  
prior to maturity. 
Obligations under finance leases 
Minimum  
lease payments 
Obligations under  
finance leases 
Amounts due: 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Within one year 72 62 11 10 
Between one and five years 274 238 49 40 
After five years 1 648 1 481 946 842 
Less: future finance charges (988) (889) – – 
 1 006 892 1 006 892 
The Group has finance lease obligations in respect of a number of LNG ships. These lease obligations expire between 2024 and 2037 (2006 expire 
between 2024 and 2037). In addition, the Group has recognised a finance lease in respect of its regasification contract at Lake Charles. This lease 
obligation expires in 2028.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
104 
20 BORROWINGS continued 
CURRENCY COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP’S BORROWINGS 
The following table analyses the currency composition of the Group’s borrowings: 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Currency:   
 Sterling 716 715 
 US Dollars 872 691 
 Brazilian Reals 288 179 
 Other 67 77 
 1 943 1 662 
The disclosure above does not include the impact of certain currency derivatives as these are separately recognised under IAS 39 and presented  
in note 21, page 104. As at 31 December 2007, the Group had swapped £706m (2006 £707m) of pound Sterling borrowings into US Dollars, £33m  
(2006 £49m) of US Dollar borrowings into Brazilian Reals and £35m (2006 £77m) of other currencies into US Dollars.  
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP’S UNDRAWN COMMITTED FACILITIES 
The Group has undrawn committed borrowing facilities, in respect of which all conditions have been met, as follows: 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Expiring:   
Within one year 65 299 
Between one and two years 46 18 
Between two and three years – 429 
Between three and four years – – 
Between four and five years 522 – 
 633 746 
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
TREASURY INSTRUMENTS 
The Group is exposed to credit risk, interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and liquidity risk. As part of its business operations, the Group uses 
derivative financial instruments (derivatives) in order to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates. The Group enters 
into interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to manage the composition of floating and fixed rate debt. The Group enters into forward 
currency contracts and currency swaps to hedge certain foreign currency cash flows and to adjust the currency composition of its assets and 
liabilities. Certain agreements are combined foreign currency and interest swap transactions, described as cross-currency interest rate swaps.  
The Group’s policy is not to use interest and exchange rate derivatives for speculative purposes. 
Further information on treasury risks is contained in the Risk factors section of the Business Review under Fluctuations in exchange rates and 
Interest rate and liquidity risk on pages 42 and 45. 
COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS 
Within the ordinary course of business the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for commodities. The majority of these 
transactions take the form of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the commodity  
in accordance with the Group’s expected sale, purchase or usage requirements. Such contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.  
Certain long-term gas sales contracts in the UK have terms within the contract that constitute written options and accordingly they fall within the 
scope of IAS 39. These contracts also include pricing terms which are based on a variety of commodities and indices, including oil, electricity and the 
Retail Prices Index (RPI). They are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value with movements in fair value recognised in the income statement. 
Certain short-term market traded contracts for the purchase and subsequent resale of third-party commodities are within the scope of IAS 39  
and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value with movements in fair value recognised in the income statement. The Group uses various 
commodity based derivative instruments to manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity prices. Such contracts include 
physical and net-settled forwards, futures, swaps and options. Where these derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges of underlying 
commodity price exposures, certain gains and losses attributable to these instruments are deferred in equity and subsequently recognised in the 
income statement when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises. Commodity derivatives that are not part of a hedging relationship are 
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value with movements in fair value recognised in the income statement. These have all been included  
within other commodity derivatives in the following tables. 
Further information on commodity price exposure is contained in the Risk factors section of the Business Review under Commodity prices  
on page 42.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
105
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
VALUATION 
The Group calculates the fair value of interest rate and currency exchange rate derivative instruments by using market valuations where available  
or, where not available, by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date.  
The fair value of commodity contracts and commodity related derivatives is based on forward price curves, where available. Where observable 
market valuations are unavailable, the fair value on initial recognition is the transaction price and is subsequently determined using quotes from 
third-parties or the Group’s forward planning assumptions for the price of gas, other commodities and indices.  
One of the assumptions underlying the fair value of long-term UK gas contracts is that the gas market in the UK is liquid for two years. As at  
31 December 2007, the average two year forward price for UK gas was 51p per therm (2006 36p per therm). Beyond this period a seasonally adjusted 
UK gas price of 45p per therm (2006 31p per therm) has been used along with an electricity price of £45 per megawatt hour (2006 £28 per megawatt 
hour). The fair values of the long-term commodity contracts are then discounted using the market yield curve at the balance sheet date. Using these 
assumptions, the change in fair value of long-term UK gas contracts charged to the income statement in the year is £140m (2006 £366m credit).  
As at 31 December 2007, the potential change in the fair value of long-term commodity contracts, assuming a 10% change in the price assumptions, 
was £27m (2006 £30m).  
AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN RESPECT OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
 2007 2006 
Included on the balance sheet: 
Assets 
£m 
Liabilities 
£m 
Assets 
£m 
Liabilities 
£m 
Interest rate derivatives 7 (3) 5 (5)
Currency exchange rate derivatives 37 (70) 10 (21)
Cross-currency interest rate derivatives 132 (16) 135 (28)
Long-term UK gas contracts – (373) – (233)
Other commodity derivatives 691 (708) 698 (544)
 867 (1 170) 848 (831)
As at 31 December 2007, margin payments of £44m (2006 £22m) were deposited with the Group’s brokers in respect of commodity derivatives 
traded on regulated exchanges. 
Derivative financial instruments are treated as expiring within one year and classified within current assets and current liabilities unless they form 
part of a designated hedge relationship, when they are classified according to the period in which the derivative is expected to expire. Included 
within derivatives classified as expiring within one year are the long-term UK gas contracts which expire between 2009 and 2014 (2006 between 
2007 and 2014), other commodity derivatives which expire between 2008 and 2017 (2006 between 2007 and 2012), and certain currency and  
cross-currency interest rate derivatives that are not part of a formal hedging relationship which expire between 2008 and 2036 (2006 between  
2007 and 2036).  
 2007 2006 
Expiring: Assets 
£m 
Liabilities 
£m 
Assets 
£m 
Liabilities 
£m 
Within one year 489 (804) 575 (741)
Between one and five years 378 (366) 226 (85)
After five years – – 47 (5)
 867 (1 170) 848 (831)
The notional principal amounts of derivative financial instruments are as follows: 
 2007 2006 
Expiring: 
Within  
one year 
£m 
Between 
one and five 
years 
£m 
After five 
years 
£m 
 
Total 
£m 
Within 
one year 
£m 
Between  
one and five 
years 
£m 
After five 
years 
£m 
 
Total 
£m 
Interest rate derivatives 150 250 – 400 – 150 255 405 
Currency exchange rate derivatives 262 2 811 – 3 073 54 1 020 – 1 074 
Cross-currency interest rate derivatives 218 359 175 752 116 313 436 865 
Other commodity derivatives 12 038 9 072 163 21 273 4 554 3 574 2 8 130 
The notional principal amounts of long-term UK gas contracts are £645m (2006 £467m). The amounts in respect of other commodity derivatives 
represent the gross combination of notional principals relating to all purchase and sale contracts. These notional principal amounts give an 
indication of the scale of derivatives held, but do not reflect the risk that the Group is exposed to from their use.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
106 
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS ON DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Included in the income statement: 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Interest rate and exchange rate derivatives not in a designated hedge relationship (17) 19 
Interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges 4 (14)
Cross-currency interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges 2 (3)
Ineffectiveness on net investment hedges 1 5 
Long-term UK gas contracts (see note 3, page 86) (140) 366 
Other commodity derivatives not in a designated hedge relationship
(a)
 (42) 90 
 (192) 463 
(a) Includes £19m charge (2006 £52m credit) recognised as Other operating income within Business Performance. 
HEDGE ACCOUNTING 
In line with the Group’s risk management policies, certain derivative and non-derivative instruments are designated as hedges of currency, interest 
rate and commodity price exposures in accordance with IAS 39. Further information can be found in the Financial instruments and Commodity 
instruments sections of the Financial review on page 36. 
Fair Value Hedges  
As at 31 December 2007, the Group held a number of interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as hedges of the fair 
value risk associated with the Group’s fixed rate debt. The fixed rate loans and the related swaps have the same critical terms to ensure that they 
are an effective hedge under IAS 39. The fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges outstanding as at 31 December 2007  
is £8m (2006 £3m). During 2007, adjustments of £(3)m (2006 £16m) have been made to borrowings in respect of highly effective fair value hedges. 
Cash Flow Hedges 
The Group has forward commodity contracts and currency exchange rate derivatives designated as hedges of highly probable forecast purchases 
and sales. The cash flow hedges were assessed as highly effective and an unrealised pre-tax loss of £54m (2006 £73m gain) was deferred in equity  
as at 31 December 2007. The hedged transactions are expected to occur within four years (2006 five years) following the year end and the associated 
gains and losses deferred in equity will be released to the income statement as the underlying transaction occurs. As at 31 December 2007, deferred 
pre-tax losses of £15m (2006 £1m gain) are expected to be released to the income statement within one year. The fair value of derivative 
instruments designated as cash flow hedges outstanding as at 31 December 2007 is £(53)m (2006 £75m). 
Note 26, page 111 identifies the amounts that have been transferred from equity to the income statement in respect of transactions completed 
during the year. These items are reported within the income statement to match against the underlying transaction. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
As at 31 December 2007, certain currency derivatives have been designated as hedges of net investments in the Group’s foreign operations, and are 
used to hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Fair value movements in the designated currency derivatives  
are transferred to equity to offset the gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the net investments in foreign subsidiaries. The pre-tax loss  
on highly effective designated currency derivatives deferred within equity as at 31 December 2007 is £9m (2006 £15m). The fair value of derivative 
instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations outstanding as at 31 December 2007 is £113m (2006 £117m). 
FINANCIAL ASSETS (EXCLUDING SHORT-TERM DEBTORS) 
The Group’s financial assets consist of cash and cash equivalents of £1 881m (2006 £1 463m), loans made to joint ventures and associates of £658m 
(2006 £591m), other long-term investments of £1m (2006 £1m) and debtors due after more than one year of £49m (2006 £49m).  
The currency and interest rate profile of financial assets is as follows: 
 2007 2006 
 
Fixed rate 
financial assets 
£m 
Floating rate 
financial assets 
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing assets 
£m 
Total 
 £m 
Fixed rate 
financial assets 
£m 
Floating rate 
financial assets 
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing assets 
£m 
Total 
 £m 
Currency:    
 Sterling 84 1 335 124 1 543 95 1 106 88 1 289
 US Dollars 41 683 65 789 44 638 83 765
 Other – 248 9 257 – 33 17 50 
 125 2 266 198 2 589 139 1 777 188 2 104 
The effective interest rates on the loans to joint ventures and associates as at 31 December 2007 were between 0% and 9.95% (2006 0% and 9.95%). 
Within floating rate financial assets, cash and cash equivalents earn interest at the relevant market rates or, where invested in money market liquidity 
funds, as determined by the investment returns of the relevant fund. In each case, investment performance is measured against the London Interbank 
Offered Rate (LIBOR) for the relevant currency and maturity. Periodic interest rate determinations in respect of other floating rate financial assets 
generally comprise LIBOR plus or minus an agreed margin. As at 31 December 2007, £84m (2006 £95m) of fixed rate loans to joint ventures and 
associates expire in 2016 (2006 expire in 2016) and have effective interest rates of between 7.25% and 9.95% (2006 between 7.25% and 9.95%). The 
maturity profile of the remaining loans to joint ventures and associates cannot be practicably estimated as repayments are based on the performance  
of the individual joint venture or associate. As at 31 December 2007, £41m (2006 £44m) of fixed rate debtors due after more than one year expire 
between 2011 and 2015 (2006 expire between 2011 and 2015) and have effective interest rates of 6% (2006 between 10.95% and 12.66%). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
107
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
 2007 2006 
 
Book value 
£m 
Fair value 
£m 
Book value 
£m 
Fair value 
£m 
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations:     
 Short-term borrowings (275) (275) (103) (103)
 Long-term borrowings (1 668) (1 726) (1 559) (1 604)
 Cash and cash equivalents 1 881 1 881 1 463 1 463 
 Short-term debtors 1 010 1 010 876 876 
 Short-term creditors (906) (906) (728) (728)
 Other financial liabilities (20) (20) (15) (15)
 Other financial assets 708 721 641 656 
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents (current asset investments and cash at bank and in hand), short-term debtors and short-term  
creditors approximates book value due to the short maturity of these instruments. The fair values of the fixed rate borrowings and joint  
venture and associate loans have been estimated based on quoted market prices where available, or by discounting all future cash flows  
by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date. The fair values of floating rate borrowings and joint venture and associate loans approximate  
book value as interest rates on these instruments reset on a frequent basis. Fair values have not been obtained for the non-interest bearing  
loans to joint ventures and associates as repayment of these loans are linked to the performance of the individual joint venture or associate  
and it is therefore not practicable to assign fair values. 
FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS 
The principal financial risks arising from financial instruments are commodity price risk, exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and  
credit risk. A description of these principal risks and the actions taken by management to mitigate some of the exposure is outlined in the Risk 
factors section of the Business Review on page 42. Additional quantitative information and market sensitivities in relation to certain principal 
market risks are included in the section below.  
Liquidity risk 
The Group limits the amount of borrowings maturing within any specific period and the Group’s financial assets are primarily held as short-term, 
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash. These measures keep liquidity risk low. The Group proposes  
to meet its financial commitments from both the operating cash flows of the business and from use of the money and capital markets, including 
existing committed lines of credit. 
The undiscounted contractual cash flows receivable/(payable) under financial instruments as at the balance sheet date are as follows: 
 
As at 31 December 2007 
Within 
one year 
£m 
Between 
one and two 
years 
£m 
Between  
two and five 
years 
£m 
After five 
years 
£m 
 
Total 
£m 
Non-derivative financial liabilities      
Borrowings (406) (236) (732) (1 809) (3 183)
Short-term creditors (906) – – – (906)
Other financial liabilities – – – (20) (20)
 (1 312) (236) (732) (1 829) (4 109)
Derivative financial liabilities      
Interest rate derivatives (1) – (1) – (2)
Currency exchange and cross-currency interest rate derivatives (417) (1 512) (1 696) (430) (4 055)
Gross settled commodity derivatives (1 106) (273) (175) – (1 554)
Net settled commodity derivatives (64) (39) (24) – (127)
 (1 588) (1 824) (1 896) (430) (5 738)
      
Non-derivative and derivative financial assets 5 712 2 714 3 000 1 317 12 743 
      
Total as at 31 December 2007 2 812 654 372 (942) 2 896  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
108 
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued  
FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS continued 
 
As at 31 December 2006 
Within 
one year 
£m 
Between 
one and two 
years 
£m 
Between  
two and five 
years 
£m 
After five 
years 
£m 
 
Total 
£m 
Non-derivative financial liabilities     
Borrowings (209) (339) (423) (1 807) (2 778)
Short-term creditors (766) – – – (766)
Other financial liabilities – – – (15) (15)
 (975) (339) (423) (1 822) (3 559)
Derivative financial liabilities  
Interest rate derivatives (1) (1) (2) – (4)
Currency exchange and cross-currency interest rate derivatives (182) (204) (1 232) (671) (2 289)
Gross settled commodity derivatives (741) (200) (100) (1) (1 042)
Net settled commodity derivatives (11) (13) (32) – (56)
 (935) (418) (1 366) (672) (3 391)
     
Non-derivative and derivative financial assets 4 061 895 2 424 1 440 8 820 
     
Total as at 31 December 2006 2 151 138 635 (1 054) 1 870 
Credit risk  
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks 
and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to wholesale customers including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. For 
banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘A’ are normally accepted. Limits are established for 
banks and financial institutions and Group management monitors exposures periodically. If wholesale customers are independently rated, these 
ratings are used. Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, business credit policies dictate the credit quality assessment which takes account  
of financial position and other factors. Limits are established for wholesale trading businesses and business and Group management monitors 
overall exposures periodically. 
As at 31 December 2007, the Group’s maximum credit risk exposure (after the impact of any netting arrangements) under interest rate related 
derivatives was £7m (2006 £5m), currency derivatives £127m (2006 £122m) and commodity related derivatives £307m (2006 £387m). The Group’s 
credit risk exposure under short-term debtors and other financial assets is represented by the book values. The Group has no significant 
concentration of credit risk, with exposures spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. 
Sensitivity analysis 
Financial instruments used by the Group that are affected by market risks primarily comprise cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and derivative 
contracts. The principal market variables that affect the value of these financial instruments are UK and US interest rates, US Dollar to pound 
Sterling exchange rates, UK and US gas prices and Japan Crude Cocktail (JCC) prices. The table below illustrates the indicative post-tax effects on the 
income statement and equity of applying reasonably foreseeable market movements to the Group’s financial instruments at the balance sheet date. 
 2007 2006 
 
Business 
Performance 
£m 
Disposals, 
re-measurements 
and impairments 
£m 
Equity 
£m 
Business 
Performance 
£m 
Disposals,  
re-measurements 
and impairments 
£m 
Equity 
£m 
UK interest rates   + 100 basis points 9 (5) 8 8  (4) 8 
US interest rates  + 100 basis points (4) 1 (8) (3)  2 (8)
US$/UK£ exchange rate + 20 cents (12) (4) (16) (15)  (3) (4)
UK gas prices  + 10 pence/therm – (45) (89) (3)  (53) (62)
US gas prices  + 1 US$/mmbtu 10 – 51 5  – 11 
JCC prices   + 10 US$/bbl – – (25) –  – – 
The above sensitivity analysis is based on the Group’s financial assets, liabilities and hedge designations as at the balance sheet date and indicate the effect of a reasonable 
increase in each market variable. The effect of a corresponding decrease in these variables is approximately equal and opposite. The following assumptions have been made: 
(a) the sensitivity includes a full year’s change in interest payable and receivable from floating rate borrowings and investments based on the post-swap amounts and 
composition as at the balance sheet date;  
(b) fair value changes coming from derivative instruments designated as cash flow or net investment hedges are considered fully effective and are recorded in equity; 
(c) fair value changes coming from derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges are considered fully effective and entirely offset by adjustments to the  
underlying hedged item; 
(d) fair value changes coming from derivatives not in a hedge relationship are recorded in the income statement; 
(e) fair value changes coming from certain long-term UK gas contracts arise entirely from sensitivity to the two year forward price for UK gas; the long-term gas price 
assumptions used in the valuation of such contracts are unaffected by reasonably foreseeable movements in UK gas prices.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
109
22 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
 The Group The Company 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Amounts falling due within one year     
Trade payables 485 600 – – 
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates (see note 28, page 114) 46 38 – – 
Other payables
(a)
 375 128 208 11 
Accruals and deferred income 1 345 852 – – 
 2 251 1 618 208 11 
Amounts falling due after more than one year     
Other payables 20 15 – – 
Accruals and deferred income 10 6 – – 
 30 21 – – 
     
Total payables 2 281 1 639 208 11 
(a) Includes £36m (2006 £19m) relating to cash-settled share-based payment transactions, of which £17m (2006 £10m) relates to awards that have already vested, and  
£44m (2006 £39m) for bonuses provided for payments to eligible employees in 2007 under bonus schemes, including the BG Group Annual Incentive Scheme (AIS). 
23 PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 
THE GROUP 
 Decommissioning Other Total 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006  
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
As at 1 January  311 260 76 112 387 372 
Charge for the year – – 183 17 183 17 
Unwinding of discount 16 13 7 – 23 13 
Additions 94 49 3 – 97 49 
Business combinations 5 – 1 – 6 – 
Transfers and other adjustments 4 (10) (2) (14) 2 (24)
Amounts used (1) – (29) (25) (30) (25)
Unused provisions credited to the income statement – (1) (6) (14) (6) (15)
As at 31 December 429 311 233 76 662 387 
Provisions falling due within one year amount to £29m (2006 £5m). 
A brief description of each provision together with estimates of the timing of expenditure is given below: 
DECOMMISSIONING COSTS 
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields is reviewed at least annually and engineering estimates and 
reports are updated periodically. Provision is made for the estimated cost of decommissioning at the balance sheet date, to the extent that current 
circumstances indicate BG Group will ultimately bear this cost. The payment dates of total expected future decommissioning costs are uncertain 
but are currently anticipated to be between 2010 and 2047. 
OTHER 
The balance as at 31 December 2007 includes restructuring costs arising from the renegotiation of power purchase agreements at Premier Power 
Limited of £12m (2006 £11m), field-related payments of £3m (2006 £4m), insurance costs of £14m (2006 £12m), provisions for onerous contracts 
£154m (2006 £nil), costs associated with acquisitions and disposals of £19m (2006 £15m) and provisions for financial guarantee contracts £1m  
(2006 £4m). The payment dates are uncertain but are expected to be between 2008 and 2018. 
A provision for onerous contracts was recognised during the year in respect of capacity contracts in the Interconnector pipeline, retained following 
disposal of the Group’s 25% equity interest in Interconnector (UK) Limited. The obligation associated with these contracts extends to 2018.   www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
110 
24 DEFERRED TAX 
Deferred taxes are calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using currently enacted or substantively enacted  
tax rates. The net movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below: 
THE GROUP 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
As at 1 January 1 072 642 
Business combinations 42 – 
Charge for the year 111 449 
(Credit)/charge on fair value movements on hedges taken to equity (36) 55 
Credit to equity in respect of share-based payments (26) (12)
Currency translation adjustments and other movements 9 (62)
As at 31 December 1 172 1 072 
An analysis of the movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset if they relate  
to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current  
tax liabilities. 
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£m 
Deferred 
petroleum 
revenue tax 
£m 
Provisions 
£m 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m 
Unused tax 
losses and tax 
credits 
£m 
Unremitted 
earnings 
£m 
Other 
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Deferred tax assets         
As at 31 December 2006  – – – (43) – – (31) (74)
Charge/(credit) for the year – – – 5 – – – 5 
Charge/(credit) to equity – – – – – – (26) (26)
Currency translation adjustments  
and other movements – – – – – – 9 9 
As at 31 December 2007 – – – (38) – – (48) (86)
Deferred tax liabilities         
As at 31 December 2006 1 176 69 (116) – (6) 16 7 1 146 
Business combinations 44 – (2) – – – – 42 
Charge/(credit) for the year 267 (5) (34) – (25) (13) (84) 106 
Charge/(credit) to equity – – – – – – (36) (36)
Currency translation adjustments  
and other movements (3) – – – – – 3 – 
As at 31 December 2007 1 484 64 (152) – (31) 3 (110) 1 258 
Net deferred tax liability as at  
31 December 2007 1 484 64 (152) (38) (31) 3 (158) 1 172 
Net deferred tax liability as at  
31 December 2006  1 176 69 (116) (43) (6) 16 (24) 1 072 
The deferred tax asset of £86m (2006 £74m) is expected to be recovered after more than 12 months. The deferred tax liability of £1 258m  
(2006 £1 146m) is shown after the offset of certain deferred tax assets relating to the same fiscal authority; the liability prior to such offset is  
£1 724m (2006 £1 424m). The net amount expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £1 258m (2006 £1 134m). 
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates for which 
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £1 960m (2006 £1 395m). No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because 
the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse  
in the foreseeable future.  
The Company had a deferred tax asset of £7m at 31 December 2007 (31 December 2006 £nil).  
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences, unutilised tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that realisation 
of the related tax benefit through future taxable income is probable. The Group has unrecognised deductible temporary differences of £78m  
(2006 £219m) and unrecognised tax losses of £389m (2006 £210m) to carry forward against future taxable income. To the extent unutilised, £98m 
of these losses will expire between 2008 and 2012. In addition, the Group has unrecognised capital losses of £252m (2006 £252m); these tax losses 
can only be offset against specific types of future capital gains. The Group also has unrecognised overseas tax credits of £181m (2006 £159m).   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
111
25 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL 
 
2007 
Number of 
shares 
m 
2006 
Number of 
shares 
m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Authorised     
Equity:     
 Ordinary shares of 10p each 5 000 5 000 500 500 
 
 2007 
Number of 
shares 
m 
2006 
Number of 
shares 
m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Allotted and fully paid up     
Equity:     
 Ordinary shares of 10p each 3 575 3 558 358 356 
26 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
THE GROUP 
Called up 
share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Hedging  
reserve (a)
£m  
Translation  
reserve (b)
£m  
Other  
reserves (c)
£m  
Retained  
earnings (d)
£m  
Total 
£m 
Minority 
interest 
£m 
Total 
£m 
As at 1 January 2006  355 92 (20) 257 1 702 3 783 6 169 98 6 267 
Profit for the year – – – – – 1 779 1 779 45 1 824 
Adjustment for share schemes – – – – – 22 22 – 22 
Tax in respect of share schemes – – – – – 23 23 – 23 
Dividends – – – – – (247) (247) (36) (283)
Cash flow hedges:          
 Net fair value gains/(losses) – – 102 – – – 102 – 102 
 Tax – – (31) – – – (31) – (31) 
Net investment hedges:          
 Net fair value gains/(losses)  – – – 80 – – 80 – 80 
 Tax  – – – (24) – – (24) – (24)
Currency translation adjustments – – – (569) – – (569) (6) (575)
Issue of shares 1 24 – – – – 25
(e)
 1 26 
Purchase of own shares
(f)
 – – – – – (966) (966) – (966)
As at 31 December 2006  356 116 51 (256) 1 702 4 394 6 363 102 6 465 
Profit for the year – – – – – 1 746 1 746 54 1 800 
Adjustment for share schemes – – – – – 26 26 – 26 
Tax in respect of share schemes
(g)
 – – – – – 54 54 – 54 
Dividends – – – – – (264) (264) (37) (301)
Cash flow hedges:        
 Net fair value gains/(losses) – – (128) – – – (128) – (128)
 Tax – –              38 – – –             38 –            38  
Net investment hedges:          
 Net fair value gains/(losses)  – – – 6 – – 6 – 6 
 Tax  – – – (2) – – (2) – (2)
Currency translation adjustments – – – 88 – – 88 13 101 
Issue of shares 2 49 – – – – 51 – 51 
Purchase of own shares
(f)
 – – – – – (753) (753) – (753)
As at 31 December 2007 358 165 (39) (164) 1 702 5 203 7 225 132 7 357  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
112 
26 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY continued 
THE COMPANY 
Called up 
share capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Other       
 reserves (c) 
£m       
Retained 
 earnings 
£m  
Total 
£m 
As at 1 January 2006 355 92 756 2 076 3 279 
Profit for the year – – – 1 041 1 041 
Adjustment for share schemes – – – 22 22 
Issue of shares
(e)
 1 24 – – 25 
Purchase of own shares – – – (966) (966)
Dividends – – – (247) (247)
As at 31 December 2006 356 116 756 1 926 3 154 
Profit for the year – – – 695 695 
Adjustment for share schemes – – – 26 26 
Tax in respect of share schemes
(g) 
– – – 11 11 
Issue of shares
(e)
 2 49 – – 51 
Purchase of own shares
(f)
 – – – (753) (753)
Dividends – – – (264) (264)
As at 31 December 2007 358 165 756 1 641 2 920 
(a) During 2007, a pre-tax amount of £7m (2006 £1m) was transferred from the hedging reserve to revenue to match against the underlying transaction. No amounts  
were removed from equity and included in the cost of non-current assets (2006 £nil). 
(b) Includes currency translation adjustments of £(99)m (2006 £(94)m) relating to joint ventures and associates. 
(c) Other reserves, which are not distributable, represent the difference between the carrying value of subsidiary undertaking investments and their respective capital 
structures following the restructuring and refinancing in 1999. 
(d) Includes retained earnings in respect of joint ventures and associates of £192m (2006 £194m). 
(e) The issue of shares related to amounts issued to employees under employee share option schemes for a cash consideration of £51m (2006 £25m). 
(f) At 31 December 2007, the Company held 213.9m (2006 146.5m) of its own shares. The Company made the following transactions in respect of its own shares: 
(i) During 2007, the Company repurchased 70.3m (2006 141.94m) of its own ordinary shares under the Company’s share repurchase programme (see page 28). The shares     
repurchased, for aggregate consideration of £564m including transaction costs, had a nominal value of £7 026 795 and represented approximately 2.0% of the called up 
share capital at 31 December 2007.  
(ii) During 2007, the Company transferred 2.9m of its ordinary shares to eligible employees in accordance with the terms of the SIP and LTIS. The shares transferred  
had a nominal value of £286 192 and represented approximately 0.1% of the called up share capital at 31 December 2007. The cost of shares transferred was £20m.  
(iii) The maximum number of shares held during the year was 213.9m ordinary shares (2006 146.6m), representing approximately 6.0% of the called up share capital at  
31 December 2007, and having a nominal value of £21 390 756. The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2007 was £2 460m.  
(iv) From 1 January to 6 February 2008, the Company also repurchased under its share repurchase programme 17.776m ordinary shares for aggregate consideration of  
£189.3m, including transaction costs. The shares repurchased have a nominal value of £1 777 600 and represented approximately 0.5% of the called up share capital at  
31 December 2007. 
(g) This consists of £28m current tax and £26m deferred tax in the Group and £4m current tax and £7m deferred tax in the Company. 
The profit for the financial year, dealt with in the accounts of the Company, was £695m (2006 £1 041m). As permitted by section 230(3) of the 
Companies Act 1985, no income statement is presented for the Company. 
27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
A)  CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had placed contracts for future capital expenditure amounting to £1 664m (2006 £1 644m) of which £nil  
(2006 £nil) related to the Company. As at 31 December 2007, BG Group’s joint ventures and associates had placed contracts for capital expenditure, 
BG Group’s share of which amounted to £146m (2006 £71m), of which £35m (2006 £3m) is guaranteed by the Group. 
B)  DECOMMISSIONING COSTS ON DISPOSED ASSETS 
BG Group has contingent liabilities in respect of the future decommissioning costs of gas and oil assets disposed of to third parties should they fail 
to meet their remediation obligations. While the amounts of future costs could be significant, the Group has obtained indemnities and/or letters  
of credit against the estimated amount of these potential liabilities.  
C)  FUTURE WELL COSTS 
As at 31 December 2007, certain petroleum licences in which BG Group has an interest, contained outstanding obligations to drill exploration wells, 
some of which were firm commitments and others contingent. The uncontracted cost attributable to the Group of drilling such firm commitment 
wells is estimated to be £269m (2006 £296m). 
D)  GUARANTEES  
The Group has guaranteed its share of the repayment of principal, any associated premium and interest on certain borrowings taken out by joint 
ventures and associates. As at 31 December 2007, the pounds Sterling equivalent amounted to £312m (2006 £410m). A subsidiary undertaking,  
BG Energy Holdings Limited, has guaranteed the repayment of principal, any associated premium and interest on borrowings due by its subsidiary 
undertakings. As at 31 December 2007, the pounds Sterling equivalent amounted to £1 521m (2006 £1 102m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
113
27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued 
E)  LEASE COMMITMENTS 
Commitments under operating leases as at 31 December were as follows:  
THE GROUP 
Land and buildings Other Total 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Amounts due:       
 Within one year 23 21 119 84 142 105 
 Between two and five years 67 58 150 251 217 309 
 Later than five years 145 136 – 8 145 144 
Total commitments under operating leases  235 215 269 343 504 558 
As at 31 December 2007, the Company had no commitments under operating leases (2006 £nil).  
Certain expenditure under operating leases is recovered from third parties under partnership agreements.  
Included within land and buildings are two operating leases over BG Group’s headquarters, which are located at 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, 
Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT. The leases expire in 2026. 
Included within Other are operating leases over LNG ships. The last of these leases expires in 2011. The Group sub-leases one of its LNG ships to third 
parties (2006 one ship). The ship is leased to the Group under a lease included in the table above. Total future minimum lease rentals receivable  
by the Group under this lease were £19m as at 31 December 2007 (2006 £32m). 
The Group has a long-term power sales arrangement where it receives payments in respect of the availability status of a power station. This 
arrangement is considered an operating lease with BG Group as the lessor. Total future minimum lease rentals receivable under this lease as at  
31 December 2007 were £214m (2006 £284m) split between amounts due within one year £34m (2006 £36m); amounts due between two and  
five years £121m (2006 £151m) and amounts due over five years £59m (2006 £97m). 
At 31 December 2007, the Group had entered into commitments under finance leases commencing after that date of £174m (2006 £96m). 
F)  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
The Court of Brindisi is pursuing a criminal investigation against certain former employees and consultants of BG Group and BG Italia S.p.A.  
(BG Italia), a wholly owned subsidiary of BG Group, into allegations of improper conduct associated with the authorisation process for the  
planned Brindisi LNG regasification terminal. 
The Italian authorities have also alleged that certain current and former directors of Brindisi LNG S.p.A. (Brindisi LNG), a wholly owned subsidiary  
of BG Italia, unlawfully permitted the occupation and alteration of public land, namely the port area in Brindisi where the regasification terminal  
is due to be constructed, as a result of improperly authorised permits. 
Also, BG Italia has been notified by the Court of Brindisi that it is under investigation in relation to the allegations referred to above for possible 
violations of Legislative Decree No. 231/2001, an Italian anti-corruption statute which imposes liability on corporate entities under certain 
circumstances in the event criminal acts are committed by management or employees of the company. 
A court hearing in relation to the criminal investigation has been scheduled for 13 March 2008 to consider whether criminal charges in relation to 
the above allegations should be brought against BG Italia and/or any of the individuals involved. In addition, the Italian authorities are still carrying 
out further investigations, the scope of which is unknown. 
In October 2007, BG Group received formal notification from the Ministry of Economic Development that the original ‘Article 8’ authorisation  
for the construction and operation of Brindisi LNG had been suspended pending the submission by BG Group of a full Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA) and confirmation from the Italian authorities as to the validity of the ‘Article 8’ authorisation. On 15 January 2008, BG Group 
commenced the EIA approval process by submitting an EIA. Notwithstanding that BG Group has commenced the EIA approval process, BG Group 
has challenged the suspension of the ‘Article 8’ authorisation in the administrative courts. The Municipality of Brindisi has also challenged the 
suspension, arguing that the authorisation should have been annulled rather than suspended. This action, if successful, could result in the 
authorisation being annulled, subject to any rights of appeal. 
There are various other ongoing legal proceedings relating to the Brindisi LNG regasification terminal, for example relating to consents necessary  
for the construction work and environmental procedures. The impact of these legal proceedings cannot yet be quantified but could delay or deny 
BG Group access to the Brindisi LNG terminal site. 
In addition, various Group undertakings are parties to legal actions and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome  
of some of these matters cannot readily be foreseen, it is considered that they will be resolved without material effect on the net asset position  
as shown in these Financial Statements.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
114 
27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued 
G) OTHER  
The amount of other contingencies and commitments as at 31 December 2007 (mainly the provision of guarantees and indemnities to third parties 
in respect of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, in the normal course of business) amounted to £1 869m (2006 £1 726m), of which £301m 
(2006 £377m) related to the Company. BG Group’s share of other commitments and contingencies in respect of its joint ventures and associates 
amounted to £22m (2006 £10m). 
28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
BG Group provides goods and services to, and receives goods and services from, its joint ventures and associates. In the year ended  
31 December 2007, the Group received and incurred the following income and charges respectively: 
 2007 2006 
 
Income 
£m 
Charges 
£m 
Income 
£m  
Charges 
£m 
LNG  88 (440) 77 (422)
Shipping  32 (15) 31 (26)
Other 8 – 12 – 
 128 (455) 120 (448)
As at 31 December 2007, a debtor balance of £46m (2006 £38m) (see note 17, page 101) and a creditor balance of £46m (2006 £38m) (see note  
22, page 109) were outstanding with these parties. 
In addition, BG Group provides financing to some of these parties by way of loans. As at 31 December 2007, loans of £658m (2006 £591m) were  
due from joint ventures and associates. These loans are accounted for as part of BG Group’s investment in joint ventures and associates and 
disclosed in note 14, page 99. Interest of £29m (2006 £34m) was charged on these loans during the year at interest rates of between 0% and  
9.95% (2006 0% and 9.95%). The maximum debt outstanding during the year was £658m (2006 £601m).  
BG Group also entered into transactions with a joint venture company during the year, which resulted in a finance leasing arrangement. As at 31 
December 2007, the obligation was £80m (2006 £nil) (see note 20, page 103). The lease expires in 2027. 
During 2007, Comgas, a non-wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, received charges of £1m (2006 £1m) from another of its shareholders. As at 
31 December 2007, a balance of £nil (2006 £nil) was outstanding with this party. 
Amounts outstanding between the parent company and subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2007 are given in note 17, page 101. 
William Backhouse, the son of Peter Backhouse, a non-executive Director, is employed by BG International Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary  
of BG Group plc. Peter Backhouse is regarded as interested in the contract of employment by virtue of his relationship with William Backhouse.  
The terms and conditions of William Backhouse’s employment are in line with others employed in a similar role.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
115
29 PENSIONS AND POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
The majority of the Group’s UK employees participate in the BG Pension Scheme (the Scheme). The Scheme is of the defined benefit type. It is  
a registered (formerly approved) pension scheme established under trust. The Trustee is BG Group Pension Trustees Limited. The Scheme is  
funded to cover future pension liabilities in respect of service up to the balance sheet date. It is subject to an independent valuation at least every 
three years, on the basis of which the independent qualified actuary certifies the rate of employers’ contributions which, together with the specified 
contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the Scheme’s assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under 
the Scheme. 
Most members contribute to the Scheme at a rate of 3% of pensionable salary. Participating employers’ contributions, including Scheme expenses, 
are certified by the Scheme’s independent qualified actuary. For the year ended 31 December 2007, the employers’ contribution rate in respect of 
most Scheme members was effectively 26.9% of pensionable pay.  
A full independent actuarial valuation of the Scheme for funding purposes was carried out as at 31 March 2005. The actuarial valuation showed  
that the aggregate market value of the Scheme’s assets at 31 March 2005 was £318m, representing some 91% of the accrued liabilities. The Group 
has made payments of £22m and intends to make a further payment of £11m in 2008 in order to reduce the Scheme’s deficit. The next such 
valuation will be undertaken as at 31 March 2008. 
As a result of the new pensions tax regime introduced in April 2006, the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme is now available to provide benefits  
in excess of the new ‘lifetime allowance’. This scheme is an unfunded, unregistered (formerly unapproved) arrangement. 
With effect from 2 April 2007 new UK employees have been offered membership of a defined contribution stakeholder pension plan, the BG Group 
Retirement Benefits Plan (the Plan). Life assurance and income protection benefits are also provided under separate plans; these benefits are fully 
insured. Members may choose the rate at which they contribute to the Plan and the employer’s contribution is determined by the rate that the 
member selects. A wide range of funds is available from which members may choose how the contributions will be invested. 
There is an unfunded post-retirement employee benefit plan for healthcare in respect of employees of Comgas. Provision has been made in respect 
of this plan. 
The Group also has a number of defined contribution schemes and smaller defined benefit schemes. These are not material in Group terms. 
The following information in respect of the Scheme, the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme and the Comgas post-retirement healthcare plan 
(described hereafter as the plans) has been provided in accordance with IAS 19. 
Valuations of all of the plans’ assets and expected liabilities as at 31 December 2007 were carried out by independent actuaries in accordance with 
the requirements of IAS 19. In calculating the charge to the income statement including any recognised actuarial gains and losses, a 10% corridor 
was applied. This means that a portion of actuarial gains and losses is recognised as income or expense only if it exceeds the greater of: 
a) 10% of the present value of the defined benefit obligation at that date (before deducting plan assets); and 
b) 10% of the fair value of any plan assets at that date. 
These limits are calculated and applied separately for each defined benefit plan at each balance sheet date and the portion of actuarial gains and 
losses to be recognised in future years for each plan is the excess of actuarial gains and losses over and above the 10% limits divided by the expected 
average remaining working lives of the employees participating in that plan. 
The valuations as at 31 December were based on the following assumptions: 
 2007 2006 
 
BG plans 
% 
Comgas 
healthcare 
plan 
% 
BG plans 
% 
Comgas 
healthcare 
plan 
% 
Rate of price inflation and benefit increases
(a)
 3.5 5.0 3.1 5.0 
Future increases in earnings 5.5 n/a 5.1 n/a 
Discount rate 5.6 11.3 4.9 11.3 
Healthcare cost trend rate
(b)
 n/a 9.2 n/a 9.2 
(a) Rate of increase of deferred pensions and pensions in payment in excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension element. 
(b) The rate for the Comgas healthcare plan is initially at 9.2% trending to 6.8% over 45 years (2006 9.2% trending to 6.8%). 
If the discount rate used for the valuation of the BG plans was increased by 0.1% to 5.7%, the defined benefit obligation would decrease by £16m  
and the service cost for 2008 would decrease by £1m.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
116 
29 PENSIONS AND POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued 
In determining the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2007 for the BG plans, mortality assumptions are based on the 1992 mortality 
series issued by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, appropriate to the member’s year of birth, with an allowance for projected longevity 
improvements in line with the CMI Bureau’s medium cohort tables, subject to a minimum rate of improvement on the projected mortality rates  
of 1% per annum. Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners on the measurement date and also of pensioners in ten years 
time are as follows: 
 
Life expectancy of pensioners (years) 
 
31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2017 
Male age 60 27.2 28.2 
Male age 65 22.3 23.2 
Female age 60 30.4 31.4 
Female age 65 25.4 26.4 
If the life expectancy of a member currently age 60 was increased by one year, with consistent changes for members at other ages, the  
defined benefit obligation in respect of the BG Plans would increase by £15m and the service cost for 2008 would increase by £1m. 
As at 31 December 2007, the value of the plans’ assets and expected rates of return, together with the liabilities in the plans, were as follows: 
 2007 2006 
 
Expected  
rate of  
return (a)
%  
Percentage 
of plans’ 
assets 
% 
Value 
£m 
Expected  
rate of  
return (a)
%  
Percentage 
of plans’ 
assets 
% 
Value 
£m 
Equities 7.9 63 372 7.7 64 306 
Absolute return strategies 7.4 22 128 7.2 20 97 
Index-linked gilts 4.6 5 28 4.3 5 23 
Corporate bonds 5.9 10 60 5.5 10 49 
Cash 4.5 – 3 4.1 1 7 
Total market value of assets   591   482 
Present value of liabilities   (792)  (727)
Deficit in plans   (201)  (245)
Unrecognised net loss   36   78 
Net benefit liability    (165)  (167)
(a) Long-term expected rate of return. 
The expected rate of return on assets has been determined following advice from the funded plans’ independent actuary and is based on the 
expected return on each asset class together with consideration of the long-term asset strategy. A real return (relative to price inflation) of 4.4%  
(a premium of 3.3% over the yield on index-linked gilts) is expected on equities. The expected return on absolute return strategies is 0.5% below  
the equities return. The overall expected rate of return as at 31 December 2007 was 7.4%. 
The actual return on the plans’ assets was £55m (2006 £50m). 
The following amounts have been recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year to 31 December under the requirements  
of IAS 19: 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement:   
Operating costs:   
 Current service cost 52 41 
 Loss on curtailment 1 2 
 Recognised actuarial loss 1 2 
 Past service cost – 7 
Total charge to operating costs 54 52 
Net finance costs:   
 Expected return on the plans’ assets (37) (31)
 Interest on the plans’ liabilities 38 33 
Total charge to finance costs 1 2 
Total included within employee costs 55 54 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
117
29 PENSIONS AND POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued 
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the period were as follows: 
 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Reconciliation of the present value of the Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO)    
Present value of DBO as at 1 January 727 647 
Movement in year:   
 Current service cost 52 41 
 Interest cost 38 33 
 Employee contributions 4 4 
 Actuarial (gains)/losses (24) 5 
 Benefit payments (including expenses) (12) (11)
 Curtailments 1 2 
 Past service cost – 7 
 Foreign exchange movements 6 (1)
Present value of DBO as at 31 December 792 727 
As at 31 December 2007, £727m of the defined benefit obligation relates to wholly funded defined benefit plans (2006 £672m) and £65m relates  
to unfunded defined benefit plans (2006 £55m).  
Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the period were as follows: 
 2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Reconciliation of the fair value of the plans’ assets    
Fair value of the plans’ assets as at 1 January 482 400 
Movement in year:   
 Expected return on the plans’ assets 37 31 
 Actuarial gains 18 19 
 Company contributions (including curtailment costs) 62 39 
 Employee contributions 4 4 
 Benefit payments (10) (9)
 Expenses paid (2) (2)
Fair value of the plans’ assets as at 31 December 591 482 
The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 
for the year ended 31 December  2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005 
£m 
2004 
£m 
2003 
£m 
Details of experience gains/(losses) for all plans   
Present value of defined benefit obligations (792) (727) (647) (479) (406)
Fair value of the plans’ assets 591 482 400 309 256
Deficit in the plans (201) (245) (247) (170) (150)
Difference between the expected and actual return on the plans’ assets:  
 Amount (£m) 18 19 51 17 28
 Percentage of the plans’ assets (%) 3.0 3.9 12.8 5.5 10.9
Experience gains/(losses) on the plans’ liabilities:   
 Amount (£m) (7) 10 (6) (4) (6)
 Percentage of the present value of the plans’ liabilities (%) 0.9 1.4 0.9 0.8 1.5
Actuarial gains/(losses) on the plans’ liabilities:   
 Amount (£m) 24 (5) (105) (24) (55)
 Percentage of the present value of the plans’ liabilities (%) 3.0 0.7 16.2 5.0 13.5
Aggregate Company contributions for the year ending 31 December 2008 are expected to be £44m, including £11m in respect of payments made  
by the Group to reduce the actuarial funding deficit of the Scheme. The next independent actuarial valuation for the Scheme will be undertaken  
as at 31 March 2008. Following this valuation, the rate of the employer’s contributions will be reviewed and adjusted if necessary. 
The projected benefit obligation for the Comgas post-retirement employee benefit plan for healthcare was £38m (2006 £33m). The effect of  
a one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rates (with all other assumptions remaining constant) on  
the aggregate service and interest costs for the Comgas plan would be an increase of £0.4m or a decrease of £0.5m (2006 £0.5m increase or 
£0.4m decrease) and on the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation would be an increase or decrease of £4m (2006 £4m increase  
or £3m decrease).   www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
118 
30 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
CASH GENERATED BY OPERATIONS 
 The Group The Company 
 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
Profit before taxation  3 039 3 285 701 1 035 
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates (163) (139) – – 
Depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment  677 708 – – 
Amortisation of other intangible assets  4 4 – – 
Share-based payments  35 30 35 30 
Dividends received  – – (677) (1 047)
Fair value movements in commodity contracts 191 (456) – – 
(Profit)/loss on disposal of non-current assets   (19) 49 – – 
Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off  104 113 – – 
(Decrease)/increase in provisions for liabilities and retirement benefit obligations (23) 5 – – 
Finance income (152) (127) (35) – 
Finance costs  124 102 – – 
Movements in working capital:      
 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (153) (61) – – 
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (165) (304) – – 
 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables  192 151 – (7)
Cash generated by operations  3 691 3 360 24 11  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
119
31 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
The principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates listed are those which in the opinion of the Directors principally affect  
the figures shown in the Financial Statements. A full list of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates will be included in the  
Annual Return of BG Group plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies during 2008.  
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 
as at 31 December 2007 Country of 
incorporation Activity 
Group holding 
% (a)
BG Delta Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Energy Holdings Limited* England Group holding company 100.0 
BG Gas Marketing Limited England LNG marketing 100.0 
BG International Limited England 
Holding company 
Exploration and production 100.0 
BG International (CNS) Limited  England Exploration and production 100.0 
BG International (NSW) Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Italia Power S.p.A. Italy Power generation 100.0 
BG Karachaganak Limited England 
Holding company 
Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Norge Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 
BG North Sea Holdings Limited  England 
Holding company 
Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Rosetta Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Trinidad and Tobago Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Tunisia Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 
Methane Services Limited England LNG shipping 100.0 
BG E&P Brasil Ltda. Brazil Exploration and production 100.0 
Companhia de Gás de São Paulo – (Comgas) Brazil Gas distribution 72.7 
BG Bolivia Corporation Cayman Islands Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Egypt S.A. Cayman Islands Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Exploration and Production India Limited Cayman Islands Exploration and production 100.0 
Gujarat Gas Company Limited India Gas distribution 65.1 
BG Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited Nigeria Exploration and production 100.0 
Premier Power Limited Northern Ireland Power generation 100.0 
BG Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Trinidad Central Block Limited Trinidad and Tobago Exploration and production 100.0 
BG Energy Merchants, LLC USA Gas trading 100.0 
BG LNG Services, LLC USA LNG regasification 100.0 
BG LNG Trading, LLC USA LNG trading 100.0 
BG North America, LLC USA Holding company 100.0 
Lake Road Generating Company L.P. USA Power generation 100.0 
* Shares are held by the Company; others are held by subsidiary undertakings. 
(a) There is no difference between the Group holding of ordinary shares and the Group’s share of net assets attributable to equity shareholders, except for Comgas where  
the Group’s share of net assets is 60.1%. 
The distribution of the profits of Comgas are restricted by Corporation Law in Brazil and the company’s by-laws which require 5% of the profit 
for the year to be transferred to the Legal Reserve, until it reaches 20% of the subscribed capital. Distribution of the profits of BG Group’s other 
subsidiary undertakings are not materially restricted. 
All principal subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation with the exception of BG Asia Pacific Pte Limited, which operates 
across several countries; BG Bolivia Corporation, which operates in Bolivia; BG Norge Limited, which operates in the UK and Norway; BG North 
Sea Holdings Limited, which operates in the UK and Algeria; BG LNG Trading, LLC, which operates in several countries; BG Tunisia Limited, 
which operates in Tunisia; BG Trinidad and Tobago Limited, which operates in Trinidad and Tobago; BG Rosetta Limited, which operates  
in Egypt; BG Egypt S.A., which operates in Egypt; BG Delta Limited, which operates in Egypt; BG Karachaganak Limited, which operates in 
Kazakhstan; BG Exploration and Production India Limited, which operates in India; BG Gas Marketing Limited, which operates across several 
countries; Methane Services Limited, which operates across several countries; and BG International Limited, which operates in the UK and 
several other countries worldwide.  www.bg-group.com
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
120 
31 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES continued 
JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
as at 31 December 2007 Country of 
incorporation 
and operation Activity Issued share capital 
Group 
holding 
% 
Joint ventures      
First Gas Holdings Corporation Philippines Power generation 126 084 100 shares of Peso 10 40.0 
Mahanagar Gas Limited India Gas distribution 89 341 600 shares of Rupees 10 49.8 
Seabank Power Limited England Power generation 5 280 shares of £1
(a)
50.0 
 
Associates     
Atlantic LNG Company of Trinidad and Tobago  
Trinidad and 
Tobago LNG manufacture 243 851 shares of $1 000 26.0 
Atlantic LNG 2/3 Company of Trinidad and  
Tobago Unlimited 
Trinidad and 
Tobago LNG manufacture 139 253 shares of $1 000 32.5 
Atlantic LNG 4 Company of Trinidad and Tobago 
Unlimited 
Trinidad and 
Tobago LNG manufacture 222 686 shares of $1 000 28.9 
BBPP Holdings Ltda. Brazil Gas distribution 129 000 000 shares of Real 1 33.3 
El Behera Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E. Egypt LNG manufacture 30 000 shares of $100 35.5 
Idku Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E. Egypt LNG manufacture 30 000 shares of $100 38.0 
Genting Sanyen Power Sdn Bhd Malaysia Power generation 20 000 000 shares of Ringgit 1 20.0 
(a) Comprises 2 640 A ordinary and 2 640 B ordinary shares. The Group holding is 2 640 A ordinary shares. The rights attached to each class of share are the same.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Supplementary information – gas and oil (unaudited) 
 
 
121
On 20 December 2007, the Group’s registration with the SEC was terminated and the Group’s SEC reporting obligations also ceased with effect 
from that date. BG Group continues voluntarily to use the SEC definition of proved reserves to report proved gas and oil reserves and to disclose 
the unaudited supplementary information detailed on the following pages 121 to 125, prepared on the basis of FAS 69. 
BG Group’s strategy aims to connect competitively priced gas to high value markets. Hydrocarbon reserves, and gas in particular, are developed 
in relation to the markets which they are intended to supply. Based on the above, the information below is disclosed on the basis of the 
following geographical areas: (i) the United Kingdom, (ii) Atlantic Basin, (iii) Asia and the Middle East, and (iv) Rest of the World. The countries  
in the Atlantic Basin, Asia and the Middle East and the Rest of the World geographical areas are grouped as shown below to reflect the nature 
of the markets for BG Group’s interests in these countries:  
 Atlantic Basin – Canada, Egypt, Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago, and the USA 
 Asia and the Middle East – China, India, Kazakhstan, Oman, Thailand, Israel and areas of Palestinian Authority 
 Rest of the World – Algeria, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Italy, Libya, Madagascar, Mauritania, Norway, Spain and Tunisia  
A)  PROVED RESERVES 
Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of gas and oil which geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty,  
to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are those 
reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped 
reserves are those quantities that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where relatively 
major expenditure is required for completion. Proved undeveloped reserves comprise total proved reserves less total proved developed reserves. 
The net movement in proved reserves during the year includes extensions, discoveries and reclassifications (63.3 mmboe), additions and disposals 
(8.5 mmboe decrease) and revisions to previous estimates (55.1 mmboe). Included within these movements is the net effect of changes in year end 
prices (117.0 mmboe decrease). Production in the period was 220.1 mmboe (net of Canadian royalty production of 0.2 mmboe). 
Gas and oil reserves cannot be measured exactly since estimation of reserves involves subjective judgment. Therefore, all estimates are subject 
to revision. Increases in year end gas and oil prices in fields subject to Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) may result in lower entitlements 
leading to reductions in proved reserves. 
ESTIMATED NET PROVED RESERVES OF NATURAL GAS 
 
UK 
bcf 
Atlantic 
Basin 
bcf 
Asia and 
Middle East 
bcf  
Rest of 
World 
bcf 
Total  
bcf  
As at 31 December 2004 1 039 4 472 2 386 1 179 9 076 
Movement during the year:      
 Revisions of previous estimates
(a)
297 392 402 209 1 300
 Extensions, discoveries and reclassifications 7 16 – 74 97 
 Production (219) (332) (158) (96) (805)
 Purchase of reserves-in-place – – – – – 
 Sale of reserves-in-place – (1) – – (1)
 85 75 244 187 591
As at 31 December 2005 1 124 4 547 2 630 1 366 9 667
(b)
Movement during the year:      
 Revisions of previous estimates
(a)
80 583 145 20 828
 Extensions, discoveries and reclassifications 87 – – – 87 
 Production (223) (515) (170) (92) (1 000)
 Purchase of reserves-in-place – – – – – 
 Sale of reserves-in-place – – – – – 
 (56) 68 (25) (72) (85)
As at 31 December 2006 1 068 4 615 2 605 1 294 9 582
(b)
Movement during the year:      
 Revisions of previous estimates
(a) 
122 469 (192) 25 424
 Extensions, discoveries and reclassifications 5 – 159 – 164 
 Production (192) (465) (191) (90) (938)
 Purchase of reserves-in-place 21 – – – 21 
 Sale of reserves-in-place – (57) – – (57)
 (44) (53) (224) (65) (386)
As at 31 December 2007 1024 4562 2 381 1 229 9196
(b)
Proved developed reserves of natural gas:  
 As at 31 December 2004 867 1 393 2 038 665 4 963 
 As at 31 December 2005 937 2 267 2 139 929 6 272 
 As at 31 December 2006 846 2 232 2 006 844 5 928 
 As at 31 December 2007
  
807 1 897 2 046 822 5 572 
Note: Conversion factor of 6 bcf of gas to 1 mmboe. 
(a) Includes effect of oil and gas price changes on PSCs. 
(b) Estimates of proved natural gas reserves at 31 December 2007 include fuel gas of 632 bcf (31 December 2006 640 bcf; 31 December 2005 534 bcf). 
 
  www.bg-group.com
Supplementary information – gas and oil (unaudited) continued 
 
 
122 
A)  PROVED RESERVES continued 
ESTIMATED NET PROVED RESERVES OF OIL 
‘Oil’ includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. 
 
UK 
mmbbl  
Atlantic 
Basin 
mmbbl 
Asia and 
Middle East 
mmbbl  
Rest of 
World 
mmbbl 
Total 
mmbbl 
As at 31 December 2004 164.5 10.9 414.2 45.2 634.8 
Movement during the year:      
 Revisions of previous estimates
(a)
 12.3 7.7 (46.9) 4.5 (22.4)
 Extensions, discoveries and reclassifications 1.5 – – 7.4 8.9 
 Production (18.3) (0.5) (27.4) (2.8) (49.0)
 Purchase of reserves-in-place – – – – – 
 Sale of reserves-in-place – – – – – 
 (4.5) 7.2 (74.3) 9.1 (62.5)
As at 31 December 2005 160.0 18.1 339.9 54.3 572.3 
Movement during the year:      
 Revisions of previous estimates
(a)
 10.0 (1.5)18.4 (5.4)21.5 
 Extensions, discoveries and reclassifications 10.2 – – – 10.2 
 Production (18.4) (1.8) (28.1) (3.4) (51.7)
 Purchase of reserves-in-place – – – – – 
 Sale of reserves-in-place – – – – – 
 1.8 (3.3) (9.7) (8.8) (20.0)
As at 31 December 2006 161.8 14.8 330.2 45.5 552.3 
Movement during the year:      
 Revisions of previous estimates
(a)
 31.3 1.9(47.1) (1.7)(15.6)
 Extensions, discoveries and reclassifications 0.3 – 35.7 – 36.0 
 Production (27.2) (2.8) (31.4) (2.4) (63.8)
 Purchase of reserves-in-place 1.0 – – – 1.0 
 Sale of reserves-in-place – – – (3.5) (3.5)
 5.4 (0.9) (42.8) (7.6) (45.9)
As at 31 December 2007 167.2 13.9 287.4 37.9 506.4 
 
Proved developed reserves of oil:      
 As at 31 December 2004 87.1 1.6 382.3 20.4 491.4 
 As at 31 December 2005 80.9 9.4 313.8 26.3 430.4 
 As at 31 December 2006 116.2 7.6 282.2 26.1 432.1 
 As at 31 December 2007
 
138.9 9.0 223.5 21.5 392.9 
(a) Includes effect of oil and gas price changes on PSCs. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
123
B)  STANDARDISED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS 
The following tables set out the standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved gas and oil reserves and report 
the causes of changes in the standardised measure of the cash flows relating to reserves. Future cash inflows have been computed by reference 
to the Group’s estimate of third-party prices ruling at the year end and estimates of future production of net proved gas and oil reserves at the 
end of each year. 
The standardised measure of discounted future net cash flow information presented below is not intended to represent the replacement cost 
or fair market value of the Group’s gas and oil properties. The disclosures shown are based on estimates of proved reserves, future production 
schedules and costs which are inherently imprecise and subject to revision. The standardised measure is as follows: 
 
UK  
£bn 
Atlantic 
Basin 
£bn 
Asia and 
Middle East 
£bn 
Rest of 
World 
£bn 
Total 
£bn 
As at 31 December 2005:      
 Future cash inflows 13.46 12.89 11.37 5.12 42.84 
 Future production and development costs (2.86) (1.76) (4.06) (1.57) (10.25)
 Future income tax expenses (5.61) (5.13) (2.52) (1.48) (14.74)
 Future net cash flows 4.99 6.00 4.79 2.07 17.85 
 10% annual discount for estimated timing of cash flows (1.34) (2.36) (2.14) (0.92) (6.76)
 3.65 3.64 2.65 1.15 11.09 
As at 31 December 2006:      
 Future cash inflows 8.44 7.23 9.81 4.75 30.23 
 Future production and development costs (3.13) (1.86) (3.54) (1.91) (10.44)
 Future income tax expenses (2.77) (2.25) (2.15) (1.08) (8.25)
 Future net cash flows 2.54 3.12 4.12 1.76 11.54 
 10% annual discount for estimated timing of cash flows (0.57) (1.26) (2.01) (0.78) (4.62)
 1.97 1.86 2.11 0.98 6.92 
As at 31 December 2007:      
 Future cash inflows 13.05 8.56 13.66 7.32 42.59 
 Future production and development costs (3.87) (1.90) (5.04) (2.16) (12.97)
 Future income tax expenses (4.83) (2.85) (3.10) (2.08) (12.86)
 Future net cash flows 4.35 3.81 5.52 3.08 16.76 
 10% annual discount for estimated timing of cash flows (1.27) (1.59) (2.80) (1.12) (6.78)
 3.08 2.22 2.72 1.96 9.98 
The following were the main sources of change in the standardised measure of discounted cash flows in the three accounting years preceding 
31 December 2007: 
 
2007 
£bn 
2006 
£bn 
2005 
£bn 
Standardised measure at the beginning of the year 6.92 11.09 6.20 
Sale of gas and oil produced net of production costs and other operating costs
(a)
 (3.49) (3.40) (2.67)
Net changes in prices and production costs
(b)
 6.55 (7.33) 9.35 
Extensions, discoveries, reclassifications and revisions to previous estimates 1.42 1.13 2.46 
Changes in estimated future development costs (1.14) (1.09) (1.02)
Development costs incurred in the period  1.18 0.72 0.68 
Accretion of discount 1.11 1.85 0.96 
Net change in income taxes (2.53) 3.94 (4.95)
Other (0.04) 0.01 0.08 
Standardised measure at the end of the year
(c)
 9.98 6.92 11.09 
(a) Production costs and other operating costs include lifting, tariff, insurance and royalty costs but not depreciation costs. 
(b) Includes the effect of foreign exchange movements. 
(c) Based on the following: 2007 2006 2005 
 Brent oil price ($/bbl) 96 59 58 
 Henry Hub ($/mmbtu) 7.48 5.64 11.23 
 UK Spot Gas (p/therm) 47.90 24.05 73.40 
 US$/UK£ exchange rate 1.99 1.96 1.72 
 Standardised measure at the end of the year ($bn) 19.87 13.55 19.06 
  www.bg-group.com
Supplementary information – gas and oil (unaudited) continued 
 
124 
C)  CAPITALISED COSTS 
Capitalised costs incurred using the successful efforts method and net of depreciation were as follows: 
 
UK 
£m 
Atlantic 
Basin 
£m 
Asia and 
Middle East 
£m 
Rest of 
World 
£m 
Total 
£m 
As at 31 December 2005:      
 Proved gas and oil properties 3 361 1 533 1 592 860 7 346 
 Unproved gas and oil properties 49 271 21 191 532 
 3 410 1 804 1 613 1 051 7 878 
 Accumulated depreciation (2 210) (229) (287) (290) (3 016)
Net Capitalised Costs 1 200 1 575 1 326 761 4 862 
As at 31 December 2006:      
 Proved gas and oil properties 3 631 1 585 1 601 842 7 659 
 Unproved gas and oil properties 60 324 37 266 687 
 3 691 1 909 1 638 1 108 8 346 
 Accumulated depreciation (2 395) (377) (362) (332) (3 466)
Net Capitalised Costs 1 296 1 532 1 276 776 4 880 
As at 31 December 2007:      
 Proved gas and oil properties 3 955 1 755 1 885 1 185 8 780 
 Unproved gas and oil properties 102 318 51 298 769 
 4 057 2 073 1 936 1 483 9 549 
 Accumulated depreciation (2 654) (442) (498) (342) (3 936)
Net Capitalised Costs 1 403 1 631 1 438 1 141 5 613 
 
D)  COSTS INCURRED IN GAS AND OIL ACTIVITIES 
Aggregate costs incurred under the historical cost convention, comprising amounts capitalised to exploration and development and amounts 
charged to the income statement in respect of exploration and appraisal, were as follows: 
 
UK 
£m 
Atlantic 
Basin 
£m 
Asia and 
Middle East 
£m 
Rest of 
World 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Year ended 31 December 2005:      
 Acquisition of properties:      
  Unproved – – – 12 12 
 Exploration 70 89 83 82 324 
 Development 228 259 104 92 683 
Year ended 31 December 2006:      
 Acquisition of properties:      
  Unproved 19 2 – 40 61 
 Exploration 86 207 39 162 494 
 Development 234 215 174 98 721 
Year ended 31 December 2007:      
 Acquisition of properties:      
  Proved 67 – – – 67 
  Unproved 5 43 – – 48 
 Exploration 81 126 50 231 488 
 Development 233 343 238 361 1 175 
The proportion of exploration costs capitalised in the period was 56.8% (2006 71.4%; 2005 67.0%). 
The above table does not include additions to decommissioning provisions which amounted to £94m in 2007 (2006 £49m; 2005 £5m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 
 
125
 
E)  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The results of operations under the historical cost convention and in accordance with IFRS for the gas and oil producing activities  
(excluding general office overheads and interest costs) were as follows: 
 
UK 
£m 
Atlantic 
Basin 
£m 
Asia and 
Middle East 
£m 
Rest of 
World 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Year ended 31 December 2005:      
 Revenues 1 296 669 826 276 3 067 
 Production costs (168) (37) (98) (29) (332)
 Other operating costs – (18) (32) (25) (75)
 Exploration expenses (25) (72) (20) (64) (181)
 Depreciation and amortisation (173) (112) (84) (31) (400)
 Other costs (16) (25) (40) (30) (111)
 914 405 552 97 1 968 
 Taxation (384) (209) (203) (35) (831)
Results of operations 530 196 349 62 1 137 
Year ended 31 December 2006:      
 Revenues 1 532 968 1 045 357 3 902 
 Production costs (198) (60) (117) (41) (416)
 Other operating costs – (14) (38) (33) (85)
 Exploration expenses (71) (99) (17) (85) (272)
 Depreciation and amortisation (185) (174) (95) (43) (497)
 Other costs (42) (17) (47) (33) (139)
 1 036 604 731 122 2 493 
 Taxation (539) (315) (270) (46) (1 170)
Results of operations 497 289 461 76 1 323 
Year ended 31 December 2007:      
 Revenues 1 745 823 1 206 289 4 063 
 Production costs (266) (54) (115) (33) (468)
 Other operating costs – (5) (66) (35) (106)
 Exploration expenses (29) (80) (29) (198) (336)
 Depreciation and amortisation (256) (136) (105) (26) (523)
 Other costs (48) (24) (48) (25) (145)
 1 146 524 843 (28) 2 485 
 Taxation (600) (255) (313) 12 (1 156)
Results of operations 546 269 530 (16) 1 329 
Revenues comprise all invoiced sales. Net royalty payments are classified as other operating costs in the table above. 
Revenues, representing gas and oil sold, include intra-group sales at contract prices of £237m for the year ended 31 December 2007  
(2006 £233m; 2005 £91m). 
The accretion interest expense resulting from changes in the liability for decommissioning due to the passage of time, which is not included  
in the above table, was £16m (2006 £13m; 2005 £11m). 
RESERVES AND RESOURCES 
Proved reserves 
BG Group utilises the SEC definition of proved reserves.  Further information on proved reserves can be found on page 121. 
Probable reserves 
Probable reserves are those unproven reserves which analysis of geological and engineering data suggest are more likely than not to be 
recoverable. Taken together with proved reserves, proved plus probable reserves comprise the best estimate of reserves for an asset and  
will normally be used in business planning.  
Un-booked resources 
Un-booked resources are defined by BG Group as the best estimate of recoverable hydrocarbons where commercial and/or technical  
maturity are such that project sanction is not expected within the next three years. 
Risked exploration 
Risked exploration resources are defined by BG Group as the best estimate (mean value) of recoverable hydrocarbons in a prospect  
multiplied by the ‘Chance of Success’. 
The term ‘gross reserves’ means gross Proved reserves plus gross Probable reserves. 
For details of BG Group’s Reserves and Resources as at 31 December 2007, see table on page 17. 
US investors should refer to the explanatory note on page 141. www.bg-group.com
Historical production (unaudited) 
 
 
126 
 
Gas production  
(net) bcf 
Oil & liquids production 
(net) ‘000 barrels 
 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 
UKCS       
Armada and Seymour
(a)
 21.8 42.3 38.1 1 111 2 037 1 880 
Atlantic/Cromarty 24.0 13.4 – 684 354 – 
Blake
(a)
 0.7 0.8 0.8 3 468 3 841 4 088 
Buzzard 1.4 – – 10 638 – – 
Easington Catchment Area
(b)
 36.2 38.6 51.3 118 123 204 
Elgin/Franklin 22.9 24.4 26.5 4 948 5 290 5 996 
Everest 18.2 18.8 25.1 579 494 720 
J-Block and Jade
(c)
 36.6 48.5 43.5 4 610 5 413 4 800 
Lomond 22.4 29.4 28.9 499 539 569 
Other 8.0 6.6 4.7 545 346 54 
UKCS sub-total 192.2 222.8 218.9 27 200 18 437 18 311 
International       
Bolivia 27.1 26.5 30.7 994 918 1 063 
Canada 4.8 19.8 19.0 56 162 176 
Egypt
(a)
 324.4 365.4 209.9 2 503 1 530 259 
India
(a)
 53.1 37.5 35.5 4 825 4 050 3 504 
Kazakhstan
(d)
 86.8 82.3 75.7 25 138 22 585 22 399 
Mauritania – 0.2 – 28 949 – 
Thailand
 
50.7 50.3 47.0 1 448 1 440 1 440 
Trinidad and Tobago
(a)
 136.5 134.7 107.4 298 121 111 
Tunisia
(a)
 62.8 65.4 64.9 1 405 1 527 1 717 
International sub-total 746.2 782.1 590.1 36 695 33 282 30 669 
Total 938.4 1 004.9 809.0 63 895 51 719 48 980 
 
 2007 2006 2005 
Total mmboe gas, oil & liquids
(e)
 220.3 219.2 183.8 
(a) Operated by BG Group at 31 December 2007. 
(b) Easington Catchment Area includes Mercury, Minerva, Neptune and Wollaston & Whittle fields. 
(c) J-Block includes Judy and Joanne fields. 
(d) Jointly operated in partnership with Eni. 
(e) Conversion factor of 6 bcf of gas to 1 mmboe. 
 
 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Five year financial summary (unaudited) 
 
127
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
(a)
 
for the year ended 31 December 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005  
£m 
2004 
£m 
2003 
£m 
Group revenue and other operating income 8 158 7 674 5 424  4 063 3 564 
Operating costs (5 329) (4 504) (3 517) (2 736) (2 472)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of non-current assets 19 (49) 446 87 116 
Operating profit before share of results from joint ventures and 
associates 2 848 3 121 2 353 1 414 1 208 
Finance income 152 127 105 42 44 
Finance costs (124) (102) (112) (87) (87)
Share of post-tax results from joint ventures and associates 163 139 158 125 132 
Profit before tax 3 039 3 285 2 504 1 494 1 297 
Taxation (1 239) (1 461) (939) (583) (498)
Profit for the year 1 800 1 824 1 565 911 799 
Profit attributable to:      
 Shareholders (earnings) 1 746 1 779 1 525 883 771 
 Minority interests 54 45 40 28 28 
 1 800 1 824 1 565 911 799 
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)      
 Basic   51.6 51.4 43.1 25.0 21.9 
 Diluted 51.1 51.0 42.9 24.9 21.9 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(a)
 
as at 31 December 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005 
£m 
2004 
£m 
2003 
£m 
Non-current assets 10 325 8 464 8 210 6 709 5 729 
Current assets 5 065 4 139 3 385 1 629 1 151 
Assets classified as held for sale – 85 10 530 449 
Total assets 15 390 12 688 11 605 8 868 7 329 
Current liabilities (3 884) (2 819) (2 509) (1 827) (1 346)
Non-current liabilities (4 149) (3 370) (2 826) (2 395) (2 018)
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale – (34) (3) (67) (56)
Total liabilities (8 033) (6 223) (5 338) (4 289) (3 420)
Net assets 7 357 6 465 6 267 4 579 3 909 
Equity      
Total shareholders’ equity 7 225 6 363 6 169 4 559 3 918 
Minority interest in equity 132 102 98 20 (9)
Total equity 7 357 6 465 6 267 4 579 3 909 
(a) 2003 and 2004 do not reflect the impact of IAS 39 which was adopted on 1 January 2005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  www.bg-group.com
Five year financial summary (unaudited) continued 
 
128 
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
for the year ended 31 December 
 
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005 
£m 
2004 
£m 
2003 
£m 
Cash generated by operations 3 691 3 360 2 509 1 599 1 463 
Income taxes paid (950) (979) (883) (387) (332)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2 741 2 381 1 626 1 212 1 131 
Cash flows from investing activities      
Dividends received 148 193 93 81 88 
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary undertakings and investments 461 9 (67) 32 119 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets 3 49 950 142 72 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (1 718) (1 313) (1 064) (1 022) (855)
Loans (to)/from joint ventures and associates (82) (66) 65 (4) (232)
Business combinations and investments (497) (67) (39) (364) (3)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1 685) (1 195) (62) (1 135) (811)
Cash flows from financing activities      
Net interest received/(paid) 3 14 (25) (24) (37)
Dividends paid (264) (246) (142) (124) (112)
Dividends paid to minority (37) (36) (29) (3) (6)
Net proceeds from issue of new borrowings 444 214 334 416 239 
Repayment of borrowings (290) (192) (555) (322) (365)
Issue of shares 51 26 34 13 7 
Purchase of own shares (555) (972) (37) – – 
Net cash outflow from financing activities (648) (1 192) (420) (44) (274)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 408 (6) 1 144 33 46 
OTHER INFORMATION 
for the year ended 31 December 
  2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 
Average capital employed
(a)
 £m 7 084 6 651 6 227 5 201 4 695 
Pre-tax return on average capital employed
(b)
 % 45.2 46.5 37.9 28.8 26.9 
Post-tax return on average capital employed
(b)
 % 25.8 26.2 22.6 17.3 16.2 
 
as at 31 December 
      
Net funds/(borrowings)
(c)
 £m 25 (103) (30) (1 186) (927)
Gearing ratio
(d)
 % (0.3) 1.6 0.4 20.6 19.2 
Debt/equity ratio
(e)
 % (0.3) 1.6 0.5 25.9 23.7 
Employee numbers (headcount) thousands 5.1 4.8 5.4 5.2 4.5 
(a) Average capital employed consists of total equity excluding commodity financial instruments (including associated deferred tax) and net funds/borrowings, averaged 
between the start and the end of the year. 
(b) Return on average capital employed represents profit (excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments) excluding net finance income/costs on net 
funds/borrowings as a percentage of average capital employed. The above table presents this before and after taxation applied at the Group’s effective tax rate.  
(c) Net funds/borrowings comprise cash and cash equivalents, finance leases, currency and interest rate derivative financial instruments and short- and long-term borrowings. 
(d) Gearing ratio represents net funds/borrowings as a percentage of total shareholders’ funds (excluding commodity financial instruments and associated deferred tax)  
plus net funds/borrowings. 
(e) Debt/equity ratio represents net funds/borrowings as a percentage of total shareholders’ funds (excluding the re-measurement of commodity financial instruments).  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder information 
 
 
129
ANALYSIS OF REGISTERED HOLDINGS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2007  
Distribution of ordinary shares by type of shareholder 
Number 
of holdings  
Shares 
m 
Nominees and institutional investors 10 817 3 218 
Individuals 710 754 357 
 721 571 3 575 
 
Range analysis of register 
Number 
of holdings  
Shares 
m 
1 – 500 511 015 128 
501 – 1 000 138 775 93 
1 001 – 5 000 65 605 110 
5 001 – 10 000 3 455 24 
10 001 – 50 000 1 458 27 
50 001 – 100 000 278 20 
100 001 – 1 000 000 659 242 
1 000 001 and above 326 2 931 
 721 571 3 575 
 
Headquarters and Registered  
Office Address 
100 Thames Valley Park Drive 
Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT 
0118 935 3222 
www.bg-group.com 
Registrar and Transfer Office 
Equiniti 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
0871 384 2064 
www.shareview.co.uk 
Email: bg@equiniti.com 
American Depositary Receipts 
ADR – General Enquiries, JP Morgan Chase 
Bank N.A, PO  Box 3408, 
South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408, USA 
+1 800 990 1135 (for US residents) 
+1 201 680 6630 (outside USA) 
www.adr.com 
Email: jpmorganadr@mellon.com 
 
BG GROUP PLC CORPORATE INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS  
ACCOUNTS (ISAs) 
Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Ltd  
The Plaza, 100 Old Hall Street, Liverpool, L3 9AB 
0151 237 2160 
INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR SHAREHOLDING 
Shareview, an electronic shareholder communications service 
from Equiniti, gives you access to more information about your 
shareholding including balance movements, indicative share 
prices and information on recent dividend payments. It also  
allows you to change your registered address details, set up  
a dividend mandate or change your existing mandate details.  
To register for this free service, visit www.shareview.co.uk and 
follow the simple instructions. You will need your shareholder 
reference number, which can be found on your dividend tax 
voucher. Through Shareview, you can also register to receive 
Company communications electronically. 
ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS 
In accordance with the company communication provisions in the 
Companies Act 2006, and as permitted by the Company's Articles 
of Association, any document or information required to be sent 
to shareholders may be sent or supplied by the Company to a 
shareholder by making that document or information available  
on the Company's website, provided that the shareholder has 
agreed (generally or specifically), or is deemed to have agreed,  
that the document or information may be sent or supplied to  
him in that manner and he has not revoked that agreement,  
and provided the shareholder is sent a notification of the presence 
of that document or information on the Company's website.  
A shareholder who has received notification of availability of  
a document on the Company's website is entitled to request,  
free of charge, a hard copy of any such document at any time. 
Shareholders can also revoke their consent to receive electronic 
communications at any time by contacting the Company’s 
Registrar, Equiniti. 
In relation to the Annual Report and Accounts 2007, the  
majority of shareholders who have elected to receive paper 
communications have elected to receive the Summary Financial 
Statements.  Shareholders may request copies of the Summary 
Financial Statements or the full Annual Report and Accounts  
from the Company’s Registrar, Equiniti.   
The Company reserves the right, at any time and from time  
to time, at its sole discretion, to choose to give, send or supply 
offers, notices, information or other documents in hard copy  
form only to some or all shareholders. 
VOTING ELECTRONICALLY 
All shareholders can submit proxies for the Annual General 
Meeting electronically at www.sharevote.co.uk  
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with 
Shareview can appoint a proxy by logging on to 
www.shareview.co.uk and then clicking on ‘Company Meetings’.  www.bg-group.com
Shareholder information continued 
 
 
130 
CONSOLIDATED TAX VOUCHERS 
Shareholders who have elected to have their dividends paid 
directly into their bank account receive just one tax voucher  
each year covering both the interim and final dividend payments. 
The consolidated tax voucher enclosed with this Annual Report 
covers all dividends paid during the 2007/8 tax year. If you have 
more than one shareholder account in the same name(s) you  
will receive a separate letter in respect of the shareholdings  
in addition to the one shown on the consolidated tax voucher 
enclosed with this Annual Report. Shareholders wishing to  
receive a tax voucher in respect of each dividend payment  
should contact Equiniti. 
OVERSEAS DIVIDEND PAYMENTS 
A service has been established to provide shareholders in over  
30 countries with the opportunity to receive BG Group dividends 
in their local currency. For an administration fee, shareholders  
can have their dividends automatically converted from pounds 
Sterling and paid into their bank account, normally within five 
working days of the dividend payment date. For further details, 
please contact Equiniti at the address shown on page 129 or  
call +44 (0)121 415 7029. 
GIFTING YOUR SHARES 
To transfer your shares to another member of your family  
as a gift, please ask the Registrar for a gift transfer form. The 
completed transfer form with the relevant share certificate(s) 
should be returned to the Registrar to record the change in 
ownership. If you have a small number of shares and would like  
to donate them to charity, please ask the Registrar for a ShareGift 
(charity donation scheme) transfer form. Information is also 
available on the ShareGift website at www.sharegift.org 
LOW COST SHARE DEALING SERVICES 
Information on a range of low cost share dealing services  
is available from Equiniti on 0871 384 2020 or at  
www.bg-group.com/dealing 
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales under 
Company Number 3690065. The Company’s authorised share 
capital consists of ordinary shares with a nominal value of  
10p each.  
The Memorandum of the Company provides that the Company 
has general commercial objects, including to act as a holding 
company or an investment holding company and to carry on  
the business of transporting, manufacturing, processing, storing 
and dealing in different forms of energy, including natural gases, 
petroleum and electricity. 
The Company’s Memorandum and Articles are available on  
the Company’s website at www.bg-group.com 
DIRECTORS’ POWERS 
So far as the relevant English law allows, the Directors can 
exercise all the powers of the Company to (a) borrow money,  
(b) issue debentures and other securities, and (c) give any form  
of guarantee and security for any debt, liability or obligation of  
the Company or of any third party. 
The Directors must limit the Borrowings (as defined in the Articles) 
of the Company and exercise all voting and other rights or powers 
of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary 
undertakings, so as to ensure that the total amount of all 
Borrowings by the Group outstanding at any time will not exceed 
twice the Adjusted Total of Capital and Reserves (as defined in the 
Articles) at such time. This limit may be exceeded if the Company’s 
consent has been given in advance by an ordinary resolution 
passed at a general meeting.  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc 
131
The ninth Annual General Meeting (‘‘AGM’’ or “Meeting”)  
of BG Group plc (the ‘‘Company’’) will be held in Hall 1 of  
the International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA  
on Wednesday, 14 May 2008 at 2.00pm for the transaction  
of the business set out below. 
This Notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the Company’s 
AGM. Resolutions 1 to 13 below are ordinary resolutions that will  
be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the 
resolutions. Resolutions 14 to 16 are special resolutions that will  
be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are in favour of the 
resolutions. A poll will be called on each of the resolutions set out 
below. Further details are set out in the explanatory notes. 
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS 
Resolution 1 
To receive the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and the  
Auditors for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
Resolution 2 
To approve the Remuneration Report as set out on pages 61 to  
71 of the BG Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year  
ended 31 December 2007. 
Resolution 3 
To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2007 of 5.76 pence per ordinary share payable on 23 May 2008  
to holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders  
of the Company at the close of business on 11 April 2008. 
Resolution 4 
To elect Dr John Hood as a Director of the Company.  
Resolution 5 
To re-elect Baroness Hogg as a Director of the Company. 
Resolution 6 
To re-elect Sir John Coles as a Director of the Company. 
Resolution 7 
To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors of the 
Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general 
meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company. 
Resolution 8 
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration  
of the Auditors.  
Resolution 9 
That, in accordance with Section 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 
2006 (the "2006 Act"), the Company and all companies which are 
subsidiaries of the Company during the period when this resolution 
has effect be and are hereby authorised to:
(a) make political donations to political parties or independent 
election candidates not exceeding £15 000 in total;
(b) make political donations to political organisations other  
than political parties not exceeding £15 000 in total; and
(c) incur political expenditure not exceeding £20 000 in total;  
during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this 
Resolution and ending at the conclusion of the AGM of the  
Company in 2009. 
For the purpose of this Resolution, ‘political donations’, ‘political 
organisations’, ‘political parties’ and ‘political expenditure’ have the 
meanings given to them in Sections 363 to 365 of the 2006 Act. 
Resolution 10 
That the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 12.2 of the 
Company’s Articles of Association be renewed and for this purpose: 
(a) the Section 80 amount be £117 078 772; and 
(b) the prescribed period be the period ending at the conclusion  
of the AGM of the Company in 2009. 
Resolution 11 
That the rules of the BG Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2008  
(the “LTIP"), contained in the document produced to the Meeting  
and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be 
approved and adopted and the Directors be authorised to establish 
such further plans for the benefit of employees outside the UK  
based on the LTIP subject to such modifications as may be necessary  
or desirable to take account of non-UK securities laws, exchange 
control and tax legislation, and provided that any shares of the 
Company made available under such further plans are treated as 
counting against any limits on individual participation, or overall 
participation in the LTIP. 
Resolution 12 
That the rules of the BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008 (the 
“Sharesave Plan”) contained in the document produced to  
the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of 
identification be approved and adopted and the Directors be 
authorised to establish such further plans for the benefit of  
employees outside the UK based on the Sharesave Plan subject to  
such modifications as may be necessary or desirable to take account  
of non-UK securities laws, exchange control and tax legislation, and 
provided that any shares of the Company made available under  
the Sharesave Plan are treated as counting against any limits on 
individual participation, or overall participation in such further plans. 
 
1. This document is important. If you are in any doubt about its content, you should 
consult an appropriate independent adviser. 
 If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send this 
document and all accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to 
the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the sale or transfer was 
effected so that they can be passed on to the person who now owns the shares. 
2.  The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal 
business hours at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of 
Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2HS on any 
weekday (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded), will also be available 
for inspection at the place of the AGM from 1.00pm on the day of the Meeting 
until its conclusion: 
 (i) copies of all Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment;  
 (ii) the register of interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company;  
 (iii) the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and the Articles 
of Association amended to reflect the changes proposed by Resolution 16; 
 (iv) the rules of the BG Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 proposed  
by Resolution 11; 
 (v) the rules of the BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008 proposed by Resolution  
12; and 
 (vi) the rules of the BG Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2008 proposed by 
Resolution 13. 
3. The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares registered  
in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 12 May 2008 or their 
duly appointed proxies shall be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect  
of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time. Changes 
to entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 12 May 2008 shall  
be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote  
at the Meeting.  Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 
 
 
132 
Resolution 13 
That the rules of the BG Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2008 (the  
“SIP”) contained in the document produced to the Meeting and  
signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be approved 
and adopted and the Directors be authorised to establish such further 
plans for the benefit of employees outside the UK based on the  
SIP subject to such modifications as may be necessary or desirable  
to take account of non-UK securities laws, exchange control and tax 
legislation, and provided that any shares of the Company made 
available under the SIP are treated as counting against any limits on 
individual participation, or overall participation in such further plans. 
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS 
Resolution 14 
That the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities (as defined 
in Section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended (the “1985 Act”)), 
entirely paid for in cash: 
(a) of an unlimited amount in connection with a rights issue  
(as defined in the Company’s Articles of Association); and 
(b) otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, of an amount  
up to £16 720 201, free of the restrictions in Section 89(1) of the 
1985 Act provided that: 
(i) this power shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the 
Company in 2009 and is in substitution for all previous such 
powers, which shall cease to have effect from the date of this 
Resolution, without affecting the validity of any allotment of 
securities already made under them; and  
(ii) during that period, the Directors can make offers and enter  
into agreements that would, or might, require equity securities 
to be allotted after that period. 
In working out the maximum amount of equity securities for the 
purposes of paragraph (b) above, the nominal value of rights to 
subscribe for shares or to convert any securities into shares will be 
taken as the nominal value of the shares that would be allotted if  
the subscription or conversion takes place. 
For the purposes of this Resolution: 
(a) references (except in paragraph (b) below) to an allotment of 
equity securities shall include a sale of Treasury shares; and 
(b) the power granted by this Resolution, insofar as it relates to the 
allotment of equity securities rather than the sale of Treasury 
shares, is granted pursuant to the authority under Section 80  
of the 1985 Act conferred by Resolution 10. 
Resolution 15 
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to 
make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 163(3) of  
the Companies Act 1985) of ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the 
Company (‘‘ordinary shares’’) provided that: 
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised  
to be acquired is 334 404 035; 
(b) the minimum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share 
is 10 pence, the nominal value of that share; 
(c) the maximum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share 
is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market 
quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately 
preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be 
purchased; and  
(d) the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of 
the AGM of the Company in 2009 but a contract for purchase may 
be made before such expiry that will or may be executed wholly or 
partly thereafter, and a purchase of ordinary shares may be made 
in pursuance of any such contract.  
Resolution 16 
That the Articles of Association contained in the document produced 
to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of 
identification be approved and adopted as the new Articles of 
Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion  
of, the existing Articles of Association, with effect from the conclusion 
of the AGM. 
Registered Office: 
100 Thames Valley Park Drive 
Reading  
Berkshire RG6 1PT 
By order of the Board
Keith Hubber
Company Secretary
Registered in England & Wales  
No. 3690065  
12 March 2008
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy 
or proxies to attend, vote and speak instead of him/her. A proxy  
need not be a shareholder of the Company. Further details on how  
to appoint a proxy are given on page 138. 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
In line with the recommendations by Paul Myners and the 
Shareholder Voting Working Group issued in January 2004 (the 
‘Myners Report’), which the Company has met in full since that time, 
voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather than by show of hands. 
The Chairman will invite each shareholder and proxy present at the 
Meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast their 
votes in respect of each resolution. In addition, the Chairman will cast 
the votes for which he has been appointed as proxy. Poll cards will  
be collected at the end of the Meeting. Once the results have been 
verified by the Company’s Registrar, they will be notified to the  
UK Listing Authority and published on the Company’s website.  
Annual Report and Accounts (Resolution 1) 
The Directors are required to lay before the Meeting the Accounts  
of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2007, the 
Directors’ Report, the Remuneration Report and the Auditors’ Report 
on the accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report. 
Remuneration Report (Resolution 2) 
UK listed companies must put an ordinary resolution to shareholders 
at the AGM seeking approval of the Remuneration Report. The vote is 
advisory in nature, in that payments made or promised to Directors 
will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld in the event that the 
resolution is not passed. 
Declaration of a dividend (Resolution 3) 
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 5.76 pence per 
ordinary share is recommended by the Directors. A final dividend can 
be paid only after it has been declared by the shareholders at a general 
meeting. It is proposed that shareholders declare this dividend by 
passing Resolution 3. If so declared, the final dividend will be paid on 
23 May 2008 to ordinary shareholders who were on the register of  
the Company at the close of business on 11 April 2008. American 
Depositary Share (‘‘ADS’’) holders will be entitled to receive the  
US Dollar equivalent of £0.288 per ADS on 2 June 2008. 
An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of  
3.60 pence per ordinary share was paid on 14 September 2007.  BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 
133
Election of Directors (Resolution 4) 
The Company’s Articles of Association require any Director  
newly appointed by the Board to retire at the first AGM following  
their appointment. Dr John Hood was appointed to the Board as  
a non-executive Director on 26 April 2007. He is a member of the  
Audit Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.  
Biographical details of Dr Hood are given on page 47. In reviewing  
the recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning  
this election, the Board concluded that Dr Hood is independent in 
character and judgment, makes an effective and valuable contribution 
to the Board and demonstrates commitment to the role. The Board 
unanimously recommends his election. 
Re-election of Directors (Resolutions 5 and 6) 
Directors are normally subject to re-election by shareholders every 
three years. Baroness Hogg was elected as a Director at the AGM held 
in May 2005 and is therefore subject to re-election at this year’s AGM. 
Sir John Coles was first elected to the Board of BG plc at its AGM in 
April 1998 and therefore will have served on the Board for more than 
ten years at the date of the 2008 AGM. In accordance with provision 
A.7.2 of the Combined Code, he is subject to re-election on an annual 
basis. He was last re-elected at the 2007 AGM.  
Biographical details of Baroness Hogg and Sir John Coles are  
shown on pages 46 and 47. In reviewing the recommendation of  
the Nominations Committee concerning these re-elections, the  
Board has concluded that Baroness Hogg and Sir John Coles, are 
independent in character and judgment. In addition and, following 
the annual evaluation exercise conducted during the year, the Board 
considers that each of the Directors proposed for re-election continues 
to make an effective and valuable contribution and demonstrates 
commitment to the role. Accordingly, the Board unanimously 
recommends their re-election. 
Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors (Resolutions 7 and 8) 
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting 
at which accounts are laid before the Company, to hold office until  
the next such meeting. Following the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, the Directors propose that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
be re-appointed as Auditors of the Company. Resolution 8 proposes 
that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the level of  
the Auditors’ remuneration. 
Political donations (Resolution 9) 
Resolution 9 is designed to deal with rules on political donations  
and expenditure contained in Part 14 of the 2006 Act (Sections 362  
to 379). Under Section 378 of the 2006 Act, a company may not make 
donations to an EU political party, or other EU political organisation,  
or to an independent election candidate in the EU of more than  
£5 000 in total, or incur any EU political expenditure, without first 
obtaining shareholder approval.  
As stated in its Business Principles, it is the Company’s policy not to 
make contributions to political parties. There is no intention to change 
that policy. What constitutes a ‘political donation’, a ‘political party’,  
a ‘political organisation’ or ‘political expenditure’ under the 2006  
Act is not clear, as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation 
and may have the effect of covering a number of normal business 
activities that would not be thought to be political donations in the 
usual sense. To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the 
2006 Act, the Board considers that it would be prudent to follow the 
procedure specified in the 2006 Act to obtain shareholder approval  
for the Company and its subsidiaries to make political donations  
or incur political expenditure in the forthcoming year until the 
conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2009. This authority will  
not be used to make any political donations as that expression would 
normally be understood.
Authority to allot shares (Resolution 10) 
The Directors are currently authorised to allot relevant securities. 
However, this authority terminates on the date of the 2008 AGM. This 
Resolution proposes that such authority be renewed and that the 
Directors be authorised to allot up to 1 170 787 720 ordinary shares for 
the period ending at the conclusion of the Company’s AGM in 2009. 
The authority represents 33 1/3% (excluding Treasury shares) of the 
share capital of the Company in issue at 4 March 2008, together with 
shares outstanding under BG Group’s option schemes. This amount 
complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies. The Directors  
have no present intention of issuing any relevant securities other  
than pursuant to employee share schemes. 
BG Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 (Resolution 11) 
This Resolution seeks shareholders’ authority for the introduction of 
the Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 (the “LTIP”). Following a review by 
the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) of the share-based 
reward arrangements that apply to Executive Directors, members of 
the Group Executive Committee (the “GEC”) and other international 
executives, it is proposed to introduce the LTIP. This new LTIP will 
replace the existing discretionary share-based incentive plans, 
introduced in 2000, namely: the Company Share Option Scheme;  
and the Long Term Incentive Scheme.  
The Committee’s review concluded that the growth and development  
of the Company’s business, coupled with the economics and 
demographics of the oil and gas industry, mean that the Company 
now requires a greater degree of flexibility in its share-based  
incentive arrangements.  
The Company’s expansion into new geographic areas and markets  
has increasingly demonstrated that its current share-based incentives 
differ from the norms in those geographic areas and markets. 
Although it is possible to address these challenges by compensating  
in other areas of the reward package, the Committee considers  
it preferable to adopt one overall share-based plan that has the 
flexibility to be competitive in each market. The LTIP has been 
developed to meet this objective, in consultation with major 
shareholders and their representative bodies. A summary of  
the main features of the LTIP is set out below: 
1. Introduction 
This summary outlines the main features of the LTIP, under which  
the Company may make awards to employees of the Group including 
Executive Directors and senior management of the Company. The LTIP 
will replace the existing Long Term Incentive Scheme and the 
Company Share Option Scheme. 
Awards under the LTIP may be made as Performance Share  
Awards, Group Share Awards or Market Value Options. The vesting  
of all awards will (subject to limited exceptions set out below) be 
dependent on continued employment and the requirement that  
the individual’s performance has not fallen significantly below that 
expected since the date of grant. All awards have substantially the 
same terms unless stated otherwise. Awards are not pensionable. 
The vesting of Performance Share Awards will be subject to the 
satisfaction of additional conditions linked to the performance of the 
Company. The vesting of Group Share Awards may be subject to the 
satisfaction of Company-linked performance conditions. No Group 
Share Awards will be made to Executive Directors of the Company  
nor to members of the GEC.  
Performance Share Awards and Group Share Awards may be made  
in a number of different ways including: conditional share awards,  
nil cost options or restricted shares.  Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 
 
 
134 
Awards granted as Market Value Options will have an exercise price 
based on the market value of shares at the time of grant. The exercise 
of such options granted to the Executive Directors of the Company  
or the members of the GEC will be subject to the satisfaction  
of additional conditions linked to Company performance. These 
performance conditions will be discussed with major shareholders 
prior to the grant of any Market Value Options. 
The LTIP also provides flexibility to make economically equivalent 
awards (including cash awards), for example as a result of local tax  
or regulatory considerations, if this is appropriate in any jurisdiction. 
Exceptionally, awards to Executive Directors and members of the  
GEC may be made without Company-linked performance conditions, 
for example to facilitate recruitment in exceptional circumstances. 
On the initial operation of the LTIP, it is intended that Executive 
Directors and members of the GEC will only be granted Performance 
Share Awards. 
2. Operation 
Awards will normally be made within 42 days after the 
announcement of the Company's results for any period. Awards  
may also be made at other times in exceptional circumstances. It is 
intended that the first awards will be made on 2 September 2008. 
3. Eligibility 
All employees and Executive Directors of the Company or of any 
subsidiary of the Company are eligible to participate in the LTIP. 
Participation by Executive Directors, including the size of the awards 
and the terms of the performance conditions, will be determined  
by the Committee. 
4. Performance conditions 
Where the receipt of shares and the number of shares received is 
subject to the satisfaction of certain pre-determined performance 
conditions, then the aim will be to link receipt to an improvement in 
the performance of the Company over a performance period of not 
less than 3 years. In addition, awards may be forfeited or the vesting 
reduced if over the vesting period the performance of the individual 
has fallen significantly below that expected since the date of grant. 
The performance conditions will be set by the Committee each time 
the LTIP is operated. In respect of the initial Performance Share Awards 
to be made in September 2008, it is intended that the receipt of shares 
will be conditional on the satisfaction of the performance conditions 
described below. In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that  
the underlying performance of the Company justifies the vesting  
of awards and the level of vesting. The performance period will be a  
single three year period which will begin on 1 September 2008 and  
end on 31 August 2011. Awards will vest on the later of the testing  
of the performance conditions and the third anniversary of the  
date of grant. 
Vesting will be based on the Company’s three year total shareholder 
return (“TSR”) relative to a weighted index comprised of a selection  
of industry peers. No shares will vest if the Company’s TSR is less than 
the index TSR. If the Company’s TSR is equal to the index TSR, 25% of 
an award will vest. If the Company’s TSR meets or exceeds 122.5% of 
the index (7% per annum compound out-performance), 100% of an 
award will vest. Between these two points Performance Share Awards 
will vest on a linear sliding scale basis. The preliminary constituents of 
the index for 2008 awards are as follows: 
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation; Apache Corporation; BP plc; 
Chevron Corporation; ConocoPhillips; Devon Energy Corporation;  
ENI S.p.A.; EOG Resources, Inc.; Exxon Mobil Corporation; Hess 
Corporation; Marathon Oil Corporation; Petro-Canada; Repsol YPF S.A.; 
Royal Dutch Shell plc; StatoilHydro ASA; Talisman Energy Inc.; Total 
S.A.; and Woodside Petroleum Ltd. 
Awards will lapse at the end of the performance period to the extent 
that the performance conditions have not been satisfied. There will  
be no retesting. 
The Committee may set different performance conditions from  
those described above for future awards, and where these are  
not substantively the same as existing conditions they will be 
discussed with major shareholders before making any such  
awards. Performance conditions will be described in the 
Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts.  
The Committee may also vary or adjust the performance conditions 
applying to existing awards to take account of events the Committee 
considers exceptional, including technical events, such as changes in 
accounting standards and treatment, and the takeover of a company 
in the index, provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the 
amended conditions are fair and reasonable and no less challenging 
than the original conditions would have been but for the event. 
5. Individual limits 
The Company increasingly operates in markets outside the UK  
and requires the flexibility to offer incentive packages which are 
competitive in those markets. This includes being able to make  
share-based awards in different forms under the LTIP. To ensure that 
the Company can measure the value of the different types of awards 
on a consistent basis across the different markets, there will be an 
individual limit on participation in any financial year linked to the 
Estimated Present Value (“EPV”) of awards. 
The overriding EPV limit on individual participation in the first 
financial year of operation of the LTIP will be 250% of salary. For 
subsequent financial years, it is intended that the limit will be 300%  
of salary. EPV of share-based incentives is calculated as the present 
value of the average outcome weighted by the probability of that 
outcome. This takes into account the difficulty of achieving the 
associated performance conditions, and factors such as volatility  
and risk of forfeiture. EPV will be calculated by the Committee’s 
independent adviser. 
An additional constraint will also operate whereby a separate limit  
of six times salary will apply to the face value of each of the three types 
of award, being Performance Share Awards, Group Share Awards and 
Market Value Options, in any one financial year. No Group Share 
Awards will be made to Executive Directors of the Company  
or members of the GEC. No Market Value Options will be granted  
in the first financial year of operation of the LTIP. 
Both EPV and face value limits may be exceeded only in exceptional 
circumstances such as recruitment. The limits will be notified  
to shareholders each year in the Remuneration Report, together  
with details of the performance conditions.  
An award will normally lapse where participants leave the  
Group before they become eligible to receive the shares unless the 
employment ceases due to ill health, injury or disability, retirement, 
redundancy, death, where there is a sale of the employing business or 
company, or for other reasons specifically allowed by the Committee. 
If a participant ceases employment in such circumstances, any 
subsisting awards held by that participant will normally be tested  
for satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time of leaving 
employment. Except on death, the number of shares which may  
be acquired will be reduced on a pro-rata basis to take account of  
the proportion of the vesting period when the participant was  
not in employment, unless the Committee decides otherwise. The 
Committee may use its discretion to test performance at the end  
of the original performance period. If this occurs, awards will be  
pro-rated for time as described above unless the Committee  
decides otherwise.   BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 
135
6. Change of control, merger or other reorganisations 
Generally, on a takeover, scheme of arrangement, merger or other 
corporate reorganisation, the number of shares received (if any) will 
be calculated by applying any performance conditions as at the date 
of the event. Alternatively, participants may be allowed or required  
by the Company to exchange their shares for shares in the acquiring 
company. Time pro-rating will apply if the Committee determines that 
this is appropriate given the circumstances of the change of control. 
7. Variations 
Participants will be notified by the Company where there is a variation 
in the share capital of the Company, a demerger or a special dividend. 
Upon such an event, the Committee may adjust the awards in any 
way it considers appropriate. 
8. Rights 
Conditional share awards and options will not enjoy any shareholder 
rights until the shares have been acquired by the participant. However, 
participants may receive a payment in cash (or shares) of an amount 
equal to the dividends which would have been payable on the shares 
received during the vesting period. In the case of restricted shares, 
participants are entitled to dividends and to vote the shares during 
the vesting period unless the Company determines otherwise. 
Any shares issued under the LTIP will rank equally with shares of the 
same class and in issue on the date of allotment except in respect of 
rights by reference to a record date prior to the date of allotment. In 
addition, Treasury shares may be used to satisfy awards under the LTIP. 
9. Dilution limits 
In any ten year period, not more than 10% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company may be issued or committed to be issued 
under the LTIP and all other employee share plans operated by the 
Company. In addition, in any ten year period, not more than 5% of  
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may be issued or 
committed to be issued under the LTIP and all other discretionary 
share plans adopted by the Company. If shares are transferred from 
treasury to satisfy awards, these will also be counted towards the 
dilution limits for as long as this is required by the Association of 
British Insurers’ guidelines. 
10. Amendments to the LTIP 
The Committee may amend the LTIP as it considers appropriate. 
However, shareholder approval will be required to amend certain 
provisions of the LTIP if they are to the advantage of the participants. 
These provisions relate to: eligibility; individual and plan limits; the 
basis for determining entitlements to shares; rights attaching to 
shares; rights in the event of a variation in the Company's share 
capital; and the amendment powers. 
11. Termination 
The Committee may terminate the LTIP at any time which will,  
in any event, end on the tenth anniversary of the approval of  
the shareholders. 
BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008 (Resolution 12) 
This resolution seeks shareholders’ authority for the introduction  
of the Sharesave Plan 2008 (the “Sharesave Plan”) to replace the 
existing BG Group Sharesave Scheme which is due to expire. As  
with the existing Sharesave Scheme, the new Sharesave Plan will be 
approved by HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) in the UK and will 
enable the Company to offer UK employees the opportunity to acquire 
shares in the Company in a tax-favoured way. A summary of the main 
features of the Sharesave Plan is set out below: 
1. Invitations 
When the Sharesave Plan is operated, invitations must be sent to  
any eligible employee or full-time Executive Director that satisfies  
the following conditions: 
• they are employed by the Company or any participating 
subsidiary of the Company; and  
• they have been continuously employed by the Company or  
a participating subsidiary of the Company for a minimum  
period (up to five years).  
In addition, the Directors may send invitations to any other employee 
(including Executive Directors) of the Company or any participating 
subsidiary of the Company who do not meet those criteria. 
Invitations will normally be made within 42 days of an announcement 
of results and in other exceptional circumstances. Options will not be 
pensionable. 
2. Savings contract 
The principle of the Sharesave Plan is that an employee is granted an 
option to acquire Company shares at a fixed option price (see below). 
The employee must enter into a savings contract and save at least  
£5 but not more than £250 per month (or such other sum as may be 
allowed by legislation). Shares can only be bought with the amount 
saved plus any bonus paid under the savings contract.  
3. Option price 
The option price must not be less than 80% of the market value of  
the shares on the business day before the date of grant or the average 
market value over the three preceding business days.  
4. Plan limits 
In any ten year period, not more than 10% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company may be issued or committed to be issued 
under the Sharesave Plan and all other employee share plans operated 
by the Company. If shares are transferred from treasury to satisfy 
options these will also be counted towards the dilution limits for as 
long as this is required by the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines. 
5. Exercise of options 
Options are normally exercisable within six months after the third, 
fifth or seventh anniversary of the start of the savings contract. 
Options may, however, be exercised early in certain circumstances. 
These include, for example, an employee leaving because of injury, 
disability, retirement, death or redundancy or his employing company 
or business being sold out of the Group. On cessation of employment 
for other reasons, options will normally lapse. 
6. Change of control, merger or other reorganisation 
Options may generally be exercised early on a takeover, scheme  
of arrangement, merger or other reorganisation. Alternatively, 
optionholders may be allowed or required to exchange their options 
for options over shares in the acquiring company. 
7. Issue of shares 
Any shares issued on the exercise of options will rank equally with 
shares of the same class in issue on the date of allotment except in 
respect of rights arising by reference to a prior record date. Treasury 
shares may also be used for the Sharesave Plan. 
8. Variation in share capital 
Options may be adjusted following any variation in the share capital 
of the Company. 
9. Amendments to the Sharesave Plan 
The Committee may amend the Sharesave Plan as it considers 
appropriate. However, shareholder approval will be required to amend 
certain provisions of the Sharesave Plan if they are to the advantage  
of the participants. These provisions relate to: eligibility; individual 
and plan limits; the basis for determining entitlements to shares; 
rights attaching to shares; rights in the event of a variation in the 
Company's share capital; and the amendment powers. Amendments 
to the Sharesave Plan are subject to prior approval of HMRC.  Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 
 
 
136 
BG Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2008 (Resolution 13) 
This resolution seeks shareholders’ authority to renew the BG Group 
Share Incentive Plan (to be re-named the BG Group plc Share Incentive 
Plan 2008 (“SIP”)), which is due to expire in 2010 and to restate its 
rules in modern format. The SIP will continue to be approved by HMRC 
and will enable the Company to offer UK employees the opportunity 
to acquire shares in the Company in a tax-favoured way. A summary 
of the main features of the SIP is set out below: 
1. Introduction 
The SIP offers three ways to provide shares to employees based in the 
UK, namely: free; partnership; and matching shares. The SIP contains 
all three elements, and the Directors have power to decide which, if 
any, of them should be used. The SIP operates in conjunction with  
a trust, which will hold shares on behalf of employees. It is intended 
that HMRC approval for the renewal of the SIP will be sought in due 
course. Benefits under the SIP are not pensionable.  
2. Eligibility 
UK employees and Executive Directors of the Company and any 
subsidiaries designated by the Directors as participating companies 
are eligible to join the SIP, if they have worked for the Company or  
a participating company for a qualifying period determined by the 
Directors, which may not exceed 18 months. 
3. Free shares 
The SIP provides for the award of free shares worth up to a maximum 
set by the legislation (currently £3 000) to each eligible employee each 
year. The shares must generally be offered on similar terms, but the 
award may be subject to performance targets. ‘Similar terms’ means 
the terms may only be varied by reference to remuneration, length of 
service or hours worked.  
Free shares must be held in trust for a period of between three  
and five years at the discretion of the Company and will be free of  
UK income tax and social security if held in trust for five years. If a 
participant leaves employment with the Group, his shares cease to  
be subject to the SIP. The SIP may be operated on the basis that the 
shares are forfeited if the participant leaves employment within three 
years of the award other than through death, retirement, redundancy, 
injury or disability, or his employing company or business being sold 
out of the Group. 
4. Partnership shares 
The SIP provides for employees to be offered the opportunity to 
purchase shares out of monthly savings contributions from pre-tax 
salary up to the maximum set by the legislation (currently £1 500  
in each tax year, or 10% of salary if less). Employees can stop saving  
at any stage. The employees’ contributions may be used to buy 
partnership shares immediately or accumulated for up to 12 months 
before they are used to buy shares. Where they are accumulated, the 
price at which they are acquired is the lesser of the price at the 
beginning of the accumulation period and the end.  
Partnership shares can be withdrawn from the SIP by the participant 
at any time, but there will be a UK tax and social security liability if the 
shares are withdrawn before five years.  
5. Matching shares 
The SIP provides that where employees buy partnership shares, they 
may be awarded additional free matching shares by the Company on 
a matching basis, up to a current maximum of two matching shares 
for each partnership share. Matching shares must be held in trust for 
a minimum of three years and will be free of UK income tax and social 
security if held in trust for five years.  
The SIP may be operated on the basis that if a participant withdraws 
his corresponding partnership shares before the Trustees have held 
them for up to three years, he will forfeit the linked matching shares.  
If the participant ceases to be employed within the minimum three 
year period (or within such shorter period as the Directors may decide) 
other than for a specified reason such as retirement, redundancy or 
disability, his matching shares will be forfeited. 
6. Dividends 
The SIP provides that Directors may permit any dividends paid on the 
free, partnership or matching shares to be re-invested in the purchase 
of additional shares, which must be held in the SIP for a period of 
three years. 
7. Voting rights 
Participants may direct the Trustees how to exercise the voting rights 
attributable to the shares held on their behalf. The Trustees will not 
exercise the voting rights unless they receive the participants’ 
instructions. 
8. Dilution limits  
In any ten year period, not more than 10% of the issued ordinary  
share capital of the Company may be issued or committed to be 
issued under the SIP and all other employee share plans operated by 
the Company. If shares are transferred from treasury to satisfy awards, 
these will also be counted towards the dilution limits for as long as 
this is required by the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines. 
9. Amendments to the SIP 
The Committee may amend the SIP as it considers appropriate. 
However, shareholder approval will be required to amend certain 
provisions of the SIP if they are to the advantage of the participants. 
These provisions relate to: eligibility; individual and plan limits; the 
basis for determining entitlements to shares; rights attaching to 
shares; rights in the event of a variation in the Company's share 
capital; and the amendment powers. Amendments to the SIP are 
subject to prior approval of HMRC. 
Disapplication of pre-emption rights (Resolution 14)  
The Directors are currently authorised to allot unissued shares for  
cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion 
to their holdings (a pre-emptive offer). However, this authority 
terminates on the date of the 2008 AGM. This Resolution  
proposes that such authority be renewed and that the Directors  
be authorised to allot up to 167 202 017 ordinary shares for cash  
without a pre-emptive offer being made for the period ending at the 
conclusion of the Company’s AGM in 2009. This authority will also 
cover the sale of Treasury shares for cash. The authority represents 
approximately 5% of the share capital in issue at 4 March 2008.  
BG Group does not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued  
share capital of the Company in any rolling three year period.  
These amounts comply with guidelines issued by investor bodies.  
Authority to make market purchases of own ordinary shares 
(Resolution 15) 
In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company  
to purchase its own ordinary shares and Resolution 15 seeks authority 
from shareholders to do so. The Resolution specifies the maximum 
number of shares that may be acquired (10% of the Company’s issued 
ordinary share capital) and the maximum and minimum prices at 
which they may be bought.  
Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors determine 
that they are to be held as Treasury shares, be cancelled and the 
number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly. Shares held  
in treasury will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken 
into account in future calculations of earnings per share (unless they 
are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury).   BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 
137
During February 2008, the Company completed the share repurchase 
programme of £750 million announced in February 2007, having 
repurchased 88 million ordinary shares at an average price of £8.51  
per share. 
These shares are held in treasury in accordance with Section  
162(A) of the 1985 Act and used to satisfy awards under the Long Term 
Incentive Scheme and Share Incentive Plan pursuant to Section  
162(D) of the 1985 Act. In addition, these shares may be used to satisfy 
awards under the new share plans described above. No dividends are 
paid on and no voting rights attach to Treasury shares. Any Treasury 
shares sold by the Company will count towards the number of shares 
that, if Resolution 14 is passed, may be issued without offering them 
first to existing shareholders. 
As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires  
at the 2008 AGM, purchases after that date are subject to renewed 
shareholder approval at the AGM. The Directors will use the authority 
to purchase shares only after careful consideration, taking into 
account market conditions, other investment opportunities, 
appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the 
Company. The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking 
into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefit for 
shareholders.  
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares 
outstanding at 4 March 2008 is 56.1 million. This represents 1.68%  
of the issued share capital at that date (excluding Treasury shares).  
If the Company bought back the maximum number of shares 
permitted pursuant to the existing authority as well as the authority 
being sought by the passing of this resolution and cancelled them, 
then the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares 
outstanding at that date would represent 2.05% of the issued  
share capital (excluding Treasury shares) as reduced following  
those repurchases. At 4 March 2008, there were no warrants  
to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding. 
Adoption of new Articles of Association (Resolution 16) 
The proposed new Articles of Association reflect those provisions  
of the 2006 Act which have been brought into force since the 
last AGM. 
Set out below is a summary of the main differences between the 
current and the proposed new Articles of Association. This summary 
has been prepared in order to assist shareholders in understanding 
the rationale for and substance of the proposed amendments. 
Although the new Articles of Association are in many respects largely 
unchanged from the current Articles of Association, the Directors 
recommend that shareholders pass a resolution to adopt new  
Articles of Association rather than to pass resolutions detailing  
each individual amendment.  
1. Directors’ interests 
The 2006 Act sets out directors’ general duties which largely codify  
the existing law but with some changes. Under the 2006 Act, from 
1 October 2008, a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation 
where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or 
possibly may conflict, with the company’s interests. The requirement 
is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a 
director of another company or a trustee of another organisation. The 
2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts 
and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the articles of association 
contain a provision to this effect. The 2006 Act also allows the articles 
to contain other provisions for dealing with directors’ conflicts of 
interest to avoid a breach of duty. The new Articles of Association give 
the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other 
provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar 
way to the current position. 
There are safeguards that will apply when Directors decide whether  
to authorise a conflict or potential conflict. Firstly, only Directors who 
have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take 
the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the 
Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most 
likely to promote the Company’s success. The Directors will be able  
to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think 
this is appropriate. 
The new Articles of Association contain conflict management 
provisions relating to confidential information and attendance at 
Board meetings to protect a Director being in breach of duty if  
a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises. These 
provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the 
potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors. 
It is the Board’s intention to report annually on the Company’s 
procedures for ensuring that the Board’s powers of authorisation  
of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have  
been followed. 
2. Form of resolutions and general meetings 
The proposed new Articles of Association have been amended  
so as to remove all references to extraordinary resolutions and 
extraordinary general meetings as neither of these concepts have 
been retained under the 2006 Act. 
3. Notice of general meetings 
Article 53.1 of the proposed new Articles of Association is amended  
to cater for the new provision regarding notice periods set out in the 
2006 Act. The 2006 Act reduces the minimum notice period for all 
general meetings (other than the annual general meeting) to 14 clear 
days and the amendments to Article 53.1 allow the Company to take 
advantage of such provision. 
4. Polls and proxies 
Article 62.1 of the proposed new Articles of Association has been 
amended to clarify that a poll may be demanded by a majority of  
the Directors present at the meeting.  
Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as 
well as on a poll, and shareholders may appoint a proxy to exercise all 
or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at meetings. Multiple 
proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares. Articles 69.1 
and 74.5 of the proposed new Articles of Association reflect these new 
proxy rights. 
5. Quorum 
The proposed amendment to Article 98.1, which deals with the 
quorum requirement for Board meetings, clarifies that the presence  
of a quorum will be determined separately in relation to each matter 
or resolution considered or voted on at the meeting. This will  
mean that if a Director cannot count in the quorum for a particular 
resolution (because for example he is interested in the outcome of the 
resolution) he may still count in the quorum for the other resolutions 
to be voted on at the meeting. 
Recommendation 
The Board considers the above resolutions will promote the success  
of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders as a whole. The Directors unanimously recommend that 
you vote in favour of all the above resolutions as they intend to do  
so themselves in respect of their own beneficial holdings.  Notice of ninth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued 
 
 
138 
Appointing a proxy 
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all  
or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM, provided 
that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a 
different share or shares. A proxy does not need to be a shareholder  
of the Company but must attend the AGM to represent the relevant 
shareholder. A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice and instructions 
for its use are shown on the form. Appointing a proxy does not 
preclude a shareholder from attending the AGM and voting in person. 
Proxy forms must be submitted by 2.00pm on 12 May 2008 to Equiniti, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT. Details 
of how to appoint your proxy electronically are given below. 
Electronic proxy voting 
Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy or proxies for 
the AGM electronically at www.sharevote.co.uk
4
, a website operated 
by the Company’s Registrar, Equiniti. Shareholders are advised to read 
the terms and conditions, shown on the website, relating to the use of 
this facility before appointing a proxy. Any electronic communication 
sent by a shareholder that is found to contain a computer virus will 
not be accepted. Electronic communication facilities are available to 
all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged in 
any way. 
Corporate representatives 
Corporate shareholders are encouraged to appoint a proxy or multiple 
proxies in preference to appointing corporate representatives given 
the uncertainty arising from the provisions in the 2006 Act regarding 
the validity of votes cast by multiple corporate representatives. 
However, where corporate shareholders have appointed multiple 
corporate representatives, the Company intends to follow the 
guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators (“ICSA”), as described below. 
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the 
Meeting, arrangements will be in place at the Meeting so that: 
(i) if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the 
Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to  
vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other 
corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, 
then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting 
directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote  
(or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance 
with those directions. Voting cards will be made available  
to corporate representatives at the Meeting; and 
(ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate 
shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder 
has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate 
representative, a designated corporate representative will  
be nominated from those corporate representatives who  
attend the Meeting, and will vote on a poll. The other corporate 
representatives will give voting directions to that designated 
corporate representative. In accordance with the ICSA’s guidance, 
the designated corporate representatives shall be the first of the 
corporate representatives to have registered his/her attendance 
at the Meeting. Voting cards will be made available to corporate 
representatives at the Meeting. 
Corporate shareholders are recommended to read the guidance  
issued by the ICSA on proxies and corporate representatives at 
www.icsa.org.uk for further details of this procedure. The guidance 
includes a sample form of representation letter for those corporate 
shareholders wishing to appoint the Chairman as its designated 
corporate representative as described in (i) above. Should you  
have any queries in relation to proxy appointments or corporate 
representatives, please contact the Company’s Registrar,  
Equiniti, on 0871 384 2064. 
4. This electronic address is provided solely for the purposes of enabling shareholders 
to register their appointment of a proxy or proxies for the AGM electronically.  
The Company will not accept any other document or information relating  
to proceedings of the Meeting which may be sent by electronic means to  
that address. 
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST 
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the 
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM  
to be held on 14 May 2008 and any adjournment(s) thereof by using 
the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal 
members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST 
members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should 
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will  
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST 
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘‘CREST Proxy 
Instruction’’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (“Euroclear”) specifications and must 
contain the information required for such instructions, as described in 
the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes 
the appointment of a proxy or proxies, or an amendment to the 
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order  
to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent 
(ID 7RA01) by 2.00pm on 12 May 2008. For this purpose, the time of 
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp 
applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which 
the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to  
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time, any  
change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should  
be communicated to the appointee through other means.  
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting 
service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal 
system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the 
input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST 
member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST 
personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting 
service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting  
service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure 
that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by  
any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where 
applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider(s)  
are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual 
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.  
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001. 
Persons nominated by shareholders  
A copy of this Notice has been sent for information only to persons  
who have been nominated by a shareholder to enjoy information rights 
under Section 146 of the 2006 Act (a “Nominated Person”). The rights  
to appoint a proxy set out in this Notice do not apply to Nominated 
Persons; they can only be exercised by the shareholder. However, a 
Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him 
and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated to be appointed 
as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed. If a 
Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to 
exercise it, he/she may have a right under such an agreement to give 
instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights. 
Total shares and voting rights 
As at 4 March 2008, the Company’s capital consisted of 3 575 542 325 
ordinary shares in issue of which 231 501 966 (representing 
approximately 6.47% of the total share capital) were held in treasury. 
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in BG Group plc as  
at 4 March 2008 was 3 344 040 359. 
Summary of AGM business 
A summary of the business carried out at the Meeting will  
be published on the Group’s website.  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Index 
139
 
 
Item    Page
Accountants’ fees and services 87 
American Depositary Receipts 95, 129 
American Depositary Shares  70, 129 
Annual General Meeting 51-55 
Assets    78 
 Total 78, 127 
 Net   78, 127 
Assets held for sale 102 
Associates 84, 99, 119-120, 140 
Audit fees  87 
Balance sheets  78-79 
 Five year financial summary 127-128 
Basis of consolidation 73 
Basis of preparation 73 
Borrowings 78, 103-104 
Business Combinations 100 
Capital investment/expenditure 33-34, 86 
Cash flow 34, 80, 118 
 Five year financial summary 128 
Chairman’s statement 4-6 
Charitable donations 41, 60 
Chief Executive’s statement 7-9 
Commitments and contingencies 112-114 
Committees 56-57 
Community 60 
Corporate Governance 46-60 
Corporate Responsibility 38-41 
Debt/equity ratio 128 
Decommissioning 35-36, 73, 74 
Deferred taxation 74, 78, 110 
Depreciation and amortisation 35, 73, 85, 87, 97-98 
Derivatives 78, 104-108 
Directors 46-47, 88 
Directors’ Report 2-71 
Disposals and re-measurements 32, 76, 93, 140 
Dividends 28, 95 
Earnings per ordinary share  28, 76, 96, 127 
Employees 39-41, 88-92 
Equity   79, 111-112 
Exploration and Production (E&P) 2-3, 11-20, 29-30  
    82-83, 85-86 
Exploration expenditure 30, 35, 74, 87 
Finance income and costs 33, 76, 94 
Financial instruments 36, 74-75, 104-108 
Financial review 28-37 
Five year financial summary 127-128 
Foreign currencies 74 
Future prospects 12-13 
Gearing  128 
Glossary of Terms 141 
Going concern 60 
Goodwill 73, 78, 96 
 
 
Item    Page
Governance Framework 50-57 
Group Executive Committee 48-49 
Guarantees 112 
Health, Safety, Security and Environment 38-41 
Historical production 126 
Independent Auditors’ report  72 
Income statement 76 
Five year financial summary 127-128 
Internal Control Framework 51, 54 
Impairments  36 
Inventories 74, 78, 101 
Investments 78, 99 
 Accounted for using the equity method 78, 99 
 In subsidiary undertakings 78 
Other 78, 99 
Joint ventures 99, 120, 140 
Leases   74, 103, 113 
Legal proceedings 113 
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) 2-3, 14-15, 21-23, 30-31, 82-86 
New accounting standards 81 
Notice of AGM 131-138 
Operating review 16-27 
Operating costs 76-77 
Operating profit/(loss) 28-32, 82-84 
Other activities 27, 31, 82-83, 85-86 
Other intangible assets 97 
Other operating income 76, 83-84, 86 
Petroleum revenue tax 95, 110 
Power   2-3, 14-15, 26-27, 31, 82-86 
Principal accounting policies 73-75 
Property, plant and equipment 78, 97-98 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 78, 109 
Related party transactions 37, 114 
Remuneration Report 61-71 
Research and development 75, 87 
Reserves 79, 111-112 
Retirement benefit obligations 78, 115-117 
Return on average capital employed 128 
Risk factors 42-45 
Segmental analysis 82-86 
Share capital 79, 111-112 
Shareholder information 129-130 
Statement of total recognised income and expense 77 
Strategy 10-13 
Subsidiary undertakings 119 
Substantial shareholders 58 
Supplementary information – gas and oil  121-126 
Suppliers  60 
Taxation 33, 76, 77, 95 
Trade and other payables 78, 109 
Trade and other receivables 78, 101 
Transmission and Distribution (T&D) 2-3, 14-15 
    24-25, 30-31, 82-86 
 
  www.bg-group.com
Presentation of non-GAAP measures 
 
140 
BG Group gives certain additional information in a non-statutory 
format in order to provide readers with an increased insight into the 
underlying performance of the business. The measures BG Group 
uses are explained below. 
Business Performance 
‘Business Performance’ excludes disposals, certain  
re-measurements and impairments (see below), and is presented  
as exclusion of these items provides readers with a clear and 
consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance  
of the Group’s ongoing business. 
BG Group uses commodity instruments to manage price exposures 
associated with its marketing and optimisation activity in the UK 
and USA. This activity enables the Group to take advantage of 
commodity price movements. It is considered more appropriate to 
include both unrealised and realised gains and losses arising from 
the mark-to-market of derivatives associated with this activity in 
‘Business Performance’. 
Disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments 
BG Group’s commercial arrangements for marketing gas include the 
use of long-term gas sales contracts. Whilst the activity surrounding 
these contracts involves the physical delivery of gas, certain UK gas 
sales contracts are classified as derivatives under the rules of 
International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’, issued by the IASB and are required 
to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. Unrealised 
gains and losses on these contracts reflect the comparison between 
current market gas prices and the actual prices to be realised under 
the gas sales contract and are disclosed separately as ‘disposals, re-
measurements and impairments’.  
BG Group also uses commodity instruments to manage certain price 
exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location of its 
physical gas and LNG commitments. These instruments are also 
required to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date 
under IAS 39. However, IAS 39 does not allow the matching of  
these fair values to the economically hedged value of the related 
commodity, resulting in unrealised movements in fair value  
being recorded in the income statement. These movements in  
fair value are disclosed separately as ‘disposals, re-measurements 
and impairments’.  
BG Group also uses financial instruments, including derivatives,  
to manage foreign exchange and interest rate exposure. These 
instruments are required to be recognised at fair value or amortised 
cost on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39. Most of these 
instruments have been designated either as hedges of foreign 
exchange movements associated with the Group’s net investments 
in foreign operations, or as hedges of interest rate risk. Where  
these instruments cannot be designated as hedges under IAS 39, 
unrealised movements in fair value are recorded in the income 
statement and disclosed separately as ‘disposals, re-measurements 
and impairments’. 
Realised gains and losses relating to the instruments referred to 
above are included in Business Performance. This presentation  
best reflects the underlying performance of the business since it 
distinguishes between the temporary timing differences associated 
with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and actual realised gains 
and losses. 
BG Group has also separately identified profits and losses associated 
with the disposal of non-current assets and impairments of non-
current assets as they require separate disclosure in order to  
provide a clearer understanding of the results for the period. For a 
reconciliation between the overall results and Business Performance 
and details of disposals, re-measurements and impairments, see 
note 2, page 82. 
Joint ventures and associates 
Under IFRS the results from jointly controlled entities (joint 
ventures) and associates, accounted for under the equity method, 
are required to be presented net of finance costs and tax on the face 
of the income statement. Given the relevance of these businesses 
within BG Group, the results of joint ventures and associates are 
presented before interest and tax, and after tax. This approach 
provides additional information on the source of BG Group’s 
operating profits. For a reconciliation between operating profit and 
earnings including and excluding the results of joint ventures and 
associates, see note 2, page 82. 
Exchange rates and prices 
BG Group also discloses certain information, as indicated, at 
constant US$/UK£ exchange rates and upstream prices. The 
presentation of results in this manner is intended to provide 
additional information to explain further the underlying trends  
in the business. The disclosure re-calculates the current year profit 
on the basis that the US$/UK£ exchange rate and the upstream 
commodity prices were the same as in the previous year – so 
providing a comparable base in respect of these two factors. 
Net borrowings/funds 
BG Group provides an analysis of the amounts included within  
net borrowings/funds as this is an important liquidity measure  
for the Group. 
Return on average capital employed (ROACE) represents profit 
before tax (excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments) 
plus net interest payable on net borrowings, as a percentage of 
average capital employed. 
  Our vision
Natural gas is our business. We are
a rapidly growing company, with
expertise throughout the gas chain. 
We are a leading natural gas
company in the global energy
market – operating responsibly and
delivering value to our shareholders. 
We do this by connecting
competitively priced resources 
to high value markets.
www.bg-group.com/investors
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Glossary of Terms 
 
141
For the purpose of this Report the following definitions apply: 
‘$’  US Dollars 
‘£’  UK pounds Sterling 
‘ABI’  Association of British Insurers 
‘ADR’  American Depositary Receipt 
‘ADS’  American Depositary Share 
‘AGM’  Annual General Meeting 
‘bcf’  Billion cubic feet 
‘bcfd’  Billion cubic feet per day 
‘bcma’  Billion cubic metres per annum 
‘BG Group’  BG Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, 
joint ventures and associated undertakings 
‘BG Energy Holdings 
Limited’ or ‘BGEH’  
BG Energy Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of  
BG Group plc 
‘billion’ or ‘bn’  One thousand million 
‘boe’  Barrels of oil equivalent 
‘boed’  Barrels of oil equivalent per day 
‘bopd’  Barrels of oil per day 
‘CATS’ The North Sea Central Area Transmission 
System pipeline 
‘CCGT’  Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 
‘Combined Code’  The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council 
‘Company’  BG Group plc 
‘CR’  Corporate Responsibility 
‘CSOS’  Company Share Option Scheme 
‘E&P’  Exploration and Production 
‘EPV’  Estimated Present Value 
‘EU’  European Union 
‘FEED’  Front End Engineering Design 
‘Finding & Development 
costs’ or ‘F&D’ 
The three year average unit finding & 
development cost is calculated by dividing the 
total exploration, development and unproved 
acquisition costs incurred over the period by the 
total changes in net proved reserves (excluding 
purchases, sales and production) for that period 
‘Financial Statements’  The Group and parent company financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 
which comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the balance sheets, the cash flow 
statements, the consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense, and the related 
notes 
‘GAAP’  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
‘GASA’  Gas Argentino S.A. 
‘Group’  BG Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, 
joint ventures and associated undertakings 
‘GW’ Gigawatt 
‘HSSE’  Health, Safety, Security and the Environment 
‘IAS’  International Accounting Standard issued by 
the IASB 
‘IASB’  International Accounting Standards Board 
‘IFRS’  International Financial Reporting Standards 
issued by the IASB and endorsed by the 
European Union 
‘LNG’  Liquefied Natural Gas 
‘LTIP’  Long Term Incentive Plan 
‘LTIS’  Long Term Incentive Scheme 
‘m’  Million 
 
 
‘managed volumes’ Comprises all LNG volumes contracted for 
purchase and having related revenue and  
other operating income recognised in the 
applicable period 
‘mmbbls’  Million barrels 
‘mmboe’  Million barrels of oil equivalent 
‘mmbtu’  Million British thermal units 
‘mmbtud’ Million British thermal units per day 
‘mmcm’  Million cubic metres 
‘mmscfd’  Million standard cubic feet per day 
‘mtpa’  Million tonnes per annum 
‘MW’  Megawatt 
‘MWeq’ Megawatt equivalent 
‘NGV’  Natural Gas Vehicle 
‘NYSE’  New York Stock Exchange 
‘OECD’  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development 
‘OTCQX’ the US over-the-counter market on which  
BG Group’s ADRs are listed. See page 56 
‘PSC’  Production Sharing Contract 
‘Proved reserves’ see page 125 
‘Probable reserves’ see page 125 
‘Risked exploration’ see page 125 
‘ROACE’  Return on Average Capital Employed 
‘T&D’  Transmission and Distribution 
‘three year proved 
reserve replacement 
rate’ or ‘RRR’  
The three year average proved reserve 
replacement rate is the total net proved 
reserves changes over the three year period 
including purchases and sales (excluding 
production) divided by the total net production 
for that period  
‘three year organic 
proved reserve 
replacement rate’ 
The RRR excluding purchases and sales of 
reserves in place and the impact of the 2007 
year end price adjustment on total net proved 
reserves 
‘Unit lifting costs  
per boe’ 
‘Unit lifting costs per boe’ is calculated by 
excluding royalty, tariff and insurance costs 
from ‘Unit operating costs/expenditure’ as 
defined below  
‘Unit operating costs/ 
expenditure per boe’ 
‘Unit operating expenditure per boe’ is 
calculated by dividing Production and Other 
operating costs (royalties) on page 125 by the 
net production for the period. This measure 
does not include the impact of depreciation 
and amortisation costs and exploration costs 
as they are not considered to be costs 
associated with the operation of producing 
assets 
‘Un-booked resources’ see page 125 
‘RPIX’  Retail Prices Index excluding mortgage 
interest repayments 
‘SEC’  The United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission 
‘SID’  Senior Independent Director 
‘SIP’  Share Incentive Plan 
‘tcf’ Trillion cubic feet 
‘UKCS’  United Kingdom Continental Shelf 
‘WDDM’  West Delta Deep Marine 
 
LEGAL NOTICE 
Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts contain forward-looking information concerning the Group’s strategy, operations, financial 
performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in which the Group operates. By their nature, 
forward-looking statements involve uncertainty because they depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, not all of which are within the Company’s 
control or can be predicted by the Company. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no 
assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Actual results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking 
statements. For a detailed analysis of the factors that may affect our business, financial performance or results of operations, we urge you to look at the “Risk 
Factors” included in this Annual Report and Accounts. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast, and no part of these 
results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in BG Group plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in any way 
in connection with any investment decision. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 
 
BG Group is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom. BG Group is a “designated foreign issuer” for the 
purposes of National Instrument 71-102 “Continuous Disclosure and Other Exemptions” of the Canadian Securities Administrators.  
EXPLANATORY NOTE FOR US INVESTORS RELATING TO GAS AND OIL RESERVES AND RESOURCES 
BG Group continues voluntarily to use the SEC definition of proved reserves to report proved gas and oil reserves in this Annual Report and Accounts. For further 
details of BG Group’s proved reserves as at 31 December 2007, and related supplemental gas and oil information, see Supplementary information – gas and oil,  
on page 121. This Report also contains additional information about other BG Group gas and oil reserves and resources that would not be permitted in SEC filings. 
For an explanation of terms used in connection with such additional reserves and resources information, refer to page 125. 
BG061_IFC-IBC.qxp:Layout 1  18/3/08  15:36  Page b A world leader in natural gas
Annual Report and 
Accounts 2007
BG Group plc
100 Thames Valley Park Drive
Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT
www.bg-group.com
Registered in England & Wales No. 3690065
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc. 
Printed by Butler and Tanner.
This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on
think
4
bright. This paper is produced from 100% 
ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp that is fully
recyclable. It has FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)
certiﬁcation and has been manufactured within 
a mill which is registered under the British 
and international quality standard of 
BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the environmental
standard of BS EN ISO 14001-1996.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_FC&BC.qxp:Layout 1  17/3/08  16:50  Page 1
