 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
AGGREKO PLC
THE POWER TO
happen
make things WHAT OUR CUSTOMER NEEDS
KEY OUTPUTS
Contents
 02
OUR INVESTMENT 
CASE
 04
OUR BUSINESS 
TODAY
 18
HOW WE 
CREATE VALUE
 70
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW
Introducing Aggreko 01
Our investment case 02
Performance highlights 03
Our business today 04
A personal perspective from our CEO 06
BUSINESS STRATEGY
The power to drive major sporting events* 11
Our global markets 12
The power to connect communities* 16
How we create value 18
How we make things happen 22
Our strategic priorities 27
The power to build a new product* 32
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
How we performed – our key performance indicators 34
Group and business unit reviews 40
Financial review 44
The power to help rocket testing* 50
Risk factors that could affect business performance 52
Assessment of prospects and viability 61
The power to keep the beat* 62
Making a massive difference 64
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s introduction 70
Audit Committee report 86
Ethics Committee report 90
Nomination Committee report 92
Remuneration Committee report 94
Statutory disclosures 115
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 121
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Independent auditors’ report 122
Group income statement 126
Group statement of comprehensive income 126
Group balance sheet 127
Group cash ﬂow statement 128
Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movement  
   in net debt 129
Group statement of changes in equity 130
Notes to the Group accounts 132
Company balance sheet 169
Company statement of comprehensive income 170
Company statement of changes in equity 171
Notes to the Company accounts 172
Shareholder information 176
Deﬁnition and calculation of non GAAP measures 178
Financial summary 180
Glossary 181
 Pages 1-69 comprise the Strategic report
*  Pages 11, 16, 32, 50 and 62 case studies demonstrate 
how we make things happen Around the world, people, businesses and countries 
are striving for a better future. A future that needs power.
That’s why at Aggreko, we work round the clock, 
making sure our customers get the power, heating and 
cooling they need, whenever they need it – delivered with 
our trademark passion, unrivalled international experience 
and local knowledge. From urban development to 
unique commercial projects and humanitarian 
emergencies, we bring our expertise and equipment 
to any location, from the world’s busiest cities 
to some of the most remote places on earth. 
Every project is different, so we listen ﬁrst and design 
a system around our customers, delivering our service 
and support anywhere, to any scale. Transforming 
the lives and livelihoods of individuals, organisations 
and communities across the globe.
Aggreko has the power to make things happen.
VIEW AND DOWNLOAD  
THE 2016 REPORT
www.annualreport2016.aggreko.com
CASE STUDIES
The case studies throughout this report demonstrate  
the work our employees do for our customers every day.
FIND OUT MORE
Visit our website to ﬁnd out more about Aggreko
www.aggreko.com/about-us
01 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Overview MARKET
The business operates in markets that are diverse 
both by geography and sector
We work across 12 major sectors including Oil & Gas, 
Petrochemical & Reﬁning, Utilities and Events
In emerging markets there is a structural power deﬁcit 
creating a clear market demand
READ MORE ABOUT OUR MARKETS 
PAGE 12
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Deﬁned strategic priorities:  
Customer, Technology, Efﬁciency & People
Clear path to growth
Business focused on margins and returns
READ MORE ABOUT OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 
PAGE 27
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
People & culture
Technology
Expertise
Scale
Financial strength
READ MORE ABOUT OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES  
PAGE 22
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
Priority is to invest for long-term growth
Will invest in bolt-on acquisitions where opportunities 
for growth or adjacencies (for example a cooling business 
may also drive demand for power)
Sustainable ordinary dividend policy
Where excess capital beyond these priorities 
will look to distribute to Shareholders 
USEFUL LINKS FOR SHAREHOLDERS  
PAGES 176
Our investment case
Our objective is to remain the leading provider 
of modular, mobile power and related solutions, 
delivering long-term value to shareholders, 
outstanding service to customers and 
rewarding careers to our employees.
02 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
OVERVIEW Performance highlights
1  The Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 17.74 pence per Ordinary Share, which when added to the interim 
dividend of 9.38 pence, gives a total for the year of 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share.
2  Calculated by dividing operating proﬁt for the year by the average net operating assets as at 1 January, 
30 June and 31 December.
3  Adjusted numbers exclude exceptional items. Exceptional items are explained in Note 7 to the accounts.
4 Reported is per the Accounts on pages 126 to 175.
MATERIALITY
This report and ﬁnancial statements aims to provide a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of our business model, strategy, performance and prospects in relation 
to material ﬁnancial, economic, social, environmental and governance issues. 
The material focus areas were determined considering the following: 
 • Matters that are critical to achieving our strategic objectives
 • Key risks identiﬁed through our risk management process
 • Feedback from key stakeholders during the course of the year
ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX
3 
£
221m
2015: £252m
2016 REPORTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX
4
£
172m
2015: £226m
ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS
3 
61.95p
2015: 71.68p
2016 REPORTED DILUTED EPS
4
48.86p
2015: 63.45p
ADJUSTED RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
2,3
13%
2015: 16%
2016 RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
2
10%
2015: 15%
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
1
27 .12p
2015: 27.12p
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
3
£
248m
2015: £275m
2016 REPORTED OPERATING PROFIT
4
£
199m
2015: £249m
REVENUE
 
£
1,515m
2015: £1,561m
Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Overview
03 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Our business today
KEY
Rental  
Solutions
Power  
Solutions
Ofﬁces/ 
Service centres
Rental Solutions includes our businesses in North America, 
Europe, Australia Paciﬁc and Mexico. Power Solutions includes  
all our other businesses around the world.
GLOBALLY ORGANISED TO SERVE OUR CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS
We are a global company organised into two 
business units. This enables us to focus on our 
customers, developing market leading products, 
whilst more efﬁciently delivering our expertise 
and equipment across the globe. 
We operate in around 100 countries through 
208 sales and service centres and with around 
7,000 permanent and temporary employees.
04 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
OVERVIEW RENTAL SOLUTIONS
A transactional business serving a broad range of 
sectors in developed markets. It provides power, 
heating and cooling to a number of customer types who 
need it quickly and typically for a short period of time.
POWER SOLUTIONS
Operating in emerging markets, we typically serve 
both industrial and utility customers with larger, 
longer-term and often complex solutions 
to fulﬁl their power requirements.
READ MORE ABOUT RENTAL SOLUTIONS 
PAGES 19 AND 41
READ MORE ABOUT POWER SOLUTIONS 
PAGES 19 AND 42
SUPPORTED BY A STRONG INFRASTRUCTURE
Dedicated sales force – Leading technology 
Efﬁcient support functions – Established distribution network 
REVENUE £M
£
629m
43% of group
REVENUE £M*
£
826m
57% of group
*excluding pass-through fuel
KEY SECTOR FOCUS %
1 Petrochemical & Reﬁning 18
2 Oil & Gas 11
3 Events 11
4 Utilities 11
5 Manufacturing 9
6 Services 8
7 Contracting 8
8 Construction 6
9 Mining 5
10 Shipping 3
11 Other 10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
KEY SECTOR FOCUS %
1 Utilities 59
2 Oil & Gas 14
3 Mining 7
4 Events 2
5 Construction 4
6 Manufacturing 4
7 Petrochemical & Reﬁning 1
8 Military 2
9 Other 7
(excluding pass-through fuel)
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
WHO ARE OUR CUSTOMERS? A SELECTION:
CONTRACTOR
Needs to run a speciﬁc piece of equipment requiring a generator 
– for example a crane. Orders the same equipment every time, 
doesn’t need consultation just needs a quick and reliable supplier.
EVENT
Needs a team who understand the complexities of an event – 
the timelines that need to be followed, challenges around a small  
footprint for the required generation, or quieter equipment (for example 
during a major golf tournament where concentration is vital).
EMERGENCY
Can be a hospital needing back up power if their redundancy fails, 
or a food manufacturer that needs to keep their product at a precise 
temperature during an outage. Need quick response and reliability.
PETROCHEMICAL & REFINING TURNAROUND
A complex job needing an engineering solution. If a reﬁnery 
needs to perform maintenance it can need assistance in keeping 
everything at a stable temperature and maintaining throughput 
often involving complex solutions. Our engineers will work with 
the customer’s engineers to design a solution.
MINING
A mining customer needs equipment for the length of the mine. 
Commodity prices can vary greatly over this time so they value a 
capex free solution with ﬂexibility to scale up or down depending 
on any movements in price.
POOR TRANSMISSION
Countries with poor transmission grids need ﬂexible generation 
sources that can be set up as small power stations, often with 
mini power grids to support them, around the areas where 
energy is demanded.
BASELOAD ISSUES 
When a country has established baseload issues they often need 
a reliable source of generation to cover the gap while they resolve 
the longer-term issues. They can be sensitive to the total cost 
of energy, which is why having engines with the best possible 
efﬁciency is important.
Note: Power Solutions industrials customers tend to be of a similar 
type to Rental Solutions customers, albeit with a longer duration.
05 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Overview A personal perspective from our CEO
There is no doubt that 2016 was 
a challenging year. However, 
I am conﬁdent that we are taking 
the right actions to position this 
business for the future and I am 
excited by the results that we are 
beginning to see from our work 
on our strategic priorities.
Chris Weston
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
A REVIEW OF 2016
Market conditions have been challenging, 
with ongoing lower oil price and broader 
commodity weakness; lower emerging 
market growth; and no lessening of the 
competitive pressures in the market. 
The repricing of legacy contracts in 
Mozambique early in the year and latterly 
in Argentina, placed further pressure on 
our performance. Notwithstanding these, 
I was pleased with the underlying 
business, particularly our strong order 
intake of over 1GW and the growth we 
saw in some of our markets, Russia being 
a good example. We also made good 
progress on our strategic priorities of 
Customer, Technology and Efﬁciency. 
There is more to do in 2017 but I am 
conﬁdent that this important work is 
on track and will better equip Aggreko 
to grow successfully, even in more 
difﬁcult market conditions.
In January I visited our North  
American business to better 
understand the impact of 
the low oil price on US shale 
operators and our performance 
in the Oil & Gas sector. I met  
a number of customers 
throughout the week, across the 
sector, including in downstream 
Petrochemical and Reﬁning. 
Meeting our customers is always 
an invaluable opportunity 
and hearing ﬁrst hand the 
challenges they are facing also 
reinforced the importance of 
the changes we are making 
through our strategic priorities. 
On a slightly different theme, 
I particularly enjoyed meeting 
the Aggreko team preparing for 
the Superbowl and seeing the 
impressive set up for that event.
The work underway 
across the business 
is beginning to 
take effect
WATCH CHRIS’ VIDEO ONLINE:
ir.aggreko.com/investors/financial-results-centre
Jan
2016
06 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
OVERVIEW Following a number of weeks 
spent meeting investors after 
our full year results, I travelled 
to South America. In Argentina, 
where we have a large contract 
with the government-owned 
utility, I spent some time with 
the Secretary of Energy, our 
ultimate customer, and also 
with the British Ambassador. 
It was very apparent that the 
new government is approaching 
the chronic power shortage in 
the country differently and that 
this could present us with both 
a risk and an opportunity.
Our business in Brazil has had 
to cope with a difﬁcult few 
years in the face of a substantial 
economic slowdown and political 
upheaval, but our employees 
have continued to work tirelessly 
for our customers. In Rio, I visited 
our depot and shared lunch 
with our technicians, following 
which they took me to see the 
Olympic athlete’s food hall, for 
which we were providing the 
cooling. The hall was huge, 
covering about three football 
pitches, and presented a complex 
challenge to cool it to acceptable 
temperatures. I am always 
impressed with the capability and 
work of our people, particularly 
when seen live on the ground, 
and the dedication and passion 
that they show.
I spent a few weeks on 
an extensive tour of our 
locations across Asia, visiting 
our businesses in China, 
Japan, Korea and Singapore. 
Weather caused travel problems 
but also provided a reminder 
of the extreme conditions 
that our equipment has to 
operate in. It is important 
I get around the business as 
much as possible to speak 
with our employees directly. 
Ensuring that our people are 
safe in what they do, motivated 
and engaged, is important to 
me and a key factor in providing 
the outstanding service, quickly, 
all over the world.
People are one of our strategic 
priorities and something that 
we have focused on throughout 
the year. The appointment of 
Anna Filipopoulos, our new 
Group HR Director, has bought 
an added professionalism and 
focus in this area.
In South Korea, I met the 
organising committee for 
the PyeongChang 2018 Winter 
Olympics, the contract for 
which we signed in December 
2016. Our Global Events team, 
supported by our local team in 
Seoul, put in a huge amount of 
work to win this contract and 
I am delighted that they have 
been successful.
Apr
The safety, wellbeing 
and engagement of 
our people is one of 
our strategic priorities
SEE MORE HERE:
www.aggreko.com
Feb
2016 revenue in 
Argentina £130m
Lee Hee-beo, President and CEO of the 
PyeongChang Organising Committee 
of the Olympic Games and Aggreko’s 
Robert Wells at the signing ceremony
07 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Overview Russia has been an area of strong 
growth over the last few years and 
in 2016 revenue increased 28%
1
. 
In May, I visited the team there 
to congratulate them on their 
results and better understand 
their growth plans for the future. 
It is an interesting market, 
largely focused on the Oil & Gas 
sector, which has continued 
to grow strongly as customers 
move from owning to renting 
equipment, thereby protecting 
their balance sheets in a weak 
commodity environment.
Given the extreme temperatures, 
it can be a challenge for our 
customers to ﬁnd equipment that 
will operate reliably. Our G3 diesel 
and QSK60 gas engines, the 
older, workhorses of our ﬂeet, 
perform very well in this harsh 
environment; the Russian 
business is taking these sets from 
around the Group as we start to 
introduce our Next Generation 
Gas engine to the wider market.
A personal perspective from our CEO continued
May
Jun
Medium speed HFO leaving our 
Manufacturing facility in Dumbarton
Gas installation at Taylakovskoye 
oil ﬁeld in Western Siberia 
The launch of our medium speed 
Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) engine, 
and broader discussion of our 
technology agenda generated 
a huge amount of interest, 
both internally and externally. 
Technology is one of our strategic 
priorities. Our aim is to provide 
our customers with the lowest 
possible cost of power and 
technology, fuel type and engine 
efﬁciency are key to achieving 
this. As the market has become 
more competitive, technology 
has become a key differentiator 
and Aggreko is in a strong 
position to take advantage.
Our diesel G3+ engine is the 
most fuel efﬁcient on the 
market, so customers have 
less fuel to pay for; this can be 
a material saving, many millions 
of pounds, particularly when 
they are generating electricity 
continuously. We launched 
our HFO engine in response to 
market research and customer 
demand; HFO is more widely 
available than gas and cheaper 
than diesel, so for many of our 
customers it is a more economic 
way of generating power. As such, 
we think it will open up further 
opportunities for us.
Russia 2016 Adjusted 
revenue growth of 28%
1
HFO market 
opportunity 2GW
1 Excludes the impact of currency.
08 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
OVERVIEW Sep
The signing of a 40MW gas 
contract in Mozambique took 
our order intake for the year over 
1GW. I was delighted by this, 
particularly as the intake included 
a high percentage demand 
for our new diesel G3+ engine, 
demonstrating the importance 
of fuel efﬁciency to our customers.
Some of our ﬁxed site 
generators in Argentina
Aug
Aggreko employees on site 
in Mozambique
Our order intake for 
the year is over 1GW
SEE MORE HERE:
www.aggreko.com
August began on a negative 
note as one of our contracts 
in Argentina extended at 
substantially lower prices than 
we had achieved historically. 
Our contracts in Argentina 
were signed prior to 2012 when 
the country had a signiﬁcantly 
higher risk proﬁle and restrictive 
exchange controls. As a result 
the pricing was signiﬁcantly 
higher than current levels in 
the Power Solutions Utility 
market. This introduced some 
uncertainty around the future of 
the other contracts in Argentina, 
which I am pleased we have 
gained more clarity on recently.
Efﬁciency is one of our 
strategic priorities and clearly 
this repricing has substantially 
changed the economics of the 
Argentinian contracts. We have 
commenced a piece of work 
to look at the cost base of 
the Power Solutions business 
and how we could operate 
more efﬁciently.
09 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Overview A personal perspective from our CEO continued
Oct
Nov
The gathering of our Senior 
Leadership Team in Edinburgh 
provided the opportunity 
to discuss current business 
performance, a number of 
strategic issues and plan our 
activities for the coming year. 
We also worked together on 
the launch of our new purpose, 
values and behaviours. Culture is 
an intangible, but important part 
of our business, and our new 
framework, Always Orange, 
embodies the passion, innovation, 
expertise and teamwork that we 
want to continue to develop and 
which underpins the delivery 
of our strategy.
Earlier in the year we completed 
a large project to understand 
better what our customers 
expected from us. This ‘voice of 
the customer’ work has allowed 
us to more meaningfully segment 
customers and therefore 
understand their needs and 
expectations. In November we 
launched our new CRM system 
in the UK. The full deployment 
of this system has begun and 
will cover both ofﬁce and ﬁeld 
operations. It will provide us with 
a clearer view of our customers, 
their preferences, the service 
they require and their history 
with us. It will transform our 
sales process. It will automate 
our ﬁeld operations and ﬂeet 
management. When fully 
deployed it will make it easier 
for customers to do business 
with Aggreko and it will give 
us a powerful online presence.
Having seen further weakness 
in the North American business 
driven by the tough market 
conditions in Oil & Gas and 
Petrochemical & Reﬁning, we 
commenced a further in depth 
review of the business, with 
particular focus on the existing 
and future opportunities in the 
shale basins. As part of this review, 
we have impaired some of our 
specialised Oil & Gas equipment 
and recently announced that we 
will take further steps to right size 
our business, including depot 
closures and some role removals.
It is important to support the 
North American team as they 
make these changes, and for 
me to talk with our people 
directly. I visited the Houston 
ofﬁce and our Gulf operations in 
Lake Charles, Baton Rouge and 
New Orleans to speak with our 
people and thank them for their 
hard work in a very tough market 
and to talk enthusiastically about 
Aggreko’s future.
An oil facility powered by Aggreko  
in North America
Our updated values framework, Always Orange
10 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
OVERVIEW TODD FASANO / PROJECT MANAGER, TEXAS
I’ve worked for Aggreko for years. This was 
my fourth Ryder Cup and tenth event for the 
PGA. It takes a year to plan an event like this 
and they are all unique. For example, this 
Ryder Cup was signiﬁcantly larger than the last, 
and the location meant we had to prepare for 
cooling during the day and heating at night.
drive major 
sporting events
THE POWER TO
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy
11 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Our global markets
As an economy grows, so 
does demand for power. 
As businesses grow they can 
rent additional power, heating 
and cooling rather than lose 
productivity; this is also more 
capital efﬁcient. 
Our Power Solutions Industrial 
and Rental Solutions markets 
have historically grown as a 
country’s economy grows. 
The average GDP growth of 
the countries in which we 
operate is forecast to be around 
2% per annum in Rental 
Solutions and 4% per annum in 
Power Solutions Industrial over 
the next few years (Source: IMF, 
October 2016). In 2016, whilst 
average GDP growth was 1.7% 
in Rental Solutions, revenue 
decreased 8%; this apparent 
market underperformance was 
driven by the low oil price and 
resultant weakness in Oil & Gas 
and Petrochemical & Reﬁning, 
key sectors for the business, 
particularly in North America. 
Elsewhere, other sectors have 
been stronger, particularly 
in Europe.
The market in Power Solutions 
Utility is generally linked to 
the power shortfall – the 
difference between supply 
and demand – in a particular 
country. The customer is 
normally the state-owned 
utility; and in order for them 
to make a purchase decision 
our analysis suggests that 
GDP growth typically needs to 
be around 5% for conversion 
from an enquiry into a contract. 
These customers require 
base load, peaking and in 
some cases, backup power. 
There are a wide variety of 
factors that inﬂuence the 
decision to purchase electricity 
and they vary between 
countries. In recent years, lower 
commodity prices, in particular 
oil, has signiﬁcantly affected 
the tax receipts in some 
commodity rich countries 
around the world and therefore 
their ability to afford power; 
in other countries, the lower 
oil price has made power 
more affordable.
GDP growth
1
2007
Source: IMF, October 2016
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2020
GLOBAL GDP GROWTH (%)
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
-1
Strong prospects for  
long-term growth
In developed markets, power and related 
products, like heating and cooling, are 
an essential part of everyday life and are 
taken for granted until they are not there. 
In emerging markets power helps 
countries to industrialise and enhance 
living standards via for example 
hospitals to provide medical care and 
schools to educate future generations. 
Demand for Aggreko’s services is generally 
created by Events, the supply and demand 
gap or commodities: our customers 
often need a fast and ﬂexible solution. 
Events may be frequent, such as a local 
utility needing power as they do planned 
maintenance, or they may be infrequent, 
such as a large-scale power shortage, 
for example in Guam. The nature of 
the demand differs by country and 
industrial sector. We address the market 
through our two business units which 
are well positioned to help our customers 
and each of which has strong prospects 
for long-term growth. Being global allows 
us to quickly move resources between 
the two business units in response to 
customer demand.
We have listed some of the key growth 
drivers across Aggreko over the page. 
These are often related and interact 
within a market to deﬁne that market.
8
KEY DRIVERS 
ACROSS OUR BUSINESS
12 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY As populations continue to grow and urbanise, and as 
industrialisation drives economic growth, demand for electricity 
increases. Electriﬁcation rates are typically low in many emerging 
market countries and even in those places where electricity is 
available, reliability is often poor. These countries may have plans 
for permanent capacity, but raising the signiﬁcant funding that is 
required can take a considerable period of time to realise and the 
amount of investment required can be challenging to obtain from 
traditional sources; it typically takes between 5 and 10 years for 
a new permanent plant to be commissioned. Delays in realising 
new capacity, ageing infrastructure and reliance on intermittent 
hydropower can also exacerbate an existing shortfall. Meanwhile, 
the global population is forecast to grow by over 1% per annum 
until 2020, and double this rate in the least developed countries 
according to the United Nations; therefore, the power shortfall 
is likely to increase.
Population growth 
& industrialisation
2
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2020
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Source: World Bank Development Indicators
GLOBAL POPULATION (BILLION)
Propensity to rent
3
Customers have the choice to either buy, rent or live with less 
power than they require; our competitors are not just rental 
companies but also equipment manufacturers. Where the 
need is urgent or for a short time, customers tend to rent. 
There is a growing awareness of the beneﬁts of outsourcing. 
In deciding whether to rent or buy, customers consider issues 
such as the tax treatment of assets and the availability and 
cost of ﬁnance for purchasing equipment. Often a beneﬁt of 
renting our equipment is that it frees up a customer’s balance 
sheet and allows them to focus on their core business.
13 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy Our global markets continued
In Power Solutions Industrial, our customers are typically 
looking for electricity where the grid is unstable and they 
seek backup, or where the grid doesn’t exist. The largest 
customers in this segment tend to be in Oil & Gas and Mining 
and are often in remote locations. 
In the Utility business, the decision by governments to purchase 
power using ﬂexible solutions is usually a political one and given 
slower economic growth in recent years, the opportunity 
cost of not having electricity is less acute; businesses that are 
growing, but that are unable to rely on utility power or where it 
is simply unavailable, are seeking alternative sources of electricity. 
The structural shortfall creates substantial opportunities for 
Aggreko and we will continue to win work by understanding 
the market, customer needs and offering solutions that meet 
their requirements.
In emerging markets, 
investment in new and 
replacement permanent 
power infrastructure has not 
kept pace with demand and 
so frequent breakdowns and 
damaging power cuts have 
resulted, with many regions 
remaining off-grid entirely. 
Delays in realising new 
capacity, ageing infrastructure 
and reliance on intermittent 
hydropower can also 
exacerbate the existing shortfall. 
In the long term, the drivers of 
growth – increasing demand 
for electricity and insufﬁcient 
investment in permanent 
supply – are structural.
Capital markets are less 
willing to support long-term 
infrastructure projects in these 
markets, particularly when 
de-carbonisation and ageing 
infrastructure in developed 
countries requires trillions 
of dollars in investment.
Reliability 
of supply
5
4
Ageing  
infrastructure
14 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY Reactive demand is caused by events that happen 
infrequently and cause a power shortage for a period of time. 
This is impossible to predict, but important work to support; 
reputation and ﬂeet availability are essential to be able 
to respond to such an emergency. Typically this type of 
work is in response to a natural disaster or in post-conﬂict 
reconstruction and military support. Examples include Japan 
where we provided power following the 2011 earthquake and 
tsunami, Hurricane Matthew in North America in 2016 and 
our military support in Iraq and Afghanistan.
We compete with a number 
of regional companies, and we 
have several competitors who 
cover a wider geographical area 
within Power Solutions Utility, 
but we believe we are the only 
company with a truly global 
footprint. In Rental Solutions, 
our competitors are either 
privately-owned specialist 
rental businesses, divisions 
of large plant hire companies 
or OEM (Original Equipment 
Manufacturer) dealerships; 
few provide the sector speciﬁc 
solutions that Aggreko does. 
Over the past few years, we 
have seen an increase in the 
larger general rental companies 
moving into speciality sectors, 
including power, heating and 
cooling. This tends to affect us 
at the lower end of the market 
– the price sensitive, equipment 
only customers, rather than 
the full solution customers. 
However, we are aware that 
this poses a potential threat to 
us and therefore our strategic 
priorities are designed to 
address this. 
In every market across 
Power Solutions there 
are a number of regional, 
national and local businesses. 
Since 2012, overall demand in 
the market has been lower and 
therefore there has been an 
oversupply, which has increased 
competitive tension in some 
markets. Another competitive 
force that we face in the utility 
market is for a share of a 
government’s budget. In most 
emerging market countries, 
the utilities are state controlled 
and money spent on power 
is money that cannot be 
spent elsewhere. 
A number of items differentiate 
us from our competitors: 
our global scale and large 
ﬂeet, which facilitates fast 
deployment and economies 
of scale; our technology, which 
is often the most efﬁcient in 
the market; and our expertise, 
which has been built over 
50 years. Over the last year 
we have not seen a signiﬁcant 
change in the competitive 
landscape in Power Solutions.
High value, but low frequency events change the size of 
the market on a temporary basis with a need for short-term 
power, heating and cooling solutions. Typically these are major 
sporting occasions like the Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup and 
Commonwealth Games. Our global scale, expertise and excellent 
reputation in executing these events means that we are well 
placed to win contracts for these events. In the last year we have 
won contracts for the Olympic Winter Games PyeongChang 2018 
and the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia.
Natural disasters 
and geopolitical  
emergencies
7
6
Fragmented  
competition
Frequency of 
major events
8
15 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy MARCIO MARQUES / OPERATIONS MANAGER
We’re connecting power to the Amazonas 
for the ﬁrst time. Some of these communities 
are so remote that we’re having to transport our 
diesel generators on barges down the Amazon, 
and move them from there. A challenge for 
an Operations Manager like me, but this will 
transform the lives of the communities we reach.
connect 
communities
THE POWER TO
16 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY 17 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy How we create value
Our business model
Our customers are the focus of everything that we do and 
investing in our resources enables us to deliver solutions 
that provide them with the power to make things happen.
Utilities
Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals
Events
Manufacturing
Mining
Shipping
Services
Construction
OUR SECTOR FOCUS
RELIABILITY
SPEED OF RESPONSE
LOWEST TOTAL COST  
OF ENERGY
SECTOR AND APPLICATION 
SPECIFIC EXPERTISE
WHAT OUR  
CUSTOMER NEEDS
READ MORE ABOUT OUR RESOURCES 
PAGE 22
FINANCIAL
• Strong balance sheet
• Minimised capital cost
TECHNOLOGY
• Range of new products offering 
customers the lowest overall  
cost of energy
• Mobile, modular, standardised ﬂeet
SCALE
• Large ﬂeet available worldwide
• Quick response while maintaining 
optimum utilisation
EXPERTISE
• 50 years of operational experience 
and engineering capability
• Signiﬁcant sector speciﬁc expertise
PEOPLE & CULTURE
• Around 7,000 skilled employees
• Customer focused culture
WHAT SETS US APART
18 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR CUSTOMER JOURNEY IS DESCRIBED ON PAGES 20 AND 21
Search  
& contact
Reﬁne  
& select
Dispatch, transport  
& installation
Ongoing  
support
End of  
project
Prepare for the 
next customer
1 4 2 5 3 6
We operate in developed markets and provide solutions and equipment for 
customers who either operate it themselves or contract us to provide a full 
turn-key solution. We retain responsibility for servicing and maintenance. 
It’s a multi-product offering including power adjacencies, such as 
heating, cooling, oil-free air and load-banks and we serve a diverse sector 
base. Contracts tend to be short term, with 48 days being the average length. 
We estimate our share of the Rental Solutions market is around 25%.
RENTAL SOLUTIONS 
REVENUE £M
£
629m
WE ARE ORGANISED INTO THREE UNITS  
TO BEST SERVICE OUR CUSTOMERS
INDUSTRIAL  
Our Industrial business operates in emerging markets serving 
customers in sectors such as Oil & Gas, Petrochemical & Reﬁning 
and Mining. Initial contracts are on average around three 
months, and are often more complex in nature than those in our 
Rental Solutions business. Typically we will work with our Industrial 
customers to develop a solution to a complex problem and then 
rent our equipment for the customers to operate themselves.
UTILITY 
Our Utility business also serves emerging markets, acting as a power 
provider, installing and operating modular, mobile power plants. 
We will charge for providing the generating capacity and the electricity 
we produce, but will typically pass the cost of fuel straight through to our 
customers, or they will provide fuel themselves. Contracts on average 
in the Utility business are 14 months in length and many will extend 
further into the future. We estimate our share of this market is around 40%.
POWER SOLUTIONS 
REVENUE £M
£
262m
REVENUE £M
£
564m
excluding pass-through fuel
1
THE VALUE WE CREATE
SUPPORTING  
INDUSTRY  
AND COMMERCE
PROVIDING POWER 
FOR COUNTRIES  
AND COMMUNITIES
ENABLING  
MAJOR EVENTS  
AROUND THE WORLD
INNOVATING TO BUILD  
SUSTAINABLE  
BUSINESS
STRONG BRAND AND  
GOOD REPUTATION
REWARDING  
CAREERS
SHAREHOLDER  
RETURNS
KEY OUTPUTS 
OF WHAT WE DO
1  Pass-through fuel relates to Power Solutions Utility contracts in Brazil and Mozambique where we provide 
fuel on a pass-through basis. Pass-through fuel revenue in 2016 was £60 million (2015: £60 million).
19 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy Equipment is shipped from the nearest 
service centre, hub or another project 
which has recently demobilised and 
usually travels by sea, rail and road to 
the site. It can take from days to weeks 
or months to install, test and handover 
the solution.
In Utility we will usually operate the 
site, but the customer will often be 
responsible for providing the fuel.
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
INDUSTRIAL
When the customer chooses our solution, 
we will mobilise to their timescales. 
We will install, test and handover the 
equipment or site to the customer 
by their deadline.
It is normally a matter of hours or days 
to get the solution fully installed.
The contracts in Rental Solutions last 
on average 48 days.
If the customer requires we will meet 
with the customer on site to thoroughly 
assess what they need. We then draw up 
a proposal which they will evaluate.
Otherwise the customer will simply order 
the product they want by phone, at one 
of our locations or via our website.
We conduct a site survey and any other 
additional exploratory work needed and 
then design a technical solution and draw 
up a plan to meet the customer needs. 
We will provide a quote on this basis.
If this is a tender process, the bid often 
consists of a two envelope system, 
opened in front of a bid committee.
Given the size and scale of these works 
there may be further negotiations 
before the contract is signed.
Our sales team works with potential 
customers to demonstrate the value of 
our products and the bespoke solutions 
we can offer. Most Utility customers will 
generate a tender, which we and others 
will then respond to. We will meet with 
the customer, understand their needs 
and then present the best solution.
The scale of our Utility projects mean 
these proposals are often detailed, 
including all logistics and civil works.
Customers will ﬁnd us through our 
website, word of mouth, advertising or 
existing relationships. Our sales team 
also specialise in approaching potential 
customers and offering solutions before 
problems arise.
How we create value continued
Our customer journey
The contact points we will have with our customers.
SEARCH &  
CONTACT
REFINE &  
SELECT
DISPATCH, TRANSPORT, 
INSTALLATION
1 2 3
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
INDUSTRIAL
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
INDUSTRIAL
RENTAL  
SOLUTIONS 
RENTAL  
SOLUTIONS 
RENTAL  
SOLUTIONS 
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
UTILITY
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
UTILITY
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
UTILITY
20 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY When the customer has ﬁnished with 
the equipment they will let our team 
know. We will then arrange to pick up 
the equipment at a convenient time.
We take the equipment back to 
our service centres, where we service 
it to make sure it’s ready for the 
next customer.
Most of our customers will choose to 
run the equipment themselves, after our 
engineers have explained the operating 
procedures. Our service engineers are 
on hand for any additional support that 
is needed, and our remote monitoring 
system alerts us to any potential 
maintenance issues before they occur.
Unlike our other businesses, we typically 
operate our Power Solutions Utility 
facilities, which are run by Aggreko 
employees, and sell the power that we 
generate to the customer. Our on-site 
teams are a mixture of experienced 
Aggreko veterans who rotate between 
countries, and local people who we 
train to operate our equipment.
When the contract reaches its end our 
customers will have the option to extend. 
On average 30% of our customers in 
any one year will decide to off-hire 
their contract.
If a customer does off-hire we will 
remove our equipment and remediate 
the site to leave it as we found it.
Equipment that comes off-hire will 
go back to a service centre or hub 
where it will be serviced or upgraded.
At the end of their useful life our 
1MW diesel engines can be upgraded, 
improving fuel efﬁciency and at a 
lower capital cost than a new engine.
ONGOING  
SUPPORT
END OF  
PROJECT
PREPARING FOR THE  
NEXT CUSTOMER
4 5 6
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
INDUSTRIAL
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
INDUSTRIAL
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
INDUSTRIAL
RENTAL  
SOLUTIONS 
RENTAL  
SOLUTIONS 
RENTAL  
SOLUTIONS 
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
UTILITY
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
UTILITY
POWER 
SOLUTIONS 
UTILITY
21 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy How we make things happen 
Using our resources
OUR RESOURCES 
WHAT SETS US APART
PEOPLE & CULTURE
We have a highly skilled, passionate and 
professional workforce of around 7,000 temporary 
and permanent employees worldwide with 
a strong can-do and customer focused culture.
EXPERTISE
We have over 50 years of operational experience 
and expertise in sector speciﬁc and complex projects. 
When this is combined with our engineering capability 
it gives us a unique understanding of our customer needs 
and the ability to deliver whilst managing risk.
TECHNOLOGY
We have a ﬂeet that is mobile, modular and standard 
in design so that it can serve any customer, anywhere in 
the world. We partner strategically with key suppliers to 
develop market leading products aimed at reducing the 
overall cost of power for our customers. Our key focus is 
fuel efﬁciency, as this is the largest cost to our customers.
SCALE
Our scale and global reach allow us to serve customers 
in around 100 countries today. Aggreko is geographically 
spread so we are close to both our existing and potential 
customers across the world. Having a large ﬂeet available 
means we can respond quickly when we need to while 
also running at good utilisation levels. Combined, our 
breadth and scale means we have a diversiﬁed portfolio 
and an inherent risk management mechanism.
FINANCIAL
The Group has a strong balance sheet 
with good ﬁnancial ﬂexibility.
22 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY PEOPLE & CULTURE
People are our greatest asset; their passion and commitment 
are a critical contributor to our success. They are highly skilled 
and are used to reacting quickly; they respond effectively under 
pressure; do a professional job; and above all, deliver it in a safe 
manner. These attributes underpin the dynamic, customer 
focused culture for which Aggreko is known. We are focused 
on providing an environment in which our people can ﬂourish 
and make a massive difference.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE)
READ MORE ABOUT HSE 
PAGE 66
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
READ MORE ABOUT ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 
PAGE 69
SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION
READ MORE ABOUT SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 
PAGE 69
LEADERSHIP
Our Senior Leadership Team (SLT) comprises our top 70 managers 
and was formed in 2015. During the year, our CEO, Chris Weston, 
hosted two meetings. These are a valuable opportunity for 
engagement with the Executive Committee and the top team 
and it allows the SLT to hear updates on the operations, ﬁnancials 
and business priorities ﬁrst hand. They also provide a forum for 
wider input into the Group strategy. 
During the ﬁrst meeting of the year, the team worked on our 
culture, purpose and values. We reviewed other companies from 
around the world and determined those that articulated their 
purpose and values well and which resonated with us, whilst 
reﬂecting on what it means to work for Aggreko. At the second 
meeting in November, we received an update on the culture work 
and planned together how best to launch it into the organisation. 
In addition, we considered key strategic topics for the Group, such 
as how to best foster innovation and how to better leverage our 
ﬁxed cost base. The outputs of these meetings were taken away 
by working groups for further development and implementation.
ALWAYS ORANGE
Aggreko is a strong and unique business and our culture reﬂects 
that. Following the reorganisation in 2015, a signiﬁcant piece 
of work was commenced to refresh our culture, including our 
purpose, values and behaviours, to ensure that it could best 
support our business transformation and growth. We believe that 
in deﬁning these we are setting ourselves up for a sustainable and 
proﬁtable future, where we can capitalise on market opportunities 
and create an even better place to work. The work has taken over 
six months to complete and has engaged employees around 
the world and at all levels of the business, with workshops, input 
from our online community and healthy debate at the Executive 
Committee and SLT levels. Our Orange Champions, individuals 
at different levels across the Group, have been an instrumental 
testing ground as the work has developed and are ideally placed 
as we work to embed the new culture into the organisation.
OUR PURPOSE
We believe in the positive impact of power and the 
ability to control temperature. We believe it opens 
up opportunity and creates potential for individuals, 
communities, industries and societies all over the world. 
Together and over time, we believe our 
services make a massive difference.
The result is a clear purpose for the 
Group, underpinned by four values and 
associated behaviours. Our values are:
Be expert
Be together
Be innovative
Be dynamic
Always
orange
BE DYNAMIC
We use our entrepreneurial passion to deliver and  
we thrive on making great things happen.
BE EXPERT
We use our blend of experience, expertise and  
planning to keep us ahead of the game.
BE TOGETHER
We ask the best of each other and harness our scale  
and diverse skills to grow stronger together.
BE INNOVATIVE
We learn from the world for a better today 
and for great leaps tomorrow.
 
Together these embody our culture:  
Always Orange.
23 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy How we make things happen continued 
Using our resources
SAFETY AND SECURITY
Given that we operate in many areas of the world which can be 
categorised as high risk, we consider the safety and security of our 
employees working in these locations to be our most critical issue. 
During the year, we further enhanced our Group security 
function and embedded standard tools and processes which 
were introduced in 2015. We also have an ongoing partnership 
with external advisers, who provide us with the on-the-ground 
knowledge that we need to make decisions on our operations 
in high risk areas; this includes a mobile phone app which allows 
our people to check the latest advice for any country around 
the world and automatically updates key advice for the country 
which they are in. It also has the capability to track travellers and 
an added ‘alarm’ function, which triggers an emergency response.
Our business involves electrical equipment which can pose 
safety issues when not handled properly. We have a number 
of established policies and protocols designed to protect our 
employees and customers, including effective training, testing and 
risk assessments. This year, we identiﬁed a higher than expected 
incidence of safety issues as a result of manual handling activities 
and after a thorough investigation we are implementing new 
processes across the organisation.
READ MORE ABOUT SAFETY AND SECURITY RISK
PAGES 57 AND 58
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Learning and development
Learning and development continues to be an area of focus 
and is built around the core capabilities required by the business. 
We ﬁrmly believe that investment in our employees has a direct 
and positive impact on our employee retention rates and the 
engagement levels of our staff. It is essential that our people 
are properly trained and each part of the business has training 
programmes in place to provide our employees with the 
necessary skills to perform their role; training is a combination 
of on-the-job learning and speciﬁc skill development through 
training courses. In 2016, we appointed a Global Learning and 
Talent Management Director to further develop an effective 
programme that will develop capability across the organisation.
Over 2016, we delivered over 173,000 hours of training across the 
Group. Many of our training programmes are tailored speciﬁcally 
for Aggreko employees and utilise case studies and examples 
taken from employee experience. Throughout the year, we have 
renewed our focus on training and have been working to overhaul 
our existing programmes, refreshing them for the changes across 
the business and enhancing our tools and capabilities to enable 
them to be delivered in a more efﬁcient and easily digestible form. 
These new programmes were launched in December 2016. 
We also recognise that localisation of talent provides many 
beneﬁts to the Group and to the communities in which we 
operate, which is why we actively recruit local people wherever 
possible, training them and providing them with career 
opportunities with the Group. Across the Group Aggreko 
employs over 106 different nationalities. We also use programmes 
like Aggreko University (Ivory Coast), SelecTech (USA) and our 
apprenticeship programme at our Dumbarton manufacturing 
and technology facility (UK) to develop the skills of school-leavers. 
REWARD FOR PERFORMANCE
Aggreko’s remuneration arrangements seek to support the 
delivery of our business strategy by attracting, retaining and 
motivating talented people at all levels.
Pay for performance and rewarding value creation is at the 
heart of Aggreko’s remuneration approach. The Company’s 
remuneration policy is aligned with the key objectives of 
growing earnings and delivering strong returns on capital 
employed. These metrics are used for the Group’s long-term 
incentive scheme and senior managers’ annual bonuses. 
During the year, we undertook a Shareholder consultation 
exercise on proposals to better align Executive reward with 
strategy, as well as retain key talent through our current business 
transformation. The Company’s proposals will be subject to a 
Shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
We encourage all employees to own shares in the Company and 
currently 1,872 people participate in the Sharesave programme.
READ MORE ABOUT REMUNERATION POLICY  
PAGE 95
SUCCESSION PLANNING
Whilst retaining our talent is important, identifying potential 
future roles for them and then training them appropriately 
is key in ensuring that the Group continues to have effective 
management well into the future. Succession planning was 
historically not formally done beyond the Executive Committee 
level; following the reorganisation of the Group and the 
headcount reduction that we underwent during 2015, we 
have now rolled out a new succession planning process, which 
encompass the Senior Leadership Team and their direct reports. 
Work is underway to implement this. 
ENGAGEMENT
We are proud that so many of our employees enjoy what they 
do and we seek to increase employee satisfaction through more 
than just ﬁnancial incentives. We encourage mobility between 
countries and business units by prioritising internal transfers and 
ensuring that positions are advertised internally. 
In 2015, we used PULSE surveys to measure employee sentiment 
across the business. This year we launched ‘Be Heard’, a quarterly 
survey to capture sentiment across the Group on a more regular 
basis. Each member of the Senior Leadership Team receives their 
division’s results and is then able to address concerns quickly; 
the total results are also circulated to the Group. In terms of 
tracking engagement levels, we assess three areas: Say, whether 
an employee is an advocate for Aggreko; Stay, whether an 
employee remains loyal and committed to the business; and 
Strive, whether an employee does the best that they can within 
their team. The responses can be distilled down into an overall 
employee engagement score, which for the most recent survey 
was 72%. Within this, 85% of people said they are proud to work 
for Aggreko. 
READ MORE ABOUT EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 
PAGE 37
24 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY Internal communications continues to be an area of focus. 
Our Director of Communications joined us in the year with 
responsibility for developing an internal communications and 
engagement programme to ensure that our people understand 
our strategic priorities and know what role they can play in 
helping to transform our business. Particular focus has been 
on empowering managers to brief their teams more effectively. 
Encouragingly we have already seen an improvement with 68% 
of those surveyed in October 2016 feeling that they have ”access 
to communication that helps me do my job more effectively”, 
an increase from March 2016 – with all key comparator measures 
improving since March.
EXPERTISE
It has taken over 50 years to develop the enormous strength and 
depth of expertise throughout the business. At the regional levels 
our sales and commercial teams are local experts, highly trained 
and understand the ﬁnancial, regulatory and environmental 
logistics of operating in their markets; similarly, our engineers 
and technicians are trained to problem solve in the most difﬁcult 
situations and to keep our equipment operating. 
We have built a team of specialist engineers at our in-house 
manufacturing and technology facility in Dumbarton, Scotland. 
They intimately understand the requirements of the environment 
in which the ﬂeet operates and have core skills around speed 
of deployment, reliability and ﬂexibility which, over the years, 
have provided us with a strong competitive advantage. In the 
last few years we have strengthened and developed our capability 
to adapt to the market environment, including bringing in new 
expertise on product development, new technologies, service 
engineering and procurement. We operate equipment for its 
useful life; we do not build our equipment to sell. This gives a 
powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives a longer life 
and better reliability.
SCALE
Our scale and global reach, which allows us to serve customers 
in around 100 countries, means that we are close to, and aware 
of, market opportunities as they arise. We are able to ensure that 
ﬂeet is always available and therefore are able to respond quickly, 
whilst running at good levels of utilisation to generate strong 
returns on capital. Importantly, given the risk of operating in some 
of our markets, our scale means that we have a diversiﬁed portfolio 
and an inherent risk management mechanism.
Our scale also provides a capital cost advantage on our equipment 
and enables us to work closely with suppliers on technology 
development. Technology is an important enabler for our business 
and we have built a competitive advantage by working with our 
suppliers to provide market-leading technology in a modular, 
ﬂexible format. When you consider that for diesel customers, 
on average 80% of the cost of our solution is fuel, then providing 
products that are market leading in fuel efﬁciency can provide a 
signiﬁcant competitive advantage. Additionally, we are continually 
identifying and developing new product lines providing our 
customers alternatives. For example, our new medium speed 
HFO engine will allow customers to use a more affordable fuel 
source than the traditional diesel product, with better availability 
than gas.
We currently purchase most of our temperature control 
equipment externally to suit the needs of local markets. 
Fleet is managed on a real time basis across the world and is 
transferable across all sectors and applications, which enables us 
to optimise utilisation and therefore its deployment and returns.
Fleet is at the heart of any rental business; it is the core of 
the service we offer and managing it effectively is necessary 
to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business. 
Designing and assembling our own ﬂeet gives us a unique 
competitive advantage:
 • Optimised to meet our particular operational requirements;
 • Designed for reliability and longevity;
 • Capital cost advantage through economies of scale and 
not paying the ﬁnal assembly margin; 
 • React quickly to customer requirements with lead times 
of only a few months from engine order to the equipment 
being in the ﬂeet. 
READ MORE ABOUT TECHNOLOGY  
IN OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES 
PAGES 27 TO 31
KEY ATTRIBUTES OF OUR EQUIPMENT
Safe
Durable and mobile – capable of being lifted and 
transported hundreds of times during its life
Ability to work in extreme conditions,  
both temperature and altitude
Fuel efﬁcient
Quiet 
Reliable
Compliant with environmental and safety regulations 
within the markets in which we operate
25 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy FINANCIAL
The Group has sufﬁcient facilities to meet our funding 
requirements over the medium term. At 31 December 2016, 
these facilities totalled £1,035 million in the form of private 
placement notes and committed bank facilities arranged 
on a bilateral basis with a number of international banks 
with whom we have strong relationships. These facilities have 
a range of maturities and are conditional on maintaining 
compliance with the covenants below.
The Group does not consider these covenants restrictive 
and under normal business conditions looks to operate 
the business with net debt/EBITDA ratio of around one times. 
The Group believes that this is the appropriate level given 
the characteristics of the Group, including the inherently 
risky nature of where we operate, in particular in the 
Power Solutions Utility business.
Purpose-built facility with 
the ability to ﬂex volume
Flexible employee base
238 permanent staff and 
60 contractors
Design and assembly with 
50 years’ experience
Major sub-assembly bought in 
from key strategic suppliers
 • Engine c.50%
 • Alternator c.10%
 • Container c.5%
2,255 MW of power in 
Rental Solutions
7,411 MW of power in  
Power Solutions
6,800 units of power that are 
common to both business units
Focus on fuel efﬁciency in new and 
upgraded ﬂeet, and affordable 
sources of fuel in new products
Refurbished and upgraded diesel 
for c.75% of original cost per MW
In the ﬂeet within  
10-12 weeks of order
TECHNOLOGY – OUR DESIGN AND ASSEMBLY CAPABILITY
238
PERMANENT 
DUMBARTON EMPLOYEES
2015: 235
20,744
POWER UNITS  
AVAILABLE
2015: 20,774
9,666MW
POWER IN  
THE FLEET
2015: 9,818MW
International 
Banks & 
US Private 
Placements
Funding source
EBITDA ≥4x 
interest 
Net debt/
EBITDA ≤3x 
Covenants
EBITDA to 
interest: 20x 
Net debt/
EBITDA: 1.2x
Performance 
as at 
December 2016
80%
COST OF MAJOR  
SUB-ASSEMBLIES
2015: 80%
£241m
FLEET CAPEX  
IN 2016
2015: £237m
How we make things happen continued 
Using our resources
26 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategic priorities 
How we are responding to our customers’ needs
CUSTOMER
Understanding the needs of our customers and 
tailoring sales and service channels to them, 
whilst focusing on key sectors and developing 
related applications and solutions.
EFFICIENCY
Through streamlining our cost base and 
optimising the deployment of resources we will 
maintain our reliability whilst lowering the cost 
for our customers. Improvements in our systems 
and processes will also lower our costs and 
make doing business with us easier.
TECHNOLOGY
We are focused on reducing the overall cost 
of power to our customers. This will be achieved 
by developing market leading products 
and working with strategic partners.
PEOPLE
It is our people’s passion, skill, professionalism 
and can-do attitude for which we are known. 
We are providing an environment where our people 
can ﬂourish and make the greatest possible 
difference to our performance.
Our markets are dynamic and always changing; to make  
sure we are well placed to maximise these opportunities  
we are focused on the four priorities below:
How we are responding  
to our customers’ needs
27 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy Our strategic priorities continued 
The power to make things happen
TECHNOLOGY
 • In Power Solutions focus is: Improving fuel efﬁciency 
and range of energy source to reduce the overall 
cost of power for our customers
 • In Rental Solutions the focus is reliability and capability
 • Developing market-leading products
 • Strengthening relationships with strategic partners
USING TECHNOLOGY TO REDUCE 
THE OVERALL COST OF POWER
All customers value reliability and speed of deployment, 
but in our Utility business the total cost of energy is critically 
important. Technology, and our technical capability, has a 
key role to play and will improve our competitive position.
 • 200MW of the next generation of gas engine produced, 
which offers a 10 percentage point improvement in fuel 
consumption over our existing gas engine, which equates 
to c.£5 million of savings a year for a customer running 
80MW of gas as base load. 
 • 25% of the diesel ﬂeet upgraded to the market leading G3+, 
with plans to convert the full ﬂeet by 2020.
 • Work is ongoing to develop enhanced versions of the G3+ 
and the next generation gas engine.
 • Launching new products incorporating new fuel types 
and renewables. Field trial underway of a medium speed 
HFO solution and a solar-diesel hybrid now available.
 • Working closely with our suppliers – taking established 
but leading technology from our suppliers and using 
our expertise to package in a modular format.
 • Reducing the total cost of ownership of our products, 
through looking not only at the build cost but also the 
ongoing planned and unplanned maintenance.
 • Built a clear technology roadmap for the next ﬁve years, 
covering three fuels (diesel, gas, HFO).
 • In Rental Solutions working on sector speciﬁc equipment 
where market opportunities are available.
IMPROVING  
CUSTOMER SERVICE
The actions that we are taking will provide a more tailored 
service to customers by more effectively allocating our 
resources and being smarter about the way we meet 
customer needs.
 • Implementing global and national account management 
for our larger customers; we are uniquely positioned to 
provide the service globally.
 • Introducing an enhanced customer relationship management 
(CRM) system, provided by SalesForce, to better understand 
customer requirements, history and service provision which 
will beneﬁt both customer service and sales. 
 • Using the data provided by our CRM to improve how we go 
to market; including customer analysis, how and where we 
deploy our sales resource and how we train them effectively.
 • The introduction of a new website and improved digital 
offering in March 2017. This will particularly beneﬁt our 
more transactional customers; providing a more agile and 
cost-effective sales channel and better service proposition.
 • Pursuing adjacent products to power, such as the acquisition 
of DRYCO, a moisture control business, this year. These kinds 
of acquisitions expand our product range and expertise can 
often be rolled out across the business. They also often allow 
us to sell power generation as part of the solution.
 • Developing strategic partnerships to deliver opportunities in 
bridging to permanent power and service and repowering.
CUSTOMER
 • Tailoring sales and service channels to customers
 • Focusing on key sectors
 • Developing and deploying relevant solutions 
 • Evaluating bolt-on M&A opportunities
Aggreko is a growth business
Our objective is to remain the leading global provider 
of power, heating and cooling that is efﬁcient, modular and 
mobile. In order to deliver our objectives we have clear 
priorities under which plans are being implemented 
across both of our business units. During the year, we added 
People to our three existing priorities; therefore the priorities are:
Customer, T echnology, Efﬁciency and People.
28 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY EFFICIENCY
 • Streamlining our cost base
 • Improving processes and systems
OPTIMISING DEPLOYMENT  
OF RESOURCES
Efﬁciency is a critical priority; the actions that we are taking 
will enhance our capability and improve our competitive 
position whilst providing customers the best possible 
service at the lowest possible cost. We have a range of 
immediate priorities, but as with any efﬁciency focus 
it is a continuous process.
 • Improving Group procurement practices to better leverage 
our global spend through supplier rationalisation and 
improved terms. This is expected to deliver £40 million of 
savings by the end of 2017, with potential for incremental 
savings beyond this.
 • Further automating ﬂeet management; this will be facilitated 
by remote monitoring and will improve utilisation and returns 
by allowing a move to condition based servicing.
 • Streamlining back ofﬁce processes across Finance, Human 
Resources, Rental Centres and Information Technology.
 • Right sizing the depot network; in some cases market 
investment is not proportionate to the opportunity and 
we need to correct this. 
 • Looking at how our customers use our services and identifying 
where we can improve processes or use new technology to 
improve efﬁciency. 
 • Improving efﬁciency of project delivery, particularly in our 
Utility business.
 • Assessing manpower mix in our Power Solutions business, 
increasing the proportion of local workforce; this has the 
added beneﬁt of providing jobs, training and skills to local 
people. This beneﬁts the Utility business in particular, where 
we may have only one site in a country for a short-term contract.
PEOPLE
 • Evolving our culture
 • Training and developing our people
 • Health, safety, wellbeing and security
CULTIVATING AN  
EFFECTIVE ORGANISATION
Our people are at the heart of the great service Aggreko 
provides. Selecting the right people, continuous development, 
and training for capability are important areas we continue 
to improve. Coupled with an intent to foster a safe, supportive 
and stimulating environment for our employees to ensure 
that Aggreko continues to be known for its people and the 
quality of service that we provide to our customers.
 • Evolving our culture and developing our purpose and values 
to bring our people together, inspire them and ensure that 
together we can make things happen. 
 • Introducing new training programmes to upskill our people 
and working to identify key talent across the organisation, 
which combined with strong succession planning, will 
strengthen us for the future.
 • Safety is critical to ensuring our people are well, safe and secure 
and that we deliver the best possible service to our customers. 
We are continuing to invest in health and safety.
What we expect to deliver 
Through careful investment in organic and inorganic growth,  
we remain committed to the following targets:
 • Revenue – growth ahead of our markets
 • Margins – around 20% in the medium term
 • Return on capital – around 20% in the medium term
TO FIND OUT MORE VISIT OUR KPIS ON PAGE 34
29 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy Our strategic priorities continued 
The power to make things happen
CRM
Case study:
Implementation of a new Customer Relationship Management 
(CRM) system
Following our extensive customer surveys last year, we identiﬁed 
that whilst we offer a high standard of customer service, it is 
a ‘one size ﬁts all’ approach which is not appropriate to all of 
our markets. We are implementing a new CRM system, using 
SalesForce as a service provider, which will allow us to better 
tailor and personalise the service we provide our customers, 
and more efﬁciently delivering the outputs they need.
TECHNOLOGY
 • Successful ﬁeld trial of the Next Generation Gas engine 
with soft launch into the ﬂeet.
 • Developed a medium speed HFO package which went 
on ﬁeld trial with a customer at the end of the year.
 • Made signiﬁcant progress in developing our  
solar-diesel hybrid product.
CUSTOMER
 • Completed ‘Voice of the customer’ work 
across both business units to really understand 
existing and potential customer needs.
 • Began implementation of the new CRM system, 
with global roll-out planned for 2017.
 • Overhauled the customer website with ﬁrst launch in early 
2017 and roll-out planned globally through the year.
24/7
Case study:
Solar-diesel hybrid 
In June 2016, we launched a solar-diesel hybrid product, 
which couples modular solar panels with our diesel generators. 
Solar cannot provide power output 24/7, but combined with our 
diesel product it becomes an optimal solution for customers with 
enough land to have a solar array. There are clear environmental 
beneﬁts to the product, but it also reduces the cost by up to 10% 
compared to a stand-alone diesel solution.
Achievements in the year:
Over 100 workstreams are in place 
working on initiatives under the 
strategic priorities. During the year, 
we have achieved the following:
30 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY Values
Case study: 
Development of our Purpose and Values 
Over the last twelve months we have looked to evolve our 
culture and refresh our purpose and values. To do this we’ve 
consulted with employees at all levels of the organisation, 
across the world to understand their views. This has shaped 
a new framework for Aggreko – Always Orange, which 
was launched in early 2017 and will help to bring together 
our global employee base.
ROC
Case study: 
Rolling out the ROC (Remote Operating Centre) 
In 2016, we rolled out remote monitoring across our Rental 
Solutions ﬂeet after success in North America. The ROC connects 
all of our equipment on-hire to a central monitoring centre 
which can track performance, system issues and the need for 
any maintenance. As a result we’ve been able to reduce the cost 
of breakdowns, lower the need for extra equipment needed for 
back up and improve our customer satisfaction.
EFFICIENCY
 • We have removed 700 permanent roles to right-size 
functional support, delivering £35 million of savings in 2016.
 • Full roll-out of remote monitoring across Rental Solutions.
 • Embedded a new procurement function which 
generated £20 million of savings in 2016.
PEOPLE
 • Developed our purpose, values and behaviours. 
 • Strengthened our training and development capability.
 • Completed succession planning to three levels 
below the Group CEO.
31 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy 32 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BUSINESS STRATEGY build a new  
product
THE POWER TO
JOHN CAMPBELL / PROGRAMME MANAGER, DUMBARTON
The latest project I’m working 
on is our new medium speed HFO (Heavy 
Fuel Oil) product. This is a new engine for 
Aggreko. HFO fuel is cheaper than diesel 
and more widely available then gas – so it’s 
just another way we are reducing the 
total cost of energy for our customers.
33 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Performance review Overview Governance Accounts & other information Business strategy How we performed – our key performance indicators
We have modiﬁed the KPIs that we report externally 
in order that they are more aligned to how the business 
operates and to our strategy.
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER LOYALTY
Measure
Net Promoter Score.
Relevance
It is important that we understand the extent to which we meet 
our customers’ needs. Net Promoter Score (NPS) measures the 
proportion of our customers who think we do an excellent job 
against those who think we are average or worse.
Target
Sustainable improvements in the NPS over time.
Performance
In 2016, the NPS score was stable on the high level achieved 
in 2015. We see this as a good performance and the Strategic 
Priority around the customer should only work to improve this 
in the future.
NET PROMOTER SCORE
63%
16
15
14
13
12
63%
63%
58%
64%
62%
READ MORE ABOUT OUR CUSTOMER INITIATIVES 
PAGE 28
This year we have aligned how 
we measure our performance 
against our strategic priorities. 
The operational areas of Customer, 
Technology, Efﬁciency and People and 
their related KPIs provide a clear tool 
to measure the delivery of our strategic 
priorities; the remaining ﬁnancial KPIs 
are directly impacted by this performance 
and are the resulting outcome.
34 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER ACTIVITY
Measure
Utility order intake and off-hire rate.
Relevance
The Utility order intake and utilisation rate are inﬂuenced by 
a wide range of factors but taken in context, they can be an 
indicator of how our strategy, sales approach and pricing are 
being received in the market. We track new orders won (MWs) 
and the off-hire rate, which is the number of MWs that off-hire 
during the year, divided by the number of MWs on-hire at the 
beginning of the year.
Target
We aim to increase our order intake on an annual basis, subject 
to market conditions; our off-hire rate is often outside our control, 
however we aim to keep it as low as possible, noting that the 
historic average is around 30%.
Performance
During 2016, we had an order intake of over 1GW. While we believe 
some of this may be a result of the lower oil price impacting 
the affordability of our diesel engines, it also coincides with the 
implementation of our business priorities which have focused 
on customer, efﬁciency and technology.
POWER SOLUTIONS UTILITY ORDER INTAKE
16
15
14
13
12
1,057
640
757
725
1,029
1,057MW
POWER SOLUTIONS UTILITY OFF-HIRE RATE
16
15
14
13
12
30%
23%
32%
39%
35%
30%
READ MORE ABOUT OUR CUSTOMER INITIATIVES 
PAGE 28
TECHNOLOGY
FLEET SIZE AND COMPOSITION
Measure
Total power ﬂeet size (in MW), split between engine type 
(Diesel, Diesel G3+, Gas, Next Generation Gas (NGG), HFO).
Relevance
Our strategy is to grow ahead of the market. To remain 
competitive we need to lower the total cost of energy to our 
customers. The best way to do this is through more fuel efﬁcient 
engines or alternative sources of energy.
Target
Increasing proportions of our market leading products in fuel 
efﬁciency, the diesel G3+ and Next Generation Gas engine. 
Additionally, an increasing proportion of our new medium speed 
HFO engine, in line with market demand.
Performance
In 2016, we upgraded 267 diesel sets to the G3+, produced 
over 200MW of our Next Generation Gas engine and started 
production of our HFO product. 
POWER FLEET COMPOSITION
9 ,666MW
Diesel
Diesel G3+
Gas
NGG
HFO
READ MORE ABOUT OUR TECHNOLOGY INITIATIVES 
PAGE 28
35 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review How we performed – our key performance indicators continued
EFFICIENCY
CAPITAL ACTIVITY
Measure
Rental Solutions utilisation; Industrial utilisation; Utility utilisation, 
order intake and off-hire rate.
Relevance
We are a capital intensive business and in order to generate 
strong returns on our capital investment our ﬂeet needs to be 
well utilised. Across our businesses we use physical utilisation as a 
metric (average MWs on-hire divided by the total ﬂeet size in MW).
Target
In our Rental Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial 
businesses we are targeting utilisation of between 60-70%, 
whilst in our Power Solutions Utility business we target over 80%. 
Performance
In our Utility business we had a strong order intake, and so ended 
2016 very close to our target utilisation levels. The utilisation level 
of our diesel ﬂeet in the last quarter of the year was actually at 
83%, above our target. Rental Solutions had a difﬁcult year, with 
the downturn in oil related sectors in North America impacting 
the utilisation level.
POWER SOLUTIONS INDUSTRIAL UTILISATION
16
15
14
13
12
63%
65%
65%
62%
67%
63%
POWER SOLUTIONS UTILITY UTILISATION
16
15
14
13
12
79%
77%
76%
74%
80%
79%
RENTAL SOLUTIONS UTILISATION
16
15
14
13
12
52%
52%
55%
57%
57%
60%
READ MORE ABOUT EFFICIENCY 
PAGE 29
36 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW PEOPLE
SAFETY 
Measure
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR).
Relevance
Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we are to 
avoid accidents or incidents which could cause injury to people 
and damage to property and reputation. The main KPI we use to 
measure safety performance is Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR) which takes the number of lost time injuries and divides 
by the number of man hours worked. A lost time accident is a 
work related injury/illness that results in an employee’s inability 
to work the day after the initial injury/illness.
Target
Continued reduction in accident rates.
Performance
During 2016, the LTIFR rate increased. In our investigations we 
found the majority of the increase related to manual handling 
activities and so we have been working with an external service 
provider to develop a company speciﬁc manual handling 
programme, which should reverse this trend.
LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE
0.45
16
15
14
13
12
0.45
0.39
0.40
0.68
0.94
READ MORE ABOUT HEALTH & SAFETY 
PAGE 66
EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 
Measure
Employee turnover.
Relevance
It is the attitude, skill and motivation of our people which makes 
the difference between mediocre and excellent performance. 
We monitor permanent employee turnover as a reasonable 
proxy for how employees feel. It is measured as the number of 
employees who left the Group (other than through redundancy) 
during the period as a proportion of the total average employees 
during the period.
Target
We aim to keep permanent employee turnover below historic 
levels in order to retain the skill base that we have developed.
Performance
This year employee turnover was 2% lower than the prior year.
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
9%
16
15
14
13
12
9%
11%
13%
11%
12%
READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE 
PAGE 29
KEY
Metrics that are used for remuneration
37 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review How we performed – our key performance indicators continued
GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
REVENUE GROWTH
Measure
Revenue growth excluding the impact of currency movements 
and pass-through fuel.
Relevance
As a business that is exposed to different cycles, we look 
at revenue growth over time and compare this to how the 
market has performed in order to deliver Shareholder value. 
This is calculated as the adjusted revenue growth over the 
previous year.
Target
Our medium-term strategy is to grow ahead of our markets.
Performance
Revenue declined in Utility as a result of the off-hire of a large 
contract in Mozambique at the start of 2016, as well as repricing 
in our Argentina contracts. In Rental Solutions revenue declined 
with the downturn in oil related sectors in North America. 
For more details refer to the Performance Management 
Statement on page 40.
ADJUSTED REVENUE GROWTH
(10%)
16
15
14
13
12
(10)%
(3)%
9%
–
21%
READ MORE ABOUT OUR MARKETS 
PAGE 12
OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN
Measure
Adjusted operating proﬁt margin, i.e. pre-exceptional items and 
excluding pass-through fuel.
Relevance
Our business has a large ﬁxed cost base due to our ﬂeet, therefore 
strong operating proﬁt margins demonstrate variable cost control 
and leverage of the ﬁxed asset base. This is calculated as adjusted 
operating proﬁt divided by adjusted revenue.
Target
Our medium-term strategy is for Group operating proﬁt margins 
to be around 20%.
Performance
The Operating Proﬁt Margin was impacted by the revenue 
impacts of Utility off-hires and repricing in Argentina, as 
well as lower pricing in oil related sectors in North America. 
Refer to Performance Management Statement on page 40.
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN
16%
16
15
14
13
12
16%
18%
21%
24%
25%
READ MORE ABOUT OUR STRATEGY 
PAGE 27
38 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED 
Measure
Adjusted return on capital employed (ROCE), i.e. pre-exceptional  
items.
Relevance
In a business as capital intensive as Aggreko’s, proﬁtability alone 
is not an adequate measure of performance: it is perfectly possible 
to be generating good margins, but poor value for Shareholders, 
if assets (and in particular, ﬂeet) are being allocated incorrectly. 
We calculate ROCE by dividing operating proﬁt pre-exceptional 
items for a period by the average of the net operating assets as 
at 1 January, 30 June and 31 December. 
Target
Our medium-term target is for ROCE to be around 20%.
Performance
Performance is explained in the Performance Management 
Statement on page 40.
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
13%
16
15
14
13
12
 13%
16%
19%
21%
24%
READ MORE ABOUT OUR OPERATING ASSETS 
PAGE 48
EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Measure
Adjusted EPS, i.e. pre-exceptional items.
Relevance
We believe that EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible measure 
of the returns we are generating as a Group for our Shareholders, 
and comprises both revenue growth and trading margins. 
So, for the Group as a whole, the key measure of short-term 
ﬁnancial performance is diluted EPS, pre-exceptional items. 
EPS is calculated based on proﬁt attributable to equity 
Shareholders (adjusted to exclude exceptional items) divided 
by the diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 
ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Target
Whilst we are exposed to different cycles and EPS varies 
accordingly, we aim to grow EPS in line with our strategic aims.
Performance
Performance is explained in the Performance Management 
Statement on page 40.
DILUTED EPS
6 1.95p
16
15
14
13
12
61.95p
71.68p
82.49p
92.03p
100.40p
READ MORE ABOUT OUR EARNINGS PER SHARE 
PAGE 145
KEY
Metrics that are used for remuneration
39 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Group performance review
Reported Group revenue was down 3% on prior year with 
Rental Solutions up 2% and Power Solutions Industrial and 
Utility down 2% and 8% respectively.
Reported revenue and operating proﬁt include the translational 
impact of currency as Aggreko’s revenues and proﬁts are earned 
in a number of different currencies (most notably the US Dollar) 
which are then translated and reported in Sterling. The movement 
in exchange rates in the period had the translational impact 
of increasing revenue by £122 million and operating proﬁt by 
£1 million. This was driven by the strength of the US Dollar against 
Sterling partially offset by the weakness of the Argentinian Peso 
against Sterling.
In addition, the Group reports separately fuel revenue from 
contracts in our Power Solutions Utility business in Brazil and 
Mozambique where we manage fuel on a pass-through basis 
on behalf of our customers. The reason for the separate reporting 
is that fuel revenue on these contracts is entirely dependent 
on fuel prices and volumes of fuel consumed, and these can 
be volatile and may distort the view of the performance of the 
underlying business. In 2016, fuel revenue from these contracts 
was £60 million (2015: £60 million) with nil operating proﬁt 
(2015: loss of £1 million).
Group revenue excluding the impact of currency movements 
and pass-through fuel decreased 10% on the prior year. 
Rental Solutions revenue excluding the impact of currency 
was down 8% driven by the continued decline in North America 
in upstream Oil & Gas and softness in the Petrochemical & 
Reﬁning sector from the start of 2016, following a strong 2015. 
In Europe and Australia Paciﬁc Rental Solutions grew year on 
year. Power Solutions revenue excluding the impact of currency 
and pass-through fuel was down 12%. Within this, our Industrial 
business revenue decreased 9% primarily due to the comparatives 
including revenue from the European Games, excluding this, 
revenue was in line with prior year. Power Solutions Utility revenue 
was down 13% driven by the off-hire of 173MW of our gas-fuelled 
plants in Mozambique at the beginning of the year where 
permanent power came online and a reduction in Argentina, 
reﬂecting pricing on contract extensions.
During the year, the Group incurred exceptional costs of 
£49 million (2015: £26 million) which are split: Rental Solutions 
£40 million (2015: £10 million), Power Solutions Utility £6 million 
(2015: £11 million) and Power Solutions Industrial £3 million 
(2015: £5 million). £30 million of the charge in Rental Solutions 
relates to the impairment of assets used in the Oil & Gas sector 
in North America, with the remaining costs across the Group 
relating to the focus on our business priorities and are explained 
on page 45.
Pre-exceptional items the Group operating margin was 16% 
(2015: 18%). Group operating margin post-exceptional items was 
13% (2015: 16%). Rental Solutions margin pre-exceptional items 
was down eight percentage points (down thirteen percentage 
points on a post-exceptional basis) reﬂecting the decline in 
North America referred to above. Power Solutions Industrial 
margin on a pre and post-exceptional item basis was down three 
percentage points reﬂecting the incremental beneﬁt from the 
European Games in the prior year numbers. Power Solutions Utility 
margin was up seven percentage points on a pre-exceptional 
items basis (up eight percentage points post-exceptional items) 
driven by: higher utilisation; lower indirect tax costs; lower service 
material costs and a lower depreciation charge. This lower 
depreciation charge related to transformers and switchgear, the 
useful lives of which were adjusted as a result of our annual ﬂeet 
review (refer to page 48 for more details). Of this margin increase 
there were some one-off beneﬁts, notably in indirect tax and 
service material costs, with an underlying increase in the margin 
of four percentage points.
The lower Group margin as well as an increase in net operating 
assets, driven by an increased level of Power Solutions Utility 
overdue debt, impacted the Group return on capital employed 
(ROCE), which on a pre-exceptional items basis was 13% (2015: 16%). 
Group ROCE post-exceptional items was 10% (2015: 15%).
The Group delivered proﬁt before tax and exceptional items 
of £221 million (2015: £252 million). Diluted earnings per share 
(DEPS) pre-exceptional items was 61.95 pence, 14% lower than 
the prior year. Proﬁt before tax and post-exceptional items was 
£172 million (2015: £226 million) and diluted earnings per share 
post-exceptional items was 48.86 pence (2015: 63.45 pence).
DIVIDENDS
Reﬂecting our continued conﬁdence in the strength and 
prospects of the business, the Group is proposing to maintain 
the ﬁnal dividend at 17.74 pence per share. Subject to Shareholder 
approval this will result in a full year dividend of 27.12 pence 
(2015: 27.12 pence) per Ordinary Share; this equates to dividend 
cover pre-exceptional items of 2.3 times (2015: 2.6 times). 
Dividend cover post-exceptional items is 1.8 times (2015: 2.3 times). 
CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET
During the year, we generated an operating cash inﬂow of 
£388 million (2015: £461 million). The reduction in operating cash 
inﬂow is mainly driven by working capital outﬂows of £119 million. 
The majority of the working capital outﬂow is due to an increase 
in trade debtors in our Power Solutions Utility business and 
inventory relating to the production of our medium speed HFO 
and gas products (this movement is explained in more detail 
in the Financial Review on page 48). Fleet capital expenditure 
was £241 million (2015: £237 million), of which £46 million was 
invested in our next generation gas ﬂeet, £15 million in our new 
HFO product and £51 million to continue the refurbishment 
programme of our diesel ﬂeet to the more fuel efﬁcient, higher 
output G3+ engine, which now makes up around 25% of the 
Power Solutions Utility diesel ﬂeet.
40 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW Net debt was £649 million at 31 December 2016, £160 million 
higher than the prior year. £114 million of this movement relates 
to currency movements, notably the weakening of Sterling against 
the US Dollar. The increase excluding currency of £46 million 
(2015: £23 million decrease) was driven by cash ﬂow from operating 
activities in the year of £388 million (2015: £461 million), capital 
expenditure of £263 million (2015: £254 million), the acquisition of 
DRYCO of £22 million (2015: acquisition of ICS £18 million), ordinary 
dividend payments of £69 million (2015: £69 million) as well as 
proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, purchase 
of shares, interest and tax payments. This resulted in net debt to 
EBITDA of 1.2 times compared to 0.9 times at December 2015, 
with the majority of the year on year movement relating to foreign 
exchange translation.
OUTLOOK
In Rental Solutions, our North American business is showing signs 
of stabilisation after a difﬁcult 2016. Most sectors are up on the 
prior year to date and the higher oil price is giving ground for 
cautious optimism. We expect our Europe and Australia Paciﬁc 
businesses to continue to perform well throughout 2017.
In Power Solutions, the Industrial business is expected to 
perform well, driven by two of our largest businesses, the 
Middle East and Eurasia.
In Power Solutions Utility, the pipeline remains healthy and 
is well spread geographically, although at this early stage in 
the year the order intake has been lower than in the prior year. 
Results in this division will also reﬂect the material impact of 
pricing renegotiations in Argentina, our last legacy contract.
Fleet capital expenditure is expected to be £300 million, with 
investments in HFO and in our more fuel efﬁcient diesel engines. 
As usual, this spend will be ﬂexed as required depending on 
market conditions.
We expect to see growth across the Group, augmented by 
incremental annualised cost savings of £25 million from the 
second half (with a similar one off charge). However, this will be 
more than offset by the signiﬁcant impact of Argentina and as 
a result we expect full year proﬁt before tax and pre-exceptional 
items to be lower than last year.
Our Rental Solutions business had a challenging year with revenue 
excluding the impact of currency down 8% on the prior year and 
operating proﬁt (excluding exceptional items) declining by 55%.
The decline in operating proﬁt relative to the decline in revenue is  
primarily due to rate pressure in the North American Oil & Gas  
and Petrochemical & Reﬁning sectors driven by the lower oil 
price. Pricing in these sectors was down by around 30% and 8% 
respectively, which despite us taking action to reduce our cost 
base had a signiﬁcant impact on the margins of this business. 
Rental revenue excluding the impact of currency decreased 
by 9% and services revenue decreased by 5%. Within rental 
revenue, power decreased by 16% and oil free air was down 
12%. Offsetting this, we saw good growth in temperature control 
with revenue up 7% including the acquisitions of ICS in 2015 and 
DRYCO in 2016, as well as good base business growth of 4%.
Revenue in our North American business excluding currency was 
down 18%. The decline that affected us from quarter two 2015 in 
upstream Oil & Gas continued through 2016 in the shale basins, 
offshore Gulf of Mexico and the Canadian Oil Sands. We continue 
to service all these markets and see an ongoing market 
opportunity especially if the oil price stabilises at current relatively 
higher levels. The team continues to identify opportunities to 
balance utilisation and pricing in this changing environment, 
however the utilisation of the specialist equipment that we use 
in the shale basins remains at sub-optimal levels. As a result we 
have reviewed the carrying value of these small gas generators 
and have taken an impairment charge of £30 million (more details 
are included in the Financial Review on page 45). In addition, we 
have taken the recent decision to close three depots and further 
reduce headcount to right size our Oil & Gas cost base which will 
generate savings of £2.5 million. Our Petrochemical & Reﬁning 
sector also had a weak year with revenues declining 18%, following 
a strong year of 25% growth in 2015.
In our Australia Paciﬁc business, revenue excluding currency 
increased 11% driven by a four-month 108MW emergency 
response contract in Tasmania. The business also secured a 
20MW contract for two years in South Australia and deployed 
21MW of gas engines to the Granny Smith goldmine in April 2016, 
for a 10-year contract.
Across Europe, nearly all countries grew year-on-year despite the 
lower oil price having an impact on our businesses in Scotland 
and the Nordics. Our Continental European business saw revenue 
excluding currency increasing 5% aided by good growth in France 
and the Netherlands. The Northern European business also saw 
growth with revenue excluding currency increasing 9%, driven 
by the construction and telecoms sectors.
BUSINESS UNIT PERFORMANCE REVIEW
RENTAL SOLUTIONS
Revenue Operating Proﬁt
2016 2015 Change
Change 
excl. 
currency 2016 2015 Change
Change 
excl. 
currency
Pre-exceptional items £ million 629 618 2% (8)% 52 102 (50)% (55)%
Operating margin pre-exceptional items 8% 16%
Post-exceptional items £ million 629 618 2% (8)% 12 92 (88)% (89)%
Operating margin post exceptional items 2% 15%
41 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Group performance review continued
POWER SOLUTIONS
Revenue Operating Proﬁt
Pre-exceptional items £ million 2016 2015 Change
Change 
excl. 
pass-
through 
fuel and 
currency 2016 2015 Change
Change 
excl. 
pass-
through 
fuel and 
currency
Industrial 262 267 (2)% (9)% 32 41 (21)% (28)%
Utility excl. pass-through fuel 564 616 (9)% (13)% 164 133 23% 37%
Pass-through fuel 60 60 –% (10)% – (1) 100% 100%
Total Power Solutions 886 943 (6)% (12)% 196 173 14% 20%
Operating margin
Industrial 12% 15%
Utility excl. pass-through fuel 29% 22%
Total Power Solutions excl. pass-through fuel 24% 20%
Revenue Operating Proﬁt
Post-exceptional items £ million 2016 2015 Change
Change 
excl. 
pass-
through 
fuel and 
currency 2016 2015 Change
Change 
excl. 
pass-
through 
fuel and 
currency
Industrial 262 267 (2)% (9)% 29 36 (21)% (28)%
Utility excl. pass-through fuel 564 616 (9)% (13)% 158 122 31% 49%
Pass-through fuel 60 60 –% (10)% – (1) 100% 100%
Total Power Solutions 886 943 (6)% (12)% 187 157 20% 28%
Operating margin
Industrial 11% 14%
Utility excl. pass-through fuel 28% 20%
Total Power Solutions excl. pass-through fuel 23% 18%
42 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW Overall, our Power Solutions business saw revenue excluding 
pass-through fuel and currency decline by 12% and on the same 
basis operating proﬁt pre-exceptional items increase by 20%. 
Revenue in our Industrial business excluding currency decreased 
by 9% and operating proﬁt pre-exceptional items by 28%. 
Operating margin pre-exceptional items was 12% (2015: 15%) with 
2015 beneﬁting from the European Games. Our Utility business 
saw revenue excluding the impact of currency and pass-through 
fuel decreasing 13% and operating proﬁt on the same basis 
and excluding exceptional items up 37%. Operating margin 
pre-exceptional items was seven percentage points higher at 
29% (2015: 22%).
Revenue excluding the impact of currency in our Industrial 
business unit decreased 9% with rental revenue down 7% and 
services revenue down 15%. The comparatives included revenue 
from the European Games, excluding this, revenue was in line 
with the prior year. On a geographic basis we continued to see 
growth in Eurasia and Africa and a steady performance in the 
Middle East. In Eurasia we saw growth across both the diesel and 
gas markets, with strong order intake in gas. Order intake across 
Eurasia in 2016 was 299MW (2015: 125MW). Our revenues in the 
Middle East were down in Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE largely 
offset by good growth in Bahrain and Oman. These performances 
were offset by more difﬁcult trading conditions in Asia and Latin 
America, in particular Singapore, Brazil and Chile. Since we began 
implementing our business priorities we have closed ﬁve depots in 
Latin America, with a further six locations downsized. In addition, 
we have reduced headcount and the ﬂeet size. Despite the action 
we have already taken excluding the European Games margins 
have remained static since 2014 and we are continuing to look 
at the infrastructure to support this business as we explain in the 
update of our business priorities on pages 27 to 31. 
Our Utility business saw revenue excluding currency and pass-
through fuel decrease by 13% driven by the off-hire of 173MW 
of our gas-fuelled plants in Mozambique at the beginning 
of the year and a reduction in pricing in Argentina following 
contract extensions. Operating margin pre-exceptional items 
increased to 29% (2015: 22%) driven by higher utilisation, lower 
indirect tax costs, lower service material costs and a lower 
depreciation charge, related to transformers and switchgear, 
the useful lives of which were adjusted as a result of our annual 
ﬂeet review (refer to page 48 for more details). Operating margin 
post-exceptional items was 28% (2015: 20%).
Order intake for the year was 1,057MW (2015: 640MW) 
with contracts signed at terms consistent with our Group 
medium-term return targets of around 20%. New business 
included 200MW in Zimbabwe, 357MW in Brazil, 100MW in 
Benin, 40MW in the Bahamas and 30MW in Mali. At the year 
end, our order book was over 67,000MW months, the equivalent 
of 22 months’ revenue at the current run-rate (2015: 14 months). 
The increase reﬂects the 15-year duration of 143MW of the Brazilian 
contract wins. The off-hire rate for the year was 30% (2015: 24%) 
driven by the Mozambique off-hire. 
Our largest utility contracts are in Argentina where we have 
been operating since 2008. These are the last signiﬁcant legacy 
contracts, signed at a time when the industry dynamics were 
different and the risk of operating in Argentina was higher 
including strict foreign exchange controls and bond defaults. 
There are two types of contracts in our market: ﬁxed sites 
and standby sites. 174MW of ﬁxed site contracts have recently 
been extended to the end of 2017. The price for extensions 
is a material reduction against the original contract prices. 
We currently have 214MW of standby contracts that have been 
extended until February and March 2017 and in due course, 
we would expect these to off-hire.
In addition, the customer has recently run a tender for 200MW 
of standby volume, which we understand will replace all 
standby volumes currently in the market. This tender replaces 
an abandoned process in November 2016 at which point all 
competitors’ pricing was disclosed making the current process 
very competitive.
The overall Utility debtor book is discussed on page 48, 
however the most challenging payment situation in 2016 has 
been in Venezuela given its dependency on oil export revenues. 
However, discussions with both our customers (PDVSA and 
Corpoelec) are regular and constructive and latterly we have 
received signiﬁcant payments from both customers in December 
and January and converted $19 million of the PDVSA overdue 
balance into a debt instrument (more details are contained in 
Note 17 to the Accounts).
43 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Financial review
A summarised Income Statement for 2016 as well as related ratios 
are set out below. The ﬁrst table excludes exceptional items and 
the second table includes exceptional items.
Movement  
pre-exceptional items
2016 
pre- 
exceptional 
items 
£m
2015 
pre- 
exceptional 
items 
£m Change
Change 
excl.  
pass-
through 
fuel and 
currency
Revenues 1,515 1,561 (3)% (10)%
Operating proﬁt 248 275 (10)% (11)%
Net 
interest expense (27) (23) (17)%
Proﬁt before tax 221 252 (12)%
Taxation (63) (69) 8%
Proﬁt after tax 158 183 (13)%
Diluted earnings 
per share 
(pence) 61.95 71.68 (14)%
Operating  
margin 16% 18% (2)pp
ROCE 13% 16% (3)pp
Movement  
post-exceptional items
2016 
post- 
exceptional 
items 
£m
2015 
post- 
exceptional 
items 
£m Change
Change 
excl.  
pass-
through 
fuel and 
currency
Revenues 1,515 1,561 (3)% (10)%
Operating proﬁt 199 249 (20)% (21)%
Net 
interest expense (27) (23) (17)%
Proﬁt before tax 172 226 (24)%
Taxation (47) (64) 25%
Proﬁt after tax 125 162 (23)%
Diluted earnings 
per share 
(pence) 48.86 63.45 (23)%
Operating  
margin 13% 16% (3)pp
ROCE 10% 15% (5)pp
CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The movement in exchange rates in the period had the 
translational impact of increasing revenue by £122 million and 
operating proﬁt by £1 million. This was driven by the strength of the 
US Dollar against Sterling partially offset by the weakness of the 
Argentinian Peso against Sterling. Currency translation also gave 
rise to a £220 million increase in the value of net assets as a result 
of year on year movements in the exchange rates. Set out in the 
table below are the principal exchange rates which affected the 
Group’s proﬁts and net assets.
2016 2015
(per £ Sterling) Average Year end Average Year end
Principal Exchange Rates
United States 
Dollar 1.36 1.23 1.53 1.48
Euro 1.22 1.17 1.38 1.36
UAE Dirhams 4.98 4.53 5.61 5.44
Australian Dollar 1.83 1.71 2.03 2.03
Brazilian Reals 4.74 4.01 5.10 5.87
Argentinian  
Peso 20.00 19.61 14.17 19.18
Russian Rouble 91.04 75.23 93.52 109.42
(Source: Bloomberg)
44 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED MOVEMENT TO REPORTED MOVEMENT
The tables below reconcile the reported and adjusted revenue and operating proﬁt movements:
REVENUE
RS PSI PSU Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
As reported 629 618 2% 262 267 (2)% 624 676 (8)% 1,515 1,561 (3)%
Pass-through fuel – – – – (60) (60) (60) (60) 
Currency impact – 64 – 21 – 37 – 122 
Adjusted 629 682 (8)% 262 288 (9)% 564 653 (13)% 1,455 1,623 (10)%
OPERATING PROFIT
RS PSI PSU Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Change 
%
As reported 12 92 (88)% 29 36 (21)% 158 121 33% 199 249 (20)%
Pass-through fuel – – – – – 1 – 1 
Currency impact – 12 – 3 – (14) – 1 
Exceptional items 40 10 3 5 6 11 49 26 
Adjusted 52 114 (55)% 32 44 (28)% 164 119 37% 248 277 (11)%
Note (i) RS – Rental Solutions; PSI – Power Solutions Industrial; PSU – Power Solutions Utility.
Note (ii) the currency impact is calculated by taking 2015 numbers in local currency and retranslating them at 2016 average rates.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
The deﬁnition of exceptional items is contained within Note 1  
of the Accounts. An exceptional charge of £19 million before tax 
was recorded in the year to 31 December 2016 in respect of the 
Group’s business priorities implementation. These costs include 
employment costs, professional fees, severance costs and facility 
closure costs directly related to the implementation. 
Given the continued decline in the Oil & Gas sector in 
North America management reviewed the carrying value 
of small gas generators used in the Oil & Gas market. 
These generators are used only in North America. In assessing 
the impairment management determined the recoverable 
amount of the assets, and compared this to the carrying amount. 
The future cash ﬂows were estimated based on the most up 
to date business forecast including assumptions around rates, 
utilisation, costs and discounted using discount rates that 
reﬂected current market assessments. As a result of this an 
impairment charge of £30 million before tax was recorded in 
the year to 31 December 2016. This represents a small percentage 
(3%) of the net book value of the total rental ﬂeet. 
INTEREST
The net interest charge of £27 million was £4 million higher than 
last year reﬂecting higher average net debt year on year including 
the impact of the weakening of Sterling against the Dollar with 
over 70% of our debt being Dollar denominated to match the 
proﬁle of our earnings. Interest cover, measured against rolling 
12-month EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation 
and Amortisation), remained strong at 20 times (2015: 24 times) 
relative to the ﬁnancial covenant attached to our borrowing 
facilities that EBITDA should be no less than four times interest.
TAXATION
Tax Strategy
We operate in an increasingly complex global environment, doing 
business in around 100 countries, many of which have uncertain 
or volatile tax regimes. To ensure that our tax affairs are correctly 
and consistently managed, Aggreko’s tax strategy is applied to all 
taxes, both direct and indirect in all countries in which we operate. 
Whilst our current tax strategy has been in place for a number of 
years, it is reviewed and revalidated annually and would be revised 
as appropriate to reﬂect any material changes within the Group 
or in tax legislation. 
Our strategy is to ensure that we pay, in a timely manner, the 
appropriate amount of tax commensurate with the activities 
performed in each country in which we operate. 
In particular, we recognise the importance of the tax we pay to 
the economic development of the countries in which we operate. 
We aim to be transparent in terms of the geographic spread of 
where we pay tax with a breakdown provided in ﬁgures 1-3 below.
In applying the strategy, we undertake to comply with the 
applicable tax legislation in all countries in which we operate 
and, where appropriate, we will seek to utilise any available 
legislative reliefs. 
OUR APPROACH TOWARDS DEALING WITH 
TAX AUTHORITIES
We seek to build good working relationships with local tax 
authorities based on trust, respect and professionalism. We will 
proactively engage, either directly or through local advisers, with 
the authorities to ensure that our business and tax positions are 
understood and to conﬁrm our tax positions in a timely manner.
45 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Financial review continued
TAX GOVERNANCE
Our tax governance framework is encompassed within a set of 
documented policies and procedures covering the application of 
the strategy and operational aspects of tax. Ultimate responsibility 
for tax risk and tax operations rests with our Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
with day-to-day responsibility delegated to the Director of Tax 
and the tax function. To ensure that we fully understand our tax 
obligations and keep up to date with changing legislation and 
practice, advisory and technical support is provided by large 
accounting ﬁrms with which the Group has a long association. 
The use of our auditors for advisory work is not permitted.
APPROACH TO TAX RISK
The Group’s appetite for risk, including tax risk is reviewed 
regularly by the Group Risk Committee and is ratiﬁed annually 
by the Board. Given the risk proﬁle of many countries in which we 
operate, we seek to structure our tax affairs in a way that has a low 
degree of risk. Only the Director of Tax is permitted to consider 
any tax planning opportunities and permission to implement any 
planning must be obtained from the Board or Finance Committee 
as appropriate. We do not actively seek to implement any tax 
planning that is not driven by commercial aims or where the 
sole aim is to deliver tax beneﬁt.
TAX MANAGEMENT AND PROVISIONING
Given the complex, uncertain and often volatile nature of the 
tax environment in many of the countries in which we operate, 
local compliance and governance is a key area of focus. This is 
particularly so for our Power Solutions business, where we may 
only be in a country for a temporary period. While we will always 
seek to manage our tax affairs to agree and conﬁrm our tax 
positions in a timely manner, it can often take some time to 
settle our tax position and uncertainties may exist with respect 
to complex or changing legislation. We may therefore need to 
create tax provisions for any potential uncertain or contentious tax 
positions. These provisions are based on reasonable estimates of 
the possible outcomes and management then uses its judgement 
to determine the appropriate level of provision taking into account 
that differences of interpretation may arise depending on a 
number of different factors. 
As at 31 December 2016, we had tax provisions totalling £39 million 
of which £37 million is in respect of direct taxes and £2 million for 
indirect taxes (2015: £61 million, £48 million for direct and £13 million 
for indirect taxes). The reduction in provisions between 2015 and 
2016 is as a result of closing out historic exposures in the Middle East, 
settling a tax technical dispute in the UK and settling our tax affairs 
for 2014 and 2015 in Indonesia under a tax amnesty. The remaining 
provisions are principally held to manage the tax impact of 
potential historic tax exposures largely in connection with long 
running contracts in Africa, an ongoing dispute in Asia following 
a change in interpretation of legislation and potential transfer 
pricing risks faced by the Group on challenges from various tax 
authorities as to the basis on which we transact internationally 
across the Group. In order to ensure that all potential risks are 
properly understood and mitigated, we ensure that our local 
tax ﬁlings are made on a timely basis, appropriate advice is taken 
and that we proactively work with local tax authorities when 
issues arise.
1 2015 amounts have been restated to include VAT and payroll taxes collected 
in North America.
The risk that the application of management judgements and 
estimates in our tax forecasting fails to represent a true and fair 
view of our tax position is an area that receives signiﬁcant focus 
from management, tax advisers and the external auditors. In order 
to mitigate this, our tax position is internally reviewed four times 
per year by the Group tax team and any unanticipated variances 
to the forecast are reconciled and explained. The tax position of 
the legal entity that contracts the majority of the Power Solutions 
work and so contributes the largest proportion of our tax charge 
is reviewed monthly. In addition to the work done by our external 
auditors to conﬁrm the appropriateness of our tax provisioning, 
tax is a matter that is regularly considered and discussed by 
the Audit Committee. Our Internal Audit team also periodically 
reviews management’s assessment on the effectiveness of tax 
controls deﬁned on the Group risk register and will also consider 
any relevant tax risks through their location based core assurance 
programme and report these to management as appropriate.
LEGISLATIVE CHANGE
Through the course of 2016 we continued to closely monitor 
developments in the OECD’s work on Base Erosion and Proﬁt 
Shifting (‘BEPS’) and Country-By-Country Reporting (‘CBCR’). 
We do not expect that any of our tax arrangements should be 
materially impacted by any legislative changes arising from the 
BEPS recommendations. The beneﬁt previously derived from 
our US ﬁnancing arrangements is reduced as a result of this, 
however the small impact on our ETR is offset by other changes 
in our proﬁt mix. We do however recognise that the interpretation 
of new legislation can be subjective in the period immediately 
following implementation and we will therefore continue to 
follow developments in this area. 
We are closely following developments arising as a result of the 
UK’s decision to leave the EU. Our review work undertaken so far, 
shows that Brexit will have little impact for our business and we 
will continue to monitor both of these areas.
Taxes Paid
In 2016, Aggreko’s worldwide operations resulted in direct and 
indirect taxes of £215 million (2015: £217 million
1
) being paid to tax 
authorities in the various countries where we operate. This amount 
represents all corporate taxes paid on operations, payroll taxes 
paid and collected, import duties, sales taxes and other local taxes.
Africa Asia Australia
Paciﬁc
Europe Latin
America
Middle
East
North
America
FIGURE 1:
TOTAL TAXES PAID BY REGION (£M)
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2016 2015
46 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW Africa Asia Australia
Paciﬁc
Europe Latin
America
Middle
East
North
America
FIGURE 2: 
TOTAL CORPORATE TAXES PAID 
AND COLLECTED BY REGION (£M)
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
-5
2016 2015
As a result of a reduction in post-exceptional proﬁt before taxation 
(PBT) from £226 million to £172 million corporate taxes paid in 2016 
decreased by £27 million to £64 million. In addition to the overall 
reduction in PBT driving down corporate tax paid, the movement 
is also driven by one off cash tax payments in Africa in 2015 that 
did not repeat in 2016; the inclusion of WHT paid in Asia included 
in 2016 for the ﬁrst time as conﬁrmation of payment was received 
and the reduction in North America principally driven by a large 
tax refund that was received following retrospectively enacted 
legislation extending the accelerated tax depreciation regime.
FIGURE 3: 
TOTAL INDIRECT TAXES PAID 
AND COLLECTED BY REGION (£M)
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Africa Asia Australia
Paciﬁc
Europe Latin
America
Middle
East
North
America
2016 2015
Overall our indirect tax costs have increased by £25 million 
to £151 million paid in 2016. The main contributors to the 
increase were currency controls in Mozambique which delayed 
VAT refunds due resulting in an increase in Africa; the level of 
VAT refunded to us in the UK reduced due to lower level of 
purchasing at our manufacturing plant and increased sales tax 
payments in Argentina as a result of signing new contracts with 
YPF and as a result of the weakening Peso.
Tax Charge
The Group’s pre-exceptional effective corporation tax rate 
for the year was 28% (2015: 27% pre-exceptional items) based 
on a tax charge of £63 million (2015: £69 million pre-exceptional 
items) on a pre-exceptional proﬁt before taxation of £221 million 
(2015: £252 million pre-exceptional items).
Further information, including a tax reconciliation of the 
current year tax charge, is shown at Note 10 in the Annual Report 
and Accounts.
Looking beyond 2016, the effective tax rate will depend principally 
on whether there are any changes in tax legislation in the Group’s 
most signiﬁcant countries of operation, the geographical mix of 
proﬁts and the resolution of open issues.
Reconciliation of Income statement tax charge and cash tax paid
The Group’s total cash taxes borne and collected were £215 million, 
reﬂecting £151 million of non-corporate taxes and £64 million 
of corporate taxes. The latter cash tax ﬁgure differs from the 
post-exceptional tax charge reported in the income statement of 
£47 million by £17 million with the two ﬁgures reconciled below:
£ million
Cash taxes paid 215
Non-corporate taxes (151)
Corporate tax paid 64
Movements in deferred tax (20) 
Differences relating to timing of tax payments – US 13
Differences relating to timing of tax payments – Argentina (6)
Other differences relating to timing of payment of taxes (4)
Post-exceptional corporate tax charge  
per income statement 47
CAPITAL STRUCTURE & DIVIDENDS
The objective of Aggreko’s strategy is to deliver long-term value to 
Shareholders whilst maintaining a balance sheet structure that 
safeguards the Group’s ﬁnancial position through economic cycles. 
Given the risk proﬁle of the Group we believe gearing of around 
one times net debt to EBITDA is appropriate, recognising from 
time to time it may be higher for a period of time as investment 
opportunities present themselves. From a capital allocation 
perspective our priority is to invest in organic growth. As well as 
investing organically, there are opportunities for growth through 
acquisition, both for scale and capability including adjacencies 
such as temperature control and loadbanks. Acquisitions are 
subject to our disciplined capital allocation process and will have 
to meet appropriate hurdle rates of return. Whilst the priorities are 
investment to generate growth we recognise the importance of 
maintaining the dividend. Finally, as and when the opportunity 
arises, we will look at returning surplus capital to Shareholders. 
The retained earnings of the Company as at 31 December 2016 are 
£428 million and the majority of these earnings are distributable.
Subject to Shareholder approval, the proposed ﬁnal dividend 
of 17.74 pence will result in a full year dividend of 27.12 pence 
(2015: 27.12 pence) per Ordinary Share, giving dividend cover (Basic 
EPS pre-exceptional items divided by full year declared dividend) 
of 2.3 times (2015: 2.6 times). Dividend cover post-exceptional items 
is 1.8 times (2015: 2.3 times).
47 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Financial review continued
CASH FLOW 
The net cash inﬂow from operations during the year totalled 
£388 million (2015: £461 million). The reduction in cash inﬂow 
from operations was mainly driven by a working capital outﬂow of 
£119 million as explained below. This funded capital expenditure 
of £263 million (2015: £254 million). Of the £263 million, £241 million 
(2015: £237 million) was spent on ﬂeet of which £46 million was 
invested in our next generation gas ﬂeet, £15 million in our new 
HFO product and £51 million to refurbish our diesel ﬂeet to the 
more fuel efﬁcient, higher output G3+ engine.
Net debt was £649 million at 31 December 2016, £160 million 
higher than the prior year, £114 million of which was translational 
driven by the devaluation of Sterling against the US Dollar. 
This resulted in net debt to EBITDA of 1.2 times compared to 
0.9 times at December 2015, with the impact of currency being 
the main driver of the increase, and in line with our stated target 
range of around one times. 
The £119 million working capital outﬂow in the year 
(2015: £80 million outﬂow) was made up of increases in trade 
and other receivables of £81 million and in inventory of £21 million, 
and a decrease in trade and other payables of £17 million. 
Inventory increased because of the timing of next generation 
gas and HFO engine purchases.
The main driver of the increase in trade and other receivables is 
our Power Solutions Utility business, where debtor days increased 
to 150 days (2015: 123 days) although they have improved on the 
position at the time of the Interim results (June 2016: 164 days). 
This increase in debtor days from 2015 is driven by Corpoelec 
in Venezuela and a handful of debtors in Africa that are taking 
longer than we would like to clear, although none of the 
customers dispute the debt and we were pleased to have 
received a payment post year end from Corpoelec.
The Power Solutions Utility bad debt provision at 31 December 
2016 was $63 million. This was $71 million at December 2015, 
however, this balance included $11 million relating to one of our 
customers in Venezuela (PDVSA) where we have signed $19 million 
of private placement notes that are now required to be disclosed 
under other receivables rather than trade receivables (this is 
explained in Note 17 of the accounts).
NET OPERATING ASSETS
The net operating assets of the Group (including goodwill) at 
31 December 2016 totalled £2,124 million, £417 million higher than 
2015. Excluding the impact of currency net operating assets are 
£77 million higher. The main components of net operating assets 
are detailed in the table below.
£ million 2016 2015 Movement
Movement 
excl. the 
impact of 
currency
Rental ﬂeet 1,203 1,049 15% (5)%
Property & plant 106 90 17% 2%
Inventory 247 189 30% 10%
Net trade 
debtors 454 320 42% 20%
A key measure of Aggreko’s performance is the return (expressed 
as adjusted operating proﬁt) generated from average net 
operating assets (ROCE). In 2016, the ROCE decreased to 13% 
compared with 16% in 2015. Excluding the impact of currency 
ROCE decreased circa 2 percentage points driven by an increase 
in operating assets and a reduction in operating margin.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Rental ﬂeet accounts for £1,203 million, or around 92%, of the 
net book value of property, plant and equipment used in our 
business. The great majority of equipment in the rental ﬂeet is 
depreciated on a straight-line basis to a residual value of zero over 
eight years, with some classes of ancillary rental ﬂeet depreciated 
over 10 and 12 years. The annual ﬂeet depreciation charge of 
£261 million (2015: £259 million) relates to the estimated service 
lives allocated to each class of ﬂeet asset. Asset lives are reviewed 
at the start of each year and changed if necessary to reﬂect 
current thinking amongst other things on their remaining lives 
in light of technological change, prospective economic utilisation 
and the physical condition of the assets. During this year’s review, 
the depreciation life for transformers/switchgears was increased 
to 12 years from eight years to reﬂect external views on the useful 
life of these assets, equipment testing carried out internally and 
our experience to date. This lowered depreciation by £12 million 
in the year to 31 December 2016 compared to 2015.
ACQUISITION OF DRYCO LLC
On 9 September 2016, the Group acquired substantially all of the 
trade and assets used in connection with DRYCO LLC, a specialist 
in moisture control, drying, heating and cooling applications 
within the shipping, manufacturing, food processing, construction 
and industrial painting industries in North America. The total 
consideration was £22 million.
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
Shareholders’ equity increased by £253 million to £1,368 million, 
represented by the net assets of the Group of £2,017 million before 
net debt of £649 million. The movements in Shareholders’ equity 
are analysed in the table below:
Movements in Shareholders’ equity £ million £ million
As at 1 January 2016 1,115
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year  
post-exceptional items 125
Dividend
2
(69)
Retained earnings 56
Employee share awards 8
Purchase of treasury shares (8)
Re-measurement of retirement beneﬁts (29)
Currency translation 220
Movement in hedging reserve 1 
Other 5 
As at 31 December 2016 1,368
2 Reﬂects the ﬁnal dividend for 2015 of 17.74 pence per share (2015: 17.74 pence) and 
the interim dividend for 2016 of 9.38 pence per share (2015: 9.38 pence) that were 
paid during the year. 
Post-tax proﬁt (pre-exceptional items) of £158 million in the year 
represents a return of 12% on Shareholders’ equity (2015: 16%) 
which compares to an estimated Group weighted average cost 
of capital of 9%. Return post-exceptional items is 9% (2015: 14%). 
48 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW PENSIONS 
Pension arrangements for our employees vary depending on 
best practice and regulation in each country. The Group operates 
a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme for UK employees, which was closed 
to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002. Most of 
the other schemes in operation around the world are varieties 
of deﬁned contribution schemes. 
Under IAS 19: ‘Employee Beneﬁts’, Aggreko has recognised 
a pre-tax pension deﬁcit of £30 million at 31 December 2016 
(2015: £2 million) which is determined using actuarial assumptions. 
The increase in the pension deﬁcit is primarily driven by a 
decrease in corporate bond yields resulting in a lower discount 
rate which has increased the value placed on the liabilities of the 
scheme compounded by an increase in inﬂation expectations. 
Although the deﬁcit has increased it still only represents 2% of 
net assets.
The main assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation for the previous 
two years are shown in Note 30 of the Annual Report & Accounts. 
The sensitivities regarding these assumptions are shown in the 
table below.
Deﬁcit  
(£m)
Income 
statement cost 
(£m)
Assumption
Increase/
(decrease) Change Change
Rate of increase 
in salaries 0.5% (2) –
Discount rate (0.5)% (21) (1)
Inﬂation (0.5% 
increases 
on pensions 
increases, 
deferred 
revaluation and 
salary increases) 0.5% (20) (1)
Longevity 1 year (5) –
TREASURY
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks 
that include liquidity, the effects of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates, interest rates, and credit risk. The Group has a 
centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to ensure 
that adequate liquidity is available to meet the Group’s funding 
requirements as they arise, and that ﬁnancial risk arising from 
the Group’s underlying operations is effectively identiﬁed 
and managed. 
The treasury operations are conducted in accordance with 
policies and procedures approved by the Board and are reviewed 
annually. Financial instruments are only executed for hedging 
purposes, and transactions that are speculative in nature are 
expressly forbidden. Monthly reports are provided to senior 
management and treasury operations are subject to periodic 
internal and external review.
Liquidity and funding
The Group maintains sufﬁcient facilities to meet its funding 
requirements over the medium term. At 31 December 2016, 
these facilities totalled £1,035 million in the form of committed 
bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of 
international banks and private placement lenders. The ﬁnancial 
covenants attached to these facilities are that EBITDA should be 
no less than four times interest and net debt should be no more 
than three times EBITDA; at 31 December 2016, these stood at 
20 times and 1.2 times respectively. The Group does not expect 
to breach these covenants in the year from the date of approval 
of these ﬁnancial statements. 
The Group expects to be able to arrange sufﬁcient ﬁnance to meet 
its future funding requirements. It has been the Group’s custom 
and practice to reﬁnance its facilities in advance of their maturity 
dates, providing that there is an ongoing need for those facilities.
Net debt amounted to £649 million at 31 December 2016 
(2015: £489 million) and, at that date, undrawn committed facilities 
were £402 million. The maturity proﬁle of the borrowings is 
detailed in Note 18 in the Annual Report & Accounts.
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s policy is to manage the exposure to interest rates 
by ensuring an appropriate balance of ﬁxed and ﬂoating rates. 
At 31 December 2016, £385 million of the net debt of £649 million 
was at ﬁxed rates of interest resulting in a ﬁxed to ﬂoating rate net 
debt ratio of 59:41 (2015: 66:34). 
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group is subject to currency exposure on the translation into 
Sterling of its net investments in overseas subsidiaries. In order to 
reduce the currency risk arising, the Group uses direct borrowings 
in the same currency as those investments. Group borrowings are 
predominantly drawn down in the currencies used by the Group, 
namely US Dollar, Euros, Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Brazilian 
Reals and Russian Rouble.
The Group manages its currency ﬂows to minimise foreign 
exchange risk arising on transactions denominated in foreign 
currencies and uses forward contracts and forward currency 
options, where appropriate, in order to hedge net currency ﬂows.
Credit risk
Cash deposits and other ﬁnancial instruments give rise to credit 
risk on amounts due from counterparties. The Group manages 
this risk by limiting the aggregate amounts and their duration 
depending on external credit ratings of the relevant counterparty. 
In the case of ﬁnancial assets exposed to credit risk, the carrying 
amount in the balance sheet, net of any applicable provision for 
loss, represents the amount exposed to credit risk.
Insurance
The Group operates a policy of buying cover against the material 
risks which the business faces, where it is possible to purchase 
such cover on reasonable terms. Where this is not possible, or 
where the risks would not have a material impact on the Group 
as a whole, we self-insure. 
49 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review rocket 
testing
DARYL POOL / MANAGER, TECHNICAL SERVICES
I’m used to variety as an Aggreko engineer but 
this was probably my biggest challenge to date. 
We used 400 tonnes of chillers, six air handlers 
and a warehouse that moved on rails to cool 
a 235-foot rocket to 33 degrees Fahrenheit. 
This meant NASA could test the rocket in low 
temperatures and make sure it was ready 
to launch whatever the weather.
THE POWER TO HELP
50 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW 51 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK
Following on from the work completed in 2015 to revise 
and refresh our approach to risk management, this year we 
have focused on embedding the improved process. Our risk 
management framework delivers an effective and efﬁcient 
approach to the management of risk, whilst making a positive 
contribution to effective decision-making and business growth.
The Group’s Register of Principal Risks is the foundation 
upon which the Group’s risk management process is built. 
This is compiled based upon registers of principal risks held 
within our two Business Units and our Central Functions. 
A Group Risk function has been established to facilitate the 
effective and consistent implementation of the risk framework 
and a Group Risk Committee was established during the year.
The Group’s risk appetite has been reviewed and refreshed by the 
Group Risk Committee during 2016 and approved by the Board. 
We continue to monitor management of risk against this appetite 
and will review our risk appetite annually.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK, 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
PAGES 55 TO 60
RISK APPETITE
The Group has ﬁnancial targets in place and is focused on growing 
the business; we are willing to accept higher levels of risk where 
we deem the likelihood of success to be achievable and the level 
of reward commensurate but within clear boundaries as set by 
the Executive and approved by the Board.
Risk appetite has been articulated for each of the risk categories 
in the Risk Categorisation Model and has been communicated 
to management to guide the consideration as to whether further 
risk mitigation activities are required for speciﬁc risks identiﬁed.
FOCUS DURING THE YEAR
In 2016 we focused our risk management efforts on further 
embedding the framework into the business. Risk ownership 
has improved and actions are being taken to increase the 
effectiveness of preventative measures and mitigating activities.
BREXIT
As with other businesses, we are closely following developments 
relating to Brexit, although our business in the UK and Europe 
makes up a relatively small part of the Group. A weaker Pound has 
increased the Sterling value of our revenue and assets, the majority 
of which are denominated in US Dollars. The Sterling values of our 
debt and borrowing facilities have increased by similar amounts, 
so our debt headroom has remained steady. More broadly, we 
believe it is too early to determine the impact of the UK leaving 
the European Union on the Group’s activities, although we 
do not expect this to have a material impact on the Group.
Risk factors that could affect business performance
Risks
The Group recognises the importance 
of identifying and actively managing the 
ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial risks facing 
the business. We want our people to feel 
empowered to take advantage of attractive 
opportunities, yet we want them to do so 
within the risk appetite set by the Board. 
It is important that we have in place a robust, 
repeatable risk management framework 
to facilitate this.
52 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW Strategic Risk Operational Risk Hazard Risk Compliance Risk Financial Risk
Risks related to 
the Company’s 
ability to deliver on 
business priorities.
Risks arising from people, 
processes and systems 
impacting upon efﬁcient 
and effective operations.
Risks related to the 
wellbeing of our people 
and the wider stakeholders 
with whom we interact.
Risks related to 
non-compliance 
with government and 
regulatory requirements 
in the jurisdictions in 
which we operate.
Risks which might impact 
upon our ability to meet 
our ﬁnancial expectations 
and obligations.
 • People, Organisation  
& Culture
 • Mergers & Acquisitions
 • Technology
 • Market Dynamics
 • Asset Life Cycle
 • Service Delivery
 • Supply Chain
 • Contractual
 • Information Technology
 • Information Security
 • Health & Safety
 • Security
 • Environment
 • Ethics
 • Corporate Governance
 • Laws and Regulations
 • FX and Interest 
Rate Volatility 
 • Liquidity and Funding
 • Credit Risk
 • Tax
 • Financial Management 
and Control
Any risk identiﬁed within the business can be 
categorised within the following model. The model 
assists with the identiﬁcation and consolidation process 
and is the basis for how we articulate our risk appetite.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
RISK CATEGORISATION MODEL
 2.
 Prioritise
 4.
Monitor
 1.
Identify
 3.
 Assess
Risk 
Appetite
1 2 3 4
IDENTIFY
Identify the risk events 
or missed opportunities 
which could have a material 
impact on the ability 
of Aggreko to meet its 
business objectives.
PRIORITISE
Prioritise risks based on 
the impact to the business 
should they occur and the 
likelihood of occurrence 
both before and after 
consideration of control, 
design and operation. 
Impact scoring is determined 
by considering several 
factors: Financial; HSE; 
Operational; Reputational; 
and Regulatory.
ASSESS
Assess each risk to determine 
whether further actions 
are required to effectively 
manage the risk to within the 
Group’s risk appetite. Where 
necessary, further actions 
are captured and tracked 
to completion.
MONITOR
Monitor each risk using 
relevant KPIs, where 
available and through 
regular management 
review of actions identiﬁed.
53 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Risk summary
Risk
Primary strategic  
area affected 
Primary KPIs  
impacted Change in 2016
STRATEGIC RISK 
RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S ABILITY TO DELIVER ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Market conditions – 
Rental Solutions
Challenging market 
conditions reduce 
volume and proﬁtability 
in our Rental Solutions 
business.
 • Revenue growth
 • Margins
 • Returns
 • Capital efﬁciency
Market dynamics – 
Power Solutions
Changes in market 
dynamics result in major 
contracts maturing without 
equivalent replacement.
 • Fleet size 
and composition
 • Capital efﬁciency
Change management  
relating to our 
strategic priorities
Failure to deliver the 
expected beneﬁts 
from our strategic priorities.
 • Revenue growth
 • Margins
 • Returns
Talent management Failure to attract, retain and 
develop key employees.
 • Employee satisfaction
Technology – 
market introduction
Ineffective new product 
market introduction 
hinders growth.
 • Fleet size and composition
 • Capital efﬁciency
 • Revenue growth
OPERATIONAL RISK 
RISKS ARISING FROM PEOPLE, PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS IMPACTING UPON EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE OPERATIONS
Cyber Security A cyber security breach 
leads to a loss of data, a 
loss of data integrity or a 
disruption to operations.
 • Revenue growth
 • Customer loyalty
 • Earnings per share
HAZARD RISK 
RISKS RELATED TO THE WELLBEING OF OUR PEOPLE AND THE WIDER STAKEHOLDERS WITH WHOM WE INTERACT
Security A security incident occurs 
which affects our people, 
our assets or our operations.
 • Fleet size and composition
 • Safety
 • Revenue growth
Health & Safety A health and safety 
incident occurs which 
results in serious illness, 
injury or death. 
 • Safety
Environment An environmental incident 
occurs due to a failure in 
project execution.
 • Customer loyalty
 • Revenue growth
 • Safety
 • Employee turnover
COMPLIANCE RISK 
RISKS RELATED TO NON-COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN THE JURISDICTIONS IN WHICH WE OPERATE
Failure to conduct 
business dealings 
with integrity  
and honesty
An employee or person 
acting on our behalf makes 
a payment which is or is 
perceived to be a bribe.
 • Customer loyalty
 • Revenue growth
 • Operating proﬁt margin
FINANCIAL RISK 
RISKS WHICH MIGHT IMPACT UPON OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR FINANCIAL EXPECTATIONS AND OBLIGATIONS
Taxation Unanticipated tax liabilities 
in developing countries.
 • Earnings per share
Failure to collect  
payments or to  
recover assets
Non-payment by customers 
or the seizure of assets.
 • Capital efﬁciency
 • Margins
 • Returns
KEY TO RISK SUMMARY TABLE
Customer Technology Efﬁciency People
54 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
Aggreko, including those which would threaten our business model, our future performance, and 
our solvency and liquidity. These are as set out over the following pages. This list is not exhaustive; 
our operations are large and geographically diverse and the list might change, as something 
that seems immaterial today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
The order in which they are presented is aligned to our risk categorisation model.
STRATEGIC
MARKET CONDITIONS – RENTAL SOLUTIONS
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: BRUCE POOL, PRESIDENT RENTAL SOLUTIONS
Risk Background and impact Mitigation
Challenging market 
conditions reduce volume 
and proﬁtability in our 
Rental Solutions business.
North America is the largest Area in Rental Solutions 
and Oil & Gas and Petrochemical & Reﬁning are its 
largest market sectors, so any change in market 
conditions for these sectors has a signiﬁcant impact 
on Rental Solutions revenue and proﬁt.
 • Implementation of our strategic priorities, including 
a revised business model for the Rental Solutions 
business aligned to our key sectors and development 
of our sales force capabilities.
 • Reorganisation of our business in North America 
including realignment of the sales force around 
customer sectors to improve diversiﬁcation.
 • Development of our Temperature Control business 
(including acquisitions in this area) help to offset 
slower growth in power.
 • Global footprint and ﬂeet homogeneity allows 
us to move ﬂeet between businesses.
 • In-house manufacturing of equipment enables 
us to quickly adjust capital expenditure to react 
to downturns.
 • Market monitoring and analysis using external data 
where appropriate to reﬂect economic conditions 
in future forecasts.
Changes during 2016: As noted in our commentary on performance in the Rental Solutions business on page 41, this risk caused a signiﬁcant impact in 
2016. The lower oil price reduced the demand for temporary power from customers in the Oil & Gas sectors, particularly in the North American market. 
In future we anticipate that any future impact would be lower as these conditions have been factored into our future forecasts. The higher the oil price, 
the lower we expect the impact of this risk to be.
Read more about Rental Solutions performance on page 41.
MARKET DYNAMICS – POWER SOLUTIONS
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: NICOLAS FOURNIER, MANAGING DIRECTOR POWER SOLUTIONS
Changes in market dynamics 
result in major contracts 
maturing without equivalent 
replacement.
A change in market dynamics could have a material 
effect on revenues and proﬁt.
The impact of low commodity prices on the economies 
of developing countries has reduced their capacity 
to pay for temporary power.
Customer buying power has increased as a result 
of increased competition for power projects.
 • As part of the change programme running within the 
business, there are speciﬁc initiatives to improve the 
sales capability within the Power Solutions business 
whilst reducing the overall cost base to allow us to 
remain competitive.
 • Technology improvements make our offering 
more competitive as we improve fuel efﬁciency 
and provide alternative fuel technology allowing 
us to reduce the overall cost of energy.
 • Project pipeline and ﬂeet utilisation form a part 
of the monthly business reviews. 
 • Diverse customer base to minimise exposure 
to any single geography.
Changes during 2016: We have been successful in signing extensions in Bangladesh and Venezuela during 2016. In addition, we have taken on 1,057MW 
of new orders over the course of 2016. The successful implementation of our business priorities will stand us in good stead to continue to adequately 
mitigate this risk area. In January 2017, we announced that the Government of Argentina had extended 174MW of our ﬁxed site contracts (originally 
180MW) until 31 December 2017. 214MW of our standby contracts (originally 270MW) were also extended until the end of February or March 2017. 
However, the outlook for our contracts in Argentina remains uncertain.
Read more about Power Solutions performance on page 42.
55 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Principal risks and uncertainties continued
STRATEGIC CONTINUED
CHANGE MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: TOM ARMSTRONG,  
GROUP CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER & PROGRAMME DIRECTOR
Risk Background and impact Mitigation
Failure to deliver the 
expected beneﬁts from 
our strategic priorities.
The market environment in which we operate has 
become more challenging. In recognition of a need to 
evolve, we have outlined a number of business initiatives 
which we are undertaking in order to better position the 
Group for the future.
If we do not successfully execute these in a timely and 
sustainable manner, it could result in a material impact 
on projected future revenue and proﬁt.
 • The programme continues to have senior leadership 
focus and sponsorship. 
 • A programme management ofﬁce is in place 
with executive management leadership providing 
challenge, assurance and risk oversight.
 • Formal project management disciplines, appropriate 
resourcing and management reporting of each 
initiative are in place.
Changes during 2016: We have made good progress towards delivery of the business initiatives identiﬁed previously and have good governance 
in place to ensure the initiatives are fully delivered. However, we recognise the criticality of the phase we are in, hence the heightened risk identiﬁed.
Read more about Strategic Priorities on page 27.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: ANNA FILIPOPOULOS, GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR
Failure to attract, retain and 
develop key employees.
Aggreko knows that it is people who make the 
difference between great performance and mediocre 
performance. This is true at all levels within the business. 
We are keenly aware of the need to attract the right 
people, establish them in their roles and manage their 
development.
Failure to do so could result in loss of productivity and 
intellectual capital, increased recruitment costs and 
lower staff morale.
 • Talent management review which covers 
the management population and fosters 
people development.
 • Succession planning exercise completed during 2016.
 • We reward people well for good performance and 
have in place a Long-term Incentive Plan.
Changes during 2016: Group staff turnover (excluding redundancies) is lower than last year. However, staff turnover has increased in a couple of 
key areas of the business and we are taking action to address this. During 2016, we continued with our plans to complete a comprehensive talent 
management and succession planning review and have taken steps to address opportunities for improvement which the review identiﬁed.
Read more about People on page 23.
TECHNOLOGY – MARKET INTRODUCTION
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: NICOLAS FOURNIER, MANAGING DIRECTOR POWER SOLUTIONS
Ineffective new product 
development and market 
introduction hinders growth.
New product development and its introduction into 
our ﬂeet is one of our key business initiatives. We are 
continuing to evolve our product offering to include: 
engines with greater fuel efﬁciency (e.g. Next Generation 
Gas); alternative fuel technology (e.g. Heavy Fuel Oil); and 
renewable technology (e.g. Diesel/Solar hybrid).
To introduce new products effectively we need to 
ensure that we understand the markets where there 
is likely to be demand. In addition, we need to develop 
the appropriate expertise to successfully commission 
and operate our ﬂeet, whilst ensuring that the 
technical capability of our sales teams is appropriate 
to adequately manage customer expectations. 
 • Rigorous new product introduction process 
operating to identify and resolve any product 
performance issues prior to roll out.
 • Market intelligence gathered and utilised to 
formulate a marketing strategy for new products.
 • Training delivered to the sales team on the product, 
market opportunities and commercial risks 
associated with new technology.
 • Sales champions identiﬁed for new technology 
in each region.
 • Monitoring of pipeline conducted on a monthly basis.
Changes during 2016: 2016 saw considerable focus on and investment in the development of our HFO and NGG offerings which are due to be 
introduced to the market in 2017.
Read more about the technology developments taking place as part of our Strategic Priorities on page 28.
56 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW OPERATIONAL
CYBER SECURITY
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: TOM ARMSTRONG,  
GROUP CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER & PROGRAMME DIRECTOR
Risk Background and impact Mitigation
A cyber security incident 
leads to a loss of data, a loss 
of data integrity or a disruption 
to operations.
A cyber security incident may be caused by an external 
attack, internal attack or by user error.
Such an incident may lead to the loss of commercially 
sensitive data, a loss of data integrity within our systems 
or the loss of ﬁnancial assets through fraud.
A successful cyber attack on our systems could also 
result in us not being able to deliver service to our 
customers, As a result, we could suffer reputational 
damage, revenue loss and ﬁnancial penalties. 
 • IT security lead appointed, responsible for the 
IT security plan. 
 • A cyber security forum has been formed to monitor 
relevant risks and controls in this area. 
 • Cyber security health check review completed 
by a third-party expert with results implemented 
through the security plan. 
 • Suite of security technology in place including 
antivirus and malware software, ﬁrewalls, email 
scanning and internet monitoring. 
 • Monthly monitoring and regular review of 
user privileges. 
Changes during 2016: The incidence of cyber security breaches continues to increase globally. We have strengthened our incident response capabilities 
through the retention of a third-party provider. Our cyber security forum is now in place and is overseeing several improvement initiatives in this area.
HAZARD
SECURITY
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CHRIS WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
A security incident occurs 
which affects our people, 
assets, or our operations.
The risk that a security incident occurs which adversely 
impacts upon the wellbeing of our people, the security 
of our assets, affects our reputation or our ability to 
generate revenue.
 • The Group Security team under the direction of 
the Group Head of Security provides guidance and 
direction on the appropriate security requirements 
for our operations.
 • The Group Security team monitors the security 
environments in the countries in which we operate 
and ensures that the appropriate risk mitigation 
measures are in place.
 • Employees have access to information on what is 
required for them to be adequately equipped for 
the security environment in which they operate.
 • The Group Security team monitors alerts from 
independent security information providers on 
any incidents which may affect our staff.
 • Security risks are monitored closely by the Executive 
management team with monthly brieﬁngs provided 
by the Head of Security.
 • Speciﬁc security plans are created for locations 
in High Risk Areas. 
 • In some cases, insurance against losses has 
been procured.
Changes during 2016: The overall level of risk has not materially changed in the year, however, we continued to face speciﬁc security challenges 
in Iraq, Libya, Venezuela and Yemen. In addition, we are cognisant of the increased threat from terrorism across our areas of operations.
57 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Principal risks and uncertainties continued
HAZARD CONTINUED
HEALTH & SAFETY
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CHRIS WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Risk Background and impact Mitigation
A health and safety incident 
occurs which results in serious 
illness, injury or death.
We have a number of staff operating in high risk 
locations. Aside from those security considerations, 
issues facing personnel include: poor road infrastructure, 
a lack of availability of healthcare and exposure to 
contagious diseases. We also operate within high risk 
customer sites such as offshore oil and wind platforms 
and at mine sites.
Operationally, the business of the Group involves 
transporting, installing and operating large amounts 
of heavy equipment, which produces lethal voltages 
or very high pressure air and involves the use of millions 
of litres of fuel. All of these could cause serious damage 
to our people and third parties if not handled with 
appropriate caution. 
 • We have a proactive operational culture with health 
and safety at the top of our agenda. Our global policy 
has been communicated across the organisation in 
all languages. 
 • HSE management system including KPIs which are 
reviewed by the Board on a regular basis. 
 • We work very closely with our customers, employees 
and health and safety authorities, to evaluate 
and assess health and safety risks to ensure that 
health and safety procedures are developed and 
rigorously followed. 
 • Where health matters are of concern, we implement 
stringent testing procedures and restrict access to 
our sites. 
 • Comprehensive site induction materials are provided 
to all visitors and staff rotating into a new country. 
 • Defensive driving training is provided in high risk  
countries whilst journey management is an important 
part of our HSE system.
 • Our equipment is subject to rigorous testing prior 
to it being utilised. Comprehensive training materials 
are compiled and communicated to relevant staff.
Changes during 2016: No material changes in 2016. We have rolled out an online risk identiﬁcation tool which allows tracking of health and safety risks 
and incidents to allow improvements to be made. As our new ﬂeet is developed, risk assessments have been conducted in order to identify any speciﬁc 
health and safety considerations.
Read more about Health and Safety on page 66.
ENVIRONMENT
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CHRIS WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
An environmental incident 
occurs due to a failure in 
project execution.
We are committed to exploring new ways of reducing 
our impact on the environment by reducing emissions 
and improving efﬁciency. We comply with all air quality 
regulatory requirements for emissions and have a 
technology roadmap, looking at bio-fuels, fuel cells 
and hybrids. Aggreko and its customers handle a 
considerable quantity of diesel fuel on a daily basis. 
Despite our best efforts, there remains a possibility 
that accidental fuel spills could occur with a resultant 
environmental impact. 
This may be caused by an equipment failure or 
human error.
 • Equipment designed to minimise the risk of 
ﬂuid spillage and to quickly alert operators when 
a spillage may have occurred.
 • All equipment is subject to regular review 
and maintenance.
 • HSE representatives monitor spill levels and identify 
risk areas in order that proactive preventative steps 
can be taken.
 • Spill prevention procedures are in place in all 
Aggreko sites where large quantities of fuel are stored.
 • Following any spillage, an incident report is compiled 
and any learnings communicated across the Group.
Changes during 2016: No material changes in 2016. We have operated well within our target during 2016 and have plans in place to further improve 
our equipment design and spill response plans.
Read more about Environmental Management on page 66.
58 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW COMPLIANCE
FAILURE TO CONDUCT BUSINESS DEALINGS  
WITH INTEGRITY AND HONESTY
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: PETER KENNERLEY, GROUP LEGAL DIRECTOR & COMPANY SECRETARY
Risk Background and impact Mitigation
An employee or person 
acting on our behalf makes 
a payment which is or is 
perceived to be a bribe.
The scale and global nature of much of our business 
exposes us to risks of unethical behaviour. 
This risk is particularly relevant due to the following 
factors:
 • We operate in several countries with perceived 
high levels of corruption;
 • We participate in tenders for high value contracts 
involving public procurement; and 
 • Our business model involves the use of third-party 
sales consultants/agents in some countries where 
we do not have a permanent presence.
We are aware of the potential reputational and 
ﬁnancial impact of such behaviour and we 
have in place a robust compliance programme 
to mitigate our exposure to this risk.
 • Anti-bribery and corruption framework designed 
in line with UK Government guidance and 
implemented across the Group.
 • Ethics policy in place with which employees, 
agents and sales consultants are required to comply. 
 • Training of employees and third-party sales 
consultants on anti-bribery and corruption policies 
and procedures. 
 • Board-level leadership through our Ethics Committee 
which oversees the compliance policies and 
procedures and aims to foster a culture of integrity 
and honesty in all of our business dealings.
 • Due diligence undertaken on sales consultants 
and agents. Once appointed we regularly monitor 
their performance, audit payments and refresh 
due diligence at least every two years.
 • Head of Compliance and Internal Audit monitor 
compliance with policy requirements in this area.
 • An independent whistle-blowing system is in 
place which allows employees to report concerns 
conﬁdentially and anonymously. All reports received 
are fully investigated.
Changes during 2016: We have continued to strengthen our compliance programme in 2016 having delivered online training to all employees and  
face-to-face training with the senior management teams and completed the roll out of the Supplier Code of Conduct.
Read more about Ethics and Integrity on page 69.
59 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Principal risks and uncertainties continued
FINANCIAL
TAXATION
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CAROLE CRAN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Risk Background and impact Mitigation
Unanticipated tax liabilities 
in developing countries.
Due to Aggreko’s extensive geographic footprint we are 
exposed to tax risk as follows: 
 • We fail to understand our responsibilities with 
respect to registration, tax ﬁlings and/or the extent 
of our liabilities.
 • We may be subject to taxation that we did not 
anticipate when we began working in some 
developing countries where tax regimes may be 
subject to frequent change and there is a lack 
of precedent or guidance.
 • Group Tax Director supported by regional tax teams 
across the business. 
 • Local external tax advisers are consulted before and 
subsequent to entry into a new jurisdiction to allow 
us to identify speciﬁc tax/customs requirements 
and to appropriately manage our tax affairs.
 • The Group Tax team is involved in the review 
of all proposals which would involve operating 
in a new country.
 • Regular monitoring of compliance obligations within 
the countries in which we operate.
Changes during 2016: Although there have been changes in the level of risk (both positive and negative) in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate, 
overall our net risk remains broadly similar to that of last year.
FAILURE TO COLLECT PAYMENTS OR TO RECOVER ASSETS
EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CAROLE CRAN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Non-payment by customers 
or the seizure of assets.
The Group has some large contracts in emerging 
market countries where payment practices can 
be unpredictable or where their liquidity has been 
adversely affected by a fall in commodity prices. There is 
a risk that we do not obtain payment for a large project 
(or combination of projects) and/or that a material value 
of assets are conﬁscated. 
We take a rigorous approach to credit risk management 
and to date have not suffered a signiﬁcant loss. 
A customer’s non-payment would result in an increased 
bad debt provision or write-off of the debt. Should our 
assets be seized, we would also lose future revenue and 
proﬁt associated with that equipment whilst having to 
write off its residual value.
A related risk is that of excessive delays in customer 
collections impacting cash ﬂows.
 • Regular monitoring of the risk proﬁle and debtor 
position for large contracts. 
 • Mitigation techniques will vary from customer to 
customer, but include obtaining advance payments, 
letters of credit, and in some cases insurance 
against losses. 
 • The scale of our business and the deliberate diversity 
of our customer portfolio makes it less likely that any 
bad debt or equipment seizure would be material 
to the Group’s balance sheet.
Changes during 2016: Our risk in this area has risen slightly in 2016 with debtor days increasing since a year ago. However, we have not suffered 
a signiﬁcant loss in this area during 2016 and have made progress with the most challenging of the overdue debt in Venezuela.
60 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS AND VIABILITY
Demand for Aggreko’s services is created by events with the 
nature of the demand differing by country and therefore we 
address the market through our two business units, as described 
earlier. The Rental Solutions business is linked to local economies 
and commodity cycles and varies in size and nature from country 
to country. The Power Solutions Industrial business is driven by 
local economies in developing markets whilst Power Solutions 
utilities is driven by growth of mini-projects work and shortfalls 
in permanent capacity caused by:
 • Ageing power infrastructure;
 • Hydro-shortages;
 • Social pressures; and
 • Economic growth.
The factors which could affect Aggreko’s growth are 
discussed regularly by both the Executive Committee and the 
Board. The 12 principal risks, which the Board concluded could 
affect business performance are set out on the previous pages.
With the above as background, the Board approached the 
viability assessment as follows:
 • It took the decision to carry out the assessment over 
a three-year period to 2019. Although the prospects of the 
Group are considered over a longer period, three years was 
deemed appropriate because:
 – The Group’s funding requirement can be forecast with 
sufﬁcient accuracy over the viability period.
 – The Group expects to be able to arrange sufﬁcient ﬁnance 
to meet its funding requirements over the viability period.
 – Our historical Power Solutions Utility off-hire rate of 30% 
suggests an average contract life cycle of three years. 
Rental Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial typically 
provide little to no visibility given the shorter-term hire periods 
relative to Power Solutions Utility.
 • It stress-tested the Group’s strategic plans out to 2019 by 
modelling scenarios linked to its principal risks. 
 • In order to reﬂect the possibility that more than one principal 
risk might affect the business at one time a combination 
scenario was also modelled.
The results of this stress-testing showed that, due to the diversity 
of our business and strength of our balance sheet, the Group 
would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios 
occurring over the period by making adjustments to its 
operating plans within the normal course of business.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
61 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review 62 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW GREG SHEPHERD / EVENTS PROJECT MANAGER
In May 2016 we ran the power for the Eurovision 
song contest in Sweden, using only vegetable oil 
as a fuel source. We knew that the environmental 
impact meant a lot to the organisers and using 
our technologically superior ﬂeet, we were 
able to offer a unique, completely sustainable 
solution which met all of their needs.
keep the beat
THE POWER TO
63 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Making a massive difference
In our Power Solutions Industrial and Rental Solutions 
businesses, we provide electricity, heating and cooling 
to individual businesses across many sectors, whilst 
our Power Solutions Utility business typically provides 
electricity to government utilities to support a country’s grid 
infrastructure; in each case we act as a catalyst for business and 
economic growth. We also service the sport and entertainment 
industry and have powered some of the world’s most famous 
events, such as the Olympics and the FIFA World Cup. 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2016 AT 
WWW.AGGREKO.COM
It is important that we conduct ourselves with integrity at all 
times. We are committed to ensuring we conduct our business 
dealings ethically and safely and we aim to minimise our impact 
on the environment whilst working to support our customers 
and their communities.
THE POWER TO MAKE THINGS HAPPEN: 
TRANSFORMING A COMMUNITY 
In 2015 Aggreko installed 95MW of gas power to the Myingyan 
district in Myanmar. The site provides reliable and constant 
electricity to a district that would normally experience 
intermittent power failure during the dry season. This has 
supported the local community and economic needs, 
including schools and one of the country’s largest steel 
mills. Furthermore, through employing local people we are 
implementing an effective knowledge transfer programme 
to up-skill the local workforce and provide them with 
transferable skills for the future.
A year on, we spoke directly to local people about the beneﬁts 
of having Aggreko working alongside them. First, having 
reliable electricity has meant that they can use appliances such 
as fridges and air conditioning, which has improved quality of 
life. Previously they used candles and cooked with ﬁrewood, 
which caused poor air quality and was a ﬁre risk. Second, 
having electricity also means that the school can provide air 
conditioning and therefore remain open when it is very hot, 
improving education levels. Third, electricity has beneﬁted 
businesses too, leading to increased productivity and income. 
Finally, those technicians that work for Aggreko have directly 
beneﬁted from technical training, improved foreign language 
skills and safety tips to use in their everyday life.
The power to make things happen 
Aggreko’s role in society
We live in a world reliant on electricity; 
it is an essential part of everyday life. 
The UN estimates that one in ﬁve people still 
lack access to modern electricity and states 
that energy is central to nearly every major 
challenge and opportunity the world faces 
today. For example, power helps ensure 
survival in hospitals and educate children 
in schools, whilst also helping to improve 
people’s quality of life through simple 
appliances such as air conditioning units 
and fridges. At Aggreko, we believe in the 
positive impact of power and the ability to 
control temperature. We believe it opens 
up opportunity and creates potential for 
individuals, communities, industries and 
societies all over the world. Together and 
over time, we believe our services can 
make a massive difference.
I have gained lots of technical knowledge 
and experience from Aggreko . . . they have 
also given us safety advice that we can 
apply in our normal life.
HTET YE SWE / MECHANICAL TECHNICIAN,  
MYINGYAN, MYANMAR
64 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW RESPONDING TO OUR CUSTOMERS
The provision of electricity, heating and cooling are essential 
activities in our global economy; however, they come 
with challenges, particularly environmental challenges. 
We are committed to growing our business and supporting 
our customers. As a consequence of the fuel sources that we 
use in our products, it is inevitable that some of our activities 
will have an impact on the environment. 
Our equipment and processes are designed to comply with 
applicable laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we 
operate in the world. We innovate both in response to customer 
demand and to improve the efﬁciency of our products and 
therefore reduce their environmental impact where we can.  
As fuel is the greatest element of cost in producing power, 
particularly diesel, we have worked to improve the fuel efﬁciency 
of our diesel engines and continue to do so under our strategic 
priorities. In the last couple of years we have introduced new 
technology for our customers in the Oil & Gas sector whereby 
we are able to take the gas by-product from wells and rather 
than burn it as a waste product, use it to run our gas generators. 
A growing area of our business is supporting low-carbon 
emissions generation such as wind and hydro; renewable energy 
is intermittent and we help to make these solutions viable.
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability reporting is an evolving process and one that we are developing. During the year, 
we appointed a manager who is responsible for sustainability reporting and messaging. 
Following this, we undertook a benchmark study to understand where we need to prioritise 
our activity. We are in the early stages of developing our approach to sustainability, particularly 
in “Our People” and “Social Contribution”. The Group is committed to ensuring that our success 
also brings long-term social and economic beneﬁts to the communities and countries where 
we operate and we are now working on a plan for implementation during 2017.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Priorities
Ensure the health and safety of our people and others at work
Minimise our environmental impact
Be accountable and transparent with regards 
to our environmental footprint
Outcome for the business
Maintain our reputation for consideration of health, 
safety and environmental matters
Gain commercial beneﬁt
READ MORE ABOUT HSE 
PAGE 66
SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION
Priorities
Engage with local communities  
and work in partnership
Recruit, train and develop local people
Participate in activities that make a difference
Outcome for the business
Build business longevity
Gain new talent for the organisation
READ MORE ABOUT SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 
PAGE 69
ETHICS 
AND INTEGRITY
Priorities
Ensure we operate with integrity and honesty
Make sure that we are in compliance  
with laws and regulations
Outcome for the business
Maintain our reputation for integrity
READ MORE ABOUT ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 
PAGE 90
OUR PEOPLE
Priorities
Promote equal opportunities
Provide career and personal development  
through engagement
Ensure security whilst at work
Operate with due regard for human rights
Outcome for the business
Attract and retain the best people
READ MORE ABOUT PEOPLE 
PAGE 23
WHAT MATTERS MOST
There are four areas of sustainability focus within the business:
65 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT
CONTEXT
Our activities, the generation of electricity, cool air and heat, 
while essential to the global economy, produce waste and 
greenhouse gases and can present risks to the health and 
safety of our operational teams and others. We are committed 
to minimising these wherever possible, which not only reduces 
harm to the environment and keeps people safe, but helps us 
to gain commercial beneﬁt. 
OUR APPROACH
Aggreko’s equipment is designed to function in all 
environments. By careful design and use of the most suitable 
technology, we manage all of our operations in such a 
manner to ensure minimal negative impact on our people, 
our neighbours and the environment in which we operate. 
We take a robust approach, considering each element of 
Health, Safety and the Environment in our product design, 
system design, client interfaces and employee training.
HSE POLICY
The Executive Director with overall responsibility for HSE is 
Chris Weston, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, and our commitment to 
HSE is reﬂected in our Global Health & Safety and our Environment 
Policy Statements. Our CEO is supported by the Group Head 
of HSE, whose responsibility is to ensure that the HSE policy, 
standards and procedures are effective and implemented 
throughout Aggreko. Each business lead is also accountable 
for HSE in their area. The Board and the Executive Committee 
are committed to ensuring that the necessary organisation 
exists and resources are available to facilitate the achievement 
of our HSE goals, which are monitored on a monthly basis. 
We recognise our responsibility to understand and effectively 
manage any risks associated with our operations, which could 
potentially affect people and the environment. Aggreko is 
committed to monitoring and ensuring the effectiveness of 
designed control measures and taking action as appropriate. 
Furthermore, Aggreko complies with legal requirements as 
a minimum and takes a transparent approach to the reporting 
and investigation of any incidents that may occur.
SAFETY
A rigorous approach to risk management is absolutely essential if 
we are to avoid accidents which could cause injury to people and 
damage to property and reputation. Through the organisation’s 
risk management process we have identiﬁed key HSE risk factors 
and have put mitigating actions in place. 
Our Energy Safety Rules are designed to ensure that anyone 
working on our equipment and systems is safeguarded from the 
potential hazards associated with energy sources. All operational 
employees undertake detailed training to ensure understanding 
of the hazards and the necessary control measures required to 
work on our equipment and systems safely. Each employee must 
attain a level of achievement suitable to their responsibilities 
before being allowed to work unsupervised.
Through detailed analysis of our workplace injuries, we have 
identiﬁed a need to improve our approach to managing manual 
handling activities. We have engaged a recognised world leader 
in this area to help Aggreko develop an in-house programme to 
reduce manual handling injuries.
We recognise that best practice in safety management requires 
the right culture and to allow us to better understand and 
manage this critical element, we will be using the Health & Safety 
Laboratory’s safety climate survey, to ensure that we maintain the 
right approach to managing HSE. 
Aggreko monitors safety performance relating to workplace 
injuries using “Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate” (LTIFR), where 
any injury resulting in a lost working day beyond the day of the 
accident is included. Our LTIFR for 2016 was 0.45, (2015: 0.39). 
We are disappointed with the increase in lost time injuries 
reported this year and it goes against the positive downward 
trend in our LTIFR over the ﬁve years. The increase has been largely 
driven by an increase in manual handling incidents, so we have 
put in place a manual handling training programme for Q1 2017 
to improve employee understanding and awareness of the 
importance of correct manual handling.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR SAFETY RISKS 
PAGE 57
EMISSIONS-TO-AIR
Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of hydrocarbon 
fuelled engines. Over the years, as engines have become more 
efﬁcient and legislation to limit emissions has become stricter, 
emissions have reduced sharply. Aggreko works in cooperation 
with the manufacturers of engines in order to meet new 
emission requirements. 
It is essential for us to manage emissions-to-air and to ensure 
that we meet new emissions requirements in order to enable 
us to continue operating in a number of countries. It is equally 
important that we play our part in helping to reduce the 
global environmental impact of burning hydrocarbons.
Making a massive difference continued
66 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
In 2016, 99% of our greenhouse gas emissions came from the 
operation of our ﬂeet. Three main factors drive our emissions: the 
fuel type our customers use; the pattern of their usage; and the 
fuel efﬁciency of our ﬂeet.
We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing emissions from 
our ﬂeet and increasing fuel efﬁciency. Over the last few years 
have gradually increased the use of more environmentally friendly 
gas fuelled generators. Gas generators now represent 10% of our 
ﬂeet. Natural gas is a fossil fuel, but it is more environmentally 
friendly, with emissions of sulphur dioxide that are negligible 
in comparison to coal or oil and levels of NOx and CO 2 that are 
signiﬁcantly lower. Where gas fuel is essentially a by-product of 
production, such as in US shales, or derived from a biological 
source, we can help reduce CO 2 and greenhouse gas. 
In addition to the work we have undertaken developing natural 
gas-powered generators, we are regularly reviewing product 
technologies, looking for advances that we can adopt into our 
product portfolio. We have a technology roadmap that is looking 
at bio-fuels and fuel cells and we are currently developing a 
solar-diesel hybrid generator.
On page 119 we have set out a more detailed analysis of our 
greenhouse gas emissions for 2016 and 2015 in the format 
required by the Companies Act 2006.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
PAGE 119
EXHAUST GASES AND PARTICULATES
In an increasing number of countries, air quality regulations 
stipulate emission standards for new equipment. Generally, 
countries allow mobile equipment already operating to 
continue to do so for its useful life; this is called “grandfathering”. 
All our engine suppliers produce engines which comply with the 
latest emissions standards and we gradually introduce these new 
engines to our ﬂeet. Our generator range to meet USA engine 
emissions for the Tier 4 Interim level is complete, with 700 units 
in use. The next step in the USA legislation programme to reduce 
emissions is called Tier 4 Final and we have now introduced the 
ﬁrst 150 generators into our rental ﬂeet in line with this stringent 
speciﬁcation. The European engine emissions regulations are 
different to the USA and the current level in the EU is referred to 
as Stage 3a. We also have a complete product range of generator 
products to meet this standard.
We continue to work closely with engine manufacturers and 
primary technology developers to derive appropriate solutions 
for these requirements.
To further reduce emissions-to-air for speciﬁc projects, we have 
developed an after-treatment that can be applied to our existing 
ﬂeet at our customers’ request. In Japan we have used a special 
unit to reduce NOx by 90%, in order to meet Japanese air quality 
standards. This technology can be readily applied globally as an 
operational bolt on to our standard equipment.
REFRIGERANT EMISSIONS
In accordance with the timelines set out by the Montreal protocol, 
Aggreko has phased out chloroﬂuorocarbon (CFC) plant from its 
temperature control rental ﬂeet and is in the process of phasing 
out hydrochloroﬂuorocarbon (HCFC) plant. Hydroﬂuorocarbon 
(HFC) product, the replacement for CFC and HCFC, is available 
across our full equipment range and has been adopted as 
standard for all new ﬂeet.
MINIMISING NOISE
Noise pollution is another important environmental factor that 
we take very seriously. We aim to provide helpful solutions to 
our customers, minimising the noise associated with producing 
power, heat or cool air.
We have built a competitive advantage through a ﬂeet that 
minimises external noise. This is done through the use of 
custom-built acoustic enclosures as well as high performance 
isolation and attenuation systems. In addition, in designing a 
Power Solutions Utility site, we aim to position the equipment 
such that the noise it does produce has the least effect on the 
immediate environment.
WASTE AND RE-CYCLING
In the normal course of our business, we regularly have to 
replace consumables such as engine oil and ﬁlters. If these are not 
appropriately disposed of, they can cause environmental damage 
such as leakage into the ground water and contamination of the 
local water supplies. If left unattended, they are also unsightly 
and typically not biodegradable. Therefore, it is imperative that 
we remove and safely dispose of our waste products. 
These are normally returned to our service centres where they are 
safely disposed of, or re-cycled where appropriate. On our project 
sites we have procedures in place to collect waste on-site and then 
site-speciﬁc arrangements are made for the safe handling of these 
items. We commit to returning our project sites to the condition in 
which we found them, and therefore work very hard to minimise 
the impact we have.
67 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review Making a massive difference continued
STATEMENT ON UNITED NATIONS  
PARIS CONFERENCE
The United Nations Climate Change Conference held in 2015 
resulted in a global agreement to pursue efforts to limit the 
increase in global temperature to 1.5°C and we acknowledge 
the ratiﬁcation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
To support this, most countries have already outlined how 
they propose to control their emissions of greenhouses gases 
typically for the period up to 2030. For many developing 
countries the commitments made are conditional on 
receiving funding.
Overall in the energy sector the agreement will increase the 
emphasis on:
 • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from burning 
fossil fuels by:
 – more efﬁcient generation and distribution;
 – the increased use of natural gas (that has a lower carbon 
ratio than diesel or coal);
 • Renewables including solar, wind and biogas as part of 
the energy mix; and
 • Stopping highly polluting practices like ﬂaring gas and 
either processing the gas for general use or burning it in 
a controlled and therefore cleaner way to produce power.
There are likely to be some local legislation and incentives 
to drive these changes. For many developing countries the 
priority will remain providing affordable power and accessing 
the associated social and economic beneﬁt.
We will continue to work with our customers both in the 
developed and developing markets to provide solutions 
that will support their commitments to lower emissions.
CASE STUDY:  
HARNESSING TIDAL ENERGY
The Canadian marine industry has very strict requirements 
regarding the use of power generation on marine vessels. 
We have used our experience to work with our customer 
in the Bay of Fundy to provide power equipment for the 
transportation, placement, testing and commissioning of its 
2MW tidal turbine. This cutting edge technology is designed 
to capture energy from the highest tides in the world by using 
huge turbines resting on the sea ﬂoor and once commissioned, 
will provide clean energy to the people of Nova Scotia.
This is North America’s ﬁrst successful 
grid-connected tidal turbine, an innovative 
step towards a lower carbon future.
68 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
We actively engage in supporting the local communities we 
work in and we do this in a number of ways. We are proactive 
in recruiting locally from the community; for example, in Myingyan 
in Myanmar, 77% of the workforce is comprised of local staff. 
We provide extensive on-the-job training for new recruits and give 
them the skills to become technicians. We also get the beneﬁt of 
highly skilled staff, trained on our own equipment. It helps us build 
relationships in the local community which are very important 
when we might be operating a contract for a number of years. 
Our charitable donations are largely focused on the education 
and wellbeing of children.
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
CONTEXT
Aggreko conducts its business with integrity and honesty. 
We are proud that we have a reputation for conducting 
business fairly and professionally. Maintaining these values 
in all of our business dealings is key to our success.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR APPROACH  
TO ETHICS AND INTEGRITY  
PAGE 90
OUR PEOPLE
CONTEXT
People are our greatest asset; their passion and commitment 
are a critical contributor to our success. We are focused on 
providing an environment in which we provide our people 
with the power to make things happen. 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE  
PAGE 23
SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION
CONTEXT
Aggreko is fortunate to work in a wide variety of countries 
and our social contribution is one way of giving back to 
the community. It’s about supporting the communities in 
which we work, whilst being respectful of different cultures. 
OUR APPROACH
Each year, Aggreko engages in a number of initiatives which 
support the communities in which we work. During 2016, 
Aggreko contributed to a range of charitable, community 
and disaster relief organisations. Our policy encourages 
employees to support local initiatives, particularly those 
relating to children’s welfare, education and social health 
projects, and is based on giving donations to many 
organisations which are involved with the communities 
in which we work. During the year, we undertook an audit 
of our community investment and we have identiﬁed a 
number of areas for improvement. A community investment 
strategy is being developed for implementation in 2017.
CASE STUDY:  
10 YEARS SUPPORTING BOOK AID 
This year is the 10th year that Aggreko has supported Book Aid 
International, a charity promoting literacy in Africa. Book Aid 
has provided hundreds of thousands of books to schools and 
libraries across the continent. In celebration of this milestone, 
a number of people from across the business helped pack 
boxes with some of the 10,000 books we’ve committed 
to fund in the 10th anniversary year, which will be sent to 
10 African countries including Cameroon, Kenya, Tanzania, 
Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Over the last 10 years, Aggreko have 
made it possible to send over 150,000 
books to Africa – but that’s not all – 
they have helped refurbish libraries 
and train teachers.
69 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Governance Accounts & other information Performance review KEN HANNA
CHAIRMAN
This year the Board has focused on  
supporting our strategy and ensuring  
we have the right governance framework 
in place to successfully execute that strategy
Chairman’s introduction
OVERVIEW
2016 has been another challenging year for Aggreko. We have had 
to deal with continuing low oil prices, commodity weaknesses 
and re-pricing of several legacy contracts. All of these factors have 
caused downward pressure on the Group’s ﬁnancial performance. 
It takes time to adjust to these pressures, but the Board and I are 
in agreement that our strategic priorities of customer, technology, 
efﬁciency and people will position Aggreko for a strong ﬁnancial 
performance in the future.
HOW GOVERNANCE SUPPORTS OUR 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Delivering on our strategic priorities is crucial to our success. 
The Board has focused on supporting our strategy by ensuring 
we have the right governance framework in place to monitor the 
execution of our strategic priorities. During the year, the Board 
received regular updates from the Programme Management 
Ofﬁcer on each strategic priority and took time out from the usual 
Board calendar to spend a day focusing on strategy, identifying 
key actions to ensure we deliver on those priorities. We also agreed 
on a new set of strategic KPIs, designed to measure success 
against each of our priorities of customer, technology, efﬁciency 
and people. You can read more about our new KPIs on page 34.
THE BOARD IS PLEASED WITH THE INITIATIVES 
LAUNCHED IN 2016 THAT ARE DELIVERING 
AGAINST OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES.
READ MORE ABOUT THESE INITIATIVES  
PAGES 27 TO 31
BOARD CHANGES
In March 2017, we were delighted to announce the appointments 
of Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts as Non-executive Directors.
Barbara is currently a Non-executive Director of two North 
American based companies, Russel Metals and Allegheny 
Technologies, having recently retired as Chairwoman of Boart 
Longyear, a US based company in the minerals drilling sector. 
Barbara brings extensive international non-executive experience 
largely in the US and Australia together with an executive career 
in the mining, exploration and energy industries. Barbara will 
join the Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Miles brings substantial international business experience 
as a Chief Executive and Finance Director. Miles is currently 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of DS Smith Plc, a FTSE international 
packaging group with operations in nearly 40 countries. 
Prior to this, Miles was Group Chief Executive of McBride plc, 
having served as the Group Finance Director before that. 
An engineer by background and also a chartered accountant, 
Miles will join the Audit and Nomination Committees.
In April 2016, after almost nine years of service, Robert MacLeod 
stepped down from the Board. During his time with Aggreko, 
Robert performed a vital role as Audit Committee Chairman, 
overseeing our external audit tender process and making a 
valuable contribution to the Board as Non-executive Director. 
I would like to thank Robert for his service and contribution 
to Aggreko and wish him well for the future.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance; it is the way we do business and 
it is at the core of everything we do. Summarised on the 
page opposite and explained in detail throughout this 
report, we have described the key elements which we believe 
are essential for good corporate governance. We follow the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), as published 
by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and 
are pleased to report that Aggreko has complied in full with 
all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year. We are 
also in compliance with the 2016 version of the Code, which 
will apply to Aggreko’s ﬁnancial year ending December 2017.
70 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE FORMATION OF A GROUP RISK COMMITTEE
This year the Board agreed to establish a Group Risk Committee 
under the chairmanship of our Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and made 
up of the Executive Committee members. Although the Board 
retains overall responsibility for our risk framework, the Group Risk 
Committee performs an important role, focusing on embedding 
the risk framework within the management teams and ensuring 
key controls are in place for each of our principal risks. I am 
pleased with the work of the Group Risk Committee to date; 
you can read more about their role and interaction with the 
Board and Audit Committee during 2016 on page 82.
THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE PERFORMS 
AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN EMBEDDING OWNERSHIP 
OF THE RISKS WITH OUR MANAGERS.
BOARD EVALUATION
I personally conducted the Board evaluation this year, through 
individual meetings with each Board Member, the Rental 
Solutions President, Managing Director for Power Solutions and 
Company Secretary. We focused on the issues raised last year 
by the externally facilitated review in relation to competitors, 
market landscape, risk, succession and talent management. 
We also looked at Board meeting effectiveness. The review 
concluded that we have made good progress against the 
actions in relation to competitors, market landscape and risk, 
though further work was required around succession and talent 
management. We anticipate that the work to refresh our culture 
will make an impact following the launch of our refreshed culture 
in Q2 2017 and we agreed some further actions which we will 
report on next year. The review also found that Board meetings 
were effective and well run, with good relationships between 
members and open debate. We did identify some administrative 
areas for efﬁciency improvements and agreed actions for 2017. 
You can read more about the Board evaluation on page 81.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to recommend a ﬁnal dividend for the 
year ended 31 December 2016 of 17.74 pence (2015: 17.74 pence). 
When added to the interim dividend of 9.38 pence this results 
in a full year dividend of 27.12 pence (2015: 27.12 pence).
LOOKING AHEAD TO 2017
The Board will continue to closely monitor progress against our 
strategic priorities of customer, technology, efﬁciency and people, 
ensuring that they are supported by appropriate governance 
structures. These priorities are an investment in our future and will 
protect Aggreko’s position as the leading global provider of power, 
heating and cooling that is efﬁcient, modular and mobile. 
Finally, I would like to thank our employees for the unwavering 
commitment and hard work during a challenging year.
LEADERSHIP
Your Board rigorously challenges strategy, performance, 
responsibility and accountability to ensure that every 
decision we make is of the highest quality. 
 
 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR LEADERSHIP  
PAGE 75
ACCOUNTABILITY
All of our decisions are discussed within the context 
of the risks involved. Effective risk management 
is central to achieving our strategic objectives. 
 
 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ACCOUNTABILITY  
PAGE 82
EFFECTIVENESS
Your Board continuously evaluates the balance of 
skills, experience, knowledge and independence of 
the Directors. We ensure that all new Directors receive 
a tailored induction programme and we scrutinise 
our performance in an annual effectiveness review. 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR EFFECTIVENESS 
PAGE 80
REMUNERATION
Having a formal and transparent procedure for 
developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors 
is crucial. Our remuneration policy aims to attract, 
retain and motivate by linking reward to performance. 
 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR REMUNERATION  
PAGE 94
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Maintaining strong relationships with our Shareholders, 
both private and institutional, is crucial to achieving 
our aims. We hold events throughout the year 
to maintain an open dialogue with our investors. 
 
READ MORE ABOUT SHAREHOLDERS’ RELATIONS 
PAGE 84
71 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Our Board
KEN HANNA
Chairman
Appointed:
Non-executive Director in October 2010 and 
Chairman in April 2012.
Experience
Ken has international experience, bringing 
ﬁnancial and leadership expertise to Aggreko. 
He possesses knowledge of many different 
business sectors and is an experienced senior 
executive and leader, promoting robust debate 
and a culture of openness in the Boardroom.
Ken is also currently Chairman of Inchcape Plc 
and Chairman of Shooting Star CHASE Charity. 
Until 2009, Ken spent ﬁve years as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of Cadbury Plc. He has also held 
positions as Operating Partner for Compass 
Partners, Group Chief Executive at Dalgety Plc, 
Group Finance Director of United Distillers Plc 
and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe 
Plc. He is also a fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
CHRIS WESTON
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Appointed:
January 2015.
Experience
Chris has experience at a senior level in the 
energy industry, proven leadership skills in a 
large international business and has consistently 
succeeded in driving performance and growth 
in his career. 
Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer in January 2015, Chris was Managing 
Director, International Downstream at 
Centrica plc, where he was the Executive Director 
responsible for the Group’s largest division. 
In this role Chris was operationally responsible 
for both British Gas in the UK and Direct Energy 
in the USA. He joined Centrica in 2001 after 
a successful career in the telecoms industry, 
working for both Cable & Wireless and One.Tel. 
Before that, Chris served in the Royal Artillery. 
He has a BSc in Applied Science, as well as an 
MBA and PhD from Imperial College London. 
Chris was also appointed as a Non-executive 
Director of the Royal Navy in January 2017.
CAROLE CRAN
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Appointed:
June 2014.
Experience
Carole has corporate ﬁnance and accounting 
experience acquired over a number of years in 
senior ﬁnancial roles with considerable exposure 
to emerging markets. Carole was appointed to 
the Board as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer on 1 June 2014. 
Having joined Aggreko in 2004, her previous 
roles include Group Financial Controller and 
Director of Finance. A key member of the senior 
management team, Carole has worked to align 
ﬁnancial strategies with the strategic direction 
of the business. Carole was also appointed 
as a Non-executive Director of Halma plc on 
1 January 2016.
Prior to joining Aggreko, Carole spent seven years 
at BAE Systems, in a range of senior ﬁnancial 
positions, including four years in Australia. 
Carole is also a chartered accountant, having 
trained at KPMG whilst working in their audit 
divisions in the UK and Australia.
RUSSELL KING
Senior Independent Director
Appointed:
Non-executive Director in February 2009 and  
Senior Independent Director in April 2014.
Experience
Russell brings international experience, 
acquired across a number of sectors including 
mining and chemicals, together with strong 
experience in strategy. 
An experienced Non-executive Director, 
Russell currently sits on the boards of 
Spectris Plc as Senior Independent Director 
and Remuneration Committee Chairman and 
Interserve plc as Senior Independent Director. 
He is also Chairman of Hummingbird Resources 
plc. Prior to this, Russell spent eight years at 
Anglo American Plc, latterly as Chief Strategy 
Ofﬁcer and spent 20 years in senior roles at ICI.
UWE KRUEGER
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
February 2015. 
Experience
Uwe brings expertise of the engineering, services 
and renewable energy sectors. He is a physicist 
with a PhD and an honorary professorship 
from the University of Frankfurt and an honorary 
PhD from Heriot-Watt University. Most of his 
career has been spent leading engineering 
and consulting organisations. 
Uwe is currently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
WS Atkins plc. He also sits on the boards of 
SUSI Partners AG and Ontex S.A. and lectures 
at the University of Frankfurt on renewable 
energy. Before joining WS Atkins plc, Uwe was 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Oerlikon, Senior Advisor 
at Texas Paciﬁc Group, President of Cleantech 
Switzerland, and held various senior leadership 
positions at Hochtief AG.
DAME NICOLA BREWER
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
February 2016. 
Experience
Nicola Brewer brings extensive geo-political 
and diplomatic experience to Aggreko, 
having worked in many of the developing 
regions in which we operate.
Nicola is currently Vice Provost at University 
College London, responsible for international 
strategy. She is a trustee of Prince Harry’s 
southern African charity, Sentebale. In her 
previous diplomatic career, she worked in 
Mexico, India and France, was a member of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Ofﬁce Board 
from 2004 to 2007, and was High Commissioner 
to South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland from 
2009 to 2013. As a member of the board of the 
Department for International Development, 
she supervised all UK bilateral aid programmes 
in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East 
and Latin America.
72 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE PETER KENNERLEY
Company Secretary
Appointed:
October 2008.
Peter is our Group Legal Director & 
Company Secretary.
Further details appear on page 74.
Other Directors who served during 2016:
ROBERT MACLEOD
Non-executive Director and  
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
until 28 April 2016.
KEY TO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Audit Remuneration Nomination Ethics
DIANA LAYFIELD
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
May 2012. 
Experience
Diana brings extensive international experience 
and detailed understanding of how to operate  
successfully across emerging markets, particularly 
in Africa and Asia. She also brings experience in 
sales, technology and strategy.
Diana is Vice President, Next Billion Users at 
Google Inc, developing products and services 
for users in emerging markets, and in Fintech. 
Before joining Google, she was Chief Executive, 
Africa Region for Standard Chartered Plc 
and held a number of senior leadership roles 
over 11 years at Standard Chartered. Prior to 
Standard Chartered, Diana was Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of Finexia Ltd, a technology ﬁrm, and a 
consultant with McKinsey & Co, an international 
strategy consulting ﬁrm. Diana has a BA 
from the University of Oxford and a Master’s 
degree in International Economics and Public 
Administration from Harvard University.
IAN MARCHANT
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
November 2013. 
Experience
Ian brings knowledge of the domestic and 
international energy markets, along with 
a substantial understanding of associated 
strategic, ﬁnancial and regulatory issues. 
Until his retirement in June 2013, Ian 
spent 21 years at SSE Plc, most recently 
as Chief Executive, and prior to that as 
Finance Director.
Ian is an experienced Non-executive Director, 
currently serving as Chairman of John Wood 
Group Plc and former Chairman of Inﬁnis Energy 
Plc. He is also Chairman of Maggies Cancer 
Charity, a Member of the Prince’s Council of the 
Duchy of Cornwall, Honorary President of RZSS, 
Chairman of the advisory board of the Centre 
of Energy Policy at Strathclyde University 
and former Chairman of Scotland’s 2020 
Climate Group.
BOARD ATTENDANCE  
IN 2016
Name of Director
Board  
meetings
%  
attended 
AB
Ken Hanna 66 100%
Chris Weston 66 100%
Carole Cran 66 100%
Nicola Brewer 66 100%
Russell King 66 100%
Uwe Krueger 66 100%
Diana Layﬁeld 66 100%
Robert MacLeod
1
22 100%
Ian Marchant 66 100%
A –   maximum number of meetings Director 
could have attended.
B –   actual number of meetings Director attended.
1   Robert MacLeod retired from the Board on 
28 April 2016.
BARBARA JEREMIAH
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
March 2017. 
Experience
Barbara brings extensive international 
Non-executive experience largely in the USA 
and Australia together with an executive career 
in the mining, exploration and energy industries.
An experienced Non-executive Director, Barbara 
currently sits on the Board of Russel Metals and 
Allegheny Technologies having recently retired 
as Chairwoman of Boart Longyear, a US based 
company in the minerals drilling sector. Until her 
retirement in 2009, Barbara spent over 30 years 
in a number of roles in Alcoa Inc. (now demerged 
into Alcoa and Arconic Inc.), the world leader 
in the production of aluminium and related 
products. Her roles in Alcoa included Assistant 
General Counsel, VP Corporate Development 
and Executive VP in charge of strategy and 
M&A. Barbara is an American citizen with a 
BA in political science and is a qualiﬁed lawyer.
MILES ROBERTS
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
March 2017. 
Experience
Miles brings extensive international business 
experience both as a Chief Executive and 
Finance Director.
Miles is currently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
DS Smith Plc, a FTSE international packaging 
group with operations in nearly 40 countries. 
Prior to joining DS Smith Plc in 2010, Miles was 
Group Chief Executive of McBride plc having 
previously been Group Finance Director. 
Prior to this, Miles worked for Costain Group 
plc and Vivendi UK. He also has non-executive 
experience, having served on the boards of 
Poundland Group plc as Senior Independent 
Director and Care UK plc as a Non-executive 
Director. Miles has a degree in Engineering 
and is also a chartered accountant.
73 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance The Executive Committee operates under the direction and authority 
of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; it is responsible for supporting him in all aspects 
of his role. Each member has been assigned individual responsibility for the 
principal risks and uncertainties outlined in the Strategic Report. They also 
sponsor and have overall accountability for delivering against the initiatives 
designed to underpin our strategic priorities of customer, technology, 
efﬁciency and people to enhance our existing competitive advantages.
Our Executive Committee
1 5
9
2
3
4
6
8
7
1
 CHRIS WESTON
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Appointed: January 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 2 years.
Full biography appears on 
page 72.
2
 CAROLE CRAN
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Appointed: June 2014. 
Tenure with Aggreko: 12 years.
Full biography appears on 
page 72.
3
 NICOLAS FOURNIER
Managing Director, 
Power Solutions
Appointed: November 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 1 year. 
Nicolas has responsibility 
for the leadership of the 
Power Solutions business and 
overseeing the delivery of our 
strategic priorities (Customer, 
Efﬁciency and Technology) 
within Power Solutions.
4
 TOM ARMSTRONG
Group Chief Information Ofﬁcer 
& Programme Director
Appointed: August 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 15 years. 
Tom has responsibility for 
the implementation of our 
strategic priorities (Customer, 
Technology, Efﬁciency and 
People) programme designed 
to enhance our competitive 
advantage and deliver sustainable 
growth. Tom is also responsible 
for the Programme Management 
Ofﬁce (PMO).
5
 DAN IBBETSON
Group Business 
Development Director
Appointed: October 2016.
Tenure with Aggreko: 8 years.
Dan has responsibility for 
global business development, 
M&A coordination and Group 
strategy. This new position on the 
Executive Committee will provide 
a critical focus on securing growth 
and maximising opportunities 
into the future.
6
 BRUCE POOL
President,  
Rental Solutions
Appointed: December 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 18 years. 
Bruce has responsibility for the 
leadership of the Rental Solutions 
business and Group Sales & 
Marketing. He is also responsible 
for overseeing the delivery of our 
strategic priorities in relation to 
Customer and Efﬁciency within 
Rental Solutions.
7
 ANNA FILIPOPOULOS
Group Human 
Resources Director
Appointed: April 2016.
Tenure with Aggreko: 
less than 1 year.
Anna has responsibility for 
human resources and internal 
communications, focusing 
on talent and leadership 
development, employee 
engagement and culture. 
She is responsible for overseeing 
the delivery of the strategic 
priority in relation to People.
8
 VOLKER SCHULTE
Group Manufacturing and 
Technology Director
Appointed: August 2015. 
Tenure with Aggreko: 2 years. 
Volker is responsible for building 
on our current engineering 
capability in Dumbarton and 
focusing on enhancing our 
product strategy, product 
development and product 
management with the objective 
of delivering market leading 
products to our customers.
9
 PETER KENNERLEY
Group Legal Director & 
Company Secretary
Appointed: October 2008. 
Tenure with Aggreko: 8 years. 
Peter has overall responsibility 
for the management of legal and  
ethical risk and for supporting 
the Board in setting and 
maintaining standards 
of corporate governance.
74 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Leadership
DIVERSITY METRICS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016
How we divide up our responsibilities
Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance. Setting the agenda 
to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Directors and ensuring the links 
between the Shareholders, Board and management are strong. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Responsible for the day-to-day leadership, management and control of the Group, 
for recommending the Group strategy to the Board and ensuring that the strategy 
and decisions of the Board are implemented via the Executive Committee. 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Responsible for the day-to-day management of the ﬁnancial risk of the Group and 
providing general support to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer including the operational 
performance of the business and chairing the Group Risk Committee.
Senior Independent Director Provides a sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other 
Directors when necessary and is available to meet with Shareholders. 
Independent Non-executive Directors Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of 
the Group strategy within the risk and control environment set by the Board.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and is available to all Directors 
for advice and support. Informs the Board and Committees on governance matters 
and responsible for development of corporate governance policies.
Nationality diversity of permanent employees*
%
European (inc. Russia) 28%
North American 20%
Latin American 19%
Asian 17%
African 10%
Australian 5%
Middle Eastern 1%
*   There are 106 nationalities across Aggreko’s 
permanent employees.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Tenure of Non-executive Directors
No. %
0-3 years 2 40%
3-6 years 2 40%
6-9 years 1 20%
1
2
3
Gender of permanent employees
No. %
Male 5,207 84%
Female 974 16%
1
2
No. %
Male 5 62%
Female 3 38%
Gender of Board
1
2
Gender of senior management*
No. %
Male 56 81%
Female 13 19%
*   We have selected the composition of our 
Senior Leadership Team as we believe 
this to be a better reﬂection of our senior 
management structure than the composition 
of our subsidiary companies, which is made up 
of 96 males and 11 females. The Senior Leadership 
Team is made up of direct reports of the 
Executive Committee and other key roles.
1
2
Executive/Independent Non-executive composition of Board
No. %
Executive 2 29%
Non-executive* 5 71%
*   As required by Code provision B.1.2, this 
calculation excludes the Chairman when 
looking at the Independent Non-executive 
composition of the Board.
1
2
Sector experience of Board
Customer
88%
Energy Operational
75% 63%
Finance
50%
Geo-politics/diplomacy Technology
25% 13%
75 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Leadership continued 
ROLE OF THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group. 
It sets our strategy and oversees its implementation, ensuring 
decisions made reﬂect our risk appetite. It provides leadership and 
direction and has responsibility for corporate governance and the 
overall ﬁnancial performance of the Group. The Board is supported 
in this role by its principal committees, outlined in the table below. 
To retain control of key decisions, the Board has a schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board that only it can approve, 
with other matters, responsibilities and authorities delegated 
to its Committees.
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
Monitors and reviews 
the integrity of Aggreko’s 
ﬁnancial statements, 
the relationship with the 
external auditor, internal 
auditor and oversight of our 
systems for internal control 
and risk management.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 86
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
Determines the 
remuneration for the 
Chairman, Executive 
Directors and the Executive 
Committee members 
and oversees Aggreko’s 
overall remuneration 
policy, strategy 
and implementation.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 94
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
Monitors and reviews 
the composition and 
balance of the Board 
and its Committees to 
ensure Aggreko has the 
right structure, skills and 
experience in place for 
the effective management 
of the Group.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 92
ETHICS 
COMMITTEE
Monitors compliance and 
oversees the effectiveness 
of our ethical policies and 
procedures to ensure 
that Aggreko conducts 
its business with integrity 
and honesty and in 
accordance with the law.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 90
CEO
DISCLOSURE 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for 
compliance with 
Market Abuse 
Regulation and 
supports the Board 
in approving the 
ﬁnal form of any 
announcement or 
statement relating 
to the performance 
of the Group.
FINANCE 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for 
funding and 
treasury decisions.
ALLOTMENT 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for 
decisions regarding 
the allotment 
of shares.
GROUP RISK 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for the 
implementation of 
our risk framework, 
and processes for risk 
reporting, including 
reporting the Group’s 
register of principal 
risks to the Board.
EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE
Operates under 
the direction and 
authority of the CEO. 
It is responsible for 
supporting the CEO 
in all aspects of his 
role. The Executive 
Committee also 
sponsors and has 
overall accountability 
for delivering against 
the initiatives designed 
to underpin the new 
business priorities  
and enhance our 
existing competitive  
advantages.
KEY TO COMMITTEES
Non-Board Board
Board
READ OUR SCHEDULE OF MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD:
IR.AGGREKO.COM/INVESTORS
76 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE BOARD MEETINGS IN 2016
Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16
BOARD MEETINGS
In 2016, the Board held six scheduled meetings and one 
ad hoc meeting. The ad hoc meeting was held by telephone 
in September to ensure the Board was kept up to speed 
on material developments. At each scheduled meeting 
the Board received reports from:
 • The CEO on strategic, operational and business developments 
and health and safety;
 • The CFO on the performance of the business, capital structure, 
ﬂeet, budget, treasury and investor relations; and
 • Each of the Board Committees on matters discussed 
at their meetings. 
The Board also received reports on our ethics compliance 
framework and new technology and product updates.
In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: 
Topic Activity/Discussion Actions arising Progress
Strategy Monitor progress 
against our 
strategic priorities.
One day strategy 
review session.
Received regular 
updates from 
the Programme 
Management Ofﬁce 
on progress against 
the strategic priorities 
and initiatives 
underpinning them.
 
Review KPIs.
Identiﬁed and agreed areas of focus within Rental Solutions, 
Power Solutions, distributed energy and technology to assist in 
delivering against our priorities. Added people to our strategic priorities.
Customer: approved and launched a new CRM system and online 
web presence.
Technology: approved customer ﬁeld trials of next generation 
gas and HFO products. Developing prospects for our solar-diesel 
hybrid product.
Efﬁciency: approved and rolled out new site performance 
management tool, allowing us to move towards condition 
based maintenance in 2017. Generated procurement based 
savings of c£20 million.
New set of strategic KPIs approved to monitor progress against 
our strategic priorities.
Monitor 
opportunities 
for acquisitions.
Refreshed and agreed 
our M&A strategy.
Reviewed a number 
of opportunities 
in 2016.
Bolt-on acquisition of DRYCO, a specialist in moisture control, drying, 
heating and cooling applications within the shipping, manufacturing, 
food processing, construction and industrial painting industries.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES PAGE 27 AND OUR KPIS PAGE 34
Risk 
management 
and internal 
control
Review the Group 
risk register, risk 
appetite and 
effectiveness of the 
risk management 
process to ensure 
we have a robust 
risk management 
framework which 
delivers an effective 
and efﬁcient 
approach to risk 
management and 
positively contributes 
to effective decision 
making.
Following the 
detailed review 
in 2015, continue 
to monitor best 
practice and reﬁne 
the risk management 
framework 
as appropriate. 
Approved the establishment of a Group Risk Committee, chaired 
by our CFO and made up of the Executive Committee members 
to assist with oversight of our risk management process and to 
further embed risk management within our management teams.
Ensured that our principal risks are aligned to key controls and 
form part of the assurance and internal audit programme.
Reviewed our principal risk register in June and December.
77 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Leadership continued
In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: 
Topic Activity/Discussion Actions arising Progress
Risk 
management 
and internal 
control  
continued
Monitoring legacy 
contracts.
Regular updates 
from Power Solutions 
Managing Director.
Detailed analysis undertaken on the macroeconomic background, 
power market and power strategy in countries such as Argentina, 
with signiﬁcant legacy contracts. Close monitoring of tenders 
and successes with modelling of different scenarios for our 
current contracts.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR RISKS
PAGE 52
Leadership  
and  
employees
Succession planning. Review succession 
plans in place for 
Executive Committee, 
Senior Leadership Team 
and direct reports.
Executive off-site meeting held with focus on team development. 
New succession plans approved.
Employee 
engagement 
and culture.
Review culture and 
agree plan to refresh. 
Review all 
employee share 
save arrangements.
Reviewed Executive Committee work on employee purpose, values 
and behaviours. Launch of culture refresh planned for early 2017.
 
Approved all employee share save offer.
Ongoing training 
and development 
for Board members.
Encourage interaction 
between Board 
members and 
employees across 
the Group.
Induction for  
Nicola Brewer.
Board visit to Houston head ofﬁce and Pearland in June 2016.
Board workshop at Manufacturing and Technology site in Dumbarton 
in April 2016 on the design and launch plan for the new medium 
speed HFO engine.
Induction complete.
READ MORE ABOUT 
NICOLA BREWER’S INDUCTION
PAGE 80
READ MORE ABOUT OUR  
VISIT TO NORTH AMERICA
PAGE 79
Governance Discussed format 
for Board evaluation 
in 2016.
Agreed format for 
Chairman’s review with 
one to one sessions with 
each Board member.
Completed implementation of the action points identiﬁed as part of 
the 2015 review.
Agreed 2017 action plan for the Board.
Impact of new 
Market Abuse 
Regulation.
Reviewed existing 
policies and processes 
to assess ability to 
comply with the 
new regulation.
Adopted new policies and procedures for monitoring and handling 
of inside information. Provided training to Directors and employees 
affected by the new regulation.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BOARD EVALUATION
PAGE 81
Shareholders Strong engagement 
with stakeholders 
and investors.
Actively support 
engagement 
opportunities 
and understand 
investor views.
Reviewed the outcome of the investor audit, which gathered 
detailed feedback from our Shareholders. 
Technology “teach in” at Manufacturing and Technology facility in 
Dumbarton in September 2016. This gave investors and analysts an 
overview of our technology agenda and current progress against it.
Sought views from our main Shareholders on a new remuneration 
policy. The new policy will be put to Shareholders for approval at 
the AGM in 2017.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMME
PAGE 84
78 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE In June 2016, the Board met in Houston, the head ofﬁce location 
for our Rental Solutions business. During their visit, the Directors 
received presentations from the Rental Solutions President 
and management team in North America and a detailed update 
on progress against our strategic initiatives in the Rental Solutions 
business. There were also presentations from the management 
team for temperature control and Aggreko Process Services; 
an engineering team within temperature control whose purpose 
is to resolve process bottlenecks associated with temperature 
issues. The Board also hosted a dinner with the Rental Solutions 
management team to give the Board an opportunity to engage 
with the presenters informally.
The Board also visited our Pearland facility for a “management 
walk” to learn about safety at the site. They also met with some 
of the local employees based there, to hear their views about 
working for Aggreko and answer questions.
Aggreko’s Pearland facility is a 13 acre site, housing our largest 
service centre in the North American business, as well as 
national temperature control repair and support centre, Aggreko 
Process Services and a training facility. Pearland has the largest 
temperature control testing capacity in the Americas with four 
test stands totalling 2,500 tons of capacity and the service centre 
generates the largest revenue in the North America business. 
There are over 100 employees working at this site and it was one 
of Aggreko’s ﬁrst locations in North America. Pearland’s business 
sectors include Petrochemical Reﬁneries, Building Services 
and Construction and Events hosted in or around Houston.
As part of Nicola Brewer’s induction process, Nicola also visited 
our ofﬁces at New Iberia with Ken Hanna. During discussion 
groups with employees, Ken explained his role as Chairman and 
answered questions, whilst Nicola gave her thoughts on joining 
Aggreko. The visit included a tour of the major repair facility and 
an introduction to some of the new products being developed 
for the North American business, including the ﬁrst Tier 4 diesel 
oil-free air compressor. Ken and Nicola also visited the local service 
centre, discussed some of the challenges facing this business 
with employees and toured the Rental Centre, learning about the 
initiatives underway at the Rental Centre to improve administrative 
efﬁciencies. Finally they visited the Remote Operations Centre.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2017
 • Continue to closely monitor the work of the Programme 
Management Ofﬁce to ensure the initiatives underpinning 
the strategic priorities deliver the expected beneﬁts within 
the agreed timescales.
 • Monitor the roll out of the re-branded culture around the 
organisation to ensure all employees are aware of the launch 
and understand their role in embedding the culture into 
the organisation.
 • Receive regular updates from the Group Risk Committee 
to ensure this Committee provides the intended level of 
support on risk management and integrated assurance.
 • Plan a board visit to Southern Africa to provide key insights into 
the Power Solutions business in Africa for the Board, engage 
with local employees and visit a local site. 
 • Implement the actions identiﬁed in the 2016 board evaluation.
 • Ensure thorough induction programmes for Barbara Jeremiah 
and Miles Roberts.
Governance in action: 
Board meeting in North America, 
June 2016
Site visits give the Board key insights 
into the business; at least one meeting 
each year is held at a location outside 
London or Glasgow to give the Directors 
an opportunity to review operations 
and meet local employees.
Aggreko’s Pearland facility  
in Texas, North America
79 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Effectiveness
GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: 
NICOLA BREWER’S INDUCTION
Our induction programme aims to give new Non-executive 
Directors a thorough grounding in Aggreko’s business, 
on a Group and business unit basis, areas of signiﬁcant risk 
and a clear understanding of their role and responsibilities.
Key elements include meeting the Executive Directors, senior 
management in the Group and senior management within the 
business units and spending time with the Company Secretary 
to ensure an understanding of directors’ duties, conﬂicts of 
interest, corporate governance, Board procedures, Group 
policies and the use of our electronic Board packs.
Visiting our main sites for brieﬁngs on Group strategy and the 
business units forms an important part of the induction process. 
During Nicola Brewer’s induction to Aggreko, Nicola visited 
a number of locations around the Group.
Induction, development  
and support
We make sure that all new Directors 
receive a full, formal and tailored induction 
on joining the Board. We also plan our 
Board calendar to ensure that Directors 
are able to visit different business locations 
and are briefed on a wide range of topics 
throughout the year. These topics range 
from those with particular relevance 
for our business, such as world energy 
demand, to more general matters such 
as developments in corporate governance. 
We recognise that our Directors have 
a diverse range of experience, and 
so we encourage them to attend 
external seminars and brieﬁngs 
that will assist them individually.
DAME NICOLA BREWER
Non-executive Director
My induction programme was extremely 
comprehensive. It helped me to learn 
about the different aspects of the business 
and absorb its culture. This enabled me 
to start contributing to Board discussions 
more quickly and conﬁdently.
China – Shanghai  
Nicola met with the North 
Asia management team, 
receiving an overview of their 
business, visiting the Shanghai 
Depot and meeting with an 
equipment supplier. 
Scotland – Dumbarton 
As part of a Board visit to the 
Manufacturing and Technology 
site, Nicola attended a 
workshop on the design 
and launch plan for the new 
medium speed HFO engine.
UAE – Dubai 
Nicola met with the Middle 
East management team for 
an overview of the business 
and went on a site tour of the 
Jebel Ali ofﬁce and depot.
North America – Houston, 
Pearland and New Iberia 
See page 79 for information 
on the Board’s visit to Houston 
and Pearland and Nicola’s visit 
to New Iberia.
80 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Board evaluation framework
Step one
Brieﬁng and preparation • The Chairman presented a paper to the Board outlining 
the proposed evaluation process for 2016.
 • Key areas of focus for the 2016 
evaluation included:
 – Our response to the three 
main topics raised last year 
(strategic issues, risk and 
control, succession and 
talent management).
 – Board and meeting  
effectiveness.
Step two
One to one discussions  • The Chairman conducted one to one discussions with each 
member of the Board, the Company Secretary, Managing 
Director for Power Solutions and President for Rental Solutions. 
Both the Managing Director for Power Solutions and President 
for Rental Solutions regularly attend Board meetings.
Step three
Presentation  
of ﬁndings  
and discussion
 • The Chairman prepared a draft discussion document on the 
key areas discussed.
 • The Board discussed the ﬁndings 
as a group, noted progress made 
against the actions for 2016 and 
agreed actions for 2017.
Step four
Insights, conclusions 
and actions for 2017
Good progress has been made against the three main topics 
raised last year.
Strategic issues (including competitiveness and 
market landscape)
 • We have reviewed the market landscape, our competitors and 
implications for our strategy.
 • We received regular updates on technology in 2016, including 
updates on the progress of HFO and solar diesel, with further 
items scheduled for 2017.
 • New strategic KPIs were approved in 2016, further information 
can be found on page 34.
Risk and control
 • Group Risk Committee established.
 • Risk register reviewed in June and December.
Succession and talent management
 • Although some progress had been made and the 
appointment of a new Group HR Director had made a good 
impact, actions remained ongoing in relation to succession and 
talent management and further actions were agreed for 2017.
 • Successful Board visits to Dumbarton, Houston and 
Pearland in 2016.
 • The evaluation also examined the 
current workings of the Board to 
identify potential improvements. 
Board and Meeting Effectiveness
 • Well run meetings allowed 
time for discussion of the 
issues, debate was respectful 
and the Board was balanced. 
Good relationship between 
Board members and the 
attendance at meetings of the 
Power Solutions Managing 
Director and Rental Solutions 
President was valuable.
 • Some constructive points 
were raised in relation to 
Board meeting administration, 
actions were agreed to improve 
efﬁciency for 2017.
THIS YEAR’S BOARD EVALUATION EXERCISE
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, we undertake 
a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of our own performance 
and that of our Committees and individual Directors each year.
We operate a three-year cycle of Chairman’s review, 
Company Secretary’s review and externally facilitated review. 
Aggreko’s last externally facilitated evaluation took place in 2015, 
so this year the review was carried out by the Chairman.
81 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Accountability
Following an extensive update in 2015, the Board has focused 
on embedding the improved risk management process into 
the Group. This year the Board has spent some time challenging 
the alignment of key controls to our principal risks and ensuring 
the effectiveness of those controls by reviewing them as part of 
our assurance and internal audit programme. For example, the 
Internal Audit team has undertaken audit reviews around the 
change management relating to our strategic priorities, providing 
challenge over the effectiveness of controls and identifying 
opportunities for improvement.
The objective of our risk framework is to provide the Board, 
Audit Committee and Executive Committee with a useful 
management tool to capture, assess and proactively manage 
the risks we face. Our risk management process also ensures that 
we take account of our business model and strategy to ensure 
alignment with our risk appetite, framework and controls. In turn, 
this enables us to fully comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code requirement for a viability statement.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE: 
To ensure sufﬁcient oversight of our risk management process and 
to further embed it within our management teams, we formed 
the Group Risk Committee in 2016. This Committee is chaired by 
our CFO, Carole Cran, and is attended by our Executive Committee 
members. The Group Risk Committee met twice in 2016.
The Group Risk Committee’s primary role is the implementation 
of our risk framework. This includes review of the Group Register 
of Principal Risks, with challenge given to the prioritisation and 
management of individual risks as appropriate. In future, the 
Group Risk Committee will also oversee efforts to align assurance 
activity across the Group. Following each meeting, reports are 
made to the Audit Committee and Board. The reports to the 
Audit Committee focus on the effectiveness of the control 
environment for our risks. The reports to the Board focus on 
agreeing the register of principal risks and any changes to the risk 
management framework, including proposals for amendments 
to the risk appetite.
RISK APPETITE:
Our approach to risk appetite has been developed in line with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. By articulating the type and 
level of risk we are willing to take in order to achieve our strategic 
objectives, we aim to support consistent, risk-informed decision 
making across the Group. We have deﬁned our risk appetite for 
each of the categories of risk as shown on page 53 of this report. 
Our risk appetite has been incorporated into our risk management 
framework and the Group Risk Committee and Board monitor 
whether we are operating within our appetite through review 
of a series of agreed metrics and a review of the register of 
principal risks.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK: 
A full review of the Group register of principal risks was completed 
during June and July 2016 for our interim reporting. This exercise 
was undertaken again at the year end. Details of the process the 
Board has in place to identify, evaluate and manage principal 
risks can be found in the risk section of the Strategic Report. 
This process has been in place for the period under review and 
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
In addition, we monitor the effectiveness of the risk management 
framework and internal control systems on an ongoing basis. 
No signiﬁcant failings or weaknesses have been identiﬁed. 
Further detail on the process for monitoring the effectiveness 
of our risk management framework and control environment 
can be found in the Audit Committee Report.
Risk management and 
internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
risk management framework and internal 
control systems. The Group operates 
deﬁned internal control systems across 
ﬁnance, operations and compliance, with 
key controls identiﬁed and assessed across 
the year. Group Risk, Group Internal Audit 
and internal control teams operate within 
the business to monitor and assess the 
effective operation of these controls. 
The Board, via the Audit Committee 
and our new Group Risk Committee, 
monitors the internal control systems on 
an ongoing basis. The process is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate risk, 
and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
82 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK – ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Management & Monitoring
Group Risk Committee
(makes recommendations  
to the Audit Committee and Board)
Oversight
Audit Committee
(makes recommendations  
to the Board)
 
Ultimate  
Responsibility
Board
Ownership
Business Units, Senior Leadership Team  
and Group Functions
(supported by Group Risk)
 • Ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal control
 • Approves the risk management framework
 • Approves the risk appetite and monitors compliance
 • Approves the Group register of principal risks
 • Approves the viability statement
 • Responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems for internal control and risk management
 • Reviews and challenges the risk management framework
 • Reviews the effectiveness of the control environment
 •  Reviews the effectiveness of and approves the approach 
for the viability statement
 • Responsible for implementing and embedding risk management  
and internal controls
 • Deﬁnes the risk management process to be followed by the  
business (including risk appetite) 
 • Reviews and challenges the Group register of principal risks ensuring 
controls identiﬁed are operating and tracks closure of items
 • Facilitates risk process, collating risk registers and consolidating 
the Group risk register 
 • Aligns assurance activity
 • Responsible for identiﬁcation, prioritisation, assessment 
and monitoring of risk which may arise in the business
 • Risks and associated controls are owned and operated  
by management
 • Risk registers are maintained and form the basis of the  
Group risk register
READ ABOUT OUR RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT 
PAGE 52
GOVERNANCE IN ACTION:  
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of Aggreko in 
all of our reporting obligations. This responsibility covers the 
Annual Report and extends to the interim report and other 
regulatory announcements.
The Directors consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to 
be fair, balanced and understandable, providing the information 
necessary for Shareholders to assess the Company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy. In arriving at 
this position, the Board asked the Audit Committee to review 
and conﬁrm the process we have in place to support this 
assessment. The Audit Committee conﬁrmed that we have 
a robust approach in place to support the fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment.
For the 2016 Annual Report, this process included:
 • Comprehensive management and statutory accounts 
processes, with written conﬁrmations provided by the 
regional senior management teams on the “health” 
of the ﬁnancial control environment;
 • Detailed reviews of the Annual Report and Accounts 
undertaken at different levels of the Group and by the senior 
management team that aim to ensure consistency and 
overall balance;
 • A veriﬁcation process, involving our internal audit team, 
dealing with the factual content of the Annual Report;
 • A key accounting judgements paper covering contract and 
tax provisions, along with a summary of any changes in our 
accounting policies for 2016; and
 • Both the Audit Committee and Board received an early draft 
of the Annual Report to enable time for review and comment.
“ The Directors consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, 
to be fair, balanced and understandable.”
READ MORE IN OUR AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT  
PAGE 86
83 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Relations with Shareholders
WHAT OUR SHAREHOLDERS HAVE ASKED US ABOUT THIS YEAR
Power Solutions Utility pipeline and prospects
Legacy contracts and key extensions in Power Solutions Utility
Exposure to Oil & Gas and emerging markets
Strategic priorities
Performance outlook
Organisational changes and morale
Cash ﬂow, capital expenditure, debt and dividend cover 
Shareholder returns
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2016
MAY
Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch Business 
Services Conference
Conference calls and 
meetings with investors 
following the ﬁrst quarter 
trading update
JUNE
Technology 
Capital Markets Day 
in Dumbarton
APRIL
Roadshows on the 
east coast of the 
USA & Canada
AGM
MARCH
Roadshows in the UK 
following the preliminary 
results announcement
Citi Business 
Services Conference
84 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Understanding what analysts and investors think about us, 
and in turn, helping these audiences understand our business, 
is a key part of driving our business forward and we actively 
seek dialogue with the market. We do so via investor roadshows, 
attending investor conferences, hosting capital markets 
days and our regular reporting. The Board receives regular 
updates on the views of Shareholders through brieﬁngs and 
reports from Investor Relations, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and the Company brokers. In addition, 
our Senior Independent Director, Russell King, is available to 
meet Shareholders if they wish to raise any issues separately. 
Results and other news releases such as contract wins and 
changes to our strategy are published via the London Stock 
Exchange’s Regulatory News Service (RNS). Any announcement 
published via RNS is also available on the Group’s Investor 
Relations website at ir.aggreko.com/investors; a subscription 
service is available for interested parties to receive these updates 
by email. We continually seek to enhance our communications 
and alongside the publication of this report we have refreshed 
our corporate and investor relations websites.
The Group has an ofﬁce in London, where the Investor 
Relations team is based, and maintains ongoing relations 
with analysts and investors through telephone calls and 
meetings. Throughout 2016, we have continued to maintain 
open and transparent communication with analysts and 
investors through meetings, presentations, conferences and 
site visits. In June 2016, we hosted a capital markets day on 
our technology strategic priority, at our Manufacturing and 
Technology facility in Dumbarton, Scotland.
During the year, the Investor Relations team and senior 
management conducted almost 460 meetings, met or spoke 
to over 400 institutions and participated in seven conferences. 
Meetings are conducted by at least one of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer or a member 
of the Investor Relations team and these meetings occurred 
in a number of key locations around the world; during the 
year we met investors in the UK, USA, Canada and France. 
In future we aim to include broader management in investor 
meetings throughout the year, to allow investors to gain 
a broader perspective of management and the business.
During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
held a number of consultations with Shareholders around 
the development of the new remuneration policy, Long Term 
Incentive Plans and general performance of the business. 
Read more about our new remuneration policy and Long-Term 
Incentive Plans on page 94.
We also enjoy meeting and engaging in discussion with our private 
Shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
The 2017 AGM will be held in Glasgow on Thursday, 27 April 2017.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR STRATEGY PAGE 27
KEY TO COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
Interim results Full year results Trading update Investor meetings AGM Site visit
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2016
DECEMBER
Credit Suisse  
European  
Business Services  
and Transport  
Conference
AUGUST
Interim year 
ﬁnancial results
Conference calls 
and meetings with 
investors following 
the interim results
Roadshows on the 
east coast of the  
USA & Canada 
following the  
interim results
OCTOBER
Roadshow on the 
west coast  
of the USA
NOVEMBER
Conference calls 
and meetings with 
investors following 
the third quarter 
trading update
SEPTEMBER
Roadshows in the 
UK and France 
following the 
interim results
Rental Solutions 
investor visit 
with Barclays
85 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Audit Committee report
IAN MARCHANT
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016
 • Oversaw the transition of external auditor responsibilities from 
PricewaterhouseCoopers to KPMG to ensure independence was 
maintained and a successful 2016 external audit.
 • Provided oversight on the effectiveness of our risk management process, 
ensuring effective controls were in place for each risk.
 • Reviewed and agreed approach to accounting policies for product 
development expenditure and the impact of new accounting standards.
 • Reviewed our cyber security arrangements with the Chief Information 
Ofﬁcer and agreed actions, including employee training, for 2017.
 • Managed the transition of responsibilities for the Chairmanship of the 
Committee from Robert MacLeod to Ian Marchant.
AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017
 • Continue to monitor the status of internal audit actions.
 • Continue risk management oversight with presentations scheduled 
from the Directors of Finance for Power Solutions and Rental Solutions 
and Group Treasurer on treasury risk management.
 • Review our terms of reference to take account of the 2016 update to 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and rule changes to the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules, both of which will apply to our 2017 year end.
MEMBERS IN 2016
Meetings attended
Ian Marchant – Audit Committee Chairman from 29 April 2016
Robert MacLeod – Audit Committee Chairman until 28 April 2016
1
Russell King – Senior Independent Director
Diana Layﬁeld – Non-executive Director
1
 Robert MacLeod retired from the Board on 28 April 2016.
INTRODUCTION BY IAN MARCHANT,  
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
Ensuring the integrity of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements and 
determining whether the judgements taken by management 
are appropriate, are key to the workings of the Committee. 
This report provides an overview of the signiﬁcant issues we 
considered. This report also shares some insight into the work 
we have undertaken this year to assess the independence and 
effectiveness of the external auditor and oversee the Group’s 
systems for internal control and risk management.
The Committee is currently made up of three Independent 
Non-executive Directors, including myself as Chairman. I have 
been a member of the Committee since November 2013 and 
was appointed as Chairman of the Committee in April 2016. 
I am a chartered accountant and, prior to my appointment 
as Chief Executive of SSE (2002 to 2015), I served as Finance 
Director of SSE for four years and of Southern Electric for two 
and a half years. As a Committee, we bring an appropriate 
balance of ﬁnancial and accounting experience, together 
with a deep understanding of Aggreko’s business and market 
sector. Diana Layﬁeld and I are the members of the Committee 
identiﬁed with recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience.
In 2016 we held three scheduled meetings. The meetings are 
aligned to the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting timetable, to allow 
sufﬁcient time for full discussion of key topics and enable early 
identiﬁcation and resolution of risks and issues. We invited the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer to 
attend our meetings in 2016, together with the Group Financial 
Controller, Director of Internal Audit and the KPMG Audit Partner.
ROLE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
 • Monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements, including 
reviewing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting issues and judgements 
alongside the ﬁndings of the external auditor.
 • Review the effectiveness of the Group’s systems for internal 
control, ﬁnancial reporting and risk management.
 • Advise the Board on the effectiveness of the fair, balanced and 
understandable review of the Annual Report.
 • Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, external 
audit process, nature and scope of the external audit, including 
their appointment, effectiveness, independence and fees.
 • Oversee the nature and scope of internal audit, ensuring 
coordination with the activities of the external auditor.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
DURING THE YEAR
FINANCIAL REPORTING
During the course of the year, the Committee met with the 
external auditors and management as part of the 2016 Annual and 
Interim Report approval process. We reviewed the draft ﬁnancial 
statements and considered a number of supporting papers, 
including: information presented by management on signiﬁcant 
accounting judgements to ensure all issues raised have been 
properly dealt with; key points of disclosure and presentation to 
ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness; external audit reports; 
documentation prepared to support the viability statement 
and going concern statements given on pages 61 and 132; 
and information presented by management on the process 
underpinning the fair, balanced and understandable assessment 
and conﬁrmation made by the Board on page 83.
AUDIT COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE:
IR.AGGREKO.COM/INVESTORS
The role of the Audit Committee is 
to ensure the integrity of the Group’s 
ﬁnancial reporting and provide oversight 
of our systems for internal control 
and risk management
86 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Areas of focus
 • We reviewed and agreed the accounting for product 
development expenditure. As part of the strategic priorities 
review, the Board concluded that a lower cost of energy 
is critical to most of our customers and our investment in 
technology is a key enabler in this area. Therefore, the Board 
increased investment in product development work, resulting 
in an intangible asset of £5 million for development expenditure 
being recognised. More detail is included in the accounting 
policies on page 134 and in Note 30.A2 to the Accounts on 
page 159.
 • We reviewed the impact of IFRS 15, a new accounting standard 
applying to revenue for contracts with customers, effective for 
accounting periods on or after 1 January 2018. The main changes 
we expect from adopting IFRS 15 are included on page 132.
 • We reviewed the appropriateness of the carrying value of 
specialist property, plant and equipment for the Oil & Gas 
market in North America. Given the continued decline in the 
Oil & Gas sector in North America, management reviewed 
the carrying value of small gas generators used in this market 
We reviewed management’s assumptions and rationale for an 
impairment review, examining the recoverable amount of the 
assets compared to the carrying amount, projected future cash 
ﬂows and key assumptions and sensitivities for the impairment 
assessment. KPMG also explained their audit process to test the 
impairment assessment. We agreed that an impairment charge 
of £30 million was appropriate. More details are included in 
Notes 7 and 15 to the Accounts on pages 142 and 147.
 • We reviewed the European Securities and Markets Authority 
guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures to ensure 
our disclosures were fully compliant with the new guidance.
KPMG carried out their work using an overall materiality of 
£11 million, as stated in their report on page 122, and conﬁrmed 
to the Committee that there were no material unadjusted 
misstatements. We also agreed with the external auditor that 
they would inform us of any unadjusted misstatements above 
£0.5 million, as well as misstatements below that amount that 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. None were reported 
to the Committee. The Committee also reviewed the coverage 
of internal audit and external audit from a risk and geographic 
perspective. Following completion of the above steps, we agreed 
to recommend the approval of the 2016 Annual and Interim 
Reports to the Board.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 Annual Report were:
Area of judgement Reporting issue
How did the Audit Committee  
address the judgement? Conclusion and outcome
Contract provisions – 
Power Solutions Utility
One of the biggest risks facing the 
Group is non-payment by customers 
under some of the larger contracts 
in our Power Solutions Utility 
business. Contract receivables and 
associated speciﬁc provisions within 
Power Solutions Utility is a key risk 
for the Group, and one of the areas 
of particular external audit focus. 
The Group policy is to consider each 
signiﬁcant debtor and customer 
individually, within the relevant 
environment to which it relates, 
taking into account a number 
of factors, in accordance with 
accounting standards.
The Committee addressed contract provisions 
by considering an accounting judgements paper 
at the August 2016 and March 2017 meetings, 
which was tabled by the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. 
This detailed the latest position of debtors 
outstanding at the half year and year end and 
gave an assessment of the likelihood of collecting 
future payments. We discussed in detail the 
main movements in provisions and assessed 
the adequacy of all of the provisions. KPMG 
reported on these contract provisions at both 
the August 2016 and March 2017 meetings in the 
context of the half year review and the year end 
audit respectively. In addition, the Committee is 
aware that the Board and Executive Committee 
receives a report on contract exposures each 
month and has assessed the Group’s processes 
for calculating and regularly monitoring contract 
risk provisions. 
We concluded that the 
judgements and estimates were 
reasonable and appropriate.
Overall the contract provision 
agreed for 31 December 2016 
was $63 million, $8 million 
lower than 31 December 2015. 
This movement is explained 
on page 48.
More information on our 
risk proﬁle and mitigation 
for failure to collect payment 
or to recover assets can be 
found on page 60.
Direct and indirect  
tax provisions
The Group’s tax strategy is to 
manage all taxes, both direct 
and indirect, such that we pay 
the appropriate amount of tax in 
each country where we operate 
whilst ensuring that we respect the 
applicable tax legislation and utilise 
where appropriate any legislative 
reliefs available. However, given the 
varied, complex and often uncertain 
nature of tax rules in certain countries, 
in particular in those in which we 
have our Power Solutions business, 
we recognise that it makes sense 
to carry an appropriate level of 
provision for both direct and indirect 
taxes. The tax team monitors the 
status of tax risks monthly and 
in detail at the half and full year. 
This monitoring process together 
with consideration of any relevant 
legislative change is then used to 
determine the appropriate level 
of provisions.
The Committee addressed tax provisions by 
considering an accounting judgements paper at 
both the August 2016 and March 2017 meetings, 
which was tabled by the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. 
We discussed the changes to the provisions 
in detail and assessed their adequacy overall. 
KPMG reported on these provisions at the 
August 2016 meeting in the context of the half 
year review, and at the March 2017 meetings in 
the context of the year end audit. We have also 
monitored and assessed the Group’s processes 
for calculating and regularly monitoring 
tax provisions.
We concluded that the 
judgements and estimates were 
reasonable and appropriate.
Overall the tax provision agreed 
for 31 December 2016 was £39 
million (2015: £61 million).
More information on Aggreko’s 
tax strategy and payments 
in 2016 can be found in the 
ﬁnancial review on page 45.
More information on our risks 
can be found on page 60.
87 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Audit Committee report continued
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to 
the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor. 
We also approve the audit plan, terms of engagement and fees 
and assess their effectiveness. 
Audit plan
KPMG presented their audit plan at the August 2016 meeting 
and an update at the December 2016 meeting, setting out the 
scope and objectives of the audit together with an overview of the 
planned approach, an assessment of the Group’s risks and controls 
and proposed areas of audit focus. In setting the audit plan, 
KPMG work with Internal Audit and management at a Group and 
business unit level to identify risk areas for the audit to determine 
where audit effort should be focused.
Tenure
KPMG were appointed by Shareholders as the Group’s Statutory 
Auditor in 2016 following a formal tender process. The external 
audit contract will be put out to tender at least every 10 years. 
The Committee recommends the appointment of KPMG for 2017. 
We believe the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process are safeguarded 
and strong. The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit 
Services Order for the ﬁnancial year under review.
Effectiveness
As mentioned in our report last year, we identiﬁed the 
2016 ﬁnancial year as a potential period of increased audit 
effectiveness risk given the transition of the statutory auditor 
from PricewaterhouseCoopers to KPMG. The Committee met 
with KPMG on a number of occasions without management 
present and the Committee Chairman also maintained regular 
contact with the audit partner throughout the year. This enabled 
the Committee to closely monitor the transition of responsibilities, 
and ensure independence was maintained and a successful 
external audit of the 2016 Annual Report. 
We also used an internal questionnaire sent to Committee 
members, the Business Unit Finance Directors and Group 
Functional Heads in December 2016; respondents were asked 
to rate KPMG effectiveness in a number of areas, including 
calibre of external audit ﬁrm, quality of processes, audit team, 
audit scope, communications, technical expertise and audit 
governance/independence. Results were collated and presented 
at the March 2017 meeting of the Committee for discussion. 
Management concluded that there had been appropriate focus 
and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed 
the quality of the audit process to be effective. The Committee 
concurred with this view.
The FRC’s Audit Quality Review team selected to review the 
audit of Aggreko’s 2015 ﬁnancial statements as part of their 2016 
annual inspection of audit ﬁrms. The focus of the review and 
their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are 
required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above 
the expected level. The review refers to the work performed by our 
previous external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers. The Chairman 
of the Committee received a full copy of the ﬁndings and met 
with PricewaterhouseCoopers to close out the points raised by the 
review and reported back to the Committee on this discussion. 
The Committee reviewed the ﬁndings at their December meeting 
and agreed an action plan with KPMG to ensure that the matters 
identiﬁed by the AQR have been addressed in the audit of the 
2016 ﬁnancial statements where relevant.
Non-audit services
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee has 
a formal policy governing the engagement of the external 
auditor to provide non-audit services. Non-audit services are 
normally limited to assignments that are closely related to 
the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a 
detailed understanding of the Group is necessary. Any proposal 
to use the external auditor for non-audit work requires prior 
approval of the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and depending on the 
nature of the service and fee involved, authorisation may also 
be required from the Committee Chairman or the Committee. 
At our March 2017 meeting, we updated our non-audit services 
policy to take account of a new FRC ethical standard, deleting 
the section of the policy in relation to permitted non-audit 
taxation work.
The non-audit services policy is available on our website at: 
ir.aggreko.com/investors/corporate-governance
Non-audit fees are monitored by the Committee and this year 
we were satisﬁed that all non-audit work undertaken was in 
line with our policy and did not detract from the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor. The majority of 
the non-audit work carried out by KPMG during the year 
related to investor relations services and tax. As a percentage 
of the overall audit fee for the year, other assurance services 
and non-audit fees are 36% (2015: 16% (services provided by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers)). The increase in percentage for 
non-audit services provided by KPMG in 2016 relates to investor 
relations work provided by Makinson Cowell; no further work 
will be undertaken by Makinson Cowell in 2017. Further details 
of the fees paid to the external auditor are set out in Note 6 to 
the accounts on page 142.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Aggreko’s objective is to have a strong and regularly monitored 
control environment. The Board assumes ultimate responsibility 
for the effective management of risk across the Group, 
determining our risk appetite as well as ensuring that each 
business unit implements appropriate internal controls. The Board 
has delegated responsibility for oversight of risk management to 
the Committee. The Committee provides oversight by reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems for internal control, risk 
management and ﬁnancial reporting. In 2016 we worked closely 
with the newly established Group Risk Committee, receiving 
regular reports from the Group Risk Committee, which enabled 
us to review and challenge the risk management framework, 
review the effectiveness of the control environment and approve 
the methodology for the viability statement. We also requested 
individual updates on countries receiving a low internal control 
score for their ﬁnancial control environment, to understand the 
remedial actions in place. Those countries will be monitored 
closely in 2017 to ensure improvements are realised.
88 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Internal Audit continue to play a key role in assisting the 
Committee and in 2016 we asked Internal Audit to provide 
assurance over management’s assessment of the effectiveness 
of the operation of controls within the Group risk register. 
This assessment was based upon the results of audits undertaken 
across the year, by reﬂecting on the outstanding audit issue 
database and in cooperation with the business unit controls 
teams. No variances which would impact the risk scoring were 
identiﬁed in 2016. The Committee found this exercise useful and 
will ask Internal Audit to complete a similar exercise annually 
going forward.
Further detail on our risk management framework can be 
found in the accountability section of the Corporate Governance 
Report on page 82 and the risk section of the Strategic Report 
on page 52. 
Financial control
A key area of focus for the Committee is the Group’s ﬁnancial 
controls. We aim to ensure that the same high standards are 
applied throughout the business with the framework set at Group 
level. Across the Group, there is a strong focus on training and 
development and this helps to underline the standards that we 
require. We then monitor this process through regular ﬁnancial 
control reviews and a ﬁnancial control checklist. This also enables 
us to set targets, identify and monitor areas for improvement.
We agreed ﬁnancial control deliverables for 2016, these included 
embedding our ﬁnancial control framework into the new business 
structure, meeting set targets for internal audit gradings and 
providing assurance to the Committee that ﬁnancial controls are 
in place for applicable items on the Group Risk Register. At the 
end of the year, we reviewed progress for 2016 and agreed to 
adopt a revised ﬁnancial controls checklist, focusing on critical 
controls, which we would closely monitor in 2017. Our ﬁnancial 
control priorities for 2017 have been set after going through the 
following process:
 • Setting out the key challenges for ﬁnancial control and then 
reviewing the control environment and risk mitigation in place 
to help address these challenges;
 • Reviewing the 2016 ﬁnancial control checklist scores for all 
of our locations globally and cross referring them against the 
2016 internal audit reports;
 • The Financial Leadership Team reviewed the above data and 
analysis to set clear priorities for 2017; and
 • The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer then presented the priorities to 
the Audit Committee.
The key priorities for 2017 include actions to roll out the new 
ﬁnancial controls checklist, establishing a new review process 
for month end and quarter end ﬁles, with close monitoring 
and additional support as required for our high risk locations, 
supporting the roll out of our new procurement policy and 
providing support to management in the closure of internal 
audit actions.
Viability statement
The Committee reviewed management’s work in conducting 
a robust assessment of those risks which could threaten our 
business model and the future performance or liquidity of 
Aggreko, including our resilience to the threats of viability posed 
by those risks in severe but plausible scenarios. This assessment 
included stress and sensitivity analyses of these risks to enable 
us to evaluate the impact of a severe but plausible combination 
of risks. We then considered whether additional ﬁnancing 
would be required in such eventualities. We also considered the 
review period and alignment with the Group’s strategic plans 
and internal long-term forecasts. Based on this analysis, we 
recommended to the Board that it could approve the viability 
statement included on page 61.
INTERNAL AUDIT
Internal Audit undertakes ﬁnancial, operational and strategic 
audits across the Aggreko Group using a risk based methodology 
and in accordance with the changing risk proﬁle of the Company. 
The Committee reviewed and agreed the programme of 2016 
internal audit work, including the proposed approach, coverage, 
and allocation of resources. We also reviewed progress, audit 
results and remedial actions during the year through reports at 
each meeting. In 2016, we closely monitored the status of internal 
audit actions, focusing on the proper closure of actions, making 
recommendations to management and requesting detailed 
updates where appropriate.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function by reviewing their reports, progress against the 2016 
plan, and meeting with the Director of Internal Audit without 
management being present. In line with the Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ guidance, we undertook an external evaluation of 
Internal Audit in 2016. Although the review found internal audit to 
be effective, it was agreed that the balance between geographic 
and thematic audits should be addressed, with an increased focus 
on thematic audits in 2017. 
SPEAKING UP
The Group Ethics Policy, supported by a separate Speaking 
Up Policy, encourages all employees to report any potential 
improprieties in ethical standards via our international 
whistle-blowing hotline. All matters reported are investigated 
and where appropriate, we ask Internal Audit to investigate 
the issue and report to us on the outcome. We also receive 
reports on hotline call volumes and the general nature and 
location of matters reported. We review these processes each 
year, and can conﬁrm that they are appropriate for the size and 
scale of the Group.
89 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Ethics Committee report
KEN HANNA
ETHICS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016
 • Approved the implementation of revised Gifts, Entertainment and 
Hospitality, Charitable Donations and Sponsorship policies.
 • Reviewed the implementation of a new online ethics training 
programme for all employees and enhanced ethics training for 
senior management teams.
 • Monitored the introduction of a Supplier Code of Conduct setting out 
the standards expected from suppliers to Aggreko.
 • Instructed an independent maturity assessment of the 
compliance programme.
 • Received brieﬁngs from the business units in relation to their approach 
to managing compliance risks within their respective business units.
AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017
 • Oversee the full integration of the risk based due diligence into the 
supply chain processes.
 • Oversee the full integration of risk based measures designed to manage 
modern slavery risks in the supply chain.
 • Oversee the completion of a global risk assessment of bribery and 
corruption risks.
INTRODUCTION BY KEN HANNA,  
ETHICS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
Aggreko conducts its business with integrity, honesty and 
transparency. We expect all Aggreko employees, consultants 
and those acting on behalf of Aggreko to adopt these standards. 
We are proud that we have a reputation for conducting business 
fairly and professionally and we are committed to maintaining 
these values in all of our business dealings.
We recognise that our business is exposed to risks of unethical 
conduct because of the nature and value of many of our contracts 
and because standards of integrity are not consistent across all 
the countries in which we operate. However, we believe we have 
a robust compliance programme in place which allows us to 
manage these risks effectively. 
The effectiveness of the compliance programme is monitored 
by the Ethics Committee. 
The Ethics Committee is currently made up of two Independent 
Non-executive Directors, with myself as Chairman. I have been a 
member of the Committee since its ﬁrst meeting in February 2011 
and became Chairman of the Committee in April 2012. 
In 2016 we held three meetings. We invited the Head of 
Compliance, Group Legal Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
to attend all meetings.
ROLE OF ETHICS COMMITTEE
 • Advise the Board on the development of strategy and policy 
on ethical matters.
 • Advise the Board on steps to be taken to establish a culture of 
integrity and honesty in all of the Company’s business dealings.
 • Oversee the Company’s policies and procedures for the 
identiﬁcation, assessment, management and reporting 
of ethical risk.
 • Oversee the Company’s policies and procedures to prevent 
persons associated with the Company from engaging in 
unethical behaviour.
 • Monitor and review the operation of the Company’s ethics 
policies and procedures.
 • Monitor and review all payments made to third-party 
sales consultants.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE ETHICS COMMITTEE 
DURING THE YEAR
Ethics policies
In 2016, we introduced revised versions of our Gifts, Entertainment 
& Hospitality Policy, Charitable Donations Policy and Sponsorship 
Policy. These policies were amended to reﬂect the structural 
changes to the business following the reorganisation and to take 
account of recommendations made following a risk assessment 
and review of the effectiveness of the ethics policies. Whilst the 
policies were working well in ensuring that all employees comply 
with the high ethical standards expected throughout Aggreko, 
we introduced certain improvements to ensure that the policies 
remain robust and continue to meet the needs of the business. 
We provided training to all employees on the revised policies 
to ensure all employees remain alert to potential risks.
ETHICS COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE:
IR.AGGREKO.COM/INVESTORS
The role of the Ethics Committee 
is to ensure that Aggreko conducts 
business with integrity and transparency 
and in accordance with the law
MEMBERS IN 2016
Meetings attended
Ken Hanna – Ethics Committee Chairman 
Diana Layﬁeld – Non-executive Director
Dame Nicola Brewer – Non-executive Director
Ian Marchant – Non-executive Director
1
1
  Ian Marchant stepped down as a Member of this Committee in April 2017, 
following his appointment as Audit Committee Chairman.
90 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Ethics training
We are committed to providing regular training on ethical issues 
to employees in order to ensure that employees remain alert to 
risks and are regularly reminded of the standards expected by 
Aggreko. This approach applies equally to the Board as it does 
to all employees across the business. In 2016 we launched a 
new online ethics training course which has been successfully 
completed by all employees across the business. This online 
training was also supplemented by ethics workshops delivered 
by the Head of Compliance to the Board and senior management 
teams highlighting examples of potential areas of risk and 
discussing how to mitigate these risks. The Committee received 
brieﬁngs on the progress of this training throughout the business.
Third-party monitoring
We recognise that it is not just our employees who could be 
exposed to ethics risks but our third-party sales consultants 
are also exposed to risk. The conduct of our third-party sales 
consultants remains one of the most signiﬁcant risks to Aggreko. 
The number of third-party sales consultants used by the business 
has reduced over the last few years but there is a continued 
requirement for third parties to help support some areas of the 
business. We have risk management measures in place which 
require all third-party sales consultants engaged by Aggreko to 
conduct business in compliance with the standards set out in 
our ethics policy and allow us to monitor compliance with these 
requirements. We also have controls in place in relation to the 
remuneration of sales consultants and we monitor all payments 
to sales consultants. At the ﬁrst meeting of each year, we receive 
a brieﬁng on all payments made to sales consultants during the 
prior year to ensure that the payments were appropriate and 
in line with policy requirements. We also received a brieﬁng 
from the President for Rental Solutions and Managing Director 
for Power Solutions this year with a speciﬁc emphasis on 
understanding how they manage the potential risks associated 
with the use of third-party sales consultants.
We recognise that there are also other categories of third-party 
supplier relationships which potentially could also attract risk 
for the business. In response to this risk we introduced a Supplier 
Code of Conduct setting out the standards we require from 
all suppliers to Aggreko. All new suppliers to Aggreko are now 
required to conﬁrm compliance with this Code of Conduct.
Effectiveness of the compliance programme
We are committed to ensuring that our compliance programme 
remains robust and is in line with best practice. In 2016 we 
instructed an independent maturity assessment on the 
compliance programme. This assessment has recently been 
completed and provided comfort that the programme 
is working well to effectively manage risk. The assessment 
highlighted some areas where further improvements could 
be introduced to enhance the compliance programme, 
which we will work to address in 2017.
AN OVERVIEW OF OUR COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME
Our compliance programme is coordinated by our full-time 
Head of Compliance with support from the business units and 
the central functions. 
Our compliance programme has a number of elements designed 
to ensure that we effectively manage compliance risks:
Ethics Policy
Every employee receives a copy of the Ethics Policy when they 
join Aggreko. We also regularly require employees to complete 
a compliance statement conﬁrming that they have complied 
with and will continue to comply with our Ethics Policy and 
the relevant laws as part of the online ethics training. 
Training
Every employee receives training, which is refreshed every 
two years via our multi-lingual online ethics compliance training 
programme. This online training is supplemented by additional 
ethics workshops with senior management to ensure they remain 
alert to risks.
Third-party risks
All of our sales consultants are comprehensively reviewed before 
they are engaged by Aggreko and this exercise is refreshed at least 
every two years. Our sales consultants are contractually required to 
comply with our Ethics Policy and we require our sales consultants 
to conﬁrm compliance with the policy annually. We also provide 
ethics training to our sales consultants to ensure they remain alert 
to potential risks. We also have controls in place in relation to the 
remuneration of consultants and we monitor all payments to sales 
consultants to ensure that the remuneration structure does not 
incentivise unethical behaviour. 
As mentioned earlier in the report, we have also recently 
introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct with which we now 
require all new suppliers to conﬁrm compliance. 
Gifts, entertainment and hospitality
We have a clear approval process for gifts, entertainment and 
hospitality offered by, or given to, Aggreko employees. All gifts, 
entertainment and hospitality above a nominal value are recorded 
centrally and monitored by the Head of Compliance.
Sponsorship and charitable donations
We have a clear approval process for sponsorships and charitable 
donations made by Aggreko. All sponsorships and charitable 
donations require senior management approval and are recorded 
centrally and monitored by the Head of Compliance.
Speaking up
We encourage all employees to speak up if they have any 
concerns. We have an independent compliance hotline operated 
by an external agency. This multi-lingual hotline is available to 
all employees and allows any employee who has any concerns 
to report them on an anonymous basis. All reports are followed 
up, and we regularly analyse the types of reports we receive. 
Where appropriate, our Group Internal Audit team is asked 
to investigate the issue and report on the outcome.
91 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Nomination Committee report
INTRODUCTION BY KEN HANNA, 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
Monitoring and reviewing the composition and balance of the 
Board and its committees is key to the role of the Committee. 
By doing so we ensure that Aggreko has the right structure, 
skills and diversity for the effective management of the Group.
The Nomination Committee is currently made up of all of the 
Non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent, in 
addition to myself as Chairman. I have been Chairman of the 
Committee since my appointment as Chairman of Aggreko in 
April 2012, although I would not chair the Committee when it is 
dealing with succession to the chairmanship of Aggreko. We also 
invited the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer to attend our meetings in 2016.
In 2016 we held two formal meetings; the members also 
had several informal meetings and discussions on succession 
planning, reappointment of Directors and the search for 
new Non-executive Directors.
ROLE OF NOMINATION COMMITTEE
 • Review the structure, size and composition (including skills, 
knowledge, experience, diversity and balance of Executive 
and Non-executive) of the Board and its Committees and make 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
 • Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates 
to ﬁll Board vacancies.
 • Keep under review the time commitment expected from the 
Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
KEN HANNA
NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016
 • Oversaw a review of the succession plans for the Executive Committee 
and Senior Leadership Team.
 • Completed the appointment and induction of Nicola Brewer as an 
Independent Non-executive Director.
 • Recommended the extension of the appointments of two 
Independent Non-executive Directors.
AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017
 • Review succession plans for the Board.
 • Appointment and inductions for our new Independent 
Non-executive Directors.
 • Identify a suitable candidate or candidates to succeed Russell King as 
Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE:
IR.AGGREKO.COM/INVESTORS
The Nomination Committee’s role is to 
monitor and review the composition and 
balance of the Board and its committees 
to ensure Aggreko has the right structure, 
skills and diversity for the effective 
management of the Group
MEMBERS IN 2016
Meetings attended
Ken Hanna – Nomination Committee Chairman
Nicola Brewer – Non-executive Director
Russell King – Senior Independent Director
Uwe Krueger – Non-executive Director
Diana Layﬁeld – Non-executive Director
Robert MacLeod – Non-executive Director
1
Ian Marchant – Non-executive Director
1
  Robert MacLeod retired from the Board on 28 April 2016.
92 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR
Reappointment of Directors
Since the Committee’s last report, the Company has extended 
the terms of appointment for Ian Marchant and Russell King. 
Russell King has served as a Non-executive Director since 
February 2009; we therefore reviewed his extension with 
particular care. We concluded that his tenure had not 
compromised his independence in any way, and it was important 
that we should retain his experience of Aggreko, both as Senior 
Independent Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, for a further year. We also considered the number 
and nature of Russell’s other commitments – details of which 
are set out in his biography on page 72 – particularly his roles on 
the boards of three other listed companies. We were satisﬁed 
that Russell’s other commitments do not detract from his ability 
to perform his role at Aggreko. In coming to this conclusion, 
we noted that: ﬁrst, in our view, the companies involved are not 
unusually complex, nor are they in regulated sectors; second, 
his respective positions as chairman, senior independent director 
and remuneration committee chairman of those companies 
strengthen, rather than detract from, the experience he brings 
Aggreko; third, he has not missed a Board or Committee meeting 
within the last three years and has reduced his commitments 
in 2016. Moreover, he has in practice made an invaluable 
contribution to the Board and its commitments.
The Committee unanimously recommends the re-election 
of each of our Directors at our 2017 Annual General Meeting. 
In making this recommendation, we evaluated each Director 
in light of their performance, commitment to the role, and 
capacity to discharge their responsibilities fully, given their 
time commitments to other companies. 
Appointment of Non-executive Directors
During the year, the Committee undertook a broad review 
of the non-executive proﬁle of the Board, including skills, 
experience, tenure and diversity. We decided to search for two 
new Non-executive Directors to strengthen our Board overall and 
add to our succession planning. We appointed Lygon Group, an 
independent search ﬁrm with no other connection to Aggreko, 
to assist in identifying suitable candidates. In March 2017 we were 
delighted to announce the appointments of Barbara Jeremiah 
and Miles Roberts as Non-executive Directors.
Barbara is currently a non-executive Director of two North 
American based companies, Russel Metals and Allegheny 
Technologies, having recently retired as chairwoman of Boart 
Longyear, a US based company in the minerals drilling sector. 
Barbara brings extensive international non-executive experience 
largely in the US and Australia together with an executive career 
in the mining, exploration and energy industries. Barbara is also 
a qualiﬁed lawyer, with a BA in political science and will join the 
Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Miles brings substantial international business experience as 
a chief executive and ﬁnance director. Miles is currently chief 
executive ofﬁcer of DS Smith Plc, a FTSE international packaging 
group with operations in nearly 40 countries. Prior to this, Miles 
was group chief executive of McBride plc, having served as the 
group ﬁnance director before that. An engineer by background 
and also a chartered accountant, Miles will join the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
Succession planning
The Committee met with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Group 
HR Director to review succession plans. The focus of these 
discussions was to review our succession planning strategy and 
ensure robust plans were in place for the Executive Committee 
and their direct reports. The Committee reviewed proﬁles for 
these positions during the year, taking into account the needs of 
the business and identifying any gaps. The Committee will keep 
succession planning under close review in 2017 to implement the 
actions identiﬁed by the Board evaluation.
The Committee also monitors a schedule on the length of tenure 
of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors and the mix and 
skills of the Directors. The Committee is satisﬁed that adequate 
succession planning is in place for the Board and will keep 
succession planning under review.
Board composition and diversity
Our policy is to have a Board which represents a wide range 
of backgrounds, skills and experiences. We believe that a 
balanced Board is better equipped to consider matters from a 
broader perspective. Diversity is not just a matter of measurable 
statistics in relation to gender or ethnicity; diversity of outlook 
and approach is also important, though far harder to measure. 
We also need a range of skills from technical adherence and 
operational experience to governance and regulatory matters 
to understand the markets in which we operate. We also need 
a balance of long corporate memory and new insights from 
other ﬁelds. There needs to be both challenge and support too. 
When selecting new Directors, we take all these considerations 
into account, as well as professional background to ensure that 
we appoint the best people for the relevant roles.
Three out of eight of our Board roles at 31 December 2016 were 
held by women, but diversity is not simply a matter of gender. 
We recognise the beneﬁts of greater diversity and will continue to 
take account of this when considering any particular appointment, 
although we do not set any particular targets. Diversity also 
extends beyond the Boardroom and we support management 
in their efforts to build a more diverse organisation. You can read 
more about our diversity statistics for the Group on page 75.
93 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance INTRODUCTION BY RUSSELL KING, 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
During the last few years Aggreko has undergone a considerable 
amount of change both internally, as we have recruited a 
new leadership team, and externally, as we have responded to 
changing economic and competitive circumstances. During this 
time our Remuneration Policy has ceased to be aligned with the 
strategy of the business and the Committee therefore decided 
to conduct a full review of the Remuneration Policy a year earlier 
than required.
In conducting our review, we sought to continue our practice 
of clear alignment of executive reward with Shareholder value 
creation and incentivising management – whilst accepting 
that the reward mechanisms and targets used had to reﬂect 
the economic and market realities facing the business.
The Policy set out in this report is consistent with rewarding our 
executives for achieving the targets required of a business that 
is in transition from a period of extraordinary growth to one that 
has matured, albeit with a consistently strong competitive position 
and good growth and return potential over time. The Committee 
has been focused on ensuring that the Policy is very closely linked 
to, and supportive of, the Company’s strategy. In this regard it 
reﬂects a number of factors:
 • The new management team is very focused on returning 
the business to growth against a background of negligible 
LTIP vesting over the last four cycles, no signiﬁcant bonus 
payments and no salary increases for Executive Directors for 
two years. The Committee needs to keep the management 
team motivated and ensure that we can attract further 
high quality talent; 
 • Market dynamics indicate lower returns as pre-2012 high margin 
legacy contracts come to an end, for example in Argentina; and
 • The business strategy requires increased investment in 
corporate capabilities and more capital deployed in developing 
new products.
The Policy contains one new element, restricted shares, and a 
modiﬁcation to the current elements, to both reﬂect the value 
in restricted shares, and the future ﬁnancial targets for the 
business which result in lower ROCE. EPS will now be measured 
as a nominal growth target rather than growth above RPI, 
although the targets will be broadly similar at threshold.
 • Reduced annual bonus potential from 175% of salary to 125% 
of salary paid in cash;
 • Reduced LTIP awards from 300% to 200% of salary subject 
to three-year performance with phased vesting over three, 
four, and ﬁve years, with vesting for threshold performance 
set at 25% of maximum;
 • The introduction of annual awards of restricted shares of up 
to 75% of salary with vesting subject to continued employment 
over three years and no share release until the ﬁfth anniversary 
of the award. The Committee retains discretion to reduce 
or withhold outstanding awards in the event of exceptional 
circumstances, and can apply malus and clawback as with 
the LTIP;
Annual remuneration statement
RUSSELL KING
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
In revising the Remuneration Policy the 
Committee has focused on ensuring that 
executive incentives remain closely aligned 
with Company strategy and performance
AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016
 • Consulted with major Shareholders and governance bodies on new 
Remuneration Policy.
 • Finalised framework for new incentive arrangements.
 • Set targets for Annual Bonus Plan, both ﬁnancial and personal/
strategic objectives. 
AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017
 • Adjudicate outcomes for the 2016 Annual Bonus for ﬁnancial and 
personal/strategic objectives.
 • Set targets for the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan, both ﬁnancial and  
personal/strategic objectives.
 • Reﬂect feedback from Shareholder consultation in proposed 
amendments to incentive framework.
 • Secure Shareholder approval for new Restricted Share Plan, new 
all-employee share option schemes and revised Remuneration Policy 
at the 2017 AGM.
 • Approve targets for the 2017 grants under the Long-term Incentive Plan. 
 • Approve awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan and new 
Restricted Share Plan.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE:
IR.AGGREKO.COM/INVESTORS
MEMBERS IN 2016
Meetings attended
Russell King – Remuneration Committee Chairman
Ken Hanna – Company Chairman
Uwe Krueger – Non-executive Director
Ian Marchant – Non-executive Director
Annual remuneration statement 94
Policy report 99
Annual report on remuneration 106
94 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE It is the Committee’s view that the modiﬁcations made 
will greatly improve the linkage between remuneration and  
the Company’s strategy without increasing the quantum of 
incentives at target (circa £2.4 million for the CEO) and that 
it will reduce the maximum (from circa £4.6 million to £4 million).
As Remuneration Committee Chairman I fully understand that 
our proposals might be viewed as non-standard but I am also 
convinced that they represent a very tailored and appropriate 
approach that ensures close alignment with rewarding the 
management for delivering growth in Shareholder value. 
For a Company like Aggreko with a highly capable leadership 
team guiding the business through a challenging period, 
I consider it important that we retain their enthusiasm, 
keep them motivated with incentives that are within reach, 
and enable us to continue to attract great talent globally.
 • Increased personal shareholding requirements from 200% 
to 400% of salary; and
 • Modiﬁed performance ranges for the LTIP expressed as 
nominal growth targets rather than growth above RPI. 
Threshold performance will be at a similar level, whereas 
the maximum has been reduced to reﬂect a growth proﬁle 
consistent with a maturing business. The Committee will 
retain the ﬂexibility to modify each of these targets for each 
new plan cycle during the policy period but for 2017 the 
targets will be:
 – EPS (75%) – average nominal EPS growth of 5% to 12% 
per annum; and
 – ROCE (25%) – 15% to 20% measured in ﬁnal year of plan. 
OUR REMUNERATION STRATEGY
OUR AIM
The aim of Aggreko’s remuneration policy is to reward executives 
for delivering the principal objective – delivering long-term value 
to our Shareholders.
Our reward package for Executive Directors comprises:
 • a ﬁxed element:
 –salary;
 – pension; and
 –beneﬁts, 
generally based on market median for companies of similar size 
and complexity
 • a variable element:
 – annual bonus, based on demanding annual performance 
targets, both ﬁnancial and personal; 
 – long-term incentives, based on long-term strategic ﬁnancial 
performance; and
 – restricted shares.
READ OUR REMUNERATION POLICY 
ON PAGE 99.
BALANCE OF ELEMENTS
We aim to balance these elements so that:
 • the majority of executive remuneration is linked to Aggreko’s 
ﬁnancial performance;
 • there is a heavier weighting on long-term performance than 
on short-term performance; and
 • we use a balanced portfolio of measures which are designed 
to reﬂect our goal of delivering sustainable proﬁt growth over 
the long term. We plan to achieve this by focusing on our 
four business priorities of the customer, technology, efﬁciency 
and people.
So for example, the potential future reward opportunities for 
the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer are as follows:
£1 million £2 million £3 million £4 million
Minimum
On-target
£1,563k
£2,406k
Maximum
Chris Weston
 
 
£4,000k
 
 
£0
25% 14% 23% 38%
16% 42%
64%
23% 19%
36% 39%
  Salary, pension, beneﬁts      Restricted shares      Annual bonus      LTIP    
READ THE FULL SCENARIO ANALYSIS  
FOR BOTH EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PAGE 104.
OUTCOME FOR 2016
SINGLE FIGURE TOTAL PAY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The following table shows a summary of total remuneration for 2016 for each of the Executive Directors:
LTIP
Base  
Salary 
£
Beneﬁts  
£
Annual 
Bonus  
£
PSP  
£
CIP  
£
Sharesave  
£
Pension  
£
Other 
£
Total  
£
Carole Cran
1
412,000 84,247
2
107,120 – 16,149 – 82,400 – 701,916
Chris Weston
1
750,000 25,035 202,500 – – – 225,000 706,620
3
1,909,155
1 Full details of the total remuneration and an explanation of each component are set out on pages 106 to 109.
2 Owing to the signiﬁcant amount of time spent in London, based on UK legislation, Carole Cran has established a second place of employment in London. As a result, 
any home to London ofﬁce travel costs either reimbursed, or paid on Carole’s behalf are taxable.
3 As explained on page 89 of our Annual Report 2015, Chris Weston was granted an award of shares on 30 March 2015. 50% of the shares were released on 1 April 2016.
READ THE FULL DETAILS IN THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
PAGE 106
95 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Annual remuneration statement continued
OUR REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Determining the remuneration for the Executive Directors and 
Executive Committee members is key to the workings of the 
Committee. We oversee Aggreko’s overall remuneration policy, 
strategy and implementation to ensure that the policy is aligned 
with the key objectives of growing earnings and delivering strong 
returns on capital employed.
The Remuneration Committee is currently made up of four 
Independent Non-executive Directors, including myself as 
Chairman of the Committee. Peter Kennerley is secretary to 
the Committee. We also invite the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Group HR Director and Group Reward Director to attend 
our meetings.
In 2016, we held four meetings of the Committee.
Our role is as follows:
 • Determine and agree with the Board the policy for 
remuneration for the Chairman, Executive Directors and 
Executive Committee.
 • Within the terms of the remuneration policy, determine 
the total individual remuneration package for the 
Chairman, each Executive Director and each member of the 
Executive Committee, including base salary, pension, beneﬁts, 
annual bonus and long-term incentives.
 • Determine, having taken appropriate legal advice, the 
level of any payment made to the Chairman, Executive 
Directors or members of the Executive Committee by 
way of compensation for, or otherwise in connection with, 
loss of ofﬁce or employment.
 • Approve the design of, and determine targets for, performance 
related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve 
the total annual payments made under such schemes.
 • Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by 
the Board and Shareholders. For any plan, determine each 
year the overall amount of awards, along with the individual 
awards to Executive Directors and members of the Executive 
Committee. In the case of any retention or new joiner awards 
to employees below the Executive Committee, retrospectively 
approve awards.
 • Determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements 
for each Executive Director and members of the 
Executive Committee.
 • Oversee any major changes in employee beneﬁts structures 
throughout the Group.
 • Agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from 
the Directors.
OUR REMUNERATION POLICY
This year we are asking Shareholders to approve a new 
remuneration policy which includes amendments to the 
structure of our variable pay (including seeking approval for a new 
Restricted Share Plan); annual bonus and long-term incentives. 
We explain the main changes on pages 97 and 98. We are also 
seeking Shareholder approval to replace the Company’s existing 
all-employee Sharesave option schemes, which will expire 
in April 2017, with new Sharesave schemes. Full details of the 
new policy are set out in the Policy Report on page 99.
PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES FOR 2016
Performance and annual bonus
In line with our remuneration policy, Aggreko operates an 
annual bonus plan with the aim of focusing Executive Directors 
on achieving demanding annual targets relating to Company 
ﬁnancial performance and personal/strategic objectives. 
Chris Weston, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer earned 27% out of a 
maximum 175% of salary, while Carole Cran, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
earned 26% out of a maximum of 175% of salary.
I explain below how the Committee set bonus targets for 2016, 
how we assessed performance against those targets, and how 
we decided on the level of bonus to be paid.
For 2016, annual bonus payments were determined as to 
80% based on ﬁnancial performance and 20% based on  
personal/strategic objectives. 
The 80% ﬁnancial element was measured as follows:
 • 75% against D-EPS; and
 • 25% against operating cash ﬂow.
The 20% personal/strategic element was based on personal 
objectives set individually for each Director by the Committee. 
Each included measurable improvements in safety indicators and 
agreed outcomes for set strategic objectives speciﬁc to their roles.
The ﬁnancial measure to which we give most emphasis is D-EPS. 
The threshold D-EPS for 2016, at which level Executive Directors 
would start to receive bonus, was set at 56.51 pence, with 
target D-EPS at 59.48 pence. The actual outcome was 49.74 pence 
(on a constant currency basis), which meant that no bonus was 
payable for that element. We have set out the details of all of the 
2016 targets and outcomes for the ﬁnancial and personal/strategic 
objectives on pages 107 and 108, but in summary:
 • as D-EPS fell short of budget, none of that element will 
be payable;
 • as Group operating cash ﬂow fell short of budget, none of that 
element will be payable; and
 • each of the Executive Directors largely met their  
personal/strategic goals for the year.
Twenty-ﬁve percent of the bonus is deferred in Aggreko shares 
for three years.
Full details of the performance outcomes for the Annual Bonus 
are set out on page 107.
READ MORE AND SEE OUR BONUS ENTITLEMENT 
AND OUTCOME TABLES PAGE 107
96 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Performance and LTIPs
In 2017 awards will vest under our previous LTIP Scheme, which 
was introduced in 2004. These are the last awards which will 
vest under this scheme and Carole Cran is the only Executive 
Director who participated in the scheme. Based on performance 
to 31 December 2016, she will receive the Minimum Match Award 
under the Co-Investment Plan.
The awards which vest in April 2017 were granted in 2014, 
and are subject to demanding performance conditions based 
on real (i.e. excluding inﬂation) D-EPS annualised growth 
of 3-10% and return on capital employed (ROCE) of 20-25% 
measured over a three-year period to 31 December 2016.
In summary, during that period real D-EPS showed no growth, 
and as a result, none of the shares subject to the D-EPS growth 
criterion will vest; average ROCE was 16% as against a target 
range of 20-25%, and similarly none of the shares subject to the 
ROCE condition will vest. Therefore, none of the performance 
element of the 2014 awards will vest; only the Minimum Match 
element, equivalent to 15% of salary at the time of grant will vest 
for Carole Cran. Further details of LTIPs which vested in 2016 are 
included in the table on page 109. 
CHANGES IN REMUNERATION POLICY
This year we will be asking our Shareholders to approve 
a new remuneration policy for Executive Directors at our 
Annual General Meeting. I explain below the background to, 
and the reasons for, the proposed changes to the Company’s 
executive remuneration policy.
CONTEXT FOR CHANGE
Aggreko’s current remuneration policy was approved 
by Shareholders at the 2015 AGM and has governed the 
way we have paid our Directors over the last two years. 
Although we are able to operate the existing remuneration policy 
for an additional year, the Committee has taken the opportunity 
over the last few months to undertake a comprehensive review 
of our remuneration arrangements with the aim of ensuring 
that pay reinforces the Company’s strategy, whilst continuing 
to motivate and retain executive talent at this critical time 
for Aggreko. The Committee has noted outcomes from the 
recent Investment Association Remuneration Working Group 
consultation and subsequent changes to the IA guidelines, and 
in particular the call for ﬂexibility in determining a remuneration 
policy which is tailored to individual company circumstances.
Our proposal is considered by the Committee to be appropriate 
for Aggreko at this time; incentivising short and long-term 
performance through continued use of the annual bonus and 
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) respectively (albeit with lower 
opportunities), and using awards of restricted shares and much 
higher personal shareholding requirements to strengthen 
Shareholder alignment and talent retention. Overall maximum 
variable pay would fall by 16%, whilst time horizons would be 
extended, with over 40% of variable remuneration only realisable 
after ﬁve years (cf. 20% currently).
During 2016, we consulted with the majority of our major 
Shareholders, representing over 50% of our issued share capital, 
on these proposed changes. The new remuneration policy and 
new Restricted Share Plan to be presented to Shareholders for 
approval at our 2017 Annual General Meeting take into account 
the feedback from these consultations.
Summary of proposed changes to short and long-term incentives
The Committee proposes the following changes to Aggreko 
Executive Director incentives:
 • Increased minimum executive shareholding requirements; 
doubled from 200% to 400% of salary.
 • Maximum annual bonus opportunities reduced from 175% 
to 125% of salary, payable in cash.
 • Maximum annual LTIP opportunities reduced from 300% 
to 200% of salary, subject to three-year performance and 
vested shares (post tax) being released in three equal tranches, 
over three, four and ﬁve years. Vesting for threshold set at 
25% of maximum. 
 • Annual awards of restricted shares of up to 75% of salary 
(i.e. equivalent to half the reduction in annual bonus and LTIP 
opportunities), to be awarded under a new Restricted Share 
Plan, with vesting subject to continued employment over a 
three-year period but no shares released to participants until 
the ﬁfth anniversary of award. The Committee would also 
retain discretion to reduce or restrict vesting of outstanding 
awards in exceptional circumstances, including, in the event 
that the total annual dividend is less than the total dividend 
declared in respect of the immediately preceding ﬁnancial year, 
or the Company has breached its net debt/EBITDA covenant 
as set out in its banking facilities, at the end of the ﬁnancial 
year. Other exceptional circumstances if relevant would be 
the subject of consideration at the time of vesting. Malus and 
clawback would apply as with the annual bonus and LTIP.
No material changes are proposed to the policy regarding other 
elements of remuneration, such as salary, pension and beneﬁts, 
at this time. Executive Director salaries were subject to the usual 
review process by the Committee at the end of the ﬁnancial year. 
Details are provided on page 107.
In formulating this proposed approach to remuneration, 
the Committee carefully considered the advantages and 
shortcomings of the existing remuneration structure, as well as 
the purpose and link of each element to Aggreko’s new strategy. 
The aim is to achieve a relatively simple, balanced incentive 
structure with measures and targets that incentivise Executives 
to really drive Shareholder value. 
Annual bonus
The annual bonus structure has remained broadly consistent 
for a number of years, with the majority linked to Group ﬁnancial 
performance, as measured by underlying D-EPS. An element 
based on personal/ strategic performance was introduced in 2015 
to recognise the importance of non-ﬁnancial KPIs in enabling 
long-term sustainable proﬁt growth. One-quarter of any bonus 
earned is currently deferred in Aggreko shares for three years.
Under our proposal for 2017, the maximum opportunity for 
Executive Directors will be reduced from 175% to 125% of salary, 
with any amount earned payable in cash. Shareholder alignment 
currently provided by the bonus deferral mechanism will be 
strengthened through annual awards of restricted shares which 
are realised by participants over a longer period (ﬁve versus 
three years), as well as higher personal shareholding requirements. 
The annual bonus for 2017 will operate with ﬁnancial 
performance – measured against D-EPS – accounting for 80% of 
the potential opportunity and the remaining 20% measured on 
performance against personal/strategic objectives. Further details 
can be found on page 112. It is intended that targets will continue 
to be disclosed on a retrospective basis to allow Shareholders to 
make an informed voting decision on the bonus structure and 
outcomes each year.
97 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Annual remuneration statement continued
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was approved at the 2015 AGM following 
Shareholder consultation at the time. Changes approved 
included simpliﬁcation through removal of the matching 
element, a reduction in maximum opportunity, the 
introduction of a mandatory post-vesting holding period, 
and the introduction of clawback provisions. Vesting of 
LTIP shares is based on three-year EPS and ROCE targets.
The purpose of the LTIP is to align the interests of management 
with those of Shareholders in growing the value of the business 
over the long term. Although the Committee believes that the 
LTIP can still help achieve this objective, business and broader 
economic circumstances are now very different to those faced 
a few years ago, and a policy which has the same EPS targets 
for each cycle is no longer considered appropriate.
Like many companies with a diverse global footprint, Aggreko is 
susceptible to external factors impacting performance, and the 
Committee has been conscious of the difﬁculty in setting robust 
stretching and achievable long-term targets. Going forward, 
we will be guided by Aggreko’s new overriding goal of growing 
ahead of the markets in which we operate, at attractive margins 
and returns. The Committee also believes in the business case 
for reducing maximum bonus and LTIP opportunities.
The Committee proposes to reduce the maximum annual 
LTIP opportunity for Executive Directors from 300% to 200% 
of salary. Performance would continue to be measured against 
three-year underlying EPS and ROCE, with vested awards 
(post-tax) released to participants in equal tranches after three, 
four and ﬁve years. Threshold vesting would be 25% of the 
maximum award under each element, in line with market 
practice. The introduction of restricted shares will ease the 
difﬁculty with setting robust targets, promote Shareholder 
alignment, and incentivise participants to make the necessary 
changes to drive value over the next ﬁve years.
The Committee will set both the EPS growth targets and 
the ROCE targets for future awards each year. The EPS range 
is expressed as a nominal growth rate over the three-year 
performance period, while the ROCE target is an absolute value, 
to be delivered in the ﬁnal year of the three-year plan.
In respect of the 2017 awards, the Committee is proposing 
an average nominal EPS growth performance range of 5% 
to 12% per annum. For ROCE the Committee is proposing a 
ﬁnal year ROCE performance range of between 15% and 20%.
Restricted shares
The Committee proposes to introduce annual awards of 
restricted shares of up to 75% of salary to Executive Directors, 
complementing the 150% of salary reduction in annual bonus 
and LTIP. It is intended that restricted shares normally vest 
based on continued employment within the Group over a 
period of three years, at which time the shares will be owned 
by the Executive Directors, but will not normally be released 
until a further two years after vesting – a total period of ﬁve 
years. The Committee will also retain discretion to reduce 
or withhold awards in exceptional circumstances to ensure 
pay and performance remain aligned.
Consideration of restricted shares for Executive Directors is 
one of the proposals put forward by the IA Remuneration 
Working Group. The Committee believes that using restricted 
shares is appropriate at this time for Aggreko and that requiring 
the accumulation of meaningful holdings of shares will help 
strengthen Shareholder alignment and provide a clear link to 
absolute share price performance. A signiﬁcant proportion of pay 
will also continue to be linked to short and long-term ﬁnancial and 
non-ﬁnancial performance indicators under existing incentives.
The proposed maximum annual restricted share opportunity 
is set at a level which broadly maintains the fair value of 
Executive Director remuneration, but which signiﬁcantly 
reduces maximum realisable variable pay, and reduces 
the volatility in pay that we have seen at Aggreko over the last 
eight years. Additionally, the proposed holding period on the 
restricted share element will result in over 40% of the CEO and 
CFO’s variable remuneration not being realised until ﬁve years, 
compared to 20% under the current structure.
Shareholding guidelines
To support shareholder alignment and ensure that Executive 
Directors hold meaningful interests in Aggreko shares, the 
Committee is proposing to double the personal shareholding 
requirements from 200% to 400% of salary. Executive Directors 
will be expected to achieve the guideline over a period of ﬁve 
years, and will be expected to retain at least 50% of vested 
incentives (post-tax) until such guidelines have been met.
Pay reviews for 2017
There have been no salary increases for Executive Directors 
for two years and none are proposed for 2017. 
In conclusion
Notwithstanding current economic and market headwinds, 
Aggreko’s priority remains delivering sustainable proﬁt 
growth for the long term. We plan to achieve this by focusing 
on customers, technology and efﬁciency, underpinned by 
continuing investment in our people capability. We have 
exciting projects and developments in all these areas, and will 
continue to communicate these to Shareholders as we progress. 
The Committee sees the proposed remuneration arrangements 
as prudent at this stage in Aggreko’s evolution, in this critical 
transition year, and an important contribution to maintaining 
the focus on short and long-term targets, and retaining the 
talent we need to deliver attractive Shareholder value growth.
98 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Policy report
This section of our report describes each component of Aggreko’s remuneration policy for 
Directors and has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of Schedule 8 to the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended). 
Subject to approval at the AGM, this policy will replace the current policy (which was approved 
by Shareholders at the 2015 AGM) and is expected to apply for three years from 27 April 2017.
Aggreko’s proposed new remuneration policy for Executive Directors
Fixed pay
BASE SALARY
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To attract and retain talent by ensuring base salaries are 
competitive in the talent market(s) relevant to each individual.
We aim to pay the market median for standard performance 
and within the market top quartile for top quartile performance, 
or to recruit outstanding candidates.
OPERATION
Base salaries are generally reviewed annually; in determining the 
appropriate level of adjustment, we take into account: Company 
performance; the individual’s responsibilities and contribution 
to the business; salary levels for comparable roles at relevant 
comparators; and salary increases more broadly across the Group.
For the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, 
the benchmark we use is the 20 companies either side of 
Aggreko in the FTSE based on the average market capitalisation 
over the previous 12 months.
If we were to appoint other Executive Directors we would use a 
similar benchmarking approach but supplemented by market 
data from our advisers. This recognises that comparability is 
harder to gauge and less formulaic for these roles.
OPPORTUNITY
Any base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome 
of the annual review.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer will have the highest base salary 
of all Executive Directors, and the maximum salary for the 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer may be within the top quartile of 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer salaries for the FTSE+/-20 comparators.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
None, although continued good performance is a factor 
considered when reviewing salaries.
PENSION
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To provide relevant statutory beneﬁts and be competitive 
in the market in which the individual is employed.
OPERATION
All Executive Directors are entitled to a deﬁned-contribution 
pension. They can opt to take a cash payment in lieu of all or 
part of their pension.
OPPORTUNITY
Contributions of between 20% and 30% of salary per annum 
except where limited by local practice.
For new hires, the pension contribution will be up to 20% of salary 
per annum.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
None.
BENEFITS
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
Designed to be competitive in the market in which the individual 
is employed. Expatriate and relocation packages designed to 
ensure a geographically mobile management population related 
to business needs.
OPERATION
Includes healthcare beneﬁts, life assurance cover, a company car 
(or an allowance in lieu). Where appropriate, we would provide 
an expatriate package, including bearing the cost of any local 
taxes payable on any expatriate beneﬁts, relocation costs, living 
allowances and school fees. The Company will also bear any UK 
tax that Executive Directors resident overseas incur as a result of 
carrying out their duties in the UK.
Any reasonable business related expenses (including tax thereon) 
can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable beneﬁt.
Executive Directors are eligible for other beneﬁts which are 
introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms. 
OPPORTUNITY
Beneﬁts vary by role and local practice, and are reviewed 
periodically relative to market.
Beneﬁts (excluding travel and related taxes) payable to Executive 
Directors did not exceed 10% of salary during the most recent 
ﬁnancial year. In line with market practice, it is not anticipated that 
in normal circumstances the cost of beneﬁts provided will exceed 
this level over the next three years. 
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost 
in exceptional circumstances (e.g. relocation) or in circumstances 
where factors outside the Company’s control have changed 
materially (e.g. increases in insurance premiums, provider costs 
or taxes).
PERFORMANCE METRICS
None.
99 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Policy report continued
Variable pay
ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To focus Executive Directors on achieving demanding 
annual targets relating to Company performance.
The key changes proposed by the Committee with regard 
to Annual Bonus are set out on page 97.
OPERATION
Performance measures and targets are set at the start of the year 
and are weighted to reﬂect the balance of Group, and where 
appropriate business unit, responsibilities for each executive.
At the end of the year, the Committee determines the extent 
to which these have been achieved. The Committee has 
the ability to exercise discretion to adjust for factors outside 
management control.
Bonus payments will be paid in cash.
Malus and/or clawback provisions apply as described on page 102.
OPPORTUNITY
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors 
is 125% of salary. The ﬁnancial element of the bonuses start to 
be earned for threshold performance (for which 25% of target 
bonus is paid), rising on a straight-line to deliver 50% of maximum 
for on-budget performance.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
Performance is assessed annually with 20% of the maximum 
bonus potential based on personal/strategic objectives aligned 
to the Company’s KPIs and 80% on challenging budget and 
stretch targets for Group and business unit ﬁnancial performance. 
The current measure for ﬁnancial performance is EPS, but may 
vary each year depending on business context and strategy. 
All measures will be weighted appropriately according to business 
priorities, with generally more weighting on earnings growth 
than other factors. The personal/strategic objectives, accounting 
for 20% of the annual bonus, have previously covered customer 
service, safety and internal leadership and are quantiﬁed wherever 
possible. If the personal/strategic objectives are achieved but 
EPS is below threshold performance, then the Committee has the 
discretion to reduce, if appropriate to zero, the personal/strategic 
element that would otherwise have been paid.
Further details of the performance measures proposed for 
the 2017 annual bonus are set out in the Annual report on 
remuneration on page 112.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To align the interests of management with those of Shareholders 
in growing the value of the business over the long term.
Vesting of awards is subject to performance conditions based on 
the long-term ﬁnancial performance of the Group; the value of the 
awards is based on both the proportion vesting (i.e. the Company’s 
ﬁnancial performance) and the movement in the share price over 
the vesting period.
The key changes proposed by the Committee with regard to the 
LTIP are set out on pages 97 and 98.
OPERATION
The LTIP comprises a single Performance Share Plan (PSP).
Awards are normally granted annually. Award levels and 
performance conditions are reviewed from time to time to ensure 
they remain appropriate and aligned with Shareholder interests.
Awards normally vest after three years, subject to performance 
and continued ofﬁce or employment. A proportion of shares 
which vest will be subject to a further retention period of up to 
two years, with one-third being released (post-tax) on vesting 
and a further third being released after each of one and two years 
from vesting. The holding period will end early on a takeover, 
scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company, upon the 
death of an individual or in exceptional circumstances on such 
other date determined by the Committee. On vesting, participants 
will be entitled to the equivalent of any dividends on the shares 
between grant and vesting or the earlier of the date of exercise 
of an option and the expiry of any holding period.
Malus and/or clawback provisions apply to awards as described 
on page 102.
OPPORTUNITY
The PSP provides for a nil-cost conditional award of shares 
worth up to an aggregate limit of 200% of salary per annum 
for Executive Directors.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
The performance measures for the PSP are based on Group 
performance. For 2017 it is proposed to use Earnings per Share 
and Return on Capital Employed. The targets are set by the 
Committee each year.
The Committee retains discretion to modify the LTIP outcome 
in circumstances where strict application of the performance 
conditions would produce a result inconsistent with our 
remuneration principles, where the formulaic outcome does not 
genuinely reﬂect the underlying performance of the Company, 
or where necessary to avoid unintended consequences. 
Any material upward discretion would be subject to prior 
consultation with the Company’s major Shareholders.
The Committee also retains discretion to include additional or 
alternative performance measures, weightings and/or targets in 
future years to take account of the Company’s key strategic and 
operational aims and targets, and business outlook at that time.
Further details of LTIP award sizes and targets proposed for 2017 
are provided in the Annual report on remuneration on page 113.
100 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Other
RESTRICTED SHARES (NEW FOR 2017)
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To align the interests of management with those of Shareholders 
in protecting and growing the value of the business over the 
long term and provide a clear link between absolute Shareholder 
returns and realised reward.
Vesting of awards is subject to continued employment over a 
period of three years with vested shares (post-tax) being released 
to participants a further two years after vesting. Shares will vest at 
a value that recognises the dividends that would have accrued to 
them during the three-year vesting period and in respect of shares 
held under an option until the earlier of the date of exercise and 
the expiry of the holding period.
The vesting of awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, 
be subject to the satisfaction of a general underpin.
The key elements proposed by the Committee with regard 
to awards of restricted shares under our new Restricted Share Plan 
(RSP) are set out on pages 97 and 98.
OPERATION
Award levels will be reviewed from time to time to ensure they 
remain appropriate and aligned with Shareholder interests.
The shares which vest will (after the deduction of any tax) normally 
be subject to a further retention period of two years. The holding 
period will end early on a takeover, scheme of arrangement or 
winding-up of the Company, upon the death of an individual or 
in exceptional circumstances on such other date determined by 
the Committee. On vesting participants will be entitled to the 
equivalent of any dividends on the shares between grant and 
vesting and in respect of shares held under an option until the 
earlier of the date of exercise and the expiry of the holding period.
The vesting of awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, 
also be subject to the satisfaction of a general underpin. 
The Committee will have discretion to decide that awards 
should not vest or only partially vest in exceptional circumstances, 
including in the event that the total annual dividend is less 
than the total dividend declared in respect of the immediately 
preceding ﬁnancial year, or the Company has breached its net 
debt/EBITDA covenant as set out in its banking facilities, at the end 
of the ﬁnancial year. Other exceptional circumstances if relevant 
would be the subject of consideration at the time of vesting. 
Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards as described 
on page 102.
OPPORTUNITY
The RSP provides for a nil-cost conditional award of shares 
to Executive Directors worth up to an aggregate limit of 
75% of salary per annum. 
PERFORMANCE METRICS
A general underpin may be applied at the discretion of 
the Committee.
Note: RSP awards can only be made up to a maximum 
limit of 75% of salary for Executive Directors, but up to 
100% (and 200% in exceptional circumstances) for other 
employees as detailed on page 104.
SHARESAVE
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To align the interests of employees and Shareholders by 
encouraging all employees to own Aggreko shares.
OPERATION
This is an all-employee scheme whereby all eligible employees 
including Executive Directors invited by the Board to participate 
may save up to £500 (or local currency equivalent) per month 
over a period of two to ﬁve years. Higher monthly savings may 
be permitted in line with any changes to the statutory limits 
applying to UK SAYE share option schemes.
Options under the Sharesave Option Schemes and the 
US Stock Purchase Plan are granted at a discount of 20% 
and 15% respectively.
OPPORTUNITY
Savings currently capped at £500 a month (or local currency 
equivalent). Higher savings may be permitted in line with the 
statutory limit for UK schemes.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
None.
101 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance PAYMENTS FROM OUTSTANDING AWARDS
Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payment 
under any contractual arrangement agreed prior to the 
approval and implementation of the remuneration policy, 
i.e. before 27 April 2017. In particular, they will be entitled to 
receive any awards vesting under the incentive arrangements 
included in the remuneration policy approved at the Company’s 
2015 Annual General Meeting.
PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION AND 
APPROACH TO TARGET SETTING
The measures used under the Annual Bonus Scheme reﬂect the 
Company’s key ﬁnancial objectives for the year. The Committee 
considers that EPS (used in both the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP) 
is an objective and well-accepted measure of the Company’s 
performance which reinforces the strategic objective of achieving 
proﬁtable growth. 
Targets for the Annual Bonus Scheme are tied to the Annual 
Budgets set by the Board and have due regard to external 
forecasts. Performance targets are set to be stretching but 
achievable and take into account the economic environment 
in a given year. Generally, bonuses will start to be earned at 
performance levels of 10% below Budget, with a straight-line 
to Budget, and then increase on a straight-line until they reach 
capped levels, which will generally be around 15% above Budget.
Under the LTIP, Group D-EPS is complemented by ROCE to 
reﬂect the need to balance growth and returns. Targets applying 
to the LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of 
internal and external reference points to ensure they remain 
appropriately stretching.
The Committee also retains discretion to include additional or 
alternative performance measures, weightings and/or targets in 
future years to take account of the Company’s key strategic and 
operational aims and targets, and business outlook at that time.
MALUS AND CLAWBACK
Payments and awards under the Annual Bonus Scheme, 
Long-term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Plan are 
subject to malus and clawback as described below.
The Committee has discretion to decide at any time prior to the 
third anniversary of the date of payment of a bonus or the vesting 
of an award under the LTIP and RSP that the relevant individual 
shall be subject to malus/clawback if:
 • the Committee forms the view that the Company materially 
misstated its ﬁnancial results for whatever reason; or
 • the Committee forms the view that in assessing any 
Performance Condition and/or any other condition imposed 
on the bonus or award such assessment was based on an error, 
or on inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions; or 
 • the relevant individual ceases to be a Director or employee 
of Aggreko as a result of gross misconduct or the Committee 
is of the view that the relevant individual could have been 
summarily dismissed by reason of his gross misconduct; or
 • any other circumstance(s) or event(s) arise which the Committee 
considers to be sufﬁciently exceptional to justify the operation 
of malus/clawback. (Clawback in exceptional circumstances is 
a new feature to the Policy.)
AMOUNT TO BE SUBJECT TO MALUS/CLAWBACK
Where malus/clawback applies as a result of a misstatement or 
error, the amount will generally be based on the additional value 
which the Committee considers has been granted to, vested in, 
or received by the relevant individual as a result of the relevant 
misstatement or error. Where the malus/clawback applies for any 
other reason, it will be the amount that the Committee decides 
is appropriate. 
SATISFACTION OF CLAWBACK
The Committee has wide discretion in deciding how any clawback 
will be satisﬁed, including:
 • reducing the amount of any future bonus which would 
otherwise be payable; 
 • reducing the extent to which any subsisting awards under the 
LTIP and RSP vest; 
 • reducing the extent to which subsisting awards under any other 
share incentive plan vest;
 • reducing the number of any deferred bonus shares and 
LTIP awards which have vested and so are no longer subject 
to performance conditions but are subject to post-vesting 
deferral provisions;
 • requiring the relevant individual to pay the amount of clawback 
to the Company; and
 • deducting the amount from the relevant individual’s salary 
or from any other payment to be made by the Company.
If the relevant individual is required to repay any additional value, 
the Committee may consider whether that amount should take 
into account any income tax and national insurance contributions 
(or their equivalent) paid by the relevant individual and any 
possibility of him reclaiming such income tax and national 
insurance contributions.
Policy report continued
102 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Aggreko’s remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors and Chairman
Non-executive Directors
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To attract and retain Non-executive Directors with an appropriate 
degree of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Company and its business.
OPERATION
Fee levels for Non-executive Directors are generally reviewed by 
the Board annually. Remuneration comprises an annual fee for 
acting as a Non-executive Director and serving as a member of 
any Committees. Additional fees are paid in respect of service 
as chairman of a committee or as Senior Independent Director.
When reviewing fees, reference is made to fees for the same 
comparator group as used for Executive Directors, information 
provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent of 
the duties performed and the size of the Company.
OPPORTUNITY
Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the 
annual review. Currently the maximum aggregate annual 
fee for all Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, 
provided in the Company’s articles of association is £900,000.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
None.
Chairman
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY
To attract and retain a Chairman to provide effective leadership 
for the Board.
OPERATION
Remuneration for the Chairman comprises an annual fee for 
acting as Chairman, and serving as Chairman or as a member 
of any Committees. The Remuneration Committee sets the 
Chairman’s remuneration, subject to review when appropriate.
When reviewing fees, reference is made to fees for the same 
comparator group as used for Executive Directors, information 
provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent of 
the duties performed and the size of the Company.
OPPORTUNITY
Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome 
of the annual review. Currently the maximum aggregate 
annual fee for all Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, 
provided in the Company’s articles of association is £900,000.
PERFORMANCE METRICS
None.
INCENTIVES AND BENEFITS FOR 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN
Non-executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate 
in incentive arrangements or receive other remuneration 
in addition to their fees. However, where appropriate the 
Company may provide additional beneﬁts in kind (for example, 
reimbursement of travel costs and taxes thereon), which are not 
expected to exceed 20% of the annual fee in any year.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
The Company’s approach to remuneration for newly appointed 
Directors is identical to that for existing Directors. As a matter of 
practicality, we recognise that it may be necessary to pay within 
the market top quartile salaries in order to attract candidates 
of the quality the business needs. New Executive Directors will 
be invited to participate in incentive plans on the same basis 
as existing Executive Directors. However, the Committee may 
alter the performance measures, performance period, reference 
salary and vesting period of the annual bonus, LTIP or RSP, 
subject to the rules of the plans, if the Committee determines 
that the circumstances of the recruitment merit the alteration. 
The Committee will explain the rationale for any such changes. 
Where appropriate the Company will offer to pay reasonable 
relocation expenses for new Executive Directors in line with 
the Company’s policies described above.
It is not the Company’s policy to offer sign-on payments, but 
where the Remuneration Committee considers it is necessary 
to do so in order to recruit a particular individual, it may offer 
compensation for amounts of variable remuneration foregone, 
provided the fair value is no greater. In doing so, the Committee 
will consider all relevant factors including time to vesting, 
delivery vehicle (cash vs. shares vs. options), any performance 
conditions attached to the awards and the likelihood of the 
conditions being met. In order to facilitate such compensation, 
the Committee may rely on the exemption contained in Listing 
Rule 9.4.2, which allows for the grant of awards in exceptional 
circumstances to facilitate the recruitment of a Director.
Where the Company is considering the promotion of senior 
management to the Board, the Committee may, at its discretion, 
agree that any commitments made before promotion will 
continue to be honoured whether or not consistent with the 
policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulﬁlled.
In recruiting a new Non-executive Director, the Remuneration 
Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on this 
page. A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would 
be payable for acting as a Non-executive Director and serving as 
a member of any Committees, with additional fees payable for 
acting as Chairman of a Committee or as Senior Independent 
Director. In recruiting a new Chairman of the Board, the fee 
offered would be inclusive of serving on any Committees.
103 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE: SCENARIO ANALYSIS
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future 
reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential 
split between the different elements of remuneration under 
three different performance scenarios: ‘Minimum’, ‘Target’ 
and ‘Maximum’.
£1 million £2 million £3 million £4 million
Minimum
On-target £1,351k
Maximum
Carole Cran
 
 
£2,227k
Minimum
On-target
£1,563k
£2,406k
Maximum
Chris Weston
£4,000k
 
 
£0
£888k
26% 14% 23% 37%
15% 43%
65%
23% 19%
35%
25% 14% 23% 38%
16% 42%
64%
23% 19%
36%
39%
  Salary, pension, beneﬁts      Restricted shares      Annual bonus      LTIP    
Policy report continued
ASSUMPTIONS FOR POTENTIAL FUTURE REWARD OPPORTUNITIES
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP RSP
Maximum
Latest base pay, pension  
and ongoing beneﬁts
Maximum annual bonus
Performance warrants 
full vesting
Full vesting
Target
Latest base pay, pension  
and ongoing beneﬁts
On target annual bonus
Performance warrants  
25% of maximum vesting
Full vesting
Minimum
Latest base pay, pension  
and ongoing beneﬁts
No annual bonus
Threshold not achieved,  
so no amount vesting
Full vesting
Potential reward opportunities illustrated on this page are 
based on the proposed new policy we are asking Shareholders 
to approve, applied to the base salary in force at 1 January 2017. 
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially 
receivable in respect of performance for 2017. It should be noted 
that the LTIP and RSP awards granted in a year do not normally 
vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant. The projected 
value of LTIP and RSP amounts excludes the impact of share 
price movement. In illustrating potential reward opportunities 
the assumptions in the table below are made.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
During 2016, we consulted with our Shareholders on the 
proposed changes to our Remuneration Policy. The new 
remuneration policy reﬂects the results of these consultations. 
The Committee also receives regular updates on the views of 
investors and corporate governance matters. This ensures that 
best practice principles are taken account of by the Committee 
to assist them with their decision making. 
We welcome an open dialogue with Shareholders and 
will continue to consult with major Shareholders before 
implementing any signiﬁcant changes to the Remuneration Policy.
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE 
IN THE COMPANY
The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of 
senior executives below the Board is broadly consistent with 
that for the Executive Directors. Our senior executive population 
will be invited to participate in the LTIP and new RSP, at varying 
percentage levels of salary under the LTIP. Different award levels 
of up to 100% of salary (200% in exceptional circumstances) may 
apply below Board under the RSP. This would be on a case by case 
basis, typically as part of a retention package or to compensate 
for lost long-term incentives on recruitment of a senior executive. 
RSP awards may also vest earlier (or later) than the third 
anniversary of grant and may be subject to a shorter holding 
period or no holding period.
In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee 
also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Group, and is informed of changes to broader employee 
pay. The Remuneration Committee does not speciﬁcally consult 
with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of 
the remuneration policy or use any remuneration comparison 
measurements, although as members of the Board they receive 
the results of the Company’s periodical employee satisfaction 
survey which includes questions covering remuneration.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENT 
FOR LOSS OF OFFICE
It is the Company’s policy to provide for 12 months’ notice for 
termination of employment for Executive Directors, to be given 
by either party. For Executive Directors who have been newly 
recruited from outside the Group, the period would normally 
be six months, increasing to 12 months after 12 months’ service.
The Company’s policy is to limit severance payments on 
termination to pre-established contractual arrangements; if the 
Company believes it appropriate to protect its interests, it may 
also make additional payments in exchange for non-compete/
non-solicitation terms which are above and beyond those in the 
Director’s contract of employment. Typically, these will serve to 
extend the non-compete period for up to three years from the 
date of termination. The Committee has discretion to contribute 
towards outplacement services and the legal fees for any 
departing Director to the extent it considers appropriate.
Under normal circumstances, the Company may terminate the 
employment of an Executive Director by making a payment in 
lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and beneﬁts for the notice 
period at the rate current at the date of termination. In case 
of gross misconduct, a provision is included in the Executive’s 
contract for immediate dismissal with no compensation payable. 
Copies of the service contracts of the Executive Directors and 
copies of the letters of appointment of the Non-executive 
Directors are available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce 
of the Company.
104 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE TREATMENT OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE 
AWARDS AND OPTIONS ON TERMINATION 
OF EMPLOYMENT AND CORPORATE EVENTS 
UNDER THE LTIP AND RSP
In the event an Executive Director leaves for reasons of death, 
ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the 
agreement of the Company, or their employing company 
or business ceasing to be a member or undertaking of the 
Group or other such event as the Committee determines 
(the good leaver reasons), then awards held for less than one 
year will normally lapse. The Committee may determine that 
the circumstances are, in its opinion, sufﬁciently exceptional in 
which case an award may vest to the extent determined by the 
Committee (having regard to the performance conditions in the 
case of an LTIP award and the period during which the participant 
was employed) and subject to any other additional terms and 
conditions that the Committee may determine. 
LTIP and RSP awards held by a good leaver for at least one year 
will normally be pro-rated for time and will vest on the normal 
vesting date. The Committee has discretion to allow an award 
to vest on a date following cessation based (in the case of LTIP 
awards) on performance over the original performance period 
(or if the award vests early on cessation, a curtailed performance 
period) as determined by the Committee.
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP and RSP awards will 
normally lapse.
Upon the occurrence of a takeover, change of control pursuant 
to a scheme of arrangement or winding-up (a Corporate Event), 
LTIP and RSP awards held for less than one year will normally 
lapse unless either they are released and exchanged for 
equivalent awards on an internal reorganisation or reconstruction. 
The Committee may determine that the circumstances are, 
in its opinion, sufﬁciently exceptional in which case an award may 
vest to the extent determined by the Committee (having regard, 
in the case of LTIP awards, to the performance conditions) and 
subject to any other additional terms and conditions that the 
Committee may determine.
Awards granted at least 12 months prior to the date of the 
Corporate Event will vest to the extent (in the case of LTIP awards 
only) that, in the opinion of the Committee, the Performance 
Conditions have been satisﬁed at that time or would have been 
satisﬁed were it not for the relevant Corporate Event. 
Awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, vest early on 
a demerger to the extent (in the case of LTIP awards only) that, 
in the opinion of the Committee, the Performance Conditions 
have been satisﬁed at that time or would have been satisﬁed 
and subject to any other additional terms and conditions that the 
Committee may determine. Awards will normally be exchanged 
for new awards on an internal reorganisation or reconstruction 
unless the Committee allow them to vest on the basis which 
would apply on a takeover. 
The Committee retains discretion to vary the extent to which and 
the date when awards vest on a case by case basis, following a 
review of circumstances, to ensure fairness for both Shareholders 
and participants. The Committee also retains the discretion to 
vary the number of shares and/or exercise price of options and 
awards on or following any variation to the Company’s share 
capital or upon the payment of a special dividend or demerger 
in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan.
Options held under the Sharesave plans will vest and become 
exercisable in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan 
and the governing legislation (to the extent applicable) upon 
cessation of employment or the occurrence of a Corporate Event.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments, 
which it considers fair and reasonable, to satisfy any existing legal 
obligation and/or to settle any claim for damages or by way of 
settlement or compromise of any claim arising on or as a result 
of termination.
TREATMENT OF ANNUAL BONUS ON TERMINATION 
OF EMPLOYMENT AND CORPORATE EVENTS 
The Committee has discretion to determine that in the event 
an Executive Director leaves the Company, bonus payments 
may be paid once performance has been measured and on 
a pro-rated basis for the time spent in active employment with 
the Company.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES 
The Committee has a policy of encouraging Executive Directors 
to acquire and retain a material number of shares in the Company, 
with the objective of further aligning their long-term interests 
with those of other Shareholders. The minimum requirement for 
Executive Directors is currently 200% of salary. The Committee 
proposes to increase this to 400% of salary.
Shares that count towards achieving these guidelines include:
 • shares beneﬁcially owned by an Executive Director or by 
a connected person, as recognised by the Committee; 
 • deferred bonus shares and LTIP awards which have vested 
and so are no longer subject to performance conditions 
but are subject to post-vesting deferral provisions; and
 • shares held under any restricted stock plan or any plan 
established under Listing Rule 9.4.2.
Executive Directors are expected to build their shareholding 
over a ﬁve-year period (retaining at least 50% of vested incentives 
(post-tax) until such guidelines have been met), but are not 
required to make personal share purchases if awards do not vest 
through failing to meet performance conditions. For example, 
a newly-appointed Director may not reach the required level 
within the period, depending on the Company’s performance 
against target over the period. If so, the Committee will review 
the circumstances and agree an appropriate forward plan.
The Committee retains the discretion to grant dispensation 
from these requirements in exceptional circumstances.
There is no particular requirement for Non-executive Directors 
to hold shares but they are encouraged to acquire a holding 
over time.
Directors’ shareholdings are included in the table in the 
Implementation Report on page 110.
PERIOD FOR POLICY
The policy is intended to take effect from 27 April 2017, being 
the date of the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee is satisﬁed that the proposed new remuneration 
policy is in the best interests of Shareholders and does not 
promote excessive risk-taking. The Committee retains discretion 
to make non-signiﬁcant changes to the policy without reverting 
to Shareholders.
105 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Annual report on remuneration
In the following section of our report, we explain how we have implemented Aggreko’s remuneration policy during 2016. 
The policy in place for the year was the one which was approved by Shareholders at Aggreko’s 2015 Annual General Meeting. 
Brief details of all elements other than variable pay are given above on pages 99 and 103. The policy in place for the year for variable 
pay is different from the proposed new policy set out on pages 100 and 101, which we are asking Shareholders to approve in April 
2017. The changes between the two relate to the amendment to the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements we plan to 
introduce. These changes are explained on pages 97 and 98. We have given brief details of the previous policy for variable pay below, 
but full details of all elements of the policy can be found in Aggreko’s 2014 Report and Accounts, pages 98 to 104, which is available 
on our website at ir.aggreko.com/investors.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION (AUDITED)
The table below sets out a single ﬁgure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the years ended 31 December 2016 
and 31 December 2015. 
Executive Directors Year
Base Salary/ 
Fees £ Beneﬁts £
Annual 
Bonus £
LTIP
Sharesave £ Pension £ Other £ Total £ PSP £ CIP £
Carole Cran 2016 412,000 84,247
5
107,120 – 16,149 – 82,400 – 701,916
Carole Cran 2015 412,000 99,006
6
– – 18,089 – 82,400 – 611,495
Chris Weston 2016 750,000 25,035 202,500 – – – 225,000 706,620
7
1,909,155
Chris Weston
1
2015 750,000 22,853 – – – 4,271 225,000 483,392
8
1,485,516
Non-executive Directors
Nicola Brewer
2
2016 51,537 –––– ––– 51,537
Ken Hanna 2016 342,000 –––– ––– 342,000
Ken Hanna 2015 340,250 –––– ––– 340,250
Russell King 2016 101,000 –––– ––– 101,000
Russell King 2015 100,500 –––– ––– 100,500
Uwe Krueger 2016 61,000 751––– ––– 61,751
Uwe Krueger
3
2015 55,500 712 – – – – – – 56,212
Diana Layﬁeld 2016 61,000 –––– ––– 61,000
Diana Layﬁeld 2015 60,500 –––– ––– 60,500
Robert MacLeod
4
2016 26,481 –––– ––– 26,481
Robert MacLeod 2015 80,500 –––– ––– 80,500
Ian Marchant 2016 74,462 277––– ––– 74,739
Ian Marchant 2015 60,500 –––– ––– 60,500
2016 Total 1,879,480 110,310 309,620 – 16,149 – 307,400 706,620 3,329,579
2015 Total 1,859,750 122,571 – – 18,089 4,271 307,400 483,392 2,795,473
1 Chris Weston’s remuneration for 2015 is from date of appointment, 2 January 2015. 
2 Nicola Brewer’s remuneration for 2016 is from date of appointment, 25 February 2016.
3 Uwe Krueger’s remuneration for 2015 is from date of appointment, 1 February 2015. 
4 Robert MacLeod’s remuneration for 2016 is to date of resignation as a Director, 28 April 2016.
5 Owing to the signiﬁcant amount of time spent in London, based on UK legislation, Carole Cran has established a second place of employment in London. As a result, 
any home to London ofﬁce travel costs either reimbursed, or paid on Carole’s behalf are taxable.
6 As explained in Note 5 above, Carole Cran’s home to London ofﬁce travel costs either reimbursed, or paid on Carole’s behalf are taxable. The 2015 amount has been 
restated to include travel costs of £4,188 and associated taxes of £12,343 relating to 2015 but which were processed in 2016.
7 As explained on page 89 of our Annual Report 2015, Chris Weston was granted an award of shares on 30 March 2015. 50% of the shares were released on 1 April 2016 – 
a total of 63,979 shares. Chris Weston was entitled to a further 1,631 shares equivalent to the dividends on the shares between grant and vesting. The value is based on 
the share price on 1 April 2016 of 1077 pence.
8 As set out on page 97 of our Annual Report 2014, Chris Weston received an amount of £483,392 to compensate him for his annual bonus from his previous employer 
he forfeited as a result of his resignation. This was paid as 75% in cash and the balance in Aggreko shares. The shares are shown in the table of Directors’ shareholdings 
on page 110.
The ﬁgures have been calculated as follows:
 • Base salary/fees: amount earned for the year. See Base salary on page 107.
 • Beneﬁts: the taxable value of beneﬁts received in the year. See Beneﬁts on page 107.
 • Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year. See Annual bonus scheme on pages 107 and 108.
 • 2016 remuneration for LTIPs refers to share awards granted on 16 April 2014 subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2016 and which are due to vest 
on 16 April 2017. The value is based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of 859 pence. See Long-term Incentive Plan on pages 108 and 109.
 • 2015 remuneration for LTIPs refers to share awards granted on 5 August 2013 subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2015 which vested on 5 August 2016. 
The value is based on the share price on 5 August 2016 of 1071 pence.
 • Sharesave: the value is based on the market price of an Aggreko share on the date of grant, less the option price, multiplied by the number of options.
 • Pension: the amount of any Company pension contributions and cash in lieu. See Pensions on page 109.
106 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Base salary
The base salaries for Executive Directors as at 1 January 2017, 1 January 2016 and 1 January 2015 were as follows:
Executive Director Position
1 January 
2017 
£
Increase
1
 
%
1 January
2016 
£ 
 Increase 
%
1 January 
2015 
£ 
Carole Cran Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 412,000 0 412,000 0 412,000
Chris Weston Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 750,000 0 750,000 0 750,000
1 The increase across the Group for 2016 was 7.4%. There have been no salary increases for Executive Directors for two years and none are proposed for 2017.
Beneﬁts
Chris Weston received healthcare beneﬁts; Carole Cran did not receive any healthcare beneﬁts. Both Executive Directors were also 
provided with life assurance cover, income protection, accident insurance and a car allowance. Carole Cran received reimbursement 
of the cost of travelling to the London ofﬁce and associated taxes.
The following table shows those beneﬁts that the Committee considers signiﬁcant:
Executive Director
Car/fuel
£
Travel
£
Tax
£
Other 
£
Total
£ 
Carole Cran 12,000 36,460 32,335
1
3,452 84,247
Chris Weston 12,000 – – 13,035 25,035
1 Owing to the signiﬁcant amount of time spent in London, based on UK legislation, Carole Cran has established a second place of employment in London. As a result, 
any home to London ofﬁce travel costs either reimbursed, or paid on Carole’s behalf are taxable.
Annual bonus scheme
The maximum bonus opportunity for 2016 for both Executive Directors was 175% of salary. 
Bonus payments are payable as to 75% in cash, and as to 25% deferred into shares for three years unless, at the discretion of the 
Committee, the individual leaves with the Company’s consent. The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares that 
can vest in the event of gross misconduct or material misstatement of the accounts.
The targets under the 2016 annual bonus scheme were based as to 80% on ﬁnancial performance measures set against the annual 
budget at the start of the year and as to 20% against personal/strategic objectives.
Financial performance measures
The ﬁnancial objectives for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (Chris Weston) and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (Carole Cran) were measured 
as to 75% against D-EPS and as to 25% against operating cash ﬂow. 
For these ﬁnancial measures, Executive Directors would start to earn a bonus at threshold performance, calculated as a percentage 
below budget, increasing to half of the maximum that could be earned under that element at budget on a straight-line basis. 
The bonus would then increase on a straight-line basis to the maximum, calculated as a percentage above budget.
The table below shows the performance against budget of each of the ﬁnancial performance measures used for calculating the 
Annual Bonus for 2016:
Measure Threshold Budget Maximum Outcome 
% budget % budget % budget
% maximum 
of element
D-EPS growth 56.51p 95 59.48p 65.43p 110 49.74p
1
84 0
Operating cash ﬂow £468.4m 90 £520.44m £572.48m 110 £333.1m
1
64 0
1 The reported D-EPS and operating cash ﬂow have been adjusted to a constant currency basis.
107 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Annual report on remuneration continued
Personal/strategic performance measures
Each Director was set three personal objectives, which included measurable improvements in safety indicators and agreed outcomes 
for set strategic objectives speciﬁc to their roles. Against each of these personal objectives he or she could achieve the maximum bonus 
entitlements detailed in the table below (35% of salary in total).
Chris Weston’s objectives included delivery of the Aggreko 18 initiatives with a particular focus on technology and cost/procurement 
savings. Carole Cran’s objectives included developing a risk management framework and working with the business ﬁnance leads to 
tightly manage cost. The Committee reviewed performance against these measures for each Director, and the table below shows the 
Committee’s assessment of each personal/strategic objective achieved as a percentage of salary.
Personal/strategic objective achieved as a percentage of salary
Executive Director
Safety
%
Risk  
Management 
framework
%
Cost  
Management
%
Leadership 
Development
%
Aggreko 18
%
Total
%
Carole Cran 41111 – – 26
(maximum % achievable) 71414 – – 35
Chris Weston 8.5 – – 5 13.5 27
(maximum % achievable) 10.5 – – 7 17.5 35
The table below sets out the total bonus entitlement for each Executive Director for 2016:
D-EPS growth Operating cash ﬂow Personal objectives Total payable
1
Executive Director 
Total  
max bonus
% salary
Max  
bonus
% salary
Outcome
% salary
Max  
bonus
% salary
Outcome
% salary
Max  
bonus
% salary
Outcome
% salary % salary £
Carole Cran 175 105 0 35 0 35 26 26 107,120
Chris Weston 175 105 0 35 0 35 27 27 202,500
1 The total bonus includes the 25% deferred shares element.
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP awards which are due to vest on 16 April 2017 were granted in 2014 under the old LTIP, which expired in 2014. The old LTIP 
consists of two distinct elements: the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Co-investment Plan (CIP). 
The PSP is a nil-cost conditional award of shares which vest depending on performance against the targets; it provides for 
annual awards of performance shares up to an aggregate limit of 100% of salary in normal circumstances and 200% of salary 
in exceptional circumstances.
The CIP is a Co-investment plan, whose purpose it is to encourage executives to buy and hold shares in the Company. 
Participants can subscribe to purchase Aggreko shares up to a value of 30% of their salary, each year that they are invited to join the 
CIP; if they hold those shares for three years (or, if earlier, the date that their CIP award vests), they will be entitled to receive a minimum 
award of one share for every two they subscribed (the Minimum Match), plus a performance related award of a further three shares 
for every two they subscribed. The Minimum Match is not subject to performance conditions.
The PSP and CIP are both measured against performance over three ﬁnancial years and they share the same performance criteria. 
These are the real compound annual growth rate of Diluted Earnings per Share (D-EPS), and Return on Capital Employed (ROCE). 
The performance criteria for the LTIP awards granted in 2014 were as follows:
 • 75% of the award was based on CPI inﬂation-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance 
measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%. No performance shares would be awarded against this element if performance 
was below 3% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at 10% growth; and
 • 25% of the award was based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 20% to 25%. No performance shares 
would be awarded against this element if performance was below 20% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum 
at 25% ROCE.
In addition to the above, and to reward truly exceptional performance, the number of shares awarded to participants in both elements 
of the 2014 LTIP might be increased by between one and two times if the real compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year 
performance measurement period was in a range of 10% to 20%.
108 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE The performance period for the 2014 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2016. Over the period:
 • Aggreko’s aggregate D-EPS was 217.6 pence, which is the equivalent of no growth. Since this was less than the threshold of 3%, 
no shares will vest under this performance measure; and 
 • Aggreko’s actual average ROCE for the period was 16%. Since this was less than the threshold of 20%, no shares will vest under this 
performance measure.
Accordingly, only the Minimum Match will vest.
The table below shows:
 • the resulting vesting of the 2014 LTIP awards for Carole Cran. These are due to vest in April 2017; and 
 • by way of comparison the vesting of the 2013 LTIP awards which vested in August 2016.
Performance Share Plan Co-Investment Plan
Executive Director Year of grant Vested
Market price
£
Value
£Vested
Market price
£
Value
£
Total value
£
Carole Cran 2014––– 1,880 859p 16,149 16,149
Carole Cran 2013––– 1,689 1071p 18,089 18,089
Carole Cran’s 2014 LTIP awards were granted on 16 April 2014. 
Carole Cran’s 2013 LTIP awards were granted on 5 August 2013 and vested on 5 August 2016.
The value of the 2014 LTIP on vesting is based on the average price of Aggreko shares over the last quarter of 2016 of 859 pence.
The value of the 2013 LTIP on vesting is based on the market price of Aggreko shares on date of vesting, 5 August 2016, of 1071 pence.
Pensions
Executive Directors participate in pension schemes or receive cash in lieu with a value appropriate to the median practice in 
their country.
Carole Cran is a member of the Aggreko Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a deﬁned contribution scheme. Chris Weston is entitled 
to a Company contribution of 30% and Carole Cran is entitled to a Company contribution of 20% of salary, but she may elect to take 
all or part of the Company contribution in the form of a cash payment in lieu. Contributions paid by the Company under the deﬁned 
contribution plans during the year are as follows:
2016 2015
Executive Director
Paid to 
pension
£
Paid cash
£
Total
£
Paid to 
pension
£
Paid cash
£
Total
£
Carole Cran 18,665 63,735 82,400 37,340 45,060 82,400
Chris Weston – 225,000 225,000 – 225,000 225,000
Non-executive Directors (including the Chairman)
The Board determines the remuneration policy and level of fees for the Non-executive Directors, within the limits set out in the 
Articles of Association. The Remuneration Committee recommends remuneration policy and level of fees for the Chairman of the 
Board (although the Chairman of the Board does not take part in discussions concerning his remuneration). Remuneration comprises 
an annual fee for acting as a Chairman or Non-executive Director of the Company. Additional fees are paid to Non-executive Directors 
in respect of service as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and as Senior Independent Director. The Chairman 
and Non-executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, retirement beneﬁts or to participate in any share scheme operated by the 
Company. The Chairman’s fee has not increased since April 2015 and the fees for the Non-executive Directors have not increased 
since July 2015.
The fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors as at 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2016 were as follows:
Role
1 January 2017
£
Increase
%
1 January 2016
£
Chairman fee 342,000 0 342,000
Non-executive Director base fee 61,000 0 61,000
Committee Chairman additional fee 20,000 0 20,000
Senior Independent Director additional fee 20,000 0 20,000
109 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance SHARE AWARDS GRANTED IN 2016 (AUDITED)
In May 2016, Executive Directors were granted awards of shares under the 2015 Long-term Incentive Plan, in each case with a value 
equivalent to 300% of salary. The three-year performance period over which D-EPS and ROCE performance will be measured began 
on 1 January 2016 and will end on 31 December 2018. None of the awards granted under the LTIP are eligible to vest until 9 May 2019.
The performance criteria for the LTIP awards granted in 2016 are as follows:
 • 75% of the award is based on three-year cumulative D-EPS as compared to three-year compound growth in real (RPI-adjusted) 
D-EPS. No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is below an equivalent of RPI+3% per annum 
growth. Awards will then start to vest above that level and will increase straight-line to a maximum at an equivalent of RPI+15% 
per annum growth; and
 • 25% of the award is based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 20% to 25%. No performance shares will be 
awarded against this element if performance is less than 20% and awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 25% ROCE.
A proportion of shares which vest will be subject to a further retention period of up to two years in accordance with the rules of the LTIP. 
The table below shows details of interests awarded to Executive Directors under the LTIP during 2016:
Executive Director Shares
Face Value
1
£
% vesting  
on minimum 
performance
Carole Cran 114,976 1,235,992 –
Chris Weston 209,302 2,249,997 –
1 Face value of LTIP is the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance targets are met multiplied by the average market price over the ﬁve business days 
prior to the date of grant of 9 May 2016, which was used to determine the number of shares awarded, being 1075 pence.
ARRANGEMENTS WITH PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
Vesting of LTIP awards to former Executive Directors
The table below shows awards to former Executive Directors which vested in 2016:
Co-Investment Plan
Former Executive Director Date of vesting Shares
Market price 
on vesting 
date
£
Value
£
Debajit Das 5 August 2016 2,906 1067p 31,007
Debajit Das 19 October 2016 2,644 940p 24,854
David Taylor-Smith 23 May 2016 5,787 1164p 67,361
EXIT PAYMENTS
There were no exit payments during the year.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS (AUDITED)
As at 31 December 2016, the shareholdings of the Directors were as follows:
Director
(A) Shares 
owned
outright
1
(B) Shares 
held subject 
to deferral
Shares held 
subject to 
performance
 conditions
2
Options held 
not subject to 
performance
conditions
3
Proposed 
shareholding 
guidelines 
% salary
Shares 
counting 
towards 
guidelines 
(A + B)
Current 
shareholding
% salary
4
Carole Cran 9,783 4,082 227,807 – 400 13,865 31
Chris Weston
5
34,773 71.715 348,534 2,168 400 106,488 130
Nicola Brewer 1,450
Ken Hanna 19,303
Russell King 3,688
Uwe Krueger 3,000
Diana Layﬁeld 2,855
Robert MacLeod
6
18,582
Ian Marchant 3,331
1 This includes shares held by connected persons.
2 Shares held subject to performance comprise LTIP awards over shares. 
3 Options held under the Sharesave Plan.
4 Percentage is calculated using a share price of 918 pence as at 31 December 2016. Under the Company’s share ownership guidelines, Executive Directors will have a period 
of ﬁve years to achieve the shareholding guideline of not less than four times base salary.
5 Chris Weston’s holding comprises 63,979 of the shares awarded on 30 March 2015 (the remainder of the shares awarded on 30 March 2015 were released on 1 April 2016 
and are included in Column B) and 25% of his annual bonus forfeited from his previous employer which was deferred into shares (7,736 shares), as set out on page 97 
of our 2014 Report and Accounts.
6 Robert MacLeod’s holding is at date of resignation as a Director, 28 April 2016.
Annual report on remuneration continued
110 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests in Ordinary Shares between 31 December 2016 and 7 March 2017.
Carole Cran and Chris Weston, as employees of the Company, have an interest in the holdings of the Aggreko Employee Beneﬁt Trust 
(the ‘EBT’) as potential beneﬁciaries. The EBT is a trust established to distribute shares to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries 
in satisfaction of awards granted under the Aggreko Long-term Incentive Plans and Sharesave Schemes. At 31 December 2016, 
the trustees of the EBT held a total of 1,048,816 Aggreko plc Ordinary Shares (2014: 535,538) and the holding at the date of this report 
is 1,042,090. The dividend has been waived on these shares.
COMPARISON OF COMPANY PERFORMANCE
The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2016, of £100 invested in Aggreko’s shares on 31 December 2008 compared 
with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 Index. The FTSE 350 Index is chosen because Aggreko has 
been a constituent member of this group over the entire period.
Company performance
500
400
300
200
100
Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 12 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16
Aggreko
FTSE 350 Index
£100
£100
Dec 11 Dec 13
£212
£130
£342
£148
£470
£144
£409
£161
£408
£194
£231
£231
£363
£225
£196 £197
0
450
350
250
150
50
For comparative purposes, the remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for the same ﬁnancial years 
is set out below: 
Year CEO
Single Figure of  
Total Remuneration
£
Annual Bonus payout 
against maximum 
%
Long-term incentive 
vesting rates against 
maximum opportunity
%
2009 Rupert Soames 2,555,850 63.2 100
2010 Rupert Soames 5,839,209 100 100
2011 Rupert Soames 8,501,865 82.4 100
2012 Rupert Soames 2,685,840 6.4 100
2013 Rupert Soames 1,779,144 49.6 72.5
2014 Angus Cockburn 1,290,906 42.4 5.8
2015 Chris Weston 1,485,516 0 0
2016 Chris Weston 1,909,155 15 0
Angus Cockburn was Interim Chief Executive from 25 April to 30 September 2014, and his emoluments have been calculated on the 
assumption that he held the role for the full year at the rates of remuneration in place on 30 September 2014.
The 2015 ﬁgure for Chris Weston includes an amount of £483,392 to compensate him for his annual bonus from his previous employer 
he forfeited as a result of his resignation. The 2016 ﬁgure includes an amount of £706,620 to compensate him for the forfeiture of 
long-term incentives from his previous employer.
The data for this table was taken from the Remuneration Reports for the relevant years and adjusted to take account of the actual 
share price on date of vesting for the LTIP.
111 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Annual report on remuneration continued
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CEO
The table below shows the change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in comparison to the average change in remuneration 
of employees within the Group central functions over that period.
Year Percentage change for CEO Percentage change for Group central functions
Salary/fees 07.8
Beneﬁts 9.5 22.7
Bonus n/m n/m
The comparator group relates to the employees within the Group central function in the UK (122 employees), rather than all Group 
employees. As in the previous year, we have chosen this group because the Committee believes that it provides a sufﬁciently large 
comparator group to give a reasonable understanding of underlying increases, whilst reducing the distortion that would arise 
from including all of the many countries in which the Group operates, with their different economic conditions. Neither the CEO 
or employees within the Group central function in the UK received a bonus in 2015 and therefore, the percentage change in bonus 
is not meaningful.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The graph below shows Aggreko’s proﬁt after tax, pre-exceptional items, dividend, and total employee pay expenditure for the ﬁnancial 
years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, and the percentage change.
£158m
Proﬁt after tax £m 
16
15 £183m
−14%
0 100 200 300 400 
    
£69m
Dividend £m 
16
15 £70m
–1%
0 100 200 300 400 
    
£355m
Total employee pay expenditure £m 
16
15 £331m
+7%
0 100 200 300 400 
Dividends are the interim and ﬁnal dividends paid in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2015 and the interim dividend 
paid and the ﬁnal dividend recommended in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2016. The total employee pay 
expenditure increase is due to year on year exchange rate movement.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2017
The Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2017 as follows:
Base salaries and fees 
Base salaries for Executive Directors were reviewed by the Committee in December 2016; details are set out on page 107. 
The Committee intends to next review the salaries in December 2017. Fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors 
will next be reviewed in 2018.
Pensions and beneﬁts 
Pensions and beneﬁts will continue in line with policy.
Annual bonus 
The Committee set annual bonus targets for the Executive Directors as follows:
D-EPS
Personal 
objectives
Executive Director
Total  
max bonus  
(% salary)
Max bonus 
% salary
On-budget 
bonus  
% salary
Max bonus  
% salary
Carole Cran 125 100 50 25
Chris Weston 125 100 50 25
The personal objectives were set individually for each Director. All include agreed outcomes for set strategic objectives speciﬁc to 
their roles.
We have not disclosed full details of all objectives or ﬁnancial targets in this report, as we consider them to be commercially sensitive. 
It is, however, our intention to disclose ﬁnancial budget numbers in next year’s Annual report on remuneration.
112 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Long-term Incentive Plan
Subject to the approval of the changes to the Long-term Incentive Plan by Shareholders at the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting, 
the Committee proposes to approve the grant of 2017 LTIP awards to Executive Directors with a face value of 200% of salary.
The performance criteria for the 2017 LTIP will be as follows:
 • 75% of the award will be based on three-year D-EPS growth, with 25% of shares awarded against this element for D-EPS growth of 
5% per annum. Awards will then continue to vest above that level and will increase straight-line to a maximum for 12% per annum 
growth; and
 • 25% of the award will be based on ﬁnal year ROCE in the range of 15% to 20%, with 25% of shares awarded against this element 
if 2019 ROCE is equal to 15%. Awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 20% ROCE in 2019. 
The shares which vest will be released to participants in equal tranches after three, four and ﬁve years in accordance with the 
rules of the LTIP.
Awards are expected to be granted in May 2017 after the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Restricted Shares
Subject to the approval of the new Restricted Share Plan (RSP) by Shareholders at the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting, 
the Committee proposes to approve the grant of 2017 RSP awards to Executive Directors with a face value of 75% of salary. 
The shares will be released after ﬁve years, subject to continued employment over a three-year period or otherwise upon leaving 
the Company as a good leaver.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The Committee re-appointed Kepler Associates, a brand of Mercer, as the principal external adviser to the Committee for 2016. 
The fees paid to Kepler Associates in respect of work that materially assisted the Committee in 2016 are shown in the table below:
Adviser Appointed by
Services provided  
to the Committee
Fees paid by  
the Company  
for the Services Other Services
Kepler Associates Russell King  
on behalf of 
the Committee
Review of LTIP Award Calculations
Advice on DRR disclosure
Advice on current market practice
Benchmarking of Executive pay
Advice on design of new 
incentive arrangements
£78,960
Charged on a  
time/cost basis
Benchmarking of 
Non-executive Director 
Fees and speciﬁc 
below-Board roles
Advice on remuneration 
for below-Board executives
Except as provided above, Kepler Associates do not provide any other services to the Group. They are a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its code of conduct. Taking these factors into account, the Committee is 
satisﬁed as to the impartiality and objectivity of their advice. They were also chosen because of their existing knowledge of the 
Group’s remuneration arrangements.
113 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING
The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2015 Remuneration Report at the 28 April 2016 AGM.
Remuneration Report
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 170,985,554 98.94
Against 1,826,364 1.06
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 172,811,918 100
Votes withheld
1
1,519,590 –
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 174,331,508 –
1 A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
The Policy Report was last submitted to Shareholders at the 2015 AGM when 98.88% voted in favour.
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
Each of the Directors will be proposed for election or re-election at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2017. 
The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Aggreko plc. The Remuneration Committee sets notice 
periods for the Executive Directors at 12 months or less. The principal terms of the Executive Directors’ service contracts (which have 
no ﬁxed term) are as follows:
 Notice period
Executive Director Position Effective date of contract From Director From Company
Carole Cran Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 1 June 2014 12 months 12 months
Chris Weston Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2 January 2015 12 months 12 months
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject to three months’ notice from either party. 
The dates of the Chairman’s and Non-executive Directors’ appointments are as follows:
Non-executive Director Position Effective date of contract
Unexpired term  
as at 31 December 2016
Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director 25 February 2016 2 years 2 months
Ken Hanna Chairman 29 April 2015
1
1 year 4 months
Barbara Jeremiah Non-executive Director 7 March 2017 n/a
Russell King Non-executive Director 2 February 2015
1
1 month
Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director 1 February 2015 1 year 1 month
Diana Layﬁeld Non-executive Director 1 May 2015
1
1 year 4 months
Ian Marchant Non-executive Director 1 November 2016
1
2 years 10 months
Miles Roberts Non-executive Director 7 March 2017 n/a
1 Replaces earlier contract.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
It is the Board’s policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted companies. Any such directorships must 
be formally approved by the Chairman of the Board. Directors are generally permitted to retain any earnings from these appointments. 
During the year, Carole Cran was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Halma plc. Fees for 2016 in relation to this appointment were 
£51,000. Chris Weston did not hold any external directorships of other quoted companies.
This Report was approved by the Board on 7 March 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Russell King
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 March 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
114 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Statutory disclosures
DIRECTORS’ REPORT AND STRATEGIC REPORT
The Directors’ Report and Strategic Report for the year ended 
31 December 2016 comprise pages 70 to 121 and pages 1 to 69 of 
this report, together with the sections incorporated by reference. 
We have included some of the matters normally included in the 
Directors’ Report which we consider to be of strategic importance 
in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 69. Speciﬁcally these are:
 • Future Business Developments on page 27; and
 • Risk Information on the Use of Financial Instruments on 
page 158.
Disclosures in relation to Listing Rule LR 9.8.4R, where applicable, 
are included on pages 94 to 98 in relation to long-term 
incentive plans and on page 118 in relation to the dividend 
waiver arrangements in place for our Employee Beneﬁt Trust.
Both the Directors’ Report and Strategic Report have been 
presented in accordance with applicable company law, 
and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those 
reports are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided. 
Other information to be disclosed in the Directors’ Report is 
given in this section.
MANAGEMENT REPORT
The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report together include 
the ‘management report’ for the purposes of Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.8R.
2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am  
on 27 April 2017 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, 
Glasgow G2 8DL. The Notice of Meeting is available on the 
Shareholder information pages of our website.
DIVIDENDS
The interim dividend of 9.38 pence per Ordinary Share was 
paid on 30 September 2016. The Directors recommend a ﬁnal 
dividend of 17.74 pence per Ordinary Share in respect of the year, 
making a total for the year of 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share 
(2015: 27.12 pence), payable on 24 May 2017 to Shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 21 April 2017.
DIVIDEND PAYMENTS AND DRIP
In 2015, we introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 
for Shareholders. This allows Shareholders to purchase 
additional shares in Aggreko with their dividend payment. 
Further information and a mandate can be obtained from 
our Registrars, Capita, whose details are set out on page 176 
and the Shareholder information pages of our website.
SHARE CAPITAL
On 31 December 2016, the Company had in issue 256,128,201 
Ordinary Shares of 4329⁄395 pence each, 188,251,587 Deferred 
Shares of 984⁄775 pence each, 18,352,057,648 Deferred Shares 
of 1⁄775 pence each, 182,700,915 Deferred Shares of 618⁄25 pence 
each and 573,643,383,325 Deferred Shares of 1⁄306125 pence each 
comprising 29.43%, 40.77%, 0.56%, 29.19% and 0.04% respectively 
of the Company’s issued share capital. Details of the changes in 
issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 23 to the 
accounts on page 153.
MATERIAL SHARE INTERESTS
As at 31 December 2016, the Company had received notiﬁcations 
of the following major shareholdings, representing 3% or more 
of the voting rights attached to the issued Ordinary Share capital 
of the Company:
Shareholder
 Number  
 of shares
% of total 
voting rights 
AKO Capital LLP 12,781,545 4.99
Baillie Gifford 12,584,169 4.91
The Capital Group Companies LLP 13,446,515 5.25
Deutsche Bank AG 19,458,562 7.60
Mackenzie Financial Corporation 10,255,385 4.00
Prudential Plc 9,351,326 3.65
A E H Salvesen* 7,878,044 3.08
* Including immediate family and trustee interests.
Between 31 December 2016 and 7 March 2017, the Company 
received the following notiﬁcations of major shareholdings.
Shareholder Date
 Number  
 of shares
% of total 
voting rights 
Deutsche Bank AG
Deutsche Bank AG
Deutsche Bank AG
Deutsche Bank AG
Deutsche Bank AG
03/01/2017
15/02/2017
23/02/2017
27/02/2017
28/02/2017
17,077,012
19,067,886
20,872,398
17,983,634
17,927,419
6.67
7.44
8.15
7.02
6.99
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests 
amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHED TO SHARES
Subject to applicable statutes (in this section referred to as the 
Companies Acts) and to any rights conferred on the holders of 
any other shares, any share may be issued with or have attached 
to it such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary 
resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or 
so far as the resolution does not make speciﬁc provision, as the 
Board may decide.
115 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance VOTING
Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any 
shares may be issued or may for the time being be held and to 
any other provisions of the Articles of Association for the Company 
(‘the Articles’), on a show of hands every member who is present 
in person or by proxy or represented by a corporate representative 
at a general meeting of the Company has one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy or 
represented by a corporate representative has one vote for every 
share of which he or she is the holder. In the case of joint holders 
of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in 
person or by proxy, is accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the 
other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is determined 
by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect 
of the joint holding.
The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive 
notice of any general meeting of the Company or to attend, 
speak or vote at any such meeting.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING
No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, entitled in 
respect of any share held by him to vote (either personally or by 
proxy or by a corporate representative) at any general meeting of 
the Company or at any separate general meeting of the holders 
of any class of shares in the Company if any calls or other sums 
presently payable by him in respect of that share remain unpaid 
or if he is a person with a 0.25% interest (as deﬁned in the Articles) 
and he has been served with a restriction notice (as deﬁned in 
the Articles) after failure to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided 
under the Companies Acts.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders 
of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company 
may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends 
in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no 
dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may 
pay such interim dividends as appear to the Board to be justiﬁed 
by the ﬁnancial position of the Company and may also pay any 
dividend payable at a ﬁxed rate at intervals settled by the Board 
whenever the ﬁnancial position of the Company, in the opinion 
of the Board, justiﬁes its payment. If the Board acts in good faith, 
it shall not incur any liability to the holders of any shares for any 
loss they may suffer in consequence of the payment of an interim 
or ﬁxed dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari passu 
with or after those shares.
The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate in the proﬁts 
of the Company.
On a return of capital on a winding-up (excluding any intra-Group 
reorganisation on a solvent basis), holders of Deferred Shares are 
entitled to be paid the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid 
up on such Deferred Shares after paying to the holders of the 
Ordinary Shares the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid 
up on the Ordinary Shares held by them respectively, together 
with the sum of £100,000,000 on each Ordinary Share.
The Board may deduct from any dividend or other moneys 
payable to a member by the Company on or in respect of any 
shares all sums of money (if any) presently payable by him to the 
Company on account of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of 
the Company. The Board may also withhold payment of all or any 
part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the 
Company’s shares from a person with a 0.25% interest (as deﬁned 
in the Articles) if such a person has been served with a restriction 
notice (as deﬁned in the Articles) after failure to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests in those shares 
required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
VARIATION OF RIGHTS
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, rights attached to 
any class of shares may be varied either with the consent in writing 
of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of 
the issued shares of that class (excluding any shares of that class 
held as Treasury Shares) or with the sanction of a special resolution 
passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those 
shares. The necessary quorum applying to any such separate 
general meeting is two persons holding or representing by proxy 
not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the 
class (excluding any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares), 
(but at any adjourned meeting one holder present in person 
or by proxy (whatever the number of shares held by him) will 
constitute a quorum); every holder of shares of the class present 
in person or by proxy (excluding any shares of that class held as 
Treasury Shares) is entitled on a poll to one vote for every share of 
the class held by him (subject to any rights or restrictions attached 
to any class of shares) and any holder of shares of the class present 
in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
Statutory disclosures continued
116 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES 
IN THE COMPANY
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the 
Company, except that:
 • certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading 
laws), in particular we operate a share dealing code which 
requires Directors of the Company and certain employees 
to obtain the approval of the Company before dealing in 
the Company’s Ordinary Shares; and
 • the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in accordance 
with the paragraph headed “Powers in relation to the Company 
issuing or buying back its own shares” below or with the written 
consent of the Directors.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders 
of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
Our Articles are available on our website at ir.aggreko.com/investors. 
Unless expressly speciﬁed to the contrary in the Articles, 
the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s Shareholders.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are 
contained in the Company’s Articles. They include: the number 
of Directors must not be less than two or more than 15, the 
Board may appoint any person to be a Director; any Director 
so appointed by the Board shall hold ofﬁce only until the next 
general meeting and shall then be eligible for election; each 
Director must retire from ofﬁce at the third Annual General 
Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he was last 
elected. However, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
all Directors will stand for annual election at the 2017 AGM.
A Director may be removed by special resolution of the Company. 
In addition, the ofﬁce of a Director must be vacated if: (i) he 
resigns his ofﬁce by notice in writing delivered to the ofﬁce or 
tendered at a meeting of the Board; or (ii) by notice in writing 
he offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer; 
or (iii) his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors 
and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number; 
or (iv) a registered medical practitioner who is treating that 
Director gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that 
Director has become physically or mentally incapable of acting 
as a Director and may remain so for more than three months; 
or (v) by reason of a Director’s mental health, a court makes 
an order which wholly or partly prevents that Director from 
personally exercising any powers or rights which that Director 
would otherwise have; or (vi) he is absent without the permission 
of the Board from meetings of the Board (whether or not an 
alternate Director appointed by him attends) for six consecutive 
months and the Board resolves that his ofﬁce is vacated; or 
(vii) he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors 
generally; or (viii) he is prohibited by law from being a Director; 
or (ix) he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts 
or is removed from ofﬁce pursuant to the Articles.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Company has procedures in place for monitoring and 
managing conﬂicts of interest. Should a Director become aware 
that they, or their connected parties, have an interest in an existing 
or proposed transaction with Aggreko, they should notify the 
Board in writing or at the next Board meeting. Directors have 
a continuing duty to update any changes to these conﬂicts.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Articles and 
to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by 
special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by 
the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company 
whether relating to the management of the business of the 
Company or not. In particular, the Board may exercise all the 
powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or 
charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets 
(present and future) and uncalled capital of the Company and 
to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or 
as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the 
Company or any third party.
POWERS IN RELATION TO THE COMPANY  
ISSUING OR BUYING BACK ITS OWN SHARES
The Directors were granted authority at the last Annual General 
Meeting held in 2016 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal 
amount of £4,126,149 in connection with an offer by way of a rights 
issue. That authority will apply until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and 
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting for 2017. At this 
year’s Annual General Meeting, Shareholders will be asked to grant 
an authority to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount 
of £4,126,149, such authority to apply until the end of next year’s 
Annual General Meeting (or, if earlier, until the close of business 
on 30 June 2018).
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors’ 
power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a nominal 
amount of £1,237,844.
The Company was also authorised at the Annual General Meeting 
held in 2016 to make market purchases of up to 25,612,820 
Ordinary Shares. This authorisation will expire on the earlier of 
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company 
for 2017 and 30 June 2017.
A special resolution will also be proposed at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting to renew the Directors’ authority to repurchase 
the Company’s Ordinary Shares in the market. The authority will 
be limited to a maximum of 25,612,820 Ordinary Shares and sets 
the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
The Company may at any time, without obtaining the sanction 
of the holders of the Deferred Shares:
(a) appoint any person to execute on behalf of any holder of 
Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of the Deferred Shares  
(and/or an agreement to transfer the same) to the Company 
or to such person as the Directors may determine, in any case 
for not more than one penny for all the Deferred Shares then 
being purchased from him; and
(b) cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased 
by the Company in accordance with the Companies Acts.
117 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Statutory disclosures continued
SECURITIES CARRYING SPECIAL RIGHTS
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights 
with regard to control of the Company.
RIGHTS UNDER THE EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEME
Estera Trust (Jersey) Limited, as Trustee of the Aggreko Employees’ 
Beneﬁt Trust, holds 0.73% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at 7 March 2017 on trust for the beneﬁt of the 
employees and former employees of the Group and their 
dependants. The voting rights in relation to these shares are 
exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions on the 
exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of any offer relating 
to, the shares. The Trustee is obliged to waive all dividends on 
the shares unless requested to do otherwise by the Company 
in writing.
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENTS
The going concern statement is included on page 132 of the 
ﬁnancial statements.
The viability statement is included on page 61 of the 
Strategic Report.
CHANGE OF CONTROL
The Company has in place a number of agreements with 
advisers, ﬁnancial institutions and customers which contain 
certain termination rights which would have an effect on a 
change of control. The Directors believe these agreements to 
be commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would be 
seriously prejudicial to the Company; accordingly, they do not 
intend disclosing speciﬁc details of these. In addition, all of the 
Company’s share schemes contain provisions which in the event 
of a change of control, would result in outstanding options 
and awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the 
relevant schemes.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss 
of ofﬁce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION 
TO THE COMPANY’S AUDITOR
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the 
Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report conﬁrm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information (as deﬁned by Section 418(3) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; 
and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware 
of that information.
INDEMNITY OF OFFICERS
Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may indemnify 
any Director or other ofﬁcer against any liability, subject to the 
provisions of the Companies Acts, and the Articles grant an 
indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs of 
legal proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the Company has 
granted indemnities to Directors and ofﬁcers of the Company 
and its subsidiaries. The indemnities do not apply to any claim 
which arises out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of 
ﬁduciary duty or trust by the indemniﬁed person.
In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain for 
any Director or other ofﬁcer, insurance against any liability. 
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover against 
legal action brought against its Directors and ofﬁcers and the 
Directors and ofﬁcers of its subsidiaries.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities for 
all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender or any other 
considerations that do not affect a person’s ability to perform 
their job. Our policies for recruitment, training, career development 
and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the 
individual and give those who are disabled equal treatment 
with the able bodied where appropriate. Employees disabled 
after joining the Group are given suitable training for alternative 
employment with Aggreko or elsewhere.
HUMAN RIGHTS
As we continue to grow our business in developing countries, we 
recognise that human rights are a concern in many regions that 
we operate in. We have a responsibility to all of our stakeholders, 
to ensure that all of our interactions with them meet or exceed the 
standards of compliance set out in our ethics policies, approach 
to equal opportunities, health and safety policies, environmental 
policies and grievance mechanisms, all of which are explained 
in detail throughout this report. We have also identiﬁed safety, 
emissions and talent management as matters to be considered 
as part of the principal risks facing the business. Whilst all these 
matters are linked, to a greater or lesser extent, to human rights, 
we prefer to address them as part of our operations, rather than 
as a separate issue. We continue to evaluate all potential risks 
and do not think that human rights present material issues for 
our business.
118 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE PENSIONS
The assets of the UK deﬁned-beneﬁt pension fund are 
controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme Trustee 
Limited; they are held separately from the assets of the Company 
and invested by independent fund managers. These segregated 
funds cannot be invested directly in the Company. Four trustees 
have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two 
member-nominated trustees have been appointed. This fund 
was closed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002; 
new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group 
Personal Pension Plan.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
In line with the Companies Act 2006, we are reporting on our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have used the method 
outlined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition), using the location-based 
scope 2 calculation method, together with the latest emission 
factors from recognised public sources including Defra, 
the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information 
Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency 
and the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS BY GHG PROTOCOL SCOPE
tCO 2e/year 2016 2015
Scope 1 15,183,091 15,486,377
Scope 2 17,209 18,987
Scope 3 2,810,623 2,849,565
Total 18,010,923 18,354,928
TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS BY FLEET/NON-FLEET
tCO 2e/year 2016 2015
Fleet 17,746,040 18,186,552
Non-ﬂeet 264,883 168,376
Total 18,010,923 18,354,928
In line with previous years, the results show that 99% of 
GHG emissions arise from the operation of our ﬂeet when it 
is out on rent. There are three main factors driving our annual 
GHG emissions: the fuel type our customers use; the pattern 
of their usage; and the fuel efﬁciency of the ﬂeet. 
In 2016, we emitted 18,010,923 tonnes of CO 2e, a decrease of 1.9% 
over 2015. In line with best practice, our GHG accounting systems 
include an estimate of the upstream GHG emissions associated 
with fuel supply chains; in 2016 this contributed 14.8% of 
combustion emissions, accounting for 93% of scope 3 emissions. 
As a result of a 1.3% decrease in running hours, a recorded 
decrease of 2.4% in GHG emissions is reported for the Aggreko 
ﬂeet in 2016. This very slight disparity is due to two factors; a small 
shift in the ratio of running hours from generators with low energy 
outputs to larger machines and a reduction of running hours 
associated with generators powered by HFO.
In terms of the non-ﬂeet activities, emissions associated with 
company owned vehicles and business travel have decreased. 
Conversely, emissions from third-party vehicle use and activities 
on our premises have increased, with the largest increases 
documented in third-party road freight logistics.
The intensity ratio expresses the GHG impact per unit of 
physical activity or economic output, with a declining intensity 
ratio reﬂecting a positive performance improvement. In 2013, 
we chose Revenue Intensity as the most suitable metric for our 
business for then and future years.
As can be seen from the chart below, relative emissions have 
increased slightly, with a 1.1% increase in the emissions per 
thousand GBP revenue from 2015.
REVENUE INTENSITY RATIO tCO 2e/THOUSAND £
16
15
14
13
12
11.89
11.76
11.84
12.30
9.50
In addition, during the year we undertook an Energy Saving 
Opportunities Scheme (ESOS) assessment in line with the 
UK Environment Agency requirements and can conﬁrm that 
we are compliant with the Regulations.
119 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Statutory disclosures continued
BRANCHES
Subsidiaries of the Company have established branches 
in a number of different countries in which they operate.
AUDITOR
Resolutions appointing KPMG as the Company’s and Group’s 
auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
IMPORTANT EVENTS SINCE 31 DECEMBER 2016
There have been no important events affecting the Company 
or any subsidiary since 31 December 2016.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
No political donations were made during the ﬁnancial year 
(2015: nil).
APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT AND 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 69 and Director’s 
Report set out on pages 70 to 121 were approved by the Board 
on 7 March 2017 and have been signed by the Company Secretary
on behalf of the Board.
Peter Kennerley
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary
7 March 2017
120 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial 
statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards), including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ and applicable law. Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless 
they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the proﬁt or loss 
of the Group for that period. 
In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
 • select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 • make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 • state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
applicable UK Accounting Standards including FRS101 have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained, in the Group and parent company ﬁnancial 
statements respectively; and
 • prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the ﬁnancial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess 
a Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 72 to 73 conﬁrm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 • the Group ﬁnancial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt 
of the Group; and
 • the Management Report contained in the Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board.
Chris Weston Carole Cran
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
121 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance 122 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Aggreko plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising 
from our audit
1  OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED 
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Aggreko Plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 126 to 175. 
In our opinion:
 • the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year 
then ended; 
 • the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union; 
 • the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
 • the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, 
as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
A SUMMARY OF OUR APPROACH
Our audit covered 90% of the Group’s proﬁt before  
tax and exceptionals and was carried out in Glasgow,  
Dubai, Russia, Argentina, Houston and Brazil. 
 
 
Overall Group materiality: £11 million which represents  
5% of proﬁt before tax this year before exceptional items.  
 
 
The valuation of Power Systems Utility receivables  
and the provisioning for tax in overseas locations  
are the areas of most signiﬁcant audit effort given 
the judgements involved in these areas.
1
2
3
1
2
Full audit coverage:
90% of pbt
Materiality:
5% of pbt 
(before exceptionals)
Audit coverage:
valuation of PS Utility  
receivables and tax
3 123 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the ﬁnancial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit in decreasing order of audit signiﬁcance, were as follows:
The area of focus Our approach
Valuation of Power Solutions Utility overdue receivables (£261 million, 2015: £196 million):
Refer to page 87 (Audit Committee Report), page 135 (accounting policy) and pages 136 and 148 (ﬁnancial disclosures)
The Group has signiﬁcant trade 
receivables with customers of the 
Group’s Power Solutions Utility business 
where customers operate in higher risk 
territories, including territories where risk 
of customer default (the customer often 
being the government) is high. In these 
territories, cash receipts are volatile and 
unpredictable, resulting in signiﬁcant 
judgement being applied in the 
Group’s assessment of the recoverability 
of these receivables.
Our audit procedures included testing the Group’s controls over the receivables collection 
processes and considering the receipt of cash after the year end. We selected customers 
of the Power Solutions Utility business for review to ensure we covered more than 75% 
of the overdue amounts receivable in relation to that business at the year end. For these 
customers, we discussed with the Directors’ experience of collections in relevant countries, 
sought evidence of the status of receivables from the latest communications with the 
relevant customer (including deposits and guarantees) where available and challenged 
the provisioning in light of this information, the Group’s experience historically and our 
knowledge of in-country exposures. We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures in this area.
Taxation provisions for signiﬁcant potential or contentious tax assessments (£39 million, 2015: £61 million): 
Refer to page 87 (Audit Committee Report), page 134 (accounting policy) and pages 136 and 143 (ﬁnancial disclosures)
Accruals for tax contingencies require 
the Directors to make judgements and 
estimates in relation to tax risks. This is 
one of the key judgemental areas that 
our audit is concentrated on due to 
the Group operating in a certain tax 
jurisdictions and the complexities and 
uncertainties of local and international 
tax legislation.
The tax matters are at various stages, 
from preliminary discussions with tax 
authorities through to tax tribunal or 
court proceedings where the matters 
can take many years to resolve. The risk 
to the ﬁnancial statements is that the 
eventual resolution of a matter with tax 
authorities is at an amount materially 
different to the accrual.
Our audit procedures included:
Together with our own tax specialists, we considered any large or unusual items 
affecting the effective tax rate and whether or not any current year items would 
indicate a requirement for further accruals.
In considering the judgements and estimates of tax accruals, we used our own tax 
specialists including local tax team input where necessary to assess and challenge 
the Group’s tax positions. This included the assessment of its correspondence with the 
relevant tax authorities, the Group’s external tax advisers and third parties. We also used 
our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local legislation 
by the relevant authorities and courts in order to challenge the positions taken by 
the Directors. 
We also analysed and challenged through our use of tax specialists with knowledge of 
the speciﬁc tax regimes in question the assumptions used to determine the tax accruals 
and tested the accuracy of calculations. 
We have also considered the adequacy of the Group’s tax disclosures.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 124 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Independent auditors’ report
3  OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY  
AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE 
OF OUR AUDIT
Materiality for the Group ﬁnancial statements as a whole was 
set at £11 million. Materiality is determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group proﬁt before tax, normalised to exclude the 
exceptional items. Our materiality was based on proﬁt before 
tax and exceptional items of £221 million, of which it represents 
5%. We have chosen proﬁt before tax before exceptional 
items because it excludes the non-recurring distorting impact 
of exceptional items such as reorganisation costs and 
impairment charges.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or 
uncorrected misstatements identiﬁed exceeding £500,000, 
in addition to any other identiﬁed misstatements that warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. This level was selected and 
agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the nature and scale 
of operations, adjustments under this level were not deemed 
to be of speciﬁc interest to them.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors in 
Argentina, Brazil, and Russia as to the signiﬁcant areas to be 
covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the 
information to be reported back. In addition, the Group audit 
team instructed audit teams in Dubai and Singapore to complete 
aspects of work in support of the work the Group team completed 
in the US and UK over the most signiﬁcant components. 
We completed speciﬁc risk focused audit procedures over revenue 
at one component in Mozambique. The Group audit team 
approved the component materialities, which were set in the 
range from £7 million to £9 million, having regard to the mix of size 
and risk proﬁle of the Group across the components. The Group 
team performed procedures on the items excluded from Group 
proﬁt before tax and exceptional items. The components not 
included were not individually ﬁnancially signiﬁcant enough 
to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, and did not 
present speciﬁc individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The Group audit team visited the component location in Dubai, 
including to assess the audit risk and strategy. Telephone calls 
were also held with the component auditors in Argentina, Brazil, 
Dubai and Russia. On these calls, the ﬁndings reported to the 
Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further 
work required by the Group audit team was then performed by 
the component auditor as relevant. The Group team remotely 
reviewed the work completed by the team in Dubai.
SCOPING OF OUR AUDIT
% Revenue by scope
%
1  Speciﬁc risk focused audit 
procedures over revenue 3
2 Scoped out of our audit 25
3 Full audit 72
1 2
3
% Proﬁt before tax by scope
%
1  Speciﬁc risk focused audit 
procedures over revenue 1
2 Scoped out of our audit 9
3 Full audit 90
12
3
% Net assets by scope
%
1  Speciﬁc risk focused audit 
procedures over revenue 1
2 Scoped out of our audit 16
3 Full audit 83
12
3
The remaining 25% of total Group revenue, 9% of Group proﬁt 
before tax and 16% of total Group assets is represented by a 
number of reporting components, none of which individually 
represented more than 4% of any of total Group revenue, 
Group proﬁt before tax or total Group assets. 125 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
4  OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS 
PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES  
ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED 
In our opinion:
 • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 • the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year is consistent with the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the 
course of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements and from 
reading the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report:
 • we have not identiﬁed material misstatements in those reports; 
and 
 • in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006.
5  WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE 
DISCLOSURES OF PRINCIPAL RISKS
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 • the Directors’ statement of risk factors that could affect 
ﬁnancial performance on page 61, concerning the principal 
risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors’ 
assessment and expectations of the Group’s continuing in 
operation over the three years to 2019; or 
 • the disclosures in Note 1 of the ﬁnancial statements concerning 
the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6  WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT  
IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS  
ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED  
TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identiﬁed other information in the annual report that contains 
a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the 
ﬁnancial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is 
otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 • we have identiﬁed material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
Shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy; or
 • the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion: 
 • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
 • the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 • certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law 
are not made; or 
 • we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 • the Directors’ Statements, set out on pages 132 and 61, 
in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and
 • the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on 
pages 70 to 83 relating to the Company’s compliance with 
the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
speciﬁed for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 121, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and for being 
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. A description of 
the scope of an audit of ﬁnancial statements is provided on 
the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members as a body and is subject to important explanations 
and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our 
website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
John Luke
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
319 St Vincent Street 
Glasgow 
G2 5AS
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 126 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Notes
Total before 
exceptional 
items  
2016 
 £ million
Exceptional 
items  
(Note 7) 
2016 
£ million
2016 
£ million
Total before
exceptional
items
2015
£ million
Exceptional
items
2015
£ million
2015 
£ million
Revenue 4 1,515 – 1,515 1,561 – 1,561
Cost of sales (664) (30) (694) (676) (1) (677)
GROSS PROFIT 851 (30) 821 885 (1) 884
Distribution costs (430) – (430) (429) (4) (433)
Administrative expenses (182) (19) (201) (186) (21) (207)
Other income 2 9– 9 5– 5
OPERATING PROFIT 4 248 (49) 199 275 (26) 249
Net ﬁnance costs 9
– Finance cost (29) – (29) (25) – (25)
– Finance income 2– 2 2– 2
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 5 221 (49) 172 252 (26) 226
Taxation 10 (63) 16 (47) (69) 5 (64)
Proﬁt for the year 158 (33) 125 183 (21) 162
All proﬁt for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company.
Basic earnings per share (pence) 12 61.98 (13.10) 48.88 71.73 (8.24) 63.49
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 12 61.95 (13.09) 48.86 71.68 (8.23) 63.45
Group statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2016
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Proﬁt for the year 125 162
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)
Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss
Remeasurement of retirement beneﬁts (29) 4
Taxation on remeasurement of retirement beneﬁts 5 (1)
Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss
Cash ﬂow hedges 1 –
Taxation on cash ﬂow hedges – –
Net exchange gains/(losses) offset in reserves 220 (68)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the year (net of tax) 197 (65)
Total comprehensive income for the year 322 97 
Group income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2016 127 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Group balance sheet (Company number: SC177553)
As at 31 December 2016
Notes
2016  
£ million
2015  
£ million
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Goodwill 13 159 118
Other intangible assets 30.A2 24 16
Property, plant and equipment 15 1,309 1,139
Deferred tax asset 22 51 30
1,543 1,303
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 16 247 189
Trade and other receivables 17 656 476
Cash and cash equivalents 3 44 48
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30.A4 1 1
Current tax assets 20 33
968 747
TOTAL ASSETS 2,511 2,050
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Borrowings 18 (60) (31)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30.A4 (2) (1)
Trade and other payables 20 (299) (259)
Current tax liabilities (58) (64)
Provisions 21 (1) (8)
(420) (363)
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Borrowings 18 (633) (506)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30.A4 (5) (6)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (55) (58)
Retirement beneﬁt obligation 30.A5 (30) (2)
(723) (572)
TOTAL LIABILITIES (1,143) (935)
Net assets 1,368 1,115 
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 23 42 42 
Share premium 20 20 
Treasury shares 24 (14) (9)
Capital redemption reserve 13 13 
Hedging reserve (net of deferred tax) (3) (4)
Foreign exchange reserve 71 (149)
Retained earnings 1,239 1,202 
Total Shareholders’ equity 1,368 1,115 
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 126 to 168 were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
K Hanna C Cran
Chairman Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 128 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Notes
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Proﬁt for the year 125 162
Adjustments for:
Exceptional items 7 19 26
Exceptional – impairment charge 7 30 –
Tax 47 64
Depreciation 281 277
Amortisation of intangibles 4 4
Finance income (2) (2)
Finance cost 29 25
Proﬁt on sale of PPE 2 (9) (5)
Share-based payments (i) 6 6
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of exchange differences on consolidation):
Increase in inventories (21) (25)
Increase in trade and other receivables (81) (29)
Decrease in trade and other payables (17) (26)
Cash ﬂows relating to exceptional items (23) (16)
Cash generated from operations 388 461
Tax paid (64) (91)
Interest received 2 2
Interest paid (28) (26)
Net cash generated from operating activities 298 346
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Acquisitions (net of cash acquired) 29 (22) (18)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (PPE) (263) (254)
Purchase of other intangible assets (5) –
Proceeds from sale of PPE 2 23 17
Net cash used in investing activities (267) (255)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Net proceeds from issue of Ordinary Shares – 2
Increase in long-term loans 393 454
Repayment of long-term loans (373) (452)
Net movement in short-term loans 18 (11)
Dividends paid to Shareholders (69) (69)
Return of capital to Shareholders – (1)
Purchase of treasury shares (8) –
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (39) (77)
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (8) 14
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 32 26
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents 1 (8)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 3 25 32
(i) This relates to the employee share awards within the statement of changes in equity excluding £2 million included as exceptional items.
Group cash ﬂow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2016 129 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (8) 14
Cash (inﬂow)/outﬂow from movement in debt (38) 9
Changes in net debt arising from cash ﬂows (46) 23
Exchange loss (114) (18)
Movement in net debt in year (160) 5
Net debt at beginning of year (489) (494)
Net debt at end of year 18 (649) (489)
Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movement in net debt
For the year ended 31 December 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information As at 31 December 2016
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Notes
Ordinary 
Share 
capital  
£ million
Share 
premium 
account  
£ million
Treasury 
shares  
£ million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£ million
Hedging 
reserve  
£ million
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve 
(translation) 
£ million
Retained 
earnings  
£ million
Total  
equity  
£ million
Balance at 1 January 2016 42 20 (9) 13 (4) (149) 1,202 1,115
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 125 125
Other comprehensive  
(loss)/income: 
Transfers from hedging reserve  
to ﬁxed assets – – – – (3) – – (3)
Fair value gains on foreign 
currency cash ﬂow hedge ––– – 3 –– 3
Fair value gains on interest  
rate swaps ––– – 1 –– 1
Currency translation differences (i) – – – – – 220 – 220
Remeasurement of retirement 
beneﬁts (net of tax) – – – – – – (24) (24)
Total comprehensive  
income for the year ended 
31 December 2016 – – – – 1 220 101 322
Transactions with owners: 
Purchase of treasury shares –– (8) –– –– (8)
Employee share awards 30.A5––– –– – 8 8
Issue of Ordinary Shares  
to employees under share  
option schemes – – 3– –– (3) –
Dividends paid during 2016 11––– –– – (69) (69)
– – (5) – – – (64) (69)
Balance at 31 December 2016 42 20 (14) 13 (3) 71 1,239 1,368
(i)  Included in currency translation differences of the Group are exchange losses of £117 million arising on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies designated as hedges 
of net investments overseas, and exchange gains of £337 million relating to the translation of overseas results and net assets. The currency translation difference is explained 
in the Financial Review on page 44.
Group statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2016
130 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION As at 31 December 2015
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Notes
Ordinary 
Share 
capital  
£ million
Share 
premium 
account  
£ million
Treasury 
shares  
£ million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£ million
Hedging 
reserve  
£ million
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve 
(translation) 
£ million
Retained 
earnings  
£ million
Total  
equity  
£ million
Balance at 1 January 2015 42 20 (14) 13 (4) (81) 1,102 1,078
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 162 162
Other comprehensive  
(loss)/income: 
Transfers from hedging reserve  
to revenue – – – – (3) – – (3)
Fair value gains on foreign 
currency cash ﬂow hedge –  –  –  – 2 –  – 2
Fair value gains on interest  
rate swaps –  –  –  – 1 –  – 1
Currency translation differences (i) –  –  –  –  – (68) – (68)
Remeasurement of retirement 
beneﬁts (net of tax) –  –  –  –  –  – 3 3
Total comprehensive (loss)/
income for the year ended 
31 December 2015 – – – – – (68) 165 97
Transactions with owners: 
Employee share awards –  –  –  –  –  – 8 8
Issue of Ordinary Shares  
to employees under share  
option schemes –  – 5 –  –  – (3) 2
Return of capital to Shareholders –  –  –  –  –  – (1) (1)
Dividends paid during 2015 11 –  –  –  –  –  – (69) (69)
– – 5 – – – (65) (60)
Balance at 31 December 2015 42 20 (9) 13 (4) (149) 1,202 1,115
(i)  Included in currency translation differences of the Group are exchange losses of £18 million arising on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies designated as hedges 
of net investments overseas and exchange losses of £50 million relating to the translation of overseas results and net assets.
131 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 132 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Company is a public limited company which is listed on 
the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in 
the UK. The address of the registered ofﬁce is 120 Bothwell Street, 
Glasgow G2 7JS, UK.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation 
of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all years 
presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The Group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS), IFRIC interpretations 
and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under EU IFRS. The ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention, as modiﬁed by 
the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) at fair value.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with 
EU IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
date of the ﬁnancial statements and the reported amounts 
of the revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
Although these estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results 
ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Adjusted measures
The Directors assess the performance of the Group and its  
reportable segments based on ‘adjusted measures’. These  
measures are used for internal performance management and 
are believed to be most appropriate for explaining underlying 
performance to users of the accounts including Shareholders 
of the Company and other stakeholders. The adjusted measures 
in relation to proﬁt exclude exceptional items. These exceptional 
items are explained on pages 133 and 142. In comparing 
performance year on year we also exclude the impact of currency 
and pass-through fuel, The Group reports separately fuel revenue 
from contracts in our Power Solutions Utility business in Brazil 
and Mozambique where we manage fuel on a pass-through basis 
on behalf of our customers. The reason for the separate reporting 
is that fuel revenue on these contracts is entirely dependent 
on fuel prices and volumes of fuel consumed, and these can 
be volatile and may distort the view of the performance of the 
underlying business.
Going concern
The Directors are conﬁdent that it is appropriate for the going 
concern basis to be adopted in preparing the ﬁnancial statements 
for the foreseeable future. The Group balance sheet shows 
consolidated net assets of £1,368 million (2015: £1,115 million) 
and the Company has sufﬁcient reserves to continue making 
dividend payments. Whilst the net debt increased in the year to 
£649 million (2015: £489 million), there is a headroom under our 
committed facilities of £402 million at the year end. £114 million 
of the increase in net debt relates to currency movements. 
More detail is contained on page 136 on liquidity, funding 
and capital management.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no new IFRSs or IFRICs that are effective for the 
ﬁrst time this year that have a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards, amendments and interpretations 
issued but not effective for the ﬁnancial year beginning 
1 January 2016 and not early adopted
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with 
revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of ﬁnancial statements about the nature, 
amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash ﬂows arising 
from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised 
when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus 
has the ability to direct the use and obtain beneﬁts from the 
good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 
‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. The standard 
is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2018. The Group has substantially completed its assessment of 
the impact of this standard and the main changes we expect 
from adopting IFRS 15 are:
 • Mobilisation costs will be amortised over the contact period 
instead of being recognised as incurred as equipment is 
mobilised before power is produced. Demobilisation costs, 
if they can be measured reliably, will also be amortised 
over the contract period instead of being recognised as 
incurred at the end of the contract. There is a difference in 
the deﬁnition of contract period for mobilisation costs and 
demobilisation costs. In the former the contract period is 
re-assessed for agreed extensions. In the latter the contract 
period is re-assessed if there is a high probability of an extension 
however it doesn’t need to be agreed with the customer.
 • Mobilisation and demobilisation income (where timing is 
speciﬁcally stipulated in the contract in order to match the 
timing of associated costs) will be recognised during the period 
of provision of power.
 • Judgement will be required around whether there is any 
restriction in recognising variable revenue due to penalty 
clauses in the contracts, however the probability of this is small.
 • On some contracts there may be more than one performance 
obligation, however we expect the impact of this to be small. 
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 133 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’ addresses the classiﬁcation, 
measurement and recognition of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. 
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2018. We do not expect this standard to have 
a material impact on the Group.
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ applies to annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2019. IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease 
liability reﬂecting future lease payments and a ‘right-of-use asset’ 
for virtually all lease contracts. The Group will assess the impact 
of IFRS 16 closer to the implementation date, however the main 
impact is expected to be the recognition of up to £92 million 
of operating leases (refer to Note 26) as right of use assets 
with a corresponding liability. This standard has not yet been 
endorsed by the EU.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet 
effective that would be expected to have a material impact on 
the Group.
Basis of consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the ﬁnancial 
statements of Aggreko plc and all its subsidiaries for the year 
ended 31 December 2016. Subsidiaries are those entities over 
which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when 
the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns through 
its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account 
for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, 
the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the 
Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of 
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. 
Identiﬁable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values 
at the acquisition date.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains 
on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated. Accounting policies of 
subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure 
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Revenue recognition
Revenue for the Group represents the amounts earned from 
the supply of temporary power, temperature control, oil-free 
compressed air and related services and excludes sales taxes 
and intra-Group revenue. Revenue can comprise a ﬁxed rental 
charge and a variable charge related to the usage of assets or 
other services (including pass-through fuel). The Group earns a 
ﬁxed charge on certain contracts by providing agreed levels of 
power generation capacity to the customer and this is recognised 
when availability criteria in the contract are met. Variable charges 
are earned as the Group provides power or rental and associated 
services in accordance with contractual arrangements and are 
recognised as the power is produced or the service is provided. 
Revenue is accrued or deferred at the balance sheet date 
depending on the period covered by the most recent invoice 
issued and the contractual terms.
If contracts do not contain speciﬁc clauses for mobilisation and 
demobilisation costs then mobilisation costs are recognised as 
incurred as equipment is mobilised before power is produced 
and demobilisation costs are recognised as incurred at the end of 
the contract. If contracts contain a speciﬁc clause for mobilisation 
and demobilisation then the revenue and costs are matched.
Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. 
The chief operating decision maker has been identiﬁed as the plc 
Board of Directors.
Aggreko has two business units: Rental Solutions and Power 
Solutions. Within Power Solutions we serve both Utility and 
Industrial customers. Aggreko therefore has three segments 
comprising: Rental Solutions, Power Solutions – Industrial and 
Power Solutions – Utility. A description of these business units 
is contained on pages 5 and 19. This is reﬂected by the Group’s 
divisional management and organisational structure and the 
Group’s internal ﬁnancial reporting systems.
Central administrative costs are allocated between segments 
based on revenue.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items which individually or if of a similar 
type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size 
or incidence if the ﬁnancial statements are to be properly 
understood. To monitor our ﬁnancial performance we use a proﬁt 
measure that excludes exceptional items. We exclude these items 
because, if included, these items could distort understanding of 
our performance for the year and comparability between periods. 
The income statement has been presented in a columnar format, 
which separately highlights exceptional items. This is intended to 
enable users of the ﬁnancial statements to determine more readily 
the impact of exceptional items on the results of the Group.
These costs are explained in Note 7 to the Accounts.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes purchase 
price, and directly attributable costs of bringing the asset 
into the location and condition where it is capable for use. 
Borrowing costs are not capitalised since the assets are 
assembled over a short period of time.
Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over 25 years. Short leasehold properties are depreciated 
on a straight-line basis over the terms of each lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a 
straight-line basis at annual rates estimated to write off the 
cost of each asset over its useful life from the date it is available 
for use. Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. 
Non-rental ﬂeet assets which are contract speciﬁc are depreciated 
over the life of the contract. The periods of depreciation are 
reviewed on an annual basis and the principal periods used 
are as follows:
Rental ﬂeet 8 to 12 years 
Vehicles, plant and equipment 4 to 15 years
During this year, the depreciation life for transformers/switchgears 
was increased to 12 years from 8 years to reﬂect external views 
on the useful life of these assets, equipment testing carried out 
internally and our experience to date. This lowered depreciation 
by £12 million in the year 31 December 2016 compared to 2015.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 134 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Intangibles
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date 
of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual 
or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. 
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line method to allocate the 
fair value at acquisition of each asset over their estimated useful 
lives as follows: customer relationships: 10 years; non-compete 
agreements: over the life of the non-compete agreements.
The useful life of intangible assets is reviewed on an annual basis.
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to 
the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of 
the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of 
such assets. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is 
subject to impairment reviews, both annually and when there are 
indicators that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For the purpose of the impairment testing, goodwill is allocated 
to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to beneﬁt 
from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units 
to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that 
the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the 
unit, then the impairment loss is allocated ﬁrst to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then 
to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying 
amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in 
a subsequent period. Any impairment of goodwill is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
Research and development costs
All research expenditure is charged to the income statement 
in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement 
in the period in which it is incurred unless it relates to the 
development of a new product or technology and it is incurred 
after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the 
product has been proven, the development cost can be 
measured reliably, future economic beneﬁts are probable and 
the Group intends, and has sufﬁcient resources to complete the 
development and to use or sell the assets. Any such capitalised 
development expenditure is amortised on a straight-line basis 
so that it is charged to the income statement over the expected 
useful life of the resulting product or technology, which is 
currently deemed to be between three to six years.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  
and other intangible assets (excluding goodwill)
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are 
amortised/depreciated and reviewed for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised 
for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds 
its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of 
an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use 
is calculated using estimated cash ﬂows. These are discounted 
using an appropriate long-term pre-tax interest rate. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the 
lowest levels for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows 
(cash-generating units).
Foreign currencies
Items included in the ﬁnancial statements for each of the Group’s 
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (functional currency). 
The Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in 
Sterling, which is the Group’s presentational currency.
At individual Company level, transactions denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rate of exchange on the day the 
transaction occurs. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance 
sheet date. Non-monetary assets are translated at the historical rate. 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the 
Group enters into forward contracts and foreign currency options.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of subsidiary undertakings 
are translated into Sterling at closing rates of exchange. 
Income and cash ﬂow statements are translated at average rates 
of exchange for the period. Gains and losses from the settlement 
of transactions and gains and losses on the translation of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies 
are included in the income statement.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
This accounting policy is included in Note 30 – Notes to the Group 
Accounts – appendices.
Taxation
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the ﬁnancial statements. 
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill, negative goodwill nor from the 
acquisition of an asset, which does not affect either taxable or 
accounting income. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates 
(and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, 
except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 135 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
Provision for income taxes, mainly withholding taxes, which could 
arise on the remittance of retained earnings, principally relating 
to subsidiaries, is only made where there is a current intention 
to remit such earnings.
Current tax
The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year 
as adjusted for items, which are non-assessable or disallowed. 
It is calculated using taxation rates that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value, using the weighted average cost basis. Cost of raw 
materials, consumables and work in progress includes the cost 
of direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition.
Inventory is written down on a case by case basis if the anticipated 
net realisable value declines below the carrying amount of the 
inventories or to take account of inventory losses. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price less cost to completion and 
selling expenses. When the reasons for a write-down of the 
inventory have ceased to exist, the write-down is reversed.
Employee beneﬁts
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid annual leave 
and sick leave, bonuses and non-monetary beneﬁts are accrued 
in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the 
employees of the Group. Where the Group provides long-term 
employee beneﬁts, the cost is accrued to match the rendering 
of the services by the employees concerned.
The Group operates a deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme and 
a number of deﬁned contribution pension schemes. The cost 
for the year for the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme is determined 
using the attained age method with actuarial updates to 
the valuation being carried out at each balance sheet date. 
Remeasurements are recognised in full, directly in retained 
earnings, in the period in which they occur and are shown in the 
statement of comprehensive income. The current service cost of 
the pension charge, interest income on scheme assets, interest 
on pension scheme liabilities and administrative expenses are 
included in arriving at operating proﬁt.
The retirement beneﬁt obligation recognised in the balance 
sheet is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at 
the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets. 
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined 
by discounting the estimated future cash ﬂows using interest rates 
of high-quality corporate bonds.
Contributions to deﬁned contribution pension schemes are 
charged to the income statement in the period in which they 
become chargeable.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value (which is 
the same as cost). An impairment is recorded for the difference 
between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount 
where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able 
to collect all amounts due. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial difﬁculties of 
the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or 
ﬁnancial reorganisation and default, or large and old outstanding 
balances, particularly in countries where the legal system is not 
easily used to enforce recovery, are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable is impaired. When a trade receivable is 
uncollectible it is written off against the provision for impairment 
of trade receivables.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value (which is the 
same as cost).
Provisions
Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation 
has been incurred which will probably lead to an outﬂow of 
resources that can be reasonably estimated. Provisions are 
recorded for the estimated ultimate liability that is expected to 
arise, taking into account the time value of money where material.
As at 31 December 2016, provisions totalled £1 million 
(2015: £8 million) and they relate to the Group business priorities 
implementation. The provisions are generally in respect of 
employee related costs. These provisions are detailed in Note 21.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the 
obligation will only be conﬁrmed by future events, or where the 
amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable 
reliability. Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed 
where an inﬂow of economic beneﬁts is probable.
Share-based payments
This accounting policy is included in Note 30 – Notes to the Group  
Accounts – appendices.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits with 
a maturity of three months or less and short-term overdrafts.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction 
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost. Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction 
costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest rate.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 136 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Key assumptions, estimations and 
signiﬁcant judgements
The Group uses estimates and makes judgements in the 
preparation of its Accounts. The most sensitive areas affecting 
the Accounts are discussed below.
Trade receivables
The trade receivables accounting policy is on page 135.
The approach to exercising judgement in this area is to consider 
each signiﬁcant debtor and customer individually, within the 
relevant environment to which it relates, taking into account 
a number of factors, in accordance with accounting standards.
The majority of the contracts the Group enters into are small 
relative to the size of the Group and, if a customer fails to pay a 
debt, this is dealt with in the normal course of business. However, 
some of the contracts the Group undertakes in developing 
countries are very large, and are in jurisdictions where payment 
practices can be unpredictable. The Group monitors the risk 
proﬁle and debtor position of all such contracts regularly, and 
deploys a variety of techniques to mitigate the risks of delayed 
or non-payment; these include securing advance payments 
and guarantees. As a result of the rigorous approach to risk 
management, historically the Group has had a low level of 
bad debt write-offs although the risk of a major default is 
high. When a trade receivable is uncollectable it is written 
off against the provision for impairment of trade receivables. 
At 31 December 2016, the provision for impairment of trade 
receivables in the balance sheet was £67 million (2015: £64 million). 
More detail can be found in the ﬁnancial review on page 48 and 
in Note 17 to the Accounts.
Taxation
Aggreko’s tax charge is based on the proﬁt for the year and the 
applicable tax rates in force at the balance sheet date. As well 
as corporation tax, Aggreko is subject to indirect taxes such 
as sales and employment taxes across the tax jurisdictions in 
which the Group operates. The varying nature and complexity 
of the tax laws requires the Group to review its tax positions 
and make appropriate judgements at the balance sheet date. 
Due to the uncertain nature of the tax environment in many 
of the countries in which we operate, it can take some time 
to settle our tax position. We therefore create appropriate tax 
provisions for signiﬁcant potential or contentious tax positions 
and these are measured using the most likely outcome method. 
Provisions are considered on an individual basis.
As at 31 December 2016, we had tax provisions totalling £39 million 
of which £37 million is in respect of direct taxes and £2 million 
for indirect taxes (2015: £61 million, £48 million for direct and 
£13 million for indirect taxes). Principally the uncertain direct 
tax items relate to potential historic tax exposures largely 
in connection with long running contracts in our Power 
Solutions business, an ongoing dispute in Asia following a 
change in interpretation of legislation and various potential 
transfer pricing risks faced by the Group on challenges from 
various tax authorities as to the basis on which we transact 
internationally across the Group.
Due to the uncertainty associated with such tax positions, it is 
possible that at a future date, on conclusion of these open tax 
positions, the ﬁnal outcome may vary signiﬁcantly. Whilst a range 
of outcomes is reasonably possible, based on management’s 
historic experience of these issues, we believe a likely range 
of outcomes is additional liabilities of up to £10 million and 
a reduction in liabilities of around £15 million. The range of 
sensitivities depends upon quantiﬁcation of the liability, risk of 
technical error and difference in approach taken by tax authorities 
in different jurisdictions. In addition, the recognition of deferred 
tax assets is dependent upon an estimation of future taxable 
proﬁts available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised.
Other areas of judgement and consideration
IFRIC 4 ‘Determining whether an arrangement  
constitutes a lease’
The Directors have considered the requirements of IFRIC 4 
‘Determining whether an arrangement constitutes a lease’. 
IFRIC 4 requires that any arrangement that is dependent on the 
use of a speciﬁc asset or assets; and that conveys a right to use 
the asset is accounted for as a lease. The Directors have concluded 
that none of the Group’s contracts are dependent on the use of 
a speciﬁc asset or assets.
Hyperinﬂationary environments
The Group operates in Venezuela which is considered a 
hyperinﬂationary environment. The Group does not consider that 
the provisions of IAS 29 ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinﬂationary 
Economies’ apply to the Group’s operations in Venezuela as the 
functional currency of the Venezuelan operation is US Dollars.
Financial risk management
Financial risk factors
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks 
that include liquidity, the effects of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates, interest rates and credit risk. The Group has a 
centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to ensure 
that adequate liquidity is available to meet the Group’s funding 
requirements as they arise, and that ﬁnancial risk arising from the 
Group’s underlying operations is effectively identiﬁed and managed.
The treasury operations are conducted in accordance with policies 
and procedures approved by the Board and are reviewed annually. 
Financial instruments are only executed for hedging purposes and 
transactions that are speculative in nature are expressly forbidden. 
Monthly reports are provided to senior management and treasury 
operations are subject to periodic internal and external review.
Liquidity, funding and capital management
The intention of Aggreko’s strategy is to deliver long-term value 
to its Shareholders whilst maintaining a balance sheet structure 
that safeguards the Group’s ﬁnancial position through economic 
cycles. Total capital is equity as shown in the Group balance sheet.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 137 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Given the proven ability of the business to fund organic growth 
from operating cash ﬂows, and the nature of our business model, 
we believe it is sensible to run the business with a modest amount 
of debt. We say ‘modest’ because we are strongly of the view that 
it is unwise to run a business which has high levels of operational 
gearing with high levels of ﬁnancial gearing. Given the above 
considerations, we believe that a Net Debt to EBITDA ratio of 
around one times is appropriate for the Group over the longer 
term. This is well within our covenants to lenders which stand 
at three times Net Debt to EBITDA.
At the end of 2016, Net Debt to EBITDA was 1.2 times 
(31 December 2015: 0.9 times).
The Group maintains sufﬁcient facilities to meet its normal 
funding requirements over the medium term. At 31 December 
2016, these facilities totalled £1,035 million in the form of 
committed bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a 
number of international banks and private placement notes. 
The ﬁnancial covenants attached to these facilities are that EBITDA 
should be no less than four times interest and net debt should 
be no more than three times EBITDA; at 31 December 2016, these 
stood at 20 times and 1.2 times respectively. The Group does 
not expect to breach these covenants in the year from the date 
of approval of these ﬁnancial statements. The Group expects to 
be able to arrange sufﬁcient ﬁnance to meet its future funding 
requirements. It has been the Group’s custom and practice to 
reﬁnance its facilities in advance of their maturity dates, providing 
that there is an ongoing need for those facilities. Net debt 
amounted to £649 million at 31 December 2016 and, at that date, 
undrawn committed facilities were £402 million. The maturity 
proﬁle of the borrowings is detailed in Note 18 in the Annual 
Report and Accounts.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage the exposure to interest rates 
by ensuring an appropriate balance of ﬁxed and ﬂoating rates. 
At 31 December 2016, £385 million of the net debt of £649 million 
was at ﬁxed rates of interest resulting in a ﬁxed to ﬂoating rate 
net debt ratio of 59:41 (2015: 66:34). The Group monitors its interest 
rate exposure on a regular basis by applying forecast interest 
rates to the Group’s forecast net debt proﬁle after taking into 
account its existing hedges. The Group also calculates the impact 
on proﬁt and loss of a deﬁned interest rate shift for all currencies. 
Based on the simulations performed, the impact on proﬁt or loss 
of a +/– 100 basis-point shift, after taking into account existing 
hedges, would be £3 million (2015: £2 million). The sensitivity 
analysis is performed on a monthly basis and is reported to 
the Board.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is subject to currency exposure on the translation 
of its net investments in overseas subsidiaries into Sterling. 
In order to reduce the currency risk arising, the Group 
uses direct borrowings in the same currency as those 
investments. Group borrowings are predominantly drawn 
down in the currencies affecting the Group, namely US Dollar, 
Euros, Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Brazilian Real and 
Russian Rouble.
The Group manages its currency ﬂows to minimise foreign 
exchange risk arising on transactions denominated in foreign 
currencies and uses forward contracts where appropriate in 
order to hedge net currency ﬂows.
The positive impact of currency increased our revenues by 
£122 million (2015: £22 million) and operating proﬁt by £1 million 
(2015: £6 million) for the year ended 31 December 2016. The Group 
monitors the impact of exchange closely and regularly carries out 
sensitivity analysis. For every 5% movement in the US Dollar to 
GBP exchange rate there is an approximate impact of £4 million 
(2015: £7 million) in operating proﬁt in terms of translation.
Currency translation also gave rise to a £220 million increase in 
reserves as a result of year on year movements in the exchange 
rates (2015: decrease of £68 million). For every 5% movement in 
the Dollar, there is an approximate impact in equity of £25 million 
(2015: £23 million) arising from the currency translation of external 
borrowings which are being used as a net investment hedge. 
However, this will be offset by a corresponding movement in 
the equity of the net investment being hedged.
The principal exchange rates which impact the Group’s proﬁt 
and net assets are set out in the Financial Review on page 44.
Credit risk
Cash deposits and other ﬁnancial instruments give rise to credit 
risk on amounts due from counterparties. The Group manages 
this risk by limiting the aggregate amounts and their duration 
depending on external credit ratings of the relevant counterparty. 
In the case of ﬁnancial assets exposed to credit risk, the carrying 
amount in the balance sheet, net of any applicable provisions for 
loss, represents the amount exposed to credit risk.
Management of trade receivables
The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of 
the operating units, although they report monthly to Group on 
debtor days, debtor ageing and signiﬁcant outstanding debts. 
At an operating unit level a credit rating is normally established 
for each customer based on ratings from external agencies. 
Where no ratings are available, cash in advance payment terms 
are often established for new customers. Credit limits are 
reviewed on a regular basis. Some of the contracts undertaken 
in our Power Solutions Utility business are substantial, and are 
in jurisdictions where payment practices can be unpredictable. 
The Group monitors the risk proﬁle and debtor-position of all 
such contracts regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques 
to mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment; these include 
securing advance payments, bank guarantees and various types 
of insurance. On the largest contracts, all such arrangements are 
approved at Group level. Contracts are reviewed on a case by 
case basis to determine the customer and country risk.
Insurance
The Group operates a policy of buying cover against the material 
risks which the business faces, where it is possible to purchase 
such cover on reasonable terms. Where this is not possible, or 
where the risks would not have a material impact on the Group 
as a whole, we self-insure.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 138 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016
2 PROCEEDS FROM SALE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
In the cash ﬂow statement, proceeds from sale of PPE comprise:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Net book amount 14 12
Proﬁt on sale of PPE 9 5
Proceeds from sale of PPE 23 17
Proﬁt on sale of PPE is shown within other income in the income statement.
3 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Cash at bank and in hand 43 29
Short-term bank deposits 1 19
Bank overdrafts (Note 18) (19) (16)
Cash and cash equivalents 25 32
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits was 7% (2015: 29%); these deposits have a maturity of less than 90 days. 
Cash is only held in banks which have been approved by Group Treasury.
Cash and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash ﬂow statement:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Cash and cash equivalents 44 48
Bank overdrafts (Note 18) (19) (16)
25 32
4 SEGMENTAL REPORTING
As a result of the Business Priorities review it was decided that it was more appropriate to manage a number of our contracts in Brazil 
and Iraq as part of the Power Solutions Utility business instead of the Power Solutions Industrial business. As a result, operational and 
management control of these contracts was transferred from Power Solutions Industrial to Power Solutions Utility from 1 January 2016. 
Accordingly, the comparatives ﬁgures have been restated. The impact was to reduce the previously stated Power Solutions Industrial 
balances and results by the amounts shown below and to increase the Power Solutions Utility balances and results.
2015
Revenue (£ million) 32
Operating proﬁt (£ million) 5
Depreciation and amortisation (£ million) 6
Capital expenditure (£ million) –
Net operating assets (£ million) 35
Average number of employees 338 139 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
4 SEGMENTAL REPORTING CONTINUED
(A) Revenue by segment
External revenue
2016 
£ million
2015 
Restated 
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 262 267
Utility 624 676
886 943
Rental Solutions 629 618
Group 1,515 1,561
(i)   Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties. 
All inter-segment revenue was less than £1 million. 
(B) Proﬁt by segment
Trading proﬁt Gain on sale of PPE Operating proﬁt
2016 
£ million
2015
Restated 
£ million
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
2016 
£ million
2015
Restated 
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 31 40 1 1 32 41
Utility 158 130 6 2 164 132
189 170 7 3 196 173
Rental Solutions 50 100 2 2 52 102
Operating proﬁt pre-exceptional items 239 270 9 5 248 275
Exceptional items (Note 7) (49) (26)
Operating proﬁt post-exceptional items 199 249
Finance costs – net (27) (23)
Proﬁt before taxation 172 226
Taxation (47) (64)
Proﬁt for the year 125 162
(C) Depreciation and amortisation by segment
Before 
exceptional 
charges
2016 
£ million
Impairment 
charges
(Note 7)
2016 
£ million
Total
2016 
£ million
2015
Restated 
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 63 – 63 61
Utility 127 – 127 134
190 – 190 195
Rental Solutions 95 30 125 86
Group 285 30 315 281
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 140 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
4 SEGMENTAL REPORTING CONTINUED
(D) Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by segment
2016 
£ million
2015
Restated 
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 43 50
Utility 144 124
187 174
Rental Solutions 94 90
Group 281 264
Capital expenditure comprises additions of property, plant and equipment (PPE) of £263 million (2015: £254 million), additions of 
intangible assets of £5 million (2015: £nil), acquisitions of PPE of £10 million (2015: £6 million), and acquisitions of intangible assets 
of £3 million (2015: £4 million).
(E) Assets/(liabilities) by segment
Assets Liabilities
2016 
£ million
2015
Restated 
£ million
2016 
£ million
2015
Restated 
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 491 392 (44) (8)
Utility 1,169 934 (177) (190)
1,660 1,326 (221) (198)
Rental Solutions 779 660 (94) (81)
Group 2,439 1,986 (315) (279)
Tax and ﬁnance payable 71 63 (117) (126)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1 1 (7) (7)
Borrowings – – (674) (521)
Retirement beneﬁt obligation – – (30) (2)
Total assets/(liabilities) per balance sheet 2,511 2,050 (1,143) (935)
(F) Average number of employees by segment
2016 
Number
2015
Restated 
Number
Power Solutions
Industrial 1,326 1,283
Utility 2,269 2,635
3,595 3,918
Rental Solutions 2,495 2,515
Group 6,090 6,433
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 141 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
4 SEGMENTAL REPORTING CONTINUED
(G) Geographical information
Revenue Non-current assets
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
North America 337 364 286 274
UK 82 74 101 78
Continental Europe 123 129 110 96
Eurasia 41 31 61 23
Middle East 144 146 264 183
Africa 243 341 231 209
Asia 164 143 130 136
Auspac 80 64 69 47
Latin America 301 269 240 227
1,515 1,561 1,492 1,273
Non-current assets exclude Deferred tax.
(H) Reconciliation of net operating assets to net assets
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Net operating assets 2,124 1,707
Retirement beneﬁt obligation (30) (2)
Net tax and ﬁnance payable (46) (63)
2,048 1,642
Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments (680) (527)
Net assets 1,368 1,115
5 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION
The following items have been included in arriving at proﬁt before taxation:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Staff costs (Note 8) 355 331
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (included in cost of sales) 91 91
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 281 277
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 30 –
Amortisation of intangibles (included in administrative expenses) 4 4
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (9) (5)
Trade receivables impairment (included in administrative expenses) 5 14
Operating lease rentals payable 38 37
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 142 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
6 AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
2016 
£000
2015 
£000
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts and 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements 224 283
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 784 672
– Other assurance related services 72 70
– Other (Note (iii)) 230 –
– Tax compliance 56 76
– Tax advice – 3
(i)  In the year ended 31 December 2016, KPMG LLP replaced PricewaterhouseCoopers as the Group’s auditors, therefore the 2016 fees above relate to KPMG LLP and the 
2015 fees relate to PricewaterhouseCoopers.
(ii)  In addition to the above services, the Group’s auditors acted as auditor to the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. The appointment of auditors to this pension scheme 
and the fees paid in respect of the audit and for any other services are agreed by the Trustee of the scheme, who act independently from the management of the Group. 
The aggregate fees paid to the Group’s auditors for audit and non-audit services to the pension scheme during the year were £8k (2015: pwc £10k).
(iii) Other relates to Investor Relation Services (this work has stopped from 1 January 2017).
7 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
The deﬁnition of exceptional items is contained within Note 1 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts. An exceptional charge of 
£19 million before tax was recorded in the year to 31 December 2016 in respect of the Group’s business priorities implementation. 
The business strategy is set out on pages 11 to 33 of the 2016 Annual Report. The costs comprise £11 million of employee related 
costs, £7 million of professional fees and £1 million of property related costs. The employee costs relate to severance costs as well 
as the costs of employees who are working full time on the business priorities implementation. This exceptional charge can be 
split into Rental Solutions £10 million, Power Solutions – Industrial £3 million and Power Solutions – Utility £6 million.
Given the continued decline in the Oil & Gas sector in North America, management reviewed the carrying value of small gas generators 
used in the Oil & Gas market (685 gas generators rated at 300KW or below). These generators are used only in North America. 
In assessing the impairment, management determined the recoverable amount of the assets based on value in use, and compared this 
to the carrying amount. As a result of this, an impairment charge of £30 million before tax was recorded in the Rental Solutions business 
unit in the year to 31 December 2016. The future cash ﬂows were estimated in the period to the end of the useful life of the generators 
based on the most up to date business forecast including assumptions around rates, utilisation, and costs and discounted using 
a discount rate of 8.10% after taxation. The net book value of these speciﬁc generators, which is not impaired, is £10 million.
8 EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS
Staff costs for the Group during the year:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Wages and salaries (including severance costs) 306 277
Social security costs 31 34
Share-based payments 8 8
Pension costs – deﬁned contribution plans 8 10
Pension costs – deﬁned beneﬁt plans (Note 30.A6) 2 2
355 331
Full details of Directors’ remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 94.
The key management comprises Executive and Non-executive Directors.
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Short-term employee beneﬁts 3 4
Post-employment beneﬁts – 1
Share-based payments 1 1
4 6
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 143 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
9 NET FINANCE CHARGE
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Finance costs on bank loans and overdrafts (29) (25)
Finance income on bank balances and deposits 2 2
(27) (23)
10 TAXATION
Total before 
exceptional 
items 
2016 
£ million
Exceptional 
items (i) 
(Note 7) 
2016 
£ million
2016 
£ million
Total before 
exceptional 
items 
2015 
£ million
Exceptional 
items 
2015 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Analysis of charge in year
Current tax expense:
– UK corporation tax 7 (1) 6 6 (2) 4
– Overseas taxation 73 (4) 69 78 (3) 75
80 (5) 75 84 (5) 79
Adjustments in respect of prior years:
– UK ––– (5) – (5)
– Overseas (8) – (8) 3– 3
72 (5) 67 82 (5) 77
Deferred taxation (Note 22):
– temporary differences arising in current year (13) (11) (24) (16) – (16)
– movements in respect of prior years 4– 4 3– 3
63 (16) 47 69 (5) 64
(i)  Exceptional items are explained in Note 7 and comprise costs of £19 million relating to the business priorities implementation (2015: £26 million) and £30 million relating 
to asset impairment (2015: £nil). Of these costs, £45 million are tax deductible (2015: £24 million) and result in an exceptional credit of £16 million (2015: £5 million).
The tax (charge)/credit relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Deferred tax on hedging reserve movements – –
Deferred tax on retirement beneﬁts 5 (1)
5 (1)
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 144 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
10 TAXATION CONTINUED
Variances between the current tax charge and the standard 20% UK corporate tax rate when applied to proﬁt on ordinary activities 
for the year are as follows:
Total before 
exceptional 
items  
2016  
£ million
Exceptional 
items 
(Note 7) 
2016  
£ million
2016 
£ million
Proﬁt before taxation 221 (49) 172
Tax calculated at 20% standard UK corporate tax rate 44 (10) 34
Differences between UK and overseas tax rates 24 (7) 17
Effect of intra group ﬁnancing (2) – (2)
Expenses not tax effected 41 5
Income not subject to tax (3) – (3)
Chargeable gains 2– 2
Impact of deferred tax rate changes (2) – (2)
Tax on current year proﬁt 67 (16) 51
Prior year adjustments – current tax (8) – (8)
Prior year adjustments – deferred tax 4– 4
Total tax on proﬁt 63 (16) 47
Effective tax rate 28% 32% 28%
Total before 
 exceptional 
 items
2015 
£ million
Exceptional 
items 
2015 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Proﬁt before taxation 252 (26) 226
Tax calculated at 20.3% standard UK corporate tax rate 51 (5) 46
Differences between UK and overseas tax rates 20 – 20
Effect of intra group ﬁnancing (3) – (3)
Expenses not tax effected 5– 5
Income not subject to tax  (5) – (5)
Tax on current year proﬁt 68 (5) 63
Prior year adjustments – current tax (2) – (2)
Prior year adjustments – deferred tax 3– 3
Total tax on proﬁt 69 (5) 64
Effective tax rate 27% 20% 28%
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 145 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
11 DIVIDENDS
2016 
£ million
2016 
per share (p)
2015 
£ million
2015 
per share (p)
Final paid 45 17.74 45 17.74
Interim paid 24 9.38 24 9.38
69 27.12 69 27.12
In addition, the Directors are proposing a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2016 of 17.74 pence per share 
which will absorb an estimated £45 million of Shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 24 May 2017 to Shareholders who are on the register 
of members on 21 April 2017.
12 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary Shareholders by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts which are 
treated as cancelled.
2016 2015
Proﬁt for the year (£ million) 125 162
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (million) 255 256
Basic earnings per share (pence) 48.88 63.49
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all 
potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares. These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the 
average market price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares during the year. The number of shares calculated as above is compared 
with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
2016 2015
Proﬁt for the year (£ million) 125 162
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (million) 255 256
Adjustment for share options – –
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (million) 255 256
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 48.86 63.45
Aggreko plc assesses the performance of the Group by adjusting earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IAS 33, to exclude 
items it considers to be non-recurring and believes that the exclusion of such items provides a better comparison of business 
performance. The calculation of earnings per Ordinary Share on a basis which excludes exceptional items is based on the following 
adjusted earnings.
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Proﬁt for the year 125 162
Exclude exceptional items 33 21
Proﬁt for the year pre-exceptional items 158 183
An adjusted earnings per share ﬁgure is presented below.
Basic earnings per share pre-exceptional items (pence) 61.98 71.73
Diluted earnings per share pre-exceptional items (pence) 61.95 71.68
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 146 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
13 GOODWILL
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 118 130
Acquisitions (Note 29) 7 7
Exchange adjustments 34 (19)
At 31 December 159 118
Accumulated impairment losses – –
Net book value 159 118
Goodwill impairment tests
Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) as follows:
2016 
£ million
2015
Restated 
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 60 34
Utility 16 9
76 43
Rental Solutions 83 75
Group 159 118
During 2016, a number of contracts in Brazil were switched from Power Solutions Industrial (PSI) to Power Solutions Utility (PSU). 
The result of this was to switch Goodwill of £7 million from PSI to PSU.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill is monitored 
by management at an operating segment level. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations 
which use cash ﬂow projections based on the ﬁve-year strategic plan approved by management. The key assumptions for value in use 
calculations are those relating to expected changes in revenue (utilisation and rates) and the cost base, discount rates and long-term 
growth rates are as follows:
2016 2015
EBITDA
Post-tax 
discount 
rate
Pre-tax 
discount 
rate
Long-term 
growth 
rate EBITDA
Post-tax 
discount 
rate
Pre-tax 
discount 
rate
Long-term 
growth 
rate
Power Solutions Industrial 95 8.7% 12.0% 3% 102 8.2% 10.6% 2%
Power Solutions Utility 291 8.7% 12.0% 3% 266 8.2% 10.6% 2%
Rental Solutions 147 8.7% 12.0% 3% 188 8.2% 10.6% 2%
Values in use were determined using current year cash ﬂows, a prudent view of the medium-term business strategy and excludes any 
growth capital expenditure. A terminal cash ﬂow was calculated using a long-term growth rate of 3%. On the basis that the business 
carried out by all CGUs is closely related and assets can be redeployed around the Group as required, a consistent Group discount rate 
has been used for all CGUs. 
As at 31 December 2016, based on internal valuations, Aggreko plc management concluded that the values in use of the CGUs exceeded 
their net asset value with the highest headroom value being £2 billion and the lowest £240 million. Given these headroom numbers 
the Directors consider that there is no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions made in their impairment assessment that 
would give rise to an impairment.
14 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Refer to Note 30.A2.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 147 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Year ended 31 December 2016
Freehold 
properties  
£ million
Short 
leasehold 
properties  
£ million
Rental  
ﬂeet  
£ million
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment  
£ million
Total  
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 2016 81 19 2,778 97 2,975
Exchange adjustments 10 1 568 23 602
Additions – 3 241 19 263
Acquisitions (Note 29) –– 10 – 10
Disposals – (1) (122) (3) (126)
At 31 December 2016 91 22 3,475 136 3,724
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2016 27 13 1,729 67 1,836
Exchange adjustments 6 1 361 12 380
Charge for the year 3 2 261 15 281
Impairment charge (Note 7) –– 30 – 30
Disposals – – (109) (3) (112)
At 31 December 2016 36 16 2,272 91 2,415
Net book values:
At 31 December 2016 55 6 1,203 45 1,309
At 31 December 2015 54 6 1,049 30 1,139
Year ended 31 December 2015
Freehold 
properties  
£ million
Short 
leasehold 
properties  
£ million
Rental  
ﬂeet  
£ million
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment  
£ million
Total  
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 2015 77 20 2,599 89 2,785
Exchange adjustments 1 (1) 14 1 15
Additions 3 1 237 13 254
Acquisitions –– 5 1 6
Disposals – (1) (77) (7) (85)
At 31 December 2015 81 19 2,778 97 2,975
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 23 13 1,513 59 1,608
Exchange adjustments 1 (1) 23 1 24
Charge for the year 3 2 259 13 277
Disposals – (1) (66) (6) (73)
At 31 December 2015 27 13 1,729 67 1,836
Net book values:
At 31 December 2015 54 6 1,049 30 1,139
At 31 December 2014 54 7 1,086 30 1,177
Assets in course of construction are included within Rental ﬂeet.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 148 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
16 INVENTORIES
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Raw materials and consumables 242 184
Work in progress 5 5
247 189
17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Trade receivables 521 384
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (67) (64)
Trade receivables – net 454 320
Prepayments 38 26
Accrued income 109 96
Other receivables (Note (i)) 55 34
Total receivables 656 476
(i)  In September 2016, the Group signed £14 million of private placement notes with one customer in Venezuela (PDVSA) to progress clearing the overdue debt. This resulted in 
a ﬁnancial instrument which replaced the net trade receivable balance. The ﬁnancial instrument was booked at fair value which reﬂects our estimation of the recoverability 
of these notes. This fair value was estimated to be £8 million which when compared to the carrying amount of the net trade receivable of £6 million (Gross receivable of 
£14 million less bad debt provision of £8 million) resulted in a release to the income statement of £2 million. This ﬁnancial instrument is included in other receivables.
(ii)  The value of trade and other receivables quoted in the table above also represent the fair value of these items.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Sterling 19 20
Euro 98 54
US Dollar 340 248
Other currencies 199 154
656 476
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
At 1 January 64 55
Net provision for receivables impairment 5 14
Transfer to other receivables (refer to Note (i) above) (8) –
Utilised (5) (1)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (3) (3)
Exchange 14 (1)
At 31 December 67 64
Credit quality of trade receivables
The table below analyses the total trade receivables balance per operating segment into fully performing, past due and impaired.
31 December 2016
Fully performing  
£ million
Past due  
£ million
Impaired  
£ million
Total  
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 42 30 7 79
Utility 48 209 52 309
90 239 59 388
Rental Solutions 65 60 8 133
Group 155 299 67 521
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 149 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
31 December 2015
Fully performing 
Restated  
£ million
Past due 
Restated  
£ million
Impaired 
Restated  
£ million
Total 
Restated  
£ million
Power Solutions
Industrial 31 17 9 57
Utility 35 148 48 231
66 165 57 288
Rental Solutions 42 47 7 96
Group 108 212 64 384
During 2016, a number of contracts in Brazil and Iraq were switched from Power Solutions Industrial (PSI) to Power Solutions Utility (PSU).  
The impact was to reduce the previously stated balances in PSI and increase the balances in PSU as follows: Fully performing £2 million, 
Past due £5 million, Impaired £nil and total £7 million. More details can be found in Note 4.
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Less than 30 days 71 67
Between 30 and 60 days 51 40
Between 60 and 90 days 34 28
Greater than 90 days 143 77
299 212
The Group assesses credit quality as explained below:
Power Solutions – Industrial
This is a high transaction intensive business and the majority of the contracts in this business are small relative to the size of the 
Group. There is no concentration of credit risk in this business and there are a large number of customers who are unrelated and 
internationally dispersed.
The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of the operating units, although they report monthly to Group on 
debtor days, debtor ageing and signiﬁcant outstanding debts. At an operating unit level a credit rating is normally established for 
each customer based on ratings from external agencies. Where no ratings are available, cash in advance payment terms are often 
established for new customers. Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis. The effectiveness of this credit process has meant that 
the Group has historically had a low level of bad debt in this business. Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible as a 
percentage of total gross debtors was 1% (2015: 1%).
Power Solutions – Utility
This business concentrates on medium to very large contracts. Customers are mainly state owned utilities in emerging markets.
In many instances the contracts are in jurisdictions where payment practices can be unpredictable. The Group monitors the risk proﬁle 
and debtor position of all such contracts regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques to mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment; 
these include securing advance payments, bonds and guarantees. On the largest contracts, all such arrangements are approved at a 
Group level. Contracts are reviewed on a case by case basis to determine the customer and country risk. To date the Group has also had 
a low level of bad debt in the Power Solutions – Utility business although the risk of a major default is high.
The total trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2016 for our Power Solutions – Utility business was £309 million (2015: £230 million). 
Within this balance, receivable balances totalling £53 million (2015: £59 million) had some form of payment cover attached to them. 
This payment cover guards against the risk of customer default rather than the risk associated with customer disputes. The risk 
associated with the remaining £256 million (2015: £171 million) is deemed to be either acceptable or payment cover is not obtainable 
in a cost-effective manner.
Rental Solutions
This business is similar to the Power Solutions Industrial business above and the management of trade receivables is similar. 
Again the Group has historically had a low level of bad debt in the Rental Solutions business. Receivables written off during the year 
as uncollectible as a percentage of total Gross Debtors was 2% (2015: 3%).
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 150 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
18 BORROWINGS
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Non-current
Bank borrowings 329 253
Private placement notes 304 253
633 506
Current
Bank overdrafts 19 16
Bank borrowings 41 15
60 31
Total borrowings 693 537
Short-term deposits (1) (19)
Cash at bank and in hand (43) (29)
Net borrowings 649 489
Overdrafts and borrowings are unsecured. 
(i) Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities
The maturity proﬁle of the borrowings was as follows:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Within 1 year, or on demand 60 31
Between 1 and 2 years 97 –
Between 2 and 3 years 150 195
Between 3 and 4 years 127 70
Between 4 and 5 years 178 56
Greater than 5 years 81 185
693 537
(ii) Borrowing facilities
The Group has the following undrawn committed ﬂoating rate borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2016 in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met at that date:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Expiring within 1 year – 30
Expiring between 1 and 2 years 178 –
Expiring between 2 and 3 years 1 117
Expiring between 3 and 4 years 189 78
Expiring between 4 and 5 years 34 160
Expiring after 5 years – –
402 385 
(iii) Interest rate risk proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities 
Refer to Note 30.A3.
(iv) Interest rate risk proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets 
Refer to Note 30.A3.
(v) Preference share capital 
Refer to Note 30.A3.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 151 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Refer to Note 30.A4.
(i) Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities 
Refer to Note 30.A4.
(ii) Summary of methods and assumptions 
Refer to Note 30.A4.
(iii) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
Refer to Note 30.A4.
(iv) The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings reprice 
Refer to Note 30.A4.
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Trade payables 88 77
Other taxation and social security payable 13 8
Other payables 68 63
Accruals 113 97
Deferred income 17 14
299 259
The value of trade and other payables quoted in the table above also represents the fair value of these items.
21 PROVISIONS
Business 
priorities 
programme  
£ million
At 1 January 2016 8
New provisions 1
Utilised (8)
At 31 December 2016 1
Analysis of total provisions
Current 1
Non-current –
Total 1
The provisions for the business priorities implementation programme are generally in respect of employee related costs for employees 
working entirely on the programme. The provision is expected to be fully utilised by the end of 2017.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 152 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
22 DEFERRED TAX
31 December 2016
At 1 January 
 2016  
£ million
Credit/(debit)  
to income  
statement  
2016  
£ million
Credit to other 
comprehensive 
income  
2016  
£ million
Exchange  
differences 
 2016  
£ million
At 31 December  
2016 
£ million
Fixed asset timing differences (69) (1) – (1) (71)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations –– 5– 5
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings (1) – – – (1)
Tax losses 19 21 – – 40
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1––– 1
Other temporary differences 22––– 22
(28) 20 5 (1) (4)
31 December 2015
At 1 January 
 2015  
£ million
Credit/(debit)  
to income  
statement  
2015  
£ million
Debit to other 
comprehensive 
income  
2015  
£ million
Exchange  
differences 
 2015  
£ million
At 31 December 
2015  
£ million
Fixed asset timing differences (71) 11 – (9) (69)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 1– (1) ––
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings – (1) – – (1)
Tax losses 18 1 – – 19
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1 – – – 1
Other temporary differences 20 2 – – 22
(31) 13 (1) (9) (28)
Changes to the UK corporation tax rates were substantively enacted as part of Finance Bill 2015 (on 26 October 2015) and Finance Bill 2016  
(on 7 September 2016). These include reductions to the main rate to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 
1 April 2020. Deferred taxes at the balance sheet date have been measured using these enacted tax rates and reﬂected in these 
ﬁnancial statements. 
A deferred tax liability of £1 million (2015: £1 million) has been recognised in respect of unremitted earnings. The deferred tax relates 
to non-recoverable withholding tax which will be suffered on dividends to be paid in 2017. 
No other deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries. It is likely that the majority of the 
overseas earnings will qualify for the UK dividend exemption and the Group can control the distribution of dividends by its subsidiaries. 
In some countries, local tax is payable on the remittance of a dividend. Were dividends to be remitted from these countries, the 
additional tax payable would be £13 million.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) 
during the period are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset 
and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related deferred tax beneﬁt through future taxable proﬁts 
is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of £11 million (2015: £6 million) of which £11 million (2015: £6 million) relates 
to carried forward tax losses as our forecasts indicate that these assets will not reverse in the near future.
Deferred tax assets of £33 million (2015: £18 million) have been recognised in respect of entities which have suffered a loss in either 
the current or preceding period. Deferred tax assets have been recognised on the basis it is probable there will be future taxable 
proﬁts against which they can be utilised. The majority of these assets can be carried forward indeﬁnitely.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 153 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
22 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
31 December 2016 31 December 2015
Assets  
£ million
Liabilities  
£ million
Net  
£ million
Assets  
£ million
Liabilities  
£ million
Net  
£ million
Fixed asset timing differences 12 (83) (71) 9 (78) (69)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 5– 5 –––
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings – (1) (1) – (1) (1)
Tax losses 40 – 40 19 – 19
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1– 1 1– 1
Other temporary differences 22 – 22 22 – 22
Total 80 (84) (4) 51 (79) (28)
Offset of deferred tax positions (29) 29 – (21) 21 –
Net deferred tax 51 (55) (4) 30 (58) (28)
The net deferred tax liability due after more than one year is £4 million (2015: liability of £28 million).
23 SHARE CAPITAL
2016  
Number of  
shares
2016  
£000
2015  
Number of  
shares
2015  
£000
(i) Ordinary Shares of 4
329
⁄ 395 pence (2015: 4
329
⁄ 395 pence)
At 1 January 256,128,201 12,378 256,118,395 12,378
Share conversion (1 Ordinary Share for every 21.4 B Shares as at 
28 May 2015) 
–– 9,806 –
At 31 December 256,128,201 12,378 256,128,201 12,378
(ii) Deferred Ordinary Shares of 6
18
⁄ 25 pence (2015: 6
18
⁄ 25 pence)
At 1 January and 31 December 182,700,915 12,278 182,700,915 12,278
(iii) Deferred Ordinary Shares of 
1
⁄ 775 pence (2015: 
1
⁄ 775 pence)
At 1 January and 31 December 18,352,057,648 237 18,352,057,648 237
(iv) Deferred Ordinary Shares of 9
84
⁄ 775 pence (2015: 9
84
⁄ 775 pence)
At 1 January and 31 December 188,251,587 17,147 188,251,587 17,147
(v) B Shares of 9
84
⁄ 775 pence (2015: 9
84
⁄ 775 pence)
At 1 January –– 1,989,357 181
Transfer to capital redemption reserve –– (1,778,422) (162)
Share conversion –– (210,935) (19)
At 31 December –– ––
(vi) Deferred Ordinary Shares 
1
⁄ 306125 pence (2015: 
1
⁄ 306125 pence)
At 1 January 573,643,383,325 19 ––
Share conversion –– 573,643,383,325 19
At 31 December 573,643,383,325 19 573,643,383,325 19
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 154 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
24 TREASURY SHARES
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Treasury shares (14) (9)
Interests in own shares represents the cost of 1,048,816 of the Company’s Ordinary Shares (nominal value 4
329
/ 395 pence). 
Movement during the year was as follows:
2016  
Number of  
shares
2015  
Number of  
shares
1 January 535,538 824,036
Purchase of shares (Note (i)) 700,000 –
Long-term Incentive Plan Maturity (76,728) (78,430)
Sharesave maturity (560) (210,068)
Deferred shares and restricted stock (106,206) –
Shares in relation to dividends on deferred shares and restricted stock (3,228) –
31 December 1,048,816 535,538
(i)  Purchased at an average share price of £11.46.
These shares represent 0.4% of issued share capital as at 31 December 2016 (2015: 0.2%).
These shares were acquired by a Trust in the open market using funds provided by Aggreko plc to meet obligations under the 
Long-term Incentive Arrangements and Aggreko Sharesave Plans. The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged 
to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate. The market value of the shares at 31 December 2016 was 
£10 million (31 December 2015: £5 million).
25 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Contracted but not provided for (property, plant and equipment) 22 10
26 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS – MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 26 22
Later than one year and less than ﬁve years 49 37
After ﬁve years 17 12
Total 92 71
27 PENSION COMMITMENTS
Refer to Note 30.A5.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 155 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
28 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
The subsidiary undertakings of Aggreko plc at the year end, and the main countries in which they operate, are shown below. 
All companies are wholly owned and, unless otherwise stated, incorporated in UK or in the principal country of operation and 
are involved in the supply of temporary power, temperature control and related services.
All shareholdings are of Ordinary Shares or other equity capital.
Company
Country of 
Incorporation Registered address
Aggreko Algeria SPA* Algeria Extension La Zone Des Activities, N 01, Adrar, Algeria
Aggreko Angola Lda Angola Rua 21 Jan, Qunintalao Escola de Enfermagem,  
Bairro Morro Bento III, District of Samba, Luanda, Angola
Aggreko Argentina S.R.L. Argentina 465, 2D, Av. L.N. Alem, Buenos Aires, 1001, Argentina
Aggreko Generators Rental Pty Limited Australia 101, Woodlands Drive, Braeside, VIC, 3195, Australia
Aggreko Belgium NV Belgium 7, Smallandlaan, Antwerpen, 2660, Belgium
Aggreko Energia Locacao de Geradores Ltda Brazil 3500, Av. das Américas, – Ed Toronto 2000 –  
6° Andar – Barra da Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, 22640-102, Brazil
Aggreko Cameroon S.R.L. Cameroon Centre des Affaires Flatters, Rue Flatters, BP 4999, Bonanjo, Doula, Cameroon
Aggreko Canada Inc Canada 199, Bay Street, Suite 2800, Commerce Court West, Toronto, ON, M5L1A9, Canada
Aggreko Financial Holdings Limited + Cayman Islands 89, Nexus Way, Camana Bay, PO Box 31106, Grand Cayman, KY1-1205,  
Cayman Islands
Aggreko Chile Limitada Chile Galvarino 9450, Parque Industrial Buenaventura, Quilicura,  
Region Metropolitana, Santiago, Chile
Aggreko (Shanghai) Energy Equipment  
Rental Company Limited
China Building 16, No 99 HuaJia Road, SongJiang District, Shanghai, 201611,  
Shanghai, 201611, China
Aggreko Colombia SAS Colombia Parque Industrial Gran Sabana Vereda Tibitoc Lote M Unidad 67-A,  
Tocancipa, Colombia
Aggreko Power Solutions Colombia SA ESP Colombia Parque Industrial Gran Sabana, Carretera Snrto Zipaquira Lote 67, Tocancipa – 
Cundinamarca, Colombia
Aggreko Costa Rica S.A. Costa Rica Centro Corporativo Forum I, Torre G, Piso 1, Santa Ana, San José, Costa Rica
Aggreko Cote d’Ivoire S.A.R.L. Cote d’Ivoire Vridi Canal – Base Centrale thermique à gaz, Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire
Aggreko (Middle East) Limited** Cyprus 3 Themistokli Dervi, Julia House, P.C. 1066, Nicosia, Cyprus
Aggreko DRC S.P.R.L. Democratic 
Republic of the 
Congo
50, Avenue Goma- Commune de la Gombe, Kinshasa
Aggreko Dominican Republic SRL Dominican
Republic
Paseo de los Locutores No. 53, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Aggreko Energy Ecuador CIA Ecuador E 2324, Rumipamba y Av. Amazonas, Quito, NA, Ecuador
Aggreko Finland Oy Finland Hatanpaan Valtatie 13, Tampere, Finland
Aggreko France SARL France 5, Rue Boole, Saint-Michel sur Orge, 91240, France
Aggreko Gabon S.A.R.L. Gabon Residence Du Golf, Libreville, BP: 4568, Gabon
Aggreko Deutschland GmbH Germany 62, Barbarastraße, Dorsten, 46282, Germany
Aggreko Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Lots 1845 and 1846 in DD125 Ho Tsuen,Yuen Long, N.T. Hong Kong, SAR,  
Hong Kong, 00852, Hong Kong
Aggreko Energy Rental India Private Limited +++ India “The Chambers”, Ofﬁce No 501, Plot No 4/12/13, Viman Nagar, Pune, 411014, India
PT Aggreko Energy Services Indonesia Jl. Danau Cincin Utara Block E No 10-B, Lantai 2, Papanggo Tanjung Priok  
Jakarta Utara DKI, Jakarta Raya, 14340, Indonesia
Aggreko Ireland Limited Ireland 6th Floor, South Bank House, Barrow Street, Dublin, Ireland
Aggreko Italia S.R.L. Italy 29, Via A. Einstein, Assago (MI), 20090, Italy
Aggreko Japan Limited Japan 2-42-6 Ikebukuro, Toshima-Ku, Japan
Aggreko Kenya Energy Rentals Limited Kenya Plot 12100, Tulip House, Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 10729, 00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Aggreko Malaysia SDN BHD Malaysia Level 8 Symphony House Berhad Pusat Dagangan Dana 1 Jalan PJU 1A/46,  
Petaling Jaya, 47301, Malaysia
Aggreko Mali S.A.R.L. Mali Bamako-Laﬁabougou ACI 2000, Immcuble Samassa 1 Etage porte 02
Aggreko Africa Limited Mauritius co/o Abax Corporate Services Ltd, 6th Floor, Tower A, 1 CyberCity, Mauritius
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 156 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016
28 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
Company
Country of 
Incorporation Registered address
Aggreko Energy Mexico SA de CV Mexico 8, Carretera Coacalco Tultepec, Estado de Mexico, 55717, Mexico
Aggreko Services Mexico SA de CV Mexico 8, Carretera Coacalco Tultepec, Estado de Mexico, 55717, Mexico
Aggreko SA de CV ++++ Mexico Mar Cantabrico No. 20, Co. Popotla C.P. 11400, Mexico, D.F., Mexico
Aggreko Mocambique Limitada Mozambique 7 Andar, Av. 24 de Julho, No 7, Bairro Polana Cimento, Distrito Urbano 1,  
Maputo, Mozambique
Aggreko Myanmar Co Limited Myanmar No. 112 (First Floor), 49th Street, Pazundaung Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Aggreko Namibia Energy Rentals (Pty) Ltd Namibia 344 Independence Avenue, Windhoek, Namibia
Aggreko (NZ) Limited New Zealand Level 8, 188 Quay Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Aggreko Projects Limited Nigeria 27 Festival Road, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria
Aggreko Gas Power Generation Limited ++++ Nigeria 27 Festival Road, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria
Aggreko Norway AS Norway 44, Dragonveien, Bygg 31, Oslo, Norway
Aggreko Energy Rentals Panama SA Panama Patton, Moreno & Asvat ofﬁces in Capital Plaza Building, 8th ﬂoor,  
Roberto Motta y Costa del Este Avenue, Panama, PA, 507, Panama
Aggreko Generator Rentals (PNG) Limited Papua New 
Guinea
c/- Ashurst PNG, Level 4, Mogoru Moto Building, Champion Parade,  
Port Moresby, National Capital District, Papua New Guinea
Aggreko Peru S.A.C. Peru Avenida Elmer Faucett 4800, Callao, Peru
Aggreko Energy Rental Solutions Inc. Philippines Level 10-1 Fort Legend Tower, 31st Street & 3rd Avenue,  
Bonifacio Global City Taguig, 1634, Philippines
Aggreko Polska Spolka Zorganiczana Poland Fort Ordona 6 street, Czosnow, 05-152, Poland
Aggreko South East Europe S.R.L. Romania Soseaua de Centura 7A, Tunari, Ilfov, 077180, Romania
Aggreko Eurasia LLC Russia Building 1, House 8, 2nd km Stariy T obolsky Trakt, Tyumen, 625000, Russian Federation
Aggreko Rwanda Limited Rwanda 1st Floor, Omega House, Boulevard de los, Nyarugenge, Rwanda
Aggreko Senegal S.A.R.L. Senegal Route De Ngor 29912, Dakar, Senegal
Aggreko (Singapore) PTE Limited Singapore 8B Buroh Street, Singapore, 627532
Aggreko Energy Rental South Africa  
(Proprietary) Limited
South Africa 2 Eglin Road, Sunninghill, 2157, South Africa
Aggreko South Korea Limited South Korea Unit 3203 S-Trenue, 37 Gukjegeumyung-ro 2-gil, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul,  
Republic of Korea
Aggreko Iberia SA Spain 35-37, Avinguda Torre Mateu, Pol.Industrial Can Salvatella, Barbera del Valles,  
08210, Spain
Aggreko Sweden AB Sweden Box 16285, Stockholm, 103 25, Sweden
Aggreko Energy Rentals Tanzania Limited Tanzania Ubungo Plaza Unit 209, 2nd Floor, PO Box 158, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania
Aggreko (Thailand) Limited Thailand Central World, 29th Floor, Rama I Road, Pathumwan Sub-district,  
Pathumwan District, Bangkok, Thailand
Aggreko Americas Holdings B.V. + The Netherlands Amstelveenseweg 760, 1081 JK Amsterdam, Netherlands
Aggreko Euro Holdings B.V. + The Netherlands Amstelveenseweg 760, 1081 JK Amsterdam, Netherlands 157 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
28 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
Company
Country of 
Incorporation Registered address
Aggreko Rest of the World Holdings B.V. + The Netherlands Amstelveenseweg 760, 1081 JK Amsterdam, Netherlands
Aggreko (Investments) B.V. ++ The Netherlands 3, Fuutweg, Haven 461b, Klundert, 4791PB, Netherlands
Aggreko Nederland B.V. The Netherlands 3, Fuutweg, Haven 461b, Klundert, 4791PB, Netherlands
Aggreko International Power Projects B.V. The Netherlands Between Roundabouts 7 and 8, Opposite Red Sea Housing, PO Box 17576,  
Jebel Ali, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Aggreko Power Solutions Trinidad Limited Republic of 
Trinidad & 
Tobago
129-131 Abercromby Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago
Aggreko Trinidad Limited Republic of 
Trinidad & 
Tobago
5/7 Sweet Briar Road, St. Clair, Trinidad and Tobago
Aggreko Enerji ve Isi Kontrol Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Turkey EGS Business Park B2 Blok Kat:6 D:227 Yeşilköy, Bakırköy, Istanbul, Turkey
Aggreko Middle East Limited FZE UAE E-LOB Ofﬁce No E2-112F-40, PO Box 52462, Hamriyah Free Zone, Sharjah,  
United Arab Emirates
Aggreko Finance Limited + UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko Holdings Limited + UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko International Projects Holdings Limited + UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko International Projects Limited*** UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko Pension Scheme Trustee Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko Russia Finance Limited ++ UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko UK Finance Limited ++ UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko UK Limited UK Overburn Avenue, Dumbarton, G82 2RL, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko US Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko Generators Limited ++++ UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Aggreko Luxembourg Holdings UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Dunwilco (680) Limited ++++ UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom
Golden Triangle Generators Limited UK Aggreko House Orbital 2, Voyager Drive, Cannock, Staffordshire, WS11 8XP, 
England, United Kingdom
Aggreko Uruguay S.A. Uruguay 675, Of 20, Peatonal Sarandi, Montevideo, Uruguay
Aggreko Holdings Inc + USA Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc, 1105 N. Market Street, Suite 1300, Wilmington DE, 
19801, United States
Aggreko USA LLC + USA The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, 
Wilmington, DE, 19801, United States
Aggreko LLC USA The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, 
Wilmington, DE, 19801, United States
Aggreko de Venezuela C.A. Venezuela Av. Venezuela Edif. Lamaletto, piso 5, oﬁcina Unica, El Rosal, Caracas
* Joint Venture: Aggreko ownership is 49%, remainder is held by RedMed.
** Registered in Cyprus.
*** Administered from Dubai and registered in the UK.
+
 Intermediate holding companies.
++
 Finance Company.
+++
 The ﬁnancial year end of Aggreko Energy Rental India Private Limited is 31 March due to local taxation requirements.
++++
 Dormant Company.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 158 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016
29 ACQUISITIONS
DRYCO LLC
On 9 August 2016, the Group completed the acquisition of the 
business and assets of DRYCO LLC, a specialist in moisture control, 
drying, heating and cooling applications within the shipping, 
manufacturing, food processing, construction and industrial 
painting industries in North America.
The purchase consideration, paid in cash was £22 million.
The revenue and operating proﬁt included in the consolidated 
income statement from 9 August 2016 to 31 December 2016 
contributed by DRYCO LLC was £6 million and £3 million 
respectively. Had DRYCO LLC been consolidated from 1 January 
2016, the consolidated income statement for the year ended 
31 December 2016 would show revenue and operating proﬁt 
of £13 million and £4 million respectively.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted and 
the goodwill arising on the purchase has been capitalised. 
Acquisition related costs of £0.1 million have been expensed 
in the period and are included within administrative expenses 
in the income statement.
The details of the transaction and fair value of assets acquired 
are shown below:
Fair value 
£ million
Intangible assets 3
Property, plant and equipment 10
Trade and other receivables 3
Trade and other payables (1)
Net assets acquired 15
Goodwill 7
Consideration per cash ﬂow statement 22
Goodwill represents the value of synergies arising from the 
integration of the acquired business. Synergies include direct cost 
savings and the reduction of overheads as well as the ability to 
leverage Aggreko systems and access to assets.
30 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS – 
APPENDICES
30.A1 Accounting policies 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The activities of the Group expose it directly to the ﬁnancial 
risks of changes in forward foreign currency exchange rates 
and interest rates. The Group uses forward foreign exchange 
contracts, and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these 
exposures. The Group does not use derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recorded and subsequently measured at 
fair value, which is calculated using standard industry valuation 
techniques in conjunction with observable market data. The fair 
value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of 
estimated future cash ﬂows using market interest rates and the 
fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined 
using forward foreign exchange market rates at the reporting 
date. The treatment of changes in fair value of derivatives 
depends on the derivative classiﬁcation. The Group designates 
derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecasted transactions 
or commitments (‘cash ﬂow hedge’).
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to 
document in advance the relationship between the item being 
hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group is also required 
to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which 
shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. 
This effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to 
ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Cash ﬂow hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that 
are designated, and effective, as hedges of future cash ﬂows 
are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash 
ﬂow hedge is of a ﬁrm commitment or forecasted transaction 
that subsequently results in the recognition of an asset or a 
liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the 
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously 
been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement 
of the asset or liability. For hedges of transactions that do not result 
in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in 
equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period 
in which the hedged item affects net proﬁt and loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
no longer qualiﬁes for hedge accounting. At that time any 
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in 
equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. 
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the 
income statement.
Overseas net investment hedges
Certain foreign currency borrowings are designated as hedges 
of the Group’s overseas net investments, which are denominated 
in the functional currency of the reporting operation.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net 
investment in foreign entities and of borrowings are taken to 
equity on consolidation to the extent the hedges are deemed 
effective. All other exchange gains and losses are dealt with 
through the income statement.
Share-based payments
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ has been applied to all grants of 
equity instruments. The Group issues equity-settled share-based 
payments to certain employees under the terms of the Group’s 
various employee-share and option schemes. Equity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of 
the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-
settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the shares that 
will ultimately vest. Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes 
option-pricing model.
Own shares held under trust for the Group’s employee share 
schemes are classed as Treasury shares and deducted in arriving 
at Shareholders’ equity. No gain or loss is recognised on disposal of 
Treasury shares. Purchases of own shares are disclosed as changes 
in Shareholders’ equity. 159 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
30.A1 Accounting policies continued
Leases
Leases where substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the Group are classiﬁed as operating leases. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged against operating proﬁt on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s Shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements in the period 
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
30.A2 Other intangible assets
Year end 31 December 2016
Customer  
relationships and
non-compete  
agreements
£ million
Development 
expenditure
£ million
Total 
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 2016 42 – 42
Acquisitions (Note 29) 3– 3
Additions –55
Exchange adjustments 11 – 11
At 31 December 2016 56 5 61
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2016 26 – 26
Charge for the year 4– 4
Exchange adjustments 7– 7
At 31 December 2016 37 – 37
Net book values 
At 31 December 2016 19 5 24
At 31 December 2015 16 – 16
Amortisation charges in the year mainly comprised amortisation of assets arising from business combinations and have been recorded 
in administrative expenses.
Year end 31 December 2015
Total 
(Note (i)) 
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 2015 42
Acquisitions 4
Exchange adjustments (4)
At 31 December 2015 42
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2015 24
Charge for the year 4
Exchange adjustments (2)
At 31 December 2015 26
Net book values 
At 31 December 2015 16
At 31 December 2014 18
(i) All intangible assets in 2015 relate to customer relationship and non-compete agreements.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 160 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
30.A3 Borrowings
(i) Interest rate risk proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities
The interest rate proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December 2016, after taking account of the interest rate swaps used 
to manage the interest proﬁle, was:
Fixed rate debt
Floating 
rate 
£ million
Fixed 
rate 
£ million
Total 
£ million
Weighted 
average 
interest rate 
%
Weighted 
average period 
for which 
rate is ﬁxed 
Years
Currency:
US Dollar 116 385 501 4.3 3.9
Canadian Dollars 42 – 42 – –
Peruvian Sol 6– 6– –
South African Rand 6– 6– –
Mexican Pesos 13 – 13 – –
Russian Roubles 40 – 40 – –
Brazil Reals 11 – 11 – –
Indian Rupees 13 – 13 – –
Japanese Yen 6– 6– –
Romanian Lieu 8– 8– –
Colombian Peso 6– 6– –
Euro 26 – 26 – –
Mozambican Metical 9– 9– –
Other currencies 6– 6– –
As at 31 December 2016 308 385 693
Fixed rate debt
Floating 
rate 
£ million
Fixed 
rate 
£ million
Total 
£ million
Weighted 
average 
interest rate 
%
Weighted 
average period 
for which 
rate is ﬁxed 
Years
Currency:
US Dollar 124 321 445 4.3 4.9
Canadian Dollars 25 – 25 – –
New Zealand Dollars 2– 2– –
South African Rand 5– 5– –
Mexican Pesos 10 – 10 – –
Russian Roubles 9– 9– –
Brazil Reals 10 – 10 – –
Indian Rupees 8– 8– –
Singapore Dollars 6– 6– –
Romanian Lieu 7– 7– –
Colombian Peso 4– 4– –
Other currencies 6– 6– –
As at 31 December 2015 216 321 537
The ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial liabilities principally comprise debt which carries interest based on different benchmark rates depending 
on the currency of the balance and are normally ﬁxed in advance for periods between one and three months.
The weighted average interest rate on ﬁxed debt is derived from the ﬁxed leg of each interest rate swap and coupons applying to ﬁxed 
rate private placement notes.
The effect of the Group’s interest rate swaps is to classify £81 million (2015: £67 million) of borrowings in the above table as ﬁxed rate.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2016 was £81 million (2015: £67 million). 
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 161 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
30.A3 Borrowings continued
(ii) Interest rate risk proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets
Cash at bank  
and in hand  
£ million
Short-term 
deposits  
£ million
Total  
£ million
Currency:
US Dollar 4– 4
Euro 5– 5
Brazilian Real 31 4
Fijian Dollar 3– 3
Australian Dollar 2– 2
Saudi Riyal 3– 3
Indonesian Rupiah 5– 5
Nigerian Naira 3– 3
Other currencies 15 – 15
At 31 December 2016 43 1 44
Currency:
US Dollar 6– 6
Euro 5– 5
Brazilian Real 12 3
Argentinian Peso 317 20
Australian Dollar 1– 1
Other currencies 13 – 13
At 31 December 2015 29 19 48
All of the above cash and short-term deposits are ﬂoating rate and earn interest based on relevant LIBID (London Interbank Bid Rate) 
equivalents or market rates for the currency concerned.
(iii) Preference share capital
2016  
Number
2016  
£000
2015  
Number
2015  
£000
Authorised:
Redeemable preference shares of 25p each 199,998 50 199,998 50
No redeemable preference shares were allotted as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. The Board is authorised to determine 
the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of redeemable shares.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 162 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
30.A4 Financial instruments
As stated in our accounting policies Note 30.A1 on page 158 the activities of the Group expose it directly to the ﬁnancial risks of changes 
in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap 
contracts to hedge these exposures. The movement in the hedging reserve is shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
(i) Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
The following table provides a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and the fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and 
ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December 2016. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Market values have been used to determine fair values.
2016 2015
Book value  
£ million
Fair value  
£ million
Book value  
£ million
Fair value  
£ million
Primary ﬁnancial instruments held or issued to ﬁnance the Group’s operations:
Current borrowings and overdrafts (60) (60) (31) (31)
Non-current borrowings (633) (633) (506) (506)
Short-term deposits 11 19 19
Cash at bank and in hand 43 43 29 29
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments held:
Interest rate swaps (5) (5) (6) (6)
Forward foreign currency contracts (1) (1) ––
Trade receivables 521 521 384 384
PDVSA private placement notes 88 ––
Trade payables 88 88 77 77
(ii) Summary of methods and assumptions
Interest rate swaps and foreign currency derivatives
Fair value is based on market price of these instruments at the balance sheet date. In accordance with IFRS 13, interest rate swaps are 
considered to be level 2 with fair value being calculated at the present value of estimated future cash ﬂows using market interest rates. 
Forward foreign currency contracts are considered to be level 1 as the valuation is based on quoted market prices at the end of the 
reporting period.
Current borrowings and overdrafts/short-term deposits
The fair value of short-term deposits and current borrowings and overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short 
maturity of these instruments.
Non-current borrowings
In the case of non-current borrowings, the fair value approximates to the carrying value reported in the balance sheet.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 163 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
30.A4 Financial instruments continued
(iii) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Numerical ﬁnancial instruments disclosures are set out below. Additional disclosures are set out in the ﬁnancial review and accounting 
policies relating to risk management.
2016 2015
Assets  
£ million
Liabilities  
£ million
Assets  
£ million
Liabilities  
£ million
Current:
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash ﬂow hedge 1 (2) 1 (1)
Non-current:
Interest rate swaps – cash ﬂow hedge – (5) – (6)
1 (7) 1 (7)
Net fair values of derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The net fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are designated as cash ﬂow hedges at the balance sheet date was:
2016  
£ million
2015  
£ million
Interest rate swaps (5) (6)
Forward foreign currency contracts (1) –
(6) (6)
The net fair value gains at 31 December 2016 on open forward exchange contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk of future 
anticipated revenues are £nil (2015: £nil) and that hedge the foreign currency risk of future anticipated expenditure are losses of £1 million 
(2015: £nil). These will be allocated to expenditure when the forecast expenditure occurs. The net fair value liabilities at 31 December 2016 
on open interest swaps that hedge interest risk are £5 million (2015: liabilities of £6 million). These will be debited to the income statement 
ﬁnance cost over the remaining life of each interest rate swap.
Hedge of net investment in foreign entity
The Group has designated as a hedge of the net investment in its overseas subsidiaries foreign currency denominated borrowings 
as detailed in the table below. The fair value of these borrowings were as follows:
2016  
£ million
2015  
£ million
US Dollar 491 440
Canadian Dollars 42 25
New Zealand Dollars – 2
Euro 26 –
Singapore Dollars – 6
Russian Roubles 40 9
A foreign exchange loss of £117 million (2015: loss of £18 million) on translation of the borrowings into Sterling has been recognised 
in exchange reserves.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 164 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
30.A4 Financial instruments continued
(iv) The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings reprice is as follows: 
As at 31 December 2016
<1 year  
£ million
1-5 years  
£ million
>5 years  
£ million
Total  
£ million
Total borrowings 60 552 81 693
Effect of interest rate swaps and other ﬁxed rate debt – (304) (81) (385)
60 248 – 308
As at 31 December 2015
<1 year  
£ million
1-5 years  
£ million
>5 years  
£ million
Total  
£ million
Total borrowings 31 321 185 537
Effect of interest rate swaps and other ﬁxed rate debt – (136) (185) (321)
31 185 – 216
As at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, all of the Group’s ﬂoating debt was exposed to repricing within three months of the 
balance sheet date. The Group’s interest rate swap portfolio is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure it is consistent with Group policy 
as described on page 137.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:
2016 2015
Bank overdrafts 8.2% 7.5%
Bank borrowings 3.1% 2.1%
Private placement 4.2% 4.2%
Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities
The table below analyses the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities and net-settled derivative ﬁnancial liabilities into the relevant maturity groupings 
based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the 
contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows.
As at 31 December 2016
<1 year 
£ million
1-2 years 
£ million
2-5 years 
£ million
>5 years 
£ million
Borrowings 61 100 485 103
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 2– 5–
Trade and other payables 90–––
153 100 490 103
As at 31 December 2015
<1 year 
£ million
1-2 years 
£ million
2-5 years 
£ million
>5 years 
£ million
Borrowings 33 – 330 234
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 1– 6–
Trade and other payables 76–––
110 – 336 234
No trade payable balances have a contractual maturity greater than 90 days.
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 165 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
30.A4 Financial instruments continued
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments settled on a gross basis
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative ﬁnancial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in 
the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows.
As at 31 December 2016
<1 year
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash ﬂow hedges
Outﬂow (123)
Inﬂow 122
(1)
As at 31 December 2015
<1 year
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash ﬂow hedges
Outﬂow (91)
Inﬂow 91
–
All of the Group’s forward foreign currency exchange contracts are due to be settled within one year of the balance sheet date.
30.A5 Pensions
Overseas
Pension arrangements for overseas employees vary, and schemes reﬂect best practice and regulation in each particular country.  
The charge against proﬁt is the amount of contributions payable to the deﬁned contribution pension schemes in respect of the 
accounting period. The pension cost attributable to overseas employees for 2016 was £6 million (2015: £8 million).
United Kingdom
The Group operates pension schemes for UK employees. The Aggreko plc Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) is a funded, contributory,  
deﬁned beneﬁt scheme. Assets are held separately from those of the Group under the control of the Directors of Aggreko Pension 
Scheme Trustee Limited. The Scheme is subject to valuations at intervals of not more than three years by independent actuaries.
The Trustee of the Scheme has control over the operation, funding and investment strategy of the Scheme but works closely with 
the Company to agree funding and investment strategy.
A valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2014 using the Attained Age method to determine the level of 
contributions to be made by the Group. The actuaries adopted a valuation basis linked to market conditions at the valuation date. 
Assets were taken at market value. The major actuarial assumptions used were:
Return on investments 3.6% 
Growth in average pay levels 4.8% 
Increase in pensions 3.2%
At the valuation date, the market value of the Scheme’s assets (excluding AVCs) was £92 million which was sufﬁcient to cover 92% 
of the beneﬁts that had accrued to members, after making allowances for future increases in earnings.
As part of the valuation at 31 December 2014, the Company and the trustees agreed upon a Schedule of Contributions and a Recovery 
Plan. Company contributions for beneﬁts building up in the future increased from 35.9% to 41.0% on 1 February 2016. To address the 
Scheme deﬁcit the Company has already made additional contributions of £1.25 million in 2015 and 2016 and plans to make further 
additional contributions of £1.25 million each year until 2022. Employee contributions are 6% of pensionable earnings.
The Group has the right to a refund of any pension surplus at the end of the scheme and as such has not recognised an additional 
liability in accordance with IFRIC 14.
The Scheme closed to all new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002. New employees are given the option to join a deﬁned 
contribution scheme. Contributions of £2 million were paid to the Scheme during the year (2015: £2 million). There are no outstanding 
or prepaid balances at the year end.
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 166 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
30.A5 Pensions continued
An update of the Scheme was carried out by a qualiﬁed independent actuary using the latest available information for the purposes 
of this statement. The major assumptions used in this update by the actuary were:
31 Dec  
2016
31 Dec  
2015
Rate of increase in salaries 5.0% 4.9%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.4% 3.3%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.5% 3.4%
Discount rate 2.7% 3.9%
Inﬂation assumption 3.5% 3.4%
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners (years)
Men 24.2 24.0
Women 26.8 26.7
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners (years)
Men 26.8 26.7
Women 29.5 29.4
The assets in the Scheme were:
Equities
Value at 
31 Dec  
2016 
£ million
Value at 
31 Dec  
2015 
£ million
Value at 
31 Dec  
2014 
£ million
– UK Equities 9 88
– Overseas Equities 13 12 11
– Diversiﬁed Growth 8 77
– Absolute Return 8 87
Property – –1
Index-linked Bonds 49 37 34
Fixed interest Bonds – –5
Bonds 18 17 16
Cash – 12
Total 105 90 91
The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of the Scheme are as follows:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
2014 
£ million
Fair value of assets 105 90 91
Present value of funded obligations (135) (92) (98)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (30) (2) (7)
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 167 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
30.A5 Pensions continued
Movement in deﬁned beneﬁt liability during the year:
Deﬁned  
beneﬁt obligation
Fair value of 
Scheme assets 
Net deﬁned  
beneﬁt liability
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Balance at 1 January (92) (98) 90 91 (2) (7)
Included in income statement
Service cost (2) (2) – – (2) (2)
Interest cost (4) (4) – – (4) (4)
Interest income – – 4 4 4 4
(6) (6) 4 4 (2) (2)
Included in statement of comprehensive income
Remeasurements
– Effect of changes in ﬁnancial assumptions (40) 1 – – (40) 1
– Effect of experience adjustments – 6 – – – 6
– Return on plan assets (excluding interest income) – – 11 (3) 11 (3)
(40) 7 11 (3) (29) 4
Other
Employer contributions – – 3 3 3 3
Beneﬁts paid 3 5 (3) (5) – –
3 5 – (2) 3 3
Balance at 31 December (135) (92) 105 90 (30) (2)
The Attained Age method has been used for valuation of the liabilities. Under this method an individual’s attributed beneﬁt for 
valuation purposes related to a particular exit date (e.g. expected date of retirement, leaving service or death) is the beneﬁt described 
under the Scheme, determined using the projected compensation and service that would be used in the calculation of the beneﬁt 
on the expected exit date, multiplied by the ratio of credited service as of the measurement date to credited service as of the expected 
exit date. The beneﬁt obligation is the total present value (assessed using appropriate assumptions) of the individuals’ attributed 
beneﬁts for valuation purposes at the measurement date. The discount rate was derived using a yield curve approach and based 
on Scheme speciﬁc cash ﬂow data from the last formal actuarial valuation to arrive at an appropriate single-equivalent rate.
The fair value of the assets is based on the underlying ‘bid value’ statements issued by the various investment managers. The manager 
statements reﬂect the relevant pricing basis of the units held in the underlying pooled funds.
An alternative method of valuation is the estimated cost of buying out beneﬁts at 31 December 2016 with a suitable insurer. 
This amount represents the amount that would be required to settle the Scheme liabilities at 31 December 2016 rather than the 
Company continuing to fund the ongoing liabilities of the Scheme. The Company estimates the amount required to settle the Scheme’s 
liabilities at 31 December 2016 is around £211 million which gives a Scheme shortfall on a buyout basis of approximately £106 million.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
At 1 January 34 38
Actuarial losses recognised in the year 29 (4)
At 31 December 63 34
The actual return on Scheme assets was a gain of £16 million (2015: £nil).
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 168 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
Notes to the Group accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016
30.A5 Pensions continued
Risks to which the Pension Scheme exposes the Group
There is a risk of asset volatility leading to a deﬁcit in the Scheme. Working with the Company, the Trustee has agreed investment 
derisking triggers which, when certain criteria are met, will decrease corporate bond and ﬁxed interest gilt holdings and increase the 
holding of index linked bonds. Over time, this will result in an investment portfolio which better matches the liabilities of the Scheme 
thereby reducing the risk of asset volatility. However, there remains a signiﬁcant level of investment mismatch in the Scheme. This is 
deliberate and is aimed at maximising the Scheme’s long-term investment return whilst retaining adequate control of the funding risks.
Through the Scheme, the Group is exposed to a number of other risks:
 • Changes in bond yields – a decrease in corporate bond yields will increase Scheme liabilities.
 • Inﬂation risk – pension obligations are linked to inﬂation and higher inﬂation will lead to higher liabilities.
 • Life expectancy – an increase in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Scheme liabilities.
The measurement of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is particularly sensitive to changes in key assumptions as described below: 
 • The discount rate has been selected following actuarial advice and taking into account the duration of the liabilities. A decrease 
in the discount rate of 0.5% per annum would result in a £21 million increase in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation. 
The weighted average duration of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation liabilities is around 28 years. 
 • The inﬂation assumption adopted is consistent with the discount rate used. It is used to set the assumptions for pension increases, 
salary increases and deferred revaluations. An increase in the inﬂation rate of 0.5% per annum would result in a £20 million increase 
in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation. 
 • The longevity assumptions adopted are based on those recommended by the Scheme Actuary advising the Trustee of the 
Scheme and reﬂect the most recent mortality information available at the time of the Trustee actuarial valuation. The increase 
in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation due to members living one year longer would be £5 million.
There is a risk that changes in the above assumptions could increase the deﬁcit in the Scheme. Other assumptions used to value 
the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are also uncertain, although their effect is less material.
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation by participant status
Actives 57 37
Deferreds 51 35
Pensioners 27 20
135 92
The duration of the liabilities is approximately 29 years.
Expected cash ﬂows in future years
Expected employer contributions for the year ended 31 December 2017 are £3 million. Expected total beneﬁt payments: 
approximately £4 million per year for the next 10 years. 169 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Company balance sheet (Company number: SC177553)
As at 31 December 2016
Notes
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Fixed assets
Property, plant and equipment 35 12 7
Investments 36 683 684
695 691
Current assets
Other receivables 37 921 610
Cash and cash equivalents 33 5
Deferred tax asset 41 7 2
Current tax asset 10 14
971 631
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 38 (10) (3)
Other payables 39 (501) (351)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (1) –
Provisions 40 – (1)
Net current assets 459 276
Total assets less current liabilities 1,154 967
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Borrowings 38 (633) (506)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (5) (6)
Retirement beneﬁt obligation 30.A5 (30) (2)
Net assets 486 453
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 42 42 42
Share premium 20 20
Treasury shares (14) (9)
Capital redemption reserve 13 13
Hedging reserve (3) (4)
Retained earnings 428 391
Total Shareholders’ equity 486 453
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 169 to 175 were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
 
K Hanna C Cran
Chairman Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 170 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
2016  
£ million
2015  
£ million
Proﬁt for the year 125 89
Other comprehensive (loss)/income
Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss
– Remeasurement of retirement beneﬁts (29) 4
– Taxation on remeasurement of retirement beneﬁts 5 (1)
Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss
– Cash ﬂow hedges (net of tax) 1 1
– Taxation on cash ﬂow hedges – –
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (net of tax) (23) 4
Total comprehensive income for the year 102 93
Company statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2016 171 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2016
As at 31 December 2016
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Ordinary 
Share 
capital  
£ million
Share 
premium 
account  
£ million
Treasury 
shares  
£ million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£ million
Hedging 
reserve  
£ million
Retained 
earnings  
£ million
Total  
equity  
£ million
Balance at 1 January 2016 42 20 (9) 13 (4) 391 453
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – 125 125
Other comprehensive (loss)/income: 
Fair value gains on interest rate swaps – – – –1 –1
Remeasurement of retirement beneﬁts  
(net of tax) – – – – – (24) (24)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 – – – – 1 101 102
Transactions with owners: 
Purchase of Treasury Shares – – (8) – – – (8)
Employee share awards ––– –– 8 8
Issue of Ordinary Shares to employees under 
share option schemes – – 3 – – (3) –
Dividends paid during 2016 – – – – – (69) (69)
– – (5) – – (64) (69)
Balance at 31 December 2016 42 20 (14) 13 (3) 428 486
As at 31 December 2015
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Ordinary 
Share 
capital  
£ million
Share 
premium 
account  
£ million
Treasury 
shares  
£ million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£ million
Hedging 
reserve  
£ million
Retained 
earnings  
£ million
Total  
equity  
£ million
Balance at 1 January 2015 42 20 (14) 13 (5) 364 420
Proﬁt for the year ––– –– 89 89
Other comprehensive (loss)/income: 
Fair value gains on interest rate swaps – – – –1 –1
Remeasurement of retirement beneﬁts  
(net of tax) ––– –– 3 3
Total comprehensive income for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 – – – – 1 92 93
Transactions with owners: 
Employee share awards ––– –– 8 8
Issue of Ordinary Shares to employees under 
share option schemes – – 5 – – (3) 2
Return of capital to Shareholders – – – – – (1) (1)
Dividends paid during 2015 – – – – – (69) (69)
– – 5 – – (65) (60)
Balance at 31 December 2015 42 20 (9) 13 (4) 391 453
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Notes to the Company accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016
31 COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES
31.1 Basis of preparation
These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ (FRS 101). The ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention, as modiﬁed by 
the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (including 
derivative instruments) at fair values in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with  
FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. 
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in 
the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have 
been applied in the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements, 
in accordance with FRS 101:
 • Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’ 
(details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices 
of share options, and how the fair value of goods or services 
received was determined)
 • IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
 • Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ 
(disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value 
measurement of assets and liabilities)
 • Paragraph 38 of lAS 1, ‘Presentation of ﬁnancial statements’ 
comparative information requirements in respect of:
 – Paragraph 79(a)(iv) of lAS 1;
 – Paragraph 73(e) of lAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’
 – Paragraph 188(e) of lAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’ (reconciliations 
between the carrying amount at the beginning and end of 
the period)
 • The following paragraphs of lAS 1, ‘Presentation of 
ﬁnancial statements’:
 – 10(d) (statement of cash ﬂows)
 – 10(f)(a) (statement of ﬁnancial position as at the beginning  
of the preceding period)
 – 16 (statement of compliance with all IFRS)
 – 38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements, 
including cash ﬂow statements)
 – 38B-D (additional comparative information) 
 – 40A-D (requirements for a third statement 
of ﬁnancial position)
 – 111 (cash ﬂow statement information), and
 – 134-136 (capital management disclosures)
 • lAS 7, ‘Statement of cash ﬂows’
 • Paragraph 30 and 31 of lAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes 
in accounting estimates and errors’ (requirements for the 
disclosure of information when an entity has not applied  
a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective)
 • Paragraph 17 of lAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ 
(key management compensation)
 • The requirements in lAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ 
to disclose related party transactions entered into 
between two or more members of a group.
31.1.1 Going concern
Given the going concern disclosures in the Group Accounts 
on page 132, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these 
ﬁnancial statements.
31.1.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
New and amended standards adopted by the Company
There are no new standards that are effective for the ﬁrst time 
this year that have a material impact on the Company.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes purchase 
price, and directly attributable costs of bringing the assets 
into the location and condition where it is capable for use. 
Borrowings costs are not capitalised.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line 
basis at annual rates estimated to write off the cost of each asset 
over its useful life from the date it is available for use. The principal 
period of depreciation used is as follows:
Vehicles, plant and equipment 4 to 8 years.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated and reviewed 
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value 
less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is calculated 
using estimated cash ﬂows. These are discounted using an 
appropriate long-term pre-tax interest rate. For the purposes 
of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows 
(income-generating units).
172 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION 31 COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
Foreign currencies
At individual Company level, transactions denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rate of exchange on the day the 
transaction occurs. At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary 
assets are translated at the historical rate. In order to hedge its 
exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Company enters 
into forward foreign exchange contracts. The Company’s ﬁnancial 
statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Company’s 
functional currency.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The accounting policy is identical to that applied by the 
consolidated Group as set out on page 158.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction 
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost. Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction 
costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest rate.
Taxation
The tax expense for the period comprises current and 
deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in Shareholders’ funds. 
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in Shareholders’ funds, respectively. 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of 
the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date in the countries where the Company operates and 
generates taxable income. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. 
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the ﬁnancial statements. However, 
deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the 
initial recognition of goodwill; or arise from initial recognition 
of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss. Deferred income tax is 
determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset 
is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income 
tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or 
different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle 
the balances on a net basis.
Employee beneﬁts
The Company operates both a deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme 
and a deﬁned contribution pension scheme. The accounting 
policy is identical to that applied by the consolidated Group 
as set out on page 135.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance 
sheet of the Company at cost, or nominal value of the shares 
issued as consideration where applicable, less provision for 
any impairment in value. Share-based payments recharged 
to subsidiary undertakings are treated as capital contributions 
and are added to investments.
Leases
Leases where substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are not transferred to the Company are classiﬁed 
as operating leases. Rentals under operating leases are 
charged against operating proﬁt on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the lease.
Share-based payments
The accounting policy is identical to that applied by the 
consolidated Group as set out on page 158 with the exception 
that shares issued by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries 
for which no consideration is received are treated as an increase in 
the Company’s investment in those subsidiaries.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s Shareholders is recognised  
as a liability in the Company’s ﬁnancial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Shareholders.
32 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 
AND ASSUMPTIONS 
Taxation
This is explained in Note 1 to the Group Accounts on page 136.
33 DIVIDENDS
Refer to Note 11 of the Group Accounts.
173 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information 174 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION
34 AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
2016 
£000
2015 
£000
Fees payable to the Company’s  
auditor for the audit of the Company’s 
annual accounts 224 283
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor 
and its associates for other services:
 – Other assurance related services 72 36
 – Other (Note (ii)) 230 –
(i) In the year ended 31 December 2016, KPMG LLP replaced PricewaterhouseCoopers 
as Company Auditors, therefore the 2016 fees above relate to KPMG LLP and the 
2015 fees relate to PricewaterhouseCoopers.
(ii) Other relates to Investor Relation Services (this work has stopped from 
1 January 2017).
35 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Total 
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 2016 12
Additions 7
At 31 December 2016 19
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2016 5
Charge for the year 2
At 31 December 2016 7
Net book values:
At 31 December 2016 12
At 31 December 2015 7
The property, plant and equipment of the Company comprise 
vehicles, plant and equipment.
36 INVESTMENTS
£ million
Cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings:
At 1 January 2016 684
Net impact of share-based payments (1)
At 31 December 2016 683
Details of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings are set out in 
Note 28 to the Group Accounts. The Directors believe that the 
carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying 
net assets.
37 OTHER RECEIVABLES
2016  
£ million
2015  
£ million
Amounts due from subsidiary 
undertakings 917 608
Other receivables 4 2
921 610
38 BORROWINGS
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Non-current
Bank borrowings 329 253
Private placement notes 304 253
633 506
Current
Bank overdrafts – 2
Bank borrowings 10 1
10 3
Total borrowings 643 509
The bank overdrafts and borrowings are all unsecured.
(i) Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities
The maturity proﬁle of the borrowings was as follows:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Within 1 year, or on demand 10 3
Between 1 and 2 years 97 –
Between 2 and 3 years 150 195
Between 3 and 4 years 127 70
Between 4 and 5 years 178 56
Greater than 5 years 81 185
643 509
(ii) Borrowing facilities
The Company has the following undrawn committed ﬂoating rate 
borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2016 in respect of 
which all conditions precedent had been met at that date:
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Expiring within 1 year – 30
Expiring between 1 and 2 years 178 –
Expiring between 2 and 3 years 1 117
Expiring between 3 and 4 years 189 78
Expiring between 4 and 5 years 34 160
Expiring after 5 years – –
402 385
39 OTHER PAYABLES
2016 
£ million
2015 
£ million
Amounts owed to subsidiary 
undertakings 491 343
Accruals and deferred income 10 8
501 351
Notes to the Company accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2016 175 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
40 PROVISIONS
Reorganisation  
£ million
At 1 January 2016 1
Utilised (1)
At 31 December 2016 –
41 DEFERRED TAX
2016  
£ million
2015  
£ million
At 1 January 2 3
Credit/(debit) to statement of comprehensive income 5 (1)
At 31 December 7 2
Deferred tax is provided in the accounts as follows:
Deferred tax assets
Other 
timing 
differences 
£ million
Derivative 
ﬁnancial 
liabilities 
£ million
Relating to 
retirement 
beneﬁt 
obligation 
£ million
Total 
£ million
At 1 January 2015 –2 1 3
Deferred tax debit in statement of comprehensive income – – (1) (1)
At 1 January 2016 –2 –2
Deferred tax credit in statement of comprehensive income – –55
At 31 December 2016 –2 5 7
The net deferred tax asset due after more than one year is £7 million (2015: asset of £2 million).
Changes to the UK corporation tax rates were substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2015 (on 26 October 2015) and 
Finance Bill 2016 (on 7 September 2016). These include reductions to the main rate to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 
to 17% from 1 April 2020. Deferred taxes at the balance sheet date have been measured using these enacted tax rates and reﬂected 
in these ﬁnancial statements.
42 SHARE CAPITAL
Refer to Note 23 of the Group Accounts.
43 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own income statement and related notes. 
The proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year of the Company was £125 million (2015: £89 million).
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Shareholder information
Financial calendar
20 April 2017 Ex-dividend date – Final dividend
21 April 2017 Record date to be eligible for the ﬁnal dividend
27 April 2017 Annual General Meeting
27 April 2017 Q1 Trading Update for the year to 31 December 2017
24 May 2017 Final dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2016
2 August 2017 Half Year Results announcement for the year to 31 December 2017
early September 2017 Ex-dividend date – Interim dividend
early September 2017 Record date to be eligible for the interim dividend
late September/early October 2017 Interim dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2017
mid November 2017 Q3 Trading Update for the year to 31 December 2017
OUR WEBSITE
Our corporate website provides access to share price and 
dividend information as well as sections on managing your 
shareholding online, corporate governance and other investor 
relations information. To access the website, please visit  
ir.aggreko.com/investors
MANAGING YOUR SHARES ONLINE
Shareholders can manage their holding online by registering 
to use our Shareholder portal at https://shares.aggreko.com. 
This service is provided by our Registrar, Capita, giving quick and 
easy access to your shareholding, allowing you to manage all 
aspects of your shareholding online, with a useful FAQ section.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
We encourage Shareholders to consider receiving their 
communications electronically. Choosing to receive your 
communications electronically means you receive information 
quickly and securely and allows us to communicate in a more 
environmentally friendly and cost-effective way. You can 
register for this service online using our share portal at  
https://shares.aggreko.com.
PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS
Shareholders whose dividends are not currently paid directly into 
their bank accounts may wish to consider setting this service up. 
We encourage Shareholders to have dividends paid direct to their 
bank accounts as this has a number of advantages, including 
ensuring efﬁcient payment to receive cleared funds on the 
payment date. 
If Shareholders would like to receive their dividends directly 
to their bank account, they should call the Registrar, Capita, 
using the details opposite. 
UK Shareholders may also register using the share portal at 
https://shares.aggreko.com. 
Overseas Shareholders may also be able to have the 
dividend converted to local currency before payment to 
your bank account using the international payment service. 
Please call the Registrar, Capita, using the details opposite, 
or visit www.capitaregistrars.com/international.
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
Our Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) is available for 
eligible Shareholders. This allows Shareholders to purchase 
additional shares in Aggreko with their dividend payment. 
Further information and a mandate can be obtained from our 
Registrars, Capita, using the contact details opposite, or by using 
the share portal at https://shares.aggreko.com.
DUPLICATE DOCUMENTS
Some Shareholders ﬁnd that they receive duplicate 
documentation and split dividend payments due to having more 
than one account on the share register. If you think you fall into this 
group and would like to combine your accounts, please contact 
our Registrar, Capita.
CHANGES OF ADDRESS
To avoid missing important correspondence relating to your 
shareholding, it is important that you inform our Registrar, 
Capita, of your new address as soon as possible.
SHAREGIFT
If you have a very small shareholding that is uneconomical 
to sell, you may want to consider donating it to Sharegift 
(Registered Charity no.10526886), a charity that specialises in 
the donation of small, unwanted shareholdings to good causes. 
You can ﬁnd out more by visiting www.sharegift.org or by calling 
+44 (0) 207 930 3737.
SHAREHOLDER QUERIES
Our share register is maintained by our Registrar, Capita. 
Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should 
contact Capita directly using one of the methods listed opposite. 
For more general queries, Shareholders can look at our website at 
ir.aggreko.com/investors
176 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION USEFUL CONTACTS
Registrar
Capita Asset Services, Shareholder Solutions
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
United Kingdom
Telephone 0371 664 0300
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and 
will vary by provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom 
are charged at the applicable international rate. 
Lines are open between 9.00am – 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday 
excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Website www.capitaregistrars.com
Email ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Stockbrokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch – London
Citigroup Global Markets – London
Auditors 
KPMG – Glasgow
Chartered Accountants
Aggreko’s registered ofﬁce
8th Floor, 120 Bothwell Street
Glasgow G2 7JS
Scotland, United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0) 141 225 5900
Email investors@aggreko.com
Registered in Scotland No. SC177553
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary
Peter Kennerley
Additional documents
The Annual Report is available for download in pdf format at 
ir.aggreko.com/investors
Unsolicited mail and Shareholder fraud
Shareholders are advised to be wary of unsolicited mail or 
telephone calls offering free advice, to buy shares at a discount or 
offering free company reports. To ﬁnd more detailed information 
on how Shareholders can be protected from investment scams 
visit www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams/investment-scams/ 
share-fraud-and-boiler-room-scams.
177 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Deﬁnition and calculation of non GAAP measures
ADJUSTED RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE)
Deﬁnition:
Calculated by dividing operating proﬁt pre-exceptional items for a period by the average net operating assets at 1 January, 30 June 
and 31 December.
Calculation:
Accounts reference
December 
2016 
£ million
December 
2015 
£ million
Operating proﬁt pre-exceptional items Income statement 248 275
Average net operating assets
1 January Note 4(h) of 2016 & Note 4(g)  
of 2015 Accounts
1,707 1,690
30 June Refer to Note (a) below 1,991 1,650
31 December Note 4(h) of 2016 & Note 4(g)  
of 2015 Accounts
2,124 1,707
Average (i.e. total of 1 Jan, 30 June and 31 Dec divided by 3) 1,941 1,682
ROCE (operating proﬁt pre-exceptional items  
divided by average operating assets) 13% 16%
Note (a):
Per June 2016 Interim Accounts
Note 5(e)
Assets 2,286 1,976
Liabilities (295) (326)
Net operating assets 1,991 1,650
ADJUSTED EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION (EBITDA)
Calculation:
Accounts reference
December 
2016 
£ million
December 
2015 
£ million
Operating proﬁt pre-exceptional items  
(Earnings Before Interest and Taxation) Income statement 248 275
Depreciation Note 5 281 277
Amortisation Note 5 4 4
EBITDA 533 556
178 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION ADJUSTED INTEREST COVER: EBITDA DIVIDED BY NET FINANCE COSTS
Calculation:
Accounts reference
December 
2016
December 
2015
EBITDA (£ million) Per above 533 556
Net ﬁnance cost (£ million) Income statement 27 23
Interest cover (times) 20 24
ADJUSTED NET DEBT TO EBITDA
Calculation:
Accounts reference
December 
2016
December 
2015
Net debt (£ million) Cash ﬂow statement 649 489
EBITDA (£ million) Per above 533 556
Net debt/EBITDA (times) 1.2 0.9
ADJUSTED DIVIDEND COVER
Deﬁnition:
Basic earnings per share (EPS) pre-exceptional items divided by full year declared dividend.
Calculation:
Accounts reference
December 
2016
December 
2015
Basic EPS pre-exceptional items (pence) Income statement 61.98 71.73
Full year declared dividend
Interim dividend (pence) Note 11 9.38 9.38
Final dividend (pence) Note 11 17.74 17.74
27.12 27.12
Dividend cover (times) 2.3 2.6
179 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Financial summary
1 The Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 17.74 pence per Ordinary Share, which, when added to the interim dividend of 9.38 pence,  
gives a total for the year of 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share.
2 Adjusted excludes exceptional items in 2016, 2015 and 2012.
1,515
1,577
1,573
1,583
Revenue £m
16
15
14
13
12
1,561
248
310
358
385
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt
2
 £m
16
15
14
13
12
275
16
20
23
24
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt Margin
2
 %
16
15
14
13
12
18
27.12
27.12
26.30
23.91
Dividend per Share
1
 Pence
16
15
14
13
12
27.12
221
289
333
360
Adjusted Proﬁt Before Tax
2
 £m
16
15
14
13
12
252
61.95
82.49
92.03
100.40
Adjusted Diluted EPS
2
 Pence
16
15
14
13
12
71.68
6,090
6,112
5,749
5,316
Average Number of Employees
16
15
14
13
12
6,433
2,124
1,690
1,598
1,708
Net Operating Assets £m
16
15
14
13
12
1,707
13
19
21
24
Adjusted Return on 
Average Capital Employed
2
 %
16
15
14
13
12
16
263
251
228
440
Capital Expenditure £m
16
15
14
13
12
254
649
494
363
593
Net Debt £m
16
15
14
13
12
489
1,368
1,078
1,140
1,045
Shareholders’ Funds £m
16
15
14
13
12
1,115
180 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION Glossary
CEO
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer.
CFO
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer.
CFM
Cubic feet per minute. A unit of 
volumetric capacity.
CO
2
Carbon dioxide.
Diluted earnings per share
Proﬁt after tax divided by the diluted 
weighted average number of Ordinary 
Shares ranking for dividend during the 
relevant period, i.e. including the impact 
of share options.
EPA
Environmental Protection Agency.
GHG
Greenhouse gas emissions.
g/kWh
Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
HFO
Heavy fuel oil.
kVA
A thousand volt amperes.
Load shedding
Load shedding is an intentional power 
shutdown, where electricity is stopped 
for a period of time over different parts 
of the distribution region. They are 
a last-resort measure to avoid a total 
blackout of the power system and are 
a demand response where the demand 
for electricity exceeds the supply capability 
of the network.
LWA
Sound power level at source.
Market potential  
estimation calculation
1.  In a market (say, oil-reﬁning in the US) 
in which we are well-established and 
have high market share, calculate 
our rental revenues (a known number) 
in the sector as a proportion of the 
total economic output of oil reﬁneries 
in the US (another known number). 
This produces a very small number, 
like 0.00001.
2.  Make the assumption that if we can 
achieve, say, 0.00001 of the economic 
output of reﬁneries in the US as revenues, 
we should, in theory, be able to achieve 
the same in oil reﬁneries everywhere else. 
Therefore if we take the total economic 
output of oil reﬁneries in, say China, 
and then apply the same multiple to 
that which we achieve in the US, that 
tells us how big the potential market is. 
3.  Take this same technique, and 
apply it to about 20 segments in 
around 30 countries, and we have 
an estimate for the market potential 
and a number for our revenues in 
the sector (an accurate number), 
and therefore an estimate of 
our share of ‘market potential’.
MW
Megawatt – a million watts of electricity.
NOx
Oxides of nitrogen.
On-hire & Off-hire
When a contract is put out on rent, the 
equipment is referred to as on-hire. When  
a contract comes off rent, the equipment 
is referred to as off-hiring. The on and off-
hire rates are calculated as the number 
of MW of equipment that either on or 
off-hire in the period, divided by the MW 
of equipment on-hire at the beginning 
of that period.
Operating proﬁt 
(also known as EBIT)
Proﬁt from operations after gain on sale 
of property, plant and equipment but 
before interest and tax.
Particulate
In general this term relates to visible smoke.
Power Solutions business
The part of our business which operates 
in emerging markets. It has two divisions, 
Utility which handles very large power 
contracts, typically for utilities and Industrial 
which offers solutions from our local service 
centres to industrial customers. 
pp
Percentage points.
Proﬁt after tax
Proﬁt attributable to equity Shareholders.
Rental Solutions business
The part of our business operating in 
North America, Europe and Australasia, 
looking after customers local to our 
service centres. 
tCO
2
e
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
Temperature control
The temperature control ﬂeet includes 
chillers, air conditioners, cooling towers, 
boilers, heat exchangers, heaters, 
and the required ancillary products. 
It provides HVAC and moisture control 
equipment that helps customers 
minimise losses, manage risks and capture 
windows of economic opportunity. 
Applications include seasonal limitations 
or catastrophic failure of critical cooling 
equipment, planned and unplanned 
maintenance, process improvements, 
and temporary structures.
Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4
US Federal Government target emission 
reduction levels.
181 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Notes
182 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION 183 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Governance Accounts & other information Notes
184 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION Design and production Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com
Board photography George Brooks
Print Park Communications on FSC
®
 certiﬁed paper. Park is an EMAS certiﬁed company and its Environmental Management System 
is certiﬁed to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, 
on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Galerie Satin, a paper containing 15% recycled ﬁbre and 85% virgin ﬁbre sourced from well managed, 
responsible, FSC
®
 certiﬁed forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. AGGREKO PLC
FIND OUT MORE
Visit our website to ﬁnd out more about Aggreko
www.aggreko.com/about-us
