 CREATING 
VALUE  
BY PUTTING  
CUSTOMERS 
FIRST 
AIR PARTNER PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report 
Performance highlights 1
Group at a glance 2
Chairman’s statement 4
Chief Executive’s review 8
Financial review 16
Market overview 17
Business model 22
Strategic initiatives 23
Key performance indicators 26
Resources and relationships 30
Principal risks and uncertainties 32
Corporate governance 
Corporate governance statement 35
– Chairman’s introduction 35
– Compliance statements 35
–  Compliance with the Code 
Application of the Main Principles of the Code 37
– Leadership 38
– Board of directors 40
– Senior management 41
– Effectiveness 42
– Nomination Committee report 43
– Accountability  44
– Audit and Risk Committee report 45
– Relations with shareholders 48
Directors’ remuneration report 49
–  Annual statement by the Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee 49
– Remuneration policy report 53
– Annual report on remuneration 63
Directors’ report 70
Directors’ responsibility statement 73
Financial statements 
Independent auditor’s report 74
Financial statements 81
Notes to the financial statements 87
Air Partner Performance highlights
Group highlights:
After successful trials, our Customer First 
programme has been rolled out across the 
global broking business
Acquisition of Cabot Aviation Services Limited, 
a leading aircraft remarketing company, 
announced in May 2015 for a net consideration 
of up to £0.8m
Acquisition of Baines Simmons Limited, 
a world leader in aviation safety consulting, 
announced in August 2015 for a net 
consideration of up to £5.3m
Dividend policy announced, targeting cover 
between 1.5 and 2.0 times
Financial highlights:
Underlying PBT of £4.3m, an increase of 64%
Underlying EPS of 29.7p, an increase of 7%
Statutory PBT up 20% to £3.2m
Group cash, excluding JetCard deposits, 
at £3.0m (£4.7m) following acquisitions 
(£2.3m net) and working capital movements
Net debt, excluding JetCard cash, of £0.5m 
equivalent to 0.1 times EBITDA
§
Proposed final dividend of 16.9p up 10%, 
taking the total for the year to 24.3p
Air Partner is a global aviation services group 
listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Founded in 1961, the Group provides aviation 
solutions to all kinds of organisations and 
individuals anywhere in the world to fulfil 
all types of customer need on a 24/7 basis. 
Our team of knowledgeable aviation experts 
is focused on delivering exceptional customer 
experience and innovative solutions, consistently 
and proactively . 
By putting customers first, combined with a 
unique range of services, Air Partner is able 
to create, develop and sustain a large and 
diversified portfolio of customers.
This builds brand reputation, profitable sales, 
business growth and delivers long term value 
to our customers, employees and shareholders.
Throughout this Annual Report “Air Partner”, “the Company”,  
“the Group” is used to describe Air Partner plc.
Year ended
31 January 
2016 
(audited)
Year ended
31 January 
2015* 
(unaudited) %
Gross transaction value* £210.8m £192.1m 9.7%
Gross profit £27.3m £22.0m 23.8%
Underlying profit before tax
†
£4.3m £2.6m 63.7%
Statutory profit before tax £3.2m £2.6m 20.0%
Cash
#
£19.8m £18.8m 5.3%
Underlying basic EPS (p)
†
29.7p 27.7p 7.2%
Basic continuing EPS 19.1p 27.8p (31.0%)
Final dividend (p) 16.9p 15.4p 10.0%
§ 
EBITDA is calculated as underlying profit before tax, adjusted for depreciation, amortisation and amortisation on acquisition-related intangible assets.
*
 
following the change in revenue recognition (see note 2 on page 89), gross transaction value, as opposed to the statutory revenue amount of £49.9m (2015: £37.6m), is stated.
† 
“underlying” excludes other items (see note 7 on page 98) and discontinued operations.
# 
includes JetCard cash of £16.8m (2015: £14.1m), of which £2.8m held on a customer account (2015: £1.8m).  2 3
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Commercial Jets
Charter of large aircraft 
for 20+ people for 
governments, corporates, 
sports and entertainment 
teams, industrial, 
manufacturing customers 
and tour operators
In the world of commercial 
airline charter, success depends 
on experience, expertise and a 
reputation built over decades. 
Air Partner’s Commercial Jets team 
offers logistical excellence, value 
for money and dependability.
Over the last five decades, Air 
Partner has devised and executed 
many of the most complex flights 
in civil aviation, but we also 
complete hundreds of routine 
and individually tailored charter 
flights every week.
Our Emergency Planning Division 
plans, manages and executes 
air evacuations worldwide 
for governments, corporates, 
energy companies and charities. 
The in-house Travel Management 
Agency offers a complete 
aviation solution.
As part of one of the world’s 
largest suppliers of aircraft 
charter, our Private Jets team 
has the experience, relationships 
and aviation expertise to tailor 
solutions to meet our customers’ 
exacting needs. Offering the 
entire spectrum of private 
aviation products and services 
makes us the natural partner 
for our customers, whether for 
occasional private jet charter, 
regular trips, or for pre-purchase 
simplicity and flexibility 
with our unique and highly 
successful JetCard.
A dedicated team of account 
managers is on call around the 
clock, ready to respond to any 
change in requirements and 
ensure the experience is always 
at the highest level of comfort 
and security for our customers.
Air Partner’s Freight team 
delivers bespoke air freight 
solutions to meet the most 
demanding schedules, reliably 
and at the best possible rates. 
Air cargo charter places our 
customers in control of their 
shipments, timings and security. 
Air Partner provides an aircraft 
for every need – from a light 
cabin Learjet to the giant 
Antonov 225 freighter.
Air Partner has instant access 
to the latest data on aircraft 
capability, availability and airfield 
infrastructure, even in remote 
areas. Combining this with up-to-
the-minute information and our 
years of in-house expertise, we 
plan the task to save customers 
money as well as time.
Cabot Aviation is a leading aircraft 
remarketing specialist working 
with a global spectrum of major 
airlines and the financial services 
sector.
Cabot Aviation acts as an agent 
and broker to airlines and aircraft 
owners, such as banks, lessors, 
manufacturers, insolvency 
practitioners and high net worth 
individuals, to dispose of their 
surplus aircraft by arranging either 
a sale or lease of the aircraft.
Cabot Aviation also advises 
customers on the acquisition 
of aircraft and their fleet 
management process.
Cabot Aviation is represented in 
the UK, Europe, Middle East and 
Africa, Russia and CIS, Americas 
and Asia Pacific.
Baines Simmons is a 
world-leading aviation safety 
consultancy which specialises 
in aviation regulation, compliance 
and safety management and 
which partners with both civil and 
defence aviation organisations to 
improve safety performance.
Through its bespoke consultancy 
programmes and practically 
focused training services, 
Baines Simmons helps to bridge 
gaps of knowledge, competence, 
skills and understanding between 
regulated organisations and 
their employees, and regulatory 
authorities and their inspectors.
Our Outsourcing operation 
is mostly formed around the 
aviation support services which 
we provide to the Isle of Man 
Aircraft Registry.
Private Jets
Charter of small aircraft 
and jets for up to 19 
people, for business 
and leisure by corporates, 
high net worth individuals 
and governments
Freight
Charter of cargo transport 
aircraft and part-charter 
for regular and bespoke 
requirements, including 
emergency aid drops,  
time-critical door-to-door 
freight delivery and  
on-board couriers
Cabot Aviation
A global aircraft  
remarketing service akin  
to second-hand sales, 
covering both commercial 
and private jets
Baines Simmons
A world-leading aviation 
safety consultant, 
specialising in 
regulation, compliance, 
safety management, 
training, consulting 
and outsourcing
Group at a glance  
Why people flew with us
Business meetings
Corporate conventions
Corporate roadshows
Family weekend breaks
Significant life event celebrations 
Government trade missions
Industry conferences/exhibitions
Medical emergencies
Commuting between homes
Attendance or participation  
in sports events
Global cultural, economic and 
political events
Cargo we have flown
Medical and life-saving 
equipment
Disaster relief aid
Critical car manufacturing parts
Large oil and gas equipment
Industrial plant
Livestock
Artwork collections
Stage and musical equipment for 
world pop and rock tours
Orchestral tours
Sporting gear for global events
Aerospace equipment
Skilled remarketing
Commercial jet remarketing
Private jet remarketing
Aircraft acquisition
Wet leasing – ACMI or charter
Aviation consultancy
Aircraft technical services
Portfolio management
World-leading safety advice
Safety risk management 
performance
Compliance monitoring and 
auditing
Global military error management 
systems
Defence and civil training 
academies
Continuing airworthiness 
management
Active safety leadership
Safety culture
Just culture
Competence assessment
Aircraft registries
Investigation services
Reasons for chartering
Product launches
Football teams attending 
matches
Senior executive meetings
Air evacuations worldwide
Global sporting and social events
Company incentive trips
Leisure tour operations
Group musical events
Flying high to view comets and 
polar lights
Wedding parties
Air Partner provides aviation services 
and solutions in air charter , specialist 
travel management, crisis and emergency 
planning, aircraft remarketing and aviation 
safety consultancy .
Our customers range from industry , commerce 
and governments to private individuals.
Our team of 260 aviation professionals deliver 
our services across the globe, through our 
presence in 20 key locations and especially  
in our key markets in Europe, North America,  
the Middle East and Asia.
We operate a full 24-hour flight operations 
centre, ensuring our customers have instant 
access to our services, wherever they are in the 
world and whatever the time.
Organisationally we offer five services: 
Commercial Jets, Private Jets, Freight, 
Cabot Aviation (aircraft remarketing) and 
Baines Simmons (aviation safety consultancy). 
This section provides a detailed description 
of each division.
Case studies which illustrate how we put 
our customers first, delivering complex and 
comprehensive solutions through exceptional 
customer service, in each of these divisions, 
can be found on the following pages:
Commercial Jets, pages 6 and 7
Private Jets, pages 14 and 15
Freight, pages 20 and 21
Cabot Aviation, pages 24 and 25
Baines Simmons, pages 28 and 29 4 5
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Chairman’ s statement  
Strong full year results
The Board is pleased to report a strong performance for the year 
ended 31 January 2016. Gross profit rose by 24% to £27.3m 
while underlying operating profit and underlying profit before 
tax increased by 67% and 64% respectively, reflecting the 
Group’s strong trading performance. Reported pre-tax profit rose 
by 20% to £3.2m after a charge of £1.1m relating to acquisitions 
and restructuring costs. Basic continuing EPS, however, fell by 
31% due to the non-recurrence of the prior year tax credit.
The strong underlying performance resulted from improved 
trading across all our broking operations with outstanding 
performances in Private Jets, which increased its underlying 
operating profit by over 200% to £2.4m (2015: £0.8m), and 
Freight, which doubled its underlying operating profit to £0.8m 
(2015: £0.4m). Commercial Jets, our largest division, delivered 
a 10% increase in underlying operating profit to £3.0m (2015: 
£2.7m). Baines Simmons, for the period of ownership, incurred 
a small loss as a result of the disruption caused by the sale 
process and the costs associated with the change in ownership.
The Group’s underlying basic earnings per share has increased 
by 7% to 29.7p. This is lower than the increase in underlying 
pre-tax profits, reflecting the non-recurrence of last year’s tax 
credits coupled with a non-recurring US tax item. Excluding 
this, underlying basic earnings per share would have been 33.1p. 
The reduction in non-JetCard cash of £1.7m to £3.0m was 
driven by a positive inflow from operating items offset by 
£2.3m being utilised for the acquisition of Baines Simmons 
and Cabot Aviation, £2.3m relating to dividends and £0.3m 
negative working capital due to an increase in receivables from 
our larger credit customers. Taking into account the £3.6m 
bank loan associated with the acquisition of Baines Simmons, 
our year end net debt was £0.5m, excluding JetCard cash, 
equivalent to 0.1 times EBITDA. 
A clear strategy 
We have made good progress against our clear strategy 
to build a world-class aviation services group which delivers 
tailored and comprehensive aviation solutions to our global 
customers. We are achieving this organically through 
continuous operational improvement, optimisation of existing 
resources and enhancement of our capabilities and services. 
Where appropriate, we will acquire complementary capabilities 
and services that either add to or enhance our customer offer, 
enabling us to leverage our existing global office network and 
enhance the quality and visibility of our earnings.
Our Customer First programme is a clear commitment to 
continuous organic improvement and optimisation. Customer 
First unequivocally puts our customers at the heart of every 
decision that we make and, with improved services and 
efficiencies, it will enable us to differentiate our offer and build 
upon our already strong brand identity. Following successful 
trials which began in September 2015, the programme, which 
involves a new way of working, was rolled out across the entire 
broking business at the beginning of the new financial year. We 
plan to roll out Customer First across the entire Group in 2016.
Over the course of the financial year, we acquired two 
businesses with excellent reputations in their respective 
markets, which have enhanced and extended our capabilities 
and services. In May 2015, Air Partner acquired Cabot 
Aviation, a leading global aircraft remarketing broker, 
for a total net consideration of up to £0.8m. In August 2015, 
Baines Simmons, a world-leading aviation safety consultant, 
was acquired for an initial net cash consideration of up 
to £5.3m, and up to a further £0.6m based on operating 
performance in the year ending 31 January 2018. We are very 
pleased with customer responses and we are confident that 
both businesses will thrive as part of our Group in the years 
ahead as we integrate and invest for growth.
Dividend policy
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 16.9p, a year-on-
year increase of 10%, taking the full year dividend to 24.3p 
which is also a year-on-year increase of 10% and which is 
equivalent to a 1.4 times dividend cover on adjusted underlying 
EPS. Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 
29 June 2016, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 6 July 
2016 to those shareholders registered at close of business on 
10 June 2016. The ex-dividend date will be 9 June 2016.
Since moving to a main market listing in November 1995  
and following payment of the proposed final dividend, we 
will have returned over £44m of cash to shareholders in the 
form of ordinary and special dividends. Then, Air Partner had 
35 staff in three locations across two countries and a market 
capitalisation of £9m. Today we have 260 staff in 20 locations 
across eight countries, with a market capitalisation of £43m. 
We have adapted to serve a global economy and a very 
dynamic aviation market, engaging with a broader variety of 
customers in ways we could never have foreseen at the time 
of our IPO. We have maintained our leadership by expanding 
our capabilities and services, investing in our people, our 
global office network and IT infrastructure and along the way 
have introduced innovative new solutions and products such 
as JetCard. During this 20-year period, our operating profit 
has increased at a compound annual growth rate of 9%.
We have always taken a conservative approach to our 
financing. Organic business development, together with 
day-to-day working capital needs, has been primarily funded 
from free cash flow and we have consistently maintained a 
strong balance sheet. We will continue to adopt a prudent 
approach to our financial strategy, balancing the need to invest 
for future growth as well as delivering shareholder returns.
The Board believes that there are further opportunities to 
grow the business and we will continue to pursue appropriate 
businesses if there is a strong commercial and strategic logic 
and if such opportunities meet our strict financial criteria. 
Acquiring businesses of the quality and stature of Cabot 
Aviation and Baines Simmons was the result of extensive 
groundwork and analysis by the management team, and these 
two businesses will make great contributions to the Group in 
the years ahead. We will maintain our conservative financing 
and, where appropriate, fund small and medium sized 
acquisitions with self-generated free cash flows. The Board 
has reviewed the Group’s dividend policy and determined that 
it should continue to pay a progressive dividend while at the 
same time aiming to build cover to between 1.5 and 2.0 times 
underlying EPS.
Board changes
On 20 April 2016, we announced that Amanda Wills CBE 
and Shaun Smith would be joining the Board as Independent 
Non-executive directors with effect from 20 April 2016 and 
1 May 2016 respectively.
Amanda started her career with Airtours plc in 1987 and 
was CEO of Virgin Holidays Travel Group from 2001 to 2014. 
She is currently Non-executive director of eDreams ODIGEO 
S.A., a global online travel agency listed on the Madrid Stock 
Exchange, and Chairman of Urbanologie.com, a digital start 
up business catering for the high net worth and luxury sector. 
Amanda was awarded a CBE in the Queen’s 2015 New Year 
Honours list for services to the British travel industry and 
to charity. 
Shaun Smith began his career in retail management and 
corporate treasury at Marks and Spencer plc before joining Aga 
Rangemaster Group plc (formerly Glynwed International plc) 
in 1989, becoming Group Treasurer in 1999 and Group Finance 
Director from 2001, until its recent takeover. He was appointed 
Group Finance Director of Norcros plc on 4 April 2016.
We also announced that Andrew Wood, Independent 
Non-executive director, Senior Independent director and 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee has decided to 
step down from the Board after five years and will retire as 
a director at the Company’s AGM on 29 June. On Andrew’s 
retirement, Peter Saunders will be appointed as Senior 
Independent director and Shaun Smith will be appointed 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank Andrew Wood 
for his valued service to the Company over the past five years 
and his significant contribution to the Board and the Audit and 
Risk and Remuneration Committees. Andrew’s experience and 
financial knowledge have greatly benefited the Company and 
on behalf of the Board I wish him well for the future.
Outlook
Trading so far in the new financial year is encouraging, 
and given the full year contribution that we expect from Cabot 
Aviation and Baines Simmons, we enter the new financial year 
with a degree of optimism. The Board remains confident that 
its strategy to optimise, enhance and extend our capabilities 
and services will continue to create shareholder value. 
Richard Everitt
Chairman
27 April 2016
Richard Everitt
Chairman
“ Our strategy is to build a world-class 
aviation services group, delivering 
tailored and comprehensive aviation 
solutions to our customers globally .” Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
6 7
COMMERCIAL JETS 
A CAR LAUNCH 
AND 5,000 
RETAILERS 
COMING FROM 
ALL OVER 
EUROPE
JOB 
DONE
Air Partner delivered 
5,000 people…
…on 90 flights, over 22 
days, from 23 countries 
and 33 European 
departure airports, to the 
Spanish event destination. 
(And their luggage arrived 
safely too.)
Charter and 
scheduled tickets
Although the event took 
place in peak holiday 
season, Air Partner was 
able to charter exclusive 
use of two aircraft for the 
whole project period. And 
provide the 5,000 visitors 
with scheduled tickets 
for the journey to their 
departure airports.
In-flight service
On all flights, Air Partner’s 
customer-focused 
ServicePLUS team had 
organised an automatic 
catering upgrade for 
the passengers. 
Air Partner took 
responsibility 
for 7,497 pieces 
of luggage
From the arrival airport 
in Spain to the event 
hotel, from 90 flights, 
over 22 days – and then 
back again – Air Partner 
arranged transfer for 
7,497 pieces of luggage. 
Customer 
information:  
always on track 
During the entire 
project, after each flight, 
Air Partner updated our 
customer on expected 
arrival times, number 
of passengers and pieces 
of luggage on board. 
This gave our customer 
constant visibility 
of information and 
reassurance that visitors 
were being delivered 
as expected. 
Logistical expertise
With a lead time of 
only six weeks, the Air 
Partner project team had 
successfully arranged 
the preparation and 
implementation of this 
logistically complex flight 
project. Air Partner’s 
project leaders, as well 
as dedicated supervisors 
at each airport, took care 
of the organisation of 
the flight and luggage 
logistics in Spain.
Pre-airport check-in
So that departing visitors 
could avoid long waits 
and check-in queues at 
the airport, Air Partner 
arranged for two check-in 
counters in the lobby of 
their hotel. Visitors could 
check-in comfortably 
after a leisurely breakfast. 
Air Partner also looked 
after registering their 
luggage and ensuring 
that everyone had their 
boarding passes.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 8 9
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’ s review  
The strong results in the year are encouraging and provide 
a solid platform for the year ahead. Within Broking, all 
divisions contributed to the success in the period with 
a standout performance in UK Private Jets, along with a 
robust performance in Freight and a strong performance in 
Commercial Jets. Cabot Aviation, which is included within our 
Commercial Jets reporting, completed a number of transactions 
while also signing up new mandates. Baines Simmons was 
in line with our expectations, taking into account the costs 
related to moving from a private business to being part of 
a fully-listed public limited company, as well as the business 
disruptions which were created through the sale process.
The Group’s underlying profit before tax has increased to 
£4.3m, which is a 64% increase year-on-year and reflects the 
tremendous effort made by all our staff. We made encouraging 
progress on the implementation of our Customer First 
programme. By putting our customers first, we can provide an 
unrivalled and differentiated service, together with a value for 
money proposition, a formula which is good for all of those 
who fly with us as well as for our shareholders.
I am delighted to welcome two new brands to the Air Partner 
Group: Cabot Aviation, a leading remarketer of commercial 
and private aircraft, and Baines Simmons, a world-leading 
consultancy and training business in the aircraft safety 
regulation sector. Both companies have outstanding 
reputations and exceptional expertise that bring new 
capabilities and services to Air Partner. We believe that many 
exciting opportunities lie ahead and that together we are 
in a stronger position than ever before to deliver a range 
of customer-focused aviation solutions. 
 
Customer First
During 2015, Air Partner embarked on our Customer First 
programme, to further grow and extend the differentiation of 
our customer service proposition. Customer First will enable 
Air Partner to provide an unrivalled customer experience 
which in turn will enhance our brand and differentiate 
our brand identity.
Following an extensive customer feedback exercise during 
2014, we identified certain components of our customers’ 
interaction with Air Partner that were inconsistent. The 
programme was put in place to enable us to understand 
these inconsistencies and then to put into place an integrated 
approach to all of the component parts and touch points of 
our customers’ interaction with us. 
By being proactive rather than reactive and by listening to 
our customers’ needs, we can provide an augmented customer 
approach which, alongside developments and improvements 
in our operating processes, should facilitate an improved 
efficiency in our customer service delivery. Customer First will 
be an enabler towards ensuring that our people, our processes 
and our systems work in a true partnership with our customers.
The understanding and building of our customer journeys 
formed much of the Customer First activity during the year, 
with extensive product and country trials implemented 
in September 2015. Phase 1 of the programme has been 
completed with the roll out across the entire broking business. 
We are now beginning to apply Customer First principles into 
Cabot Aviation and Baines Simmons. This involves the forensic 
understanding of customer touch points, through identification 
to retention and how the businesses can leverage the Group’s 
knowledge, infrastructure and learnings from the Customer 
First programme.
Mark Briffa
Chief Executive Officer
“ Putting our customers first is now  
at the heart of everything we do – 
and that’ s how we create value.”
CREATING 
VALUE  
BY PUTTING  
CUSTOMERS 
FIRST 
“ Great service and a good 
swift response given 
the short notice of the 
request. The fully flat bed 
option was exactly what 
our CEO needed so that 
too was a good bonus. 
Thanks very much.”
Customer First 
feedback…
“ My wife and I are huge 
Air Partner fans and 
look forward to our 
next flight.”
“ Can I thank you all for a 
brilliant service today? 
We couldn’t have asked 
for more and wish to 
thank you for your kind 
hospitality and service.”
“ A great team. Long-
suffering, never flinching 
however last-minute 
the passenger request, 
and always on hand 
to comment or help, 
regardless of the time.”
“ Great service, you and 
Ops team attention to 
detail, reaction times and 
going the extra mile is 
fantastic. Thank you.”
“ I always receive excellent 
service from Air Partner. 
The staff are always 
proactive in finding 
aircraft at short notice 
and solving any issues as 
they arise. If a problem 
occurs I am contacted 
and offered a solution, 
rather than just being 
told there is a problem. 
I book with confidence 
when using Air Partner 
and they have not let me 
down, so thank you for 
the great service.” 10 11
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
customer gains, the performance in the US has been behind 
our expectations due to a lower number of one-off charters, 
as well as less activity than expected from a key customer.
Cabot Aviation results are included within the Commercial Jets 
division. Cabot Aviation’s main business is acting as agent and 
broker to airlines (flag carriers and regional) and other aircraft 
owners, such as banks, operating lessors, manufacturers and 
insolvency practitioners, to dispose of their surplus aircraft, 
by arranging either a sale or lease of the aircraft. Cabot Aviation 
also advises customers on the acquisition of aircraft and their 
fleet management process. 
The acquisition added significant aircraft sales and dry 
lease expertise which complemented Air Partner’s short 
term wet lease activity. The integration of Cabot Aviation 
has gone well and in November 2015 we announced the 
extension of our remarketing product range to include 
Private Jets. We have also placed our wet lease operations, 
ACMI (Aircraft, Crew, Maintenance and Insurance), within 
the remit of the Cabot Aviation management team.
Cabot Aviation has benefited from being part of the Air Partner 
Group operationally as well as from the financial stability 
which the Group provides. In the second half of the year, 
Cabot Aviation was appointed as exclusive marketing agent by 
China Airlines for two B747-400s and by Kenya Airways for four 
B777-200ERs, two of which have been delivered at the start of 
our new financial year. 
Sadly Malcolm Holt, co-founder of Cabot Aviation, passed 
away in November 2015 after a period of illness. Malcolm 
and his co-founder Tony Whitty started the business in 1998 
and grew it to become one of the leading specialist aircraft 
remarketing agents in the world. It is testament to their 
combined efforts that the business continues to thrive  
under Tony’s sole leadership within the Group.
Our customers are vital to Air Partner’s success and we 
are committed to fully understanding their needs and 
requirements. Our Customer First sales and marketing strategy 
will further enable us to identify and attract new customers 
who, once on board, will benefit from the experience and 
expertise of our most important assets, our people.
Commercial Jets
Gross profit in the period increased by 12% to £14.0m 
and underlying operating profit rose by 10% to £3.0m. 
The increase has largely been driven by strong trading in the 
UK and in Europe, which benefited from a larger tour operating 
programme compared to summer 2014. During the period, 
Air Partner was the beneficiary of a guarantee from one of 
its Tour Operator customers in Southern Europe, and in the 
latter part of the financial year following late payment from 
the customer, Air Partner claimed against the guarantee. 
The claim was disputed by the guarantor and is now subject 
to court action. As a result of the legal dispute, we took a 
£0.4m provision in the second half, pending the outcome. 
Adjusting for this provision, underlying operating profit 
rose by 23% over the year.
Within the UK Commercial Jets team, we increased our focus 
on developing a clearer sales strategy, invested in key talent 
and focused on improving the service levels we provide to our 
customer base. Success stories for the UK include a strong 
contribution in the Oil & Gas and Sports sectors, along with 
continued government work.
Trading in Commercial Jets in Europe has been pleasing, 
benefiting from a larger tour operating programme as well as 
a strong performance in Germany. Austria delivered a stable 
performance while results in Italy were down year-on-year, 
mostly due to government-related work in the previous year 
which has not been repeated this year. Despite some new 
Private Jets
Our Private Jets division comprises two distinct product 
offerings: JetCard, Air Partner’s private jet card programme 
with transparent pricing and no hidden charges, and Ad hoc 
broking, our on-demand charter service.
Through Customer First we have a clear competitive advantage 
and an unrivalled ability to offer a differentiated service 
proposition to our customers. Over time, this should create 
a virtuous circle where we will attract the right customers and 
improve customer loyalty. The principal of our ongoing success 
is both the understanding of the competitive landscape as well 
as our relationship approach to our customers. By listening 
to and understanding our customers’ needs, we are able to 
provide them with solutions tailored to their needs. 
Continued investment in our service quality together with 
our 24-hour, 7-day-a-week office, helps maintain and grow our 
portfolio of customers. Our account management and sales 
teams offer a length and breadth of experience that is the 
envy of the industry. They have always been and remain today 
at the core of everything we do and they are supported with 
products, services, guarantees and a global brand that stands 
out in a noisy and fragmented marketplace.
Furthermore, unlike buying, leasing or fractional ownership, 
all our products offer the opportunity to judge the cost of 
each charter flight as a stand-alone purchase, empowering 
purchasing departments and individuals alike to judge the 
return on investment in each case and utilise the charter 
market as cost-effectively as possible.
 
We are already reaping the benefits of getting closer to our 
customers, with gross profit in the period increasing by 17% 
to £9.4m and underlying operating profit rising threefold 
to £2.4m, an outstanding performance although prior year 
profits were negatively impacted by increased investments 
into JetCard and redundancy costs which we incurred in Europe. 
Nevertheless, the increased profitability was largely driven 
by a very strong performance in the UK, a solid performance 
in Europe but somewhat offset by a weaker performance 
in the US.
Our Ad hoc broking performance has been mixed. Total gross 
profit has increased well but while the performance in the 
UK has been strong, the US and European businesses have 
experienced a decline in gross profit when compared to last 
year, albeit a sharp focus on costs has minimised the impact 
at an operating profit level. We will be addressing this during 
the current year.
For JetCard, there are a number of measurements which 
highlight its strong performance. JetCard cash deposits at 
the year end stood at £16.8m, up on the prior year balance 
of £14.1m, and the number of JetCards stood at 209, an 
increase of 12 year-on-year. JetCard profit is not recognised 
until the customer has flown hours and our focus has been 
to increase the number of cards and to improve the frequency 
of use, which is reflected in the utilisation rate. Utilisation 
has increased by an impressive 33% in the year following 22% 
utilisation in the first half of the year. Overall, this performance 
is a great testament to our flexible card product which was 
verified by Conklin and de Decker, in an independent study 
in April 2015, to be the most flexible product in the market.
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Cabot Aviation highlights:
Joined the Air Partner family in May 2015
A seamless integration into the business
Enhanced proposition into private jets
Successfully secured exclusive mandates
Private Jets highlights:
An outstanding performance in the year, particularly in the UK
Both Ad hoc and JetCard contributing to the success
JetCard cash balances at £14.0m, utilisation increased 33%
Cognisant of the need to improve in Europe and the US
Commercial Jets highlights:
Our largest division delivered a good set of results over 
the year
The UK, our largest Commercial Jets country, had a very 
strong year
Strong contributions from Oil & Gas and Sports
A successful Tour Operating programme in Europe
“ Our unique and deep expertise 
around the world ensures that  
we provide our customers with  
what they want – a tailored, reliable 
and transparent service that takes 
care of every detail.” 12 13
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Freight
Freight has been performing well since the second half of last 
year and in the period delivered a 21% increase in gross profit 
to £1.9m and an underlying operating profit of £0.8m, an 
increase of over 100% year-on-year.
We have continued our work with government aid agencies  
to assist in a number of geopolitical crises and, in addition, 
strong growth has been seen in our German and US 
businesses. We have benefited from our continued focus  
on developing stronger relationships and a good reputation 
with freight forwarders. In addition, our Red Track technology 
has contributed to the success of our AOG (aircraft on ground) 
business. Freight remains a key component of Air Partner’s 
aviation service proposition and it is encouraging to see 
our focus and investments delivering a continued and 
improved performance.
Baines Simmons
Baines Simmons was acquired in August 2015 and during 
the period of its ownership contributed a gross profit of £2.0m, 
equivalent to 39% of the total gross profit increase for the 
Group over the whole financial year. At an operating profit level, 
Baines Simmons incurred a small loss of £0.1m, as a result of 
the associated disruption caused by the sale process and the 
costs associated with the change in ownership.
Good integration progress has been made across central 
functions such as finance, HR, IT and travel management, 
and we expect further benefits and opportunities to arise 
through the new financial year.
 
Baines Simmons experienced significant change through 
2015. We appointed an Interim Managing Director of Baines 
Simmons to drive integration with the Group and the business 
has been restructured into three practice areas: Training, 
Consulting and Outsourcing. We have implemented a new 
leadership and executive team, launched SMARRT MAP 
(Safety Management and Risk Reduction Tool) to assist 
organisations to improve their safety management systems 
and performance, and we have begun the roll out of our 
Customer First programme. 
Baines Simmons successfully held its 4th European Aviation 
Safety Symposium ‘Through compliance to performance’ in 
November 2015. The event showcased the importance of safety 
management performance, demonstrated by people at the 
sharp end of major airlines, maintenance repair organisations, 
defence organisations and regulatory authorities. What was 
evident is that while aviation organisations are aware of 
the significant changes facing them under a performance-
based environment, many of them are not prepared for these 
changes. Baines Simmons can address these issues and 
support companies through the change process.
Since the end of our financial year, we have announced 
that Baines Simmons has been awarded a 10-year contract 
to provide aviation support services to the Isle of Man Aircraft 
Registry. This important win for the Outsourcing practice 
provides a strong foundation for growth over the next decade. 
Since launch on 1 May 2007, Baines Simmons’ airworthiness 
surveyors have completed 2,760 aircraft surveys, 
recommending Certificate of Airworthiness for issue, renewal 
or export. Today, a total of 854 aircraft have been registered 
and there are 467 aircraft active on the register, covering 
private and corporate jets as well as twin-turbine helicopters.
Baines Simmons highlights:
Joined the Air Partner family in August 2015
Transition from a private company to being part of a plc
New operational and financial reporting structures in place
Awarded a 10-year contract with the Isle of Man 
Aircraft Registry
Strategy
Our aim is to build a world-class aviation services group, 
renowned for differentiating ourselves, putting the customer 
first in all we do and delivering an elevated customer 
experience consistently and proactively.
Our strategy is based around three components: Optimise, 
Enhance and Extend.
•  Optimise: Central to our strategy is Customer First which has 
already changed the way we operate day-to-day and critically 
is changing the way that we think about our customers. 
Through improved customer insights and alongside 
increased people and process capabilities, the business has 
become more efficient and responsive and able to identify 
growth opportunities. Ultimately, we aspire to optimise 
our current assets and capital.
•  Enhance: We will also identify capabilities and services 
which can sit alongside the broking business and which will 
enhance our existing customer proposition. The acquisition 
of Cabot Aviation is a clear example of enhancing our service 
proposition, while at the same time leveraging our existing 
customer relationships. Cabot Aviation is gaining increasing 
leverage from Air Partner’s existing customer relationships 
and benefiting from being part of a fully-listed public limited 
company. The addition of private jet remarketing at the end 
of 2015 formed part of the original acquisition strategy and 
is a natural enhancement to Cabot Aviation’s proposition. 
Private jet remarketing should benefit from being adjacent 
to our Private Jets charter operations. 
•  Extend: In addition, we will strive to identify areas of strategic 
attractiveness within aviation which, as standalone entities, 
have strong growth characteristics but which also have 
product and service overlays on our existing operating 
model. The acquisition of Baines Simmons is a great 
example of how we have extended our product and service 
proposition while being able to drive synergies across our 
infrastructure as well as across our existing operating model.
Effective allocation of capital resources to the best investment 
opportunities will drive performance and raise expectations 
internally and externally, thereby enhancing not just 
shareholder but also, and crucially, wider stakeholder value. 
There is a degree of controlled disruption of the status quo 
which is required in order to fuel future growth aspirations 
but which is enabled by a clear set of levers to alter the 
business trajectory. In turn, we can increasingly optimise 
existing capital, all set against the backdrop of a dynamic 
and competitive marketplace.
People
We will continue to invest in our people, both in recruitment of 
the best and most professional in our industry, and in providing 
the training and IT support that enables them to deliver 
excellent customer service and the best possible solutions 
to customers.
Towards the end of the financial year, we introduced a 
streamlined Operating Board. Given our operational needs 
and the clear strategic direction of the Group, a flatter 
operating structure was required which would more closely 
align to the business structure with clear accountabilities 
and responsibilities.
Outlook
Trading remained strong through the first and second half 
of the financial year and while we are constantly mindful 
of the uncertainties inherent in our industry, this momentum, 
the energy, enthusiasm and dedication of our people, and our 
clear strategic direction, gives the Board a degree of optimism 
for the year ahead.
Across our Broking division, the Customer First programme 
should benefit from entering into Phase 2, while we have 
begun to implement a Customer First programme into Cabot 
Aviation and Baines Simmons. Operational challenges remain 
however, particularly the performance in the US and the 
sluggishness of Private Jets in Europe, and we are cognisant 
of the need to deliver improvements in these areas.
During the period, we completed two acquisitions which 
have added capabilities and services and which will provide 
contributions and organic growth in the years ahead, 
while reducing the volatility and enhancing the quality 
of our earnings. We are constantly evaluating acquisition 
opportunities which will either increase the scale of our 
existing activities or add further new capabilities and services. 
I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of my Air 
Partner colleagues, including the new additions to our team 
from Cabot Aviation and Baines Simmons, for the hard work, 
dedication and commitment that they have shown throughout 
the year so far. I am proud of our people and the standards of 
excellent service that they deliver to our customers day in and 
day out across the globe.
Mark Briffa
Chief Executive Officer
27 April 2016
Freight highlights:
Investment in the freight division has positively impacted 
sales and profits
The division’s expertise has been invaluable in challenging 
and testing environments supporting aid work
Our proprietary, innovative Red Track product has continued 
to gain respect and traction with freight forwarders PRIVATE JETS 
A TYPICAL 
STOCK MARKET 
IPO – HOW 
WE GOT THE 
ROADSHOW 
IN THE AIR
JOB 
DONE
The background 
A global investment bank 
is assisting with the stock 
market flotation of a 
large financial services 
company on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 
Immediately prior to the 
stock pricing on the NYSE, 
they must excite interest 
from as many potential 
investors as possible. 
And that means going to 
talk with them, wherever 
they are.
The customer’ s 
challenge
Potential investors in 
this case include finance 
houses located in the 
major financial centres 
worldwide. But there are 
also important smaller 
investors in several 
locations beyond the 
major hubs. The solution 
involves multiple teams, 
working simultaneously, 
travelling globally and 
converging on the NYSE 
ahead of the opening bell 
in two weeks’ time.
The operational 
challenge 
The deadline is tight and 
fixed. Jets travel much 
faster than cars, so we use 
the nearest airports and / 
or incorporate helicopter 
transfers to all meetings, 
and minimise transit 
time at airports. Tailoring 
each charter solution 
to the requirements of 
the passengers and the 
demands of the team’s 
itinerary is paramount. 
Precise route planning 
and co-ordination in the air 
and on the ground ensure 
uninterrupted passage 
through the dedicated 
private jet facilities we use.
But even the 
best-laid plans…
All elements of the 
roadshow change: 
appointments shift, 
cancel and re-book. 
For the customer, our 
ability to adapt to these 
changes while maintaining 
safe aircraft operations 
throughout is key. 
Anticipating changes, their 
immediate and downstream 
impact and working with 
the customer to manage 
all that 24-hours-a-day, 
7-days-a-week – it’s what 
we do. Our UK-based 
operations office offers the 
highest levels of service, 
always and everywhere.
Precise planning 
We take the greatest 
care to select the best 
solutions. We assure 
ourselves of the safe 
operating standards of our 
airlines. We double-check 
the technical challenges 
of the route and schedule 
demanded by the brief. 
We carefully consider crew 
flight time limitations, and 
when required, provide 
additional or replacement 
crew so that extended 
flying programmes can 
be accommodated safely. 
We try to anticipate every 
conceivable problem and 
avoid it. But, because we 
are realists, we always 
have a plan B.
Plan B
Air Partner has access 
to the entire world’s 
inventory of properly 
licensed, fully insured and 
professionally-operated 
private aircraft available 
for charter. We spend 
over £200m every year 
to charter them. And we 
never sleep. If things 
go wrong, we find (and 
pay for) a replacement 
aircraft, fast, and we get 
your show back on the 
road. Air Partner will never 
use sub-standard charter 
solutions because we 
have a shared interest in 
the successful completion 
of your flight. This is our 
CharterPlus Guarantee.
We’re proud to say we’ve 
become rather good at 
this over the years. To 
date, the largest IPO that 
Air Partner has sustained 
exclusively with chartered 
jets and helicopters had a 
total market cap of $25bn 
on the first day trading on 
the NYSE. But this is only 
one kind of work we do 
for our broad spectrum 
of customers. From 
tourist trips to blue-ice 
runways in the Antarctic, 
to medivac helicopter 
deployments in Sierra 
Leone – and everything 
in-between – we stand 
ready, 24/7, to assist.
And there’ s more…
Account managers 
at Air Partner arrange 
high-end in-flight catering 
to match the preferences 
of the hard-pressed 
travelling teams. 
To maximise the value 
of every minute available, 
we set up conference 
calls in the privacy of 
their own aircraft, and 
presentations at the 
private terminals we use. 
On long-haul overnight 
flights, we can offer larger 
aircraft to accommodate 
fully flat double beds, and 
even showers, allowing 
the roadshow teams 
to meet the investors 
thoroughly refreshed.
14 15
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 16 17
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Financial review  
Revenue recognition
During the period the directors reviewed the Group’s revenue 
recognition methodology. Following this review, which was 
conducted with reference to the contractual terms between 
the Group and its customers, the directors determined that it 
was more appropriate to recognise the majority of the Group’s 
customer contracts on an agency basis, rather than that of 
principal. Accordingly, revenue for the year to 31 January 
2015 has been restated at £37.6m due to this change in 
methodology. The Group will continue to present the former 
revenue amount, now called ‘Gross transaction value’, on the 
face of the income statement. Further details of this change 
in methodology are provided in note 2.
There has been no impact on reported profit, net assets 
or cash flows as a result of this change in methodology.
Other items
We incurred £1.1m of other items in the period under review 
(2015: £nil). Acquisition-related costs accounted for £0.4m 
with a further £0.2m amortisation charge of acquisition-related 
intangible assets. A charge of £0.4m related to the changes 
to the previous Leadership Team while we also incurred 
a £0.1m share-based payment cost following the Cabot 
Aviation acquisition.
Financial position
The total cash balance of £19.8m has increased from the prior 
year comparative of £18.8m, driven by an increase in JetCard 
deposits over the period to £16.8m from £14.1m in the previous 
year. The reduction in non-JetCard cash of £1.7m to £3.0m was 
driven by a positive inflow from operating items, offset by the 
net £2.3m being utilised for the acquisition of Baines Simmons 
and Cabot Aviation, £2.3m relating to dividends and £0.3m 
negative working capital due to an increase in receivables 
from our larger credit customers. 
Our gross debt at the year end totalled £3.5m and increased 
through the period due to the £3.6m loan and related charges 
that we took out as part of the Baines Simmons acquisition. 
The Group’s net debt, excluding JetCard cash, stood at  
£0.5m at the year end, equivalent to just 0.1 times EBITDA, 
and demonstrates the strength of our balance sheet despite 
absorbing two acquisitions during the year.
Taxation
The prior year tax position benefited from two one-off 
initiatives resulting in the recognition of deferred tax assets, 
namely a research and development claim and the impact of 
changing the tax basis for JetCards in the US, which resulted 
in an overall tax credit. In the current period, the Group’s 
underlying tax rate is 30% (2015: -6%) and the effective 
tax rate, based on reported profit, excluding discontinued 
operations is 39% (2015: -6%). The underlying tax rate has 
been impacted by a timing difference on JetCards in the US 
and without this would have stood at 24%. The underlying 
tax rate is lower than the rate for the statutory profit due 
to the fact that the acquisition costs, goodwill amortisation 
and share-based payment charge included within other items 
were not deductible for tax purposes.
Foreign exchange
Where possible the Group uses natural hedging to minimise 
its foreign exchange exposure, for example matching JetCard 
deposits denominated in Euro with the respective deferred 
income or, when possible, using forward contracts to fix rates 
to pay its suppliers. The net foreign exchange gain for the year 
was £2k (2015: £24k).
The Group also uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
certain transactions in accordance with its internal policy. 
The fair value of these instruments at the balance sheet date 
was an asset of £36k (2015: liability of £150k) and the gain 
recognised through the income statement as a result of the 
change in fair value was £186k (2015: loss of £104k).
Neil Morris
Chief Financial Officer
27 April 2016
Neil Morris
Chief Financial Officer
Market overview  
Global economy 
OECD forecasts for global economic growth in 2016 and 2017 
of 3.0% and 3.3% respectively are mostly in line with the 3.0% 
registered in 2015. Stronger global growth remains elusive 
and impacted among other things by low commodity prices 
and inflation. Lower oil prices may help consumers but have 
negatively impacted oil-related investments.
Aviation market
According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), 
global air passenger traffic in 2015 grew by 6.5%, ahead of the 
10-year average growth rate of 5.5% and boosted by lower air 
fares. Growth in North America was solid at 4.3%, while Europe 
registered 5.1%. The Middle East was the strongest region 
with 10% growth, followed by Asia-Pacific at 8.6%. Total traffic 
growth outstripped the rise in capacity, with the global load 
factor reaching an all-time high of 80.3%.
IATA data also showed that cargo volumes expanded by 2.2% 
in 2015, down from the 5.0% growth recorded in 2014, with 
sluggish growth in Europe and North America of 1.2% and 
1.4% respectively.
In the US, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) gathers 
aircraft activity data for business jets which shows that flight 
numbers rose by 1.2% in 2015 versus a 4.0% increase in 2014.
From a European perspective and according to WingX Advance, 
business aviation flights in Europe declined by 0.6% in 2015, 
but within this France grew by 3.3%, Germany by 2.4% and 
the UK by 1.2%. The worst performing markets were Russia 
which declined by 23.0% and Turkey which experienced 
an 8.4% decline. 
Air Partner operates across a range of global 
aviation markets. The key drivers of these 
markets are the strength of the economies in 
which Air Partner operates, the aviation market, 
the geo-political situation, the frequency 
of natural disasters or failure events, the 
competitor landscape, regulation changes 
and the environment.
Geo-political risks, natural disasters and events
Geo-political events such as wars and terrorist attacks 
can have a considerable influence on the airline industry. 
The economic and political role of commercial aviation makes 
airports, aircraft and supply chains a highly desirable target for 
new, unconventional opponents, such as terrorists, insurgents 
and single-issue groups.
Our experience has demonstrated that Air Partner often assists 
its customers’ ability to respond to such challenges. Examples 
include troop and equipment movements for military conflict, 
evacuation of personnel from disaster zones, transport of aid 
to disaster zones and repatriation of citizens in response to 
politically driven immigration programmes. In addition, the 
expertise of Baines Simmons is often called upon when an 
airline experiences safety-related incidents. Given Air Partner’s 
experience of providing solutions to such challenges, the 
Group is well positioned to benefit from increasing global 
political instability.
Competitive landscape
The global air charter market is highly fragmented, with low 
barriers to entry and little regulation. Most of the major aircraft 
broking companies are based in the United Kingdom but, 
unlike Air Partner, they are private companies. Like Air Partner, 
the major aircraft brokers are susceptible not only to the 
cyclical nature of the macro-economic environment, but also 
geo-political situations. Our competitors employ a number 
of tactics to differentiate themselves from the competition, 
including focusing more on specific sectors that require more 
experience to replicate, niche markets or geographic markets.
OECD outlook
%
 2016 
 2017
Source: http://www.oecd.org/eco/outlook/united-kingdom-economic-forecast-
summary .htm
UK World USA France Germany Italy
2.1
3.0
2.0
3.3
2.0
2.2
1.2
1.3
1.0
1.5
1.7
1.4 18 19
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Technology could also change the landscape of the charter 
market, primarily in the private jet sector, through the 
development of technology platforms to enable customers 
to book their flight without the need to speak to a broker. 
There are a number of companies looking to deliver this 
technological breakthrough in the market but presently there 
is no clear market leader and no business has yet been able 
to deliver a profitable business model. Also, it should be noted 
that private jet itineraries are often complex, and passengers’ 
needs challenging. Often these needs cannot be serviced 
by technology and the experience and skills of a broker 
are required.
Air Partner also has to compete with operators who look to 
charter their aircraft directly to the customer, across all three 
business sectors.
Air Partner seeks to protect its market position by:
• attracting and retaining excellent broking talent;
•  seeking to maintain a class-leading customer experience, 
offering a stronger and more reliable service to emphasise 
the value of the Air Partner brand;
•  improving its technology to deliver a better service to 
its customers and make operational efficiencies; and
•  constantly reviewing its strategy and product offering 
to ensure it remains at the forefront of professional 
aviation services.
 
The global civil aviation industry has continued to consolidate 
and while profitability in the industry has benefited from falling 
oil prices, there is constant pressure to reduce costs and 
improve operational efficiency.
In today’s fast moving aviation world, the long term benefits 
of safety management performance are increasingly being 
recognised as strategic and operational factors for success. 
Busier skies, greater competition, higher demands for higher 
fleet utilisation and greater operational capability all place 
increasing pressure on safety and its management. The 
aviation safety world has moved in the last five years from 
seeking better understanding of how safety management 
systems (SMS) work to securing effective performance.
The Organisational Safety market within which Baines 
Simmons operates is relatively immature but the regulators’ 
move from compliance-based to performance-based oversight 
is changing the emphasis of how aviation organisations 
operate. The market is relatively fragmented, represented in 
many ways by small and private companies with a technical 
or engineering orientation. 
For many organisations, safety management performance 
is now regarded as a key tool for ensuring the right balance 
is struck between commercial or operational demands and 
protecting their people, assets and reputation from harm.
Driven by regulatory changes to operate an effective safety 
management system, safety management performance 
is becoming a growing industry priority as organisations 
start to create safety strategies, secure budgets and 
win board commitment to long term safety performance 
investment programmes.
Busier skies, more planes,  
more demand for our services
Source: Boeing current market outlook 
2015 to 2034
Airplanes in service 
2014 to 2034
Demand by size 
2015 to 2034
2014 2034 New planes Value ($BN)
Large widebody 740 670 540 230
Medium widebody 1,620 3,800 3,520 1,220
Small widebody 2,520 5,800 4,770 1,250
Single aisle 14,140 30,630 26,730 2,770
Regional jets 2,580 2,660 2,490 100
T otal 21,600 43,560 38,050 5,570
Baines Simmons differentiates itself from its competitors  
in a number of ways:
•  every one of its consultants is hand-picked for their 
specialist skills, expertise and knowledge in a particular 
field of aviation safety risk management and regulatory 
compliance; and
•  the Baines Simmons SMARRT MAP is an Organisational 
Safety Performance model that illustrates the relationship 
between the four core safety management systems 
(Regulatory Compliance, Compliance Monitoring, Human 
Factors & Error Management and Safety Risk Management) 
and the five key performance enablers (Active Leadership, 
Managed Competence, Supportive Capability, Robust 
Assurance and Proactive Culture).
Regulation
The aircraft charter market remains largely unregulated, 
particularly outside the United States. However, through 
working with industry groups, national regulatory bodies 
such as the Civil Aviation Authority, and voluntarily through 
achieving ISO accreditation, Air Partner is seeking to improve 
and standardise best practice in the aircraft charter market.
Both the civil and defence aviation markets are highly 
regulated and these regulations are constantly changing.
Behind the safety statistics are incidents, near misses and 
risk factors that could have developed into accidents. With the 
number of flights rising, more demand is being placed on an 
already busy system. By building a holistic picture of aviation 
safety performance the regulators can see the true extent of 
the risks to passengers and the general public. They can also 
make better decisions about how to ensure that the aviation 
industry is managing the risks effectively.
The transition to performance-based regulation (PBR) started 
in 2013 and is being adopted by regulators across the world, 
including the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) 
and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). It requires 
the accumulation and analysis of data on the organisations 
we regulate to build up an accurate picture of risk both by 
organisation and by sector. The regulators are attempting 
to embed a risk-based approach to safety regulation and 
continuing to work with industry to develop a common 
safety management system.
In the Defence market, 26 participating member states (PMS) 
of the European Defence Agency (EDA) have committed to the 
principles or harmonisation of airworthiness requirements. 
In October 2015, the Military Airworthiness Authorities 
(MAWA) Forum approved for publication the European 
Military Airworthiness Requirement (EMAR) on Continuing 
Airworthiness Management (CAM). With the full EMAR now 
approved, the PMS are able to implement these harmonised 
requirements into their national airworthiness regulations.
In February 2015, the UK Military Aviation Authority (MAA) 
stated that ‘In a time of extreme pressure on defence budgets, 
harmonising military airworthiness among allies can bring 
big benefits’. Through its long term relationship with various 
military authorities, Baines Simmons should be well positioned 
to benefit from the opportunities which are stemming from 
these regulation changes.
Environment
As a broker, Air Partner’s carbon footprint is immaterial; 
however we recognise that we are involved in an industry 
that makes a small but significant contribution to man-made 
carbon dioxide emissions. Accordingly, Air Partner has 
undertaken extensive work to understand the environmental 
performance of the aircraft types that we offer and share this 
data with our customers, right from the start, at the proposal 
stage. Uniquely therefore, Air Partner’s customers have access 
to all the solutions available to a particular mission and can 
make their value judgment based on more than just price, 
but also with specific reference to the emissions attributable 
to that aircraft on that proposed route. Unlike other providers 
who may, or often may not, offer just a standard carbon offset 
scheme based on their own limited fleet (which could be 
ill-suited to the mission in any case), Air Partner offers our 
customers a totally bespoke solution every time. Only then do 
we offer to neutralise the calculated impact of these emissions 
through our carbon-offset programme operated by renowned 
specialists, The CarbonNeutral Company.
Market overview continued  Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
FREIGHT
DELIVERING 
THE WORLD’S 
BIGGEST 
SPARE PART 
JOB 
DONE
Emergency  
request
Customer aircraft 
on ground (AOG) desk 
needed a replacement 
cowl for an A380 aircraft 
– urgently. Air Partner’s 24-
hour operations team took 
the night-time call and 
contacted the out-of-hours 
on-duty freight specialist. 
(Call: 20 Jan 02:00am)
Finding the  
right aircraft
The cowl was an oversized 
part that could neither 
be broken down nor 
turned. Extensive work 
on sourcing the correct 
aircraft and looking at 
loading options started 
immediately, and it was 
determined that the only 
suitable aircraft was the 
Antonov – AN124.
Booking  
the slot
Due to the urgency of 
the requirement and the 
logistics for movement 
of such a large piece, the 
part was stored at London 
Heathrow. But Heathrow 
is one of the busiest 
international airports 
in the world, with strict 
slot restrictions, making 
ad hoc charters near 
impossible to arrange. 
Along with AOG, Air 
Partner liaised directly 
with the airport authorities 
to obtain special 
dispensation and permits 
for a time-critical move.
Procuring  
the flight
The flight was negotiated 
and procured by 
Air Partner with the 
chartered carrier, on 
behalf of the customer. 
For such a bespoke 
and specialist move, 
we were able to review 
and amend the terms of 
the carrier’s contract so 
that they reflected the 
customer’s requirements.
Meticulous  
planning
With slots approved at 
both London Heathrow 
and Miami, intensive work 
ensured that planning 
and maintenance could 
be completed to get the 
unserviceable A380 aircraft 
back in the sky, and the 
damaged cowl returned 
to Heathrow, within the 
agreed 48-hour period. 
Our freight specialists 
were present at both the 
departures and arrivals 
of the aircraft to ensure 
a smooth and efficient 
operation. (Departure 
22 Jan 20:00pm. Return 
25 Jan 18:00pm)
Reporting  
all the way
From the positioning of 
the Antonov into London 
Heathrow, loading of 
the part, departure, 
offloading, re-loading and 
returning from Miami back 
to London Heathrow, the 
operation was monitored 
by Air Partner’s in-house 
24-hour ops team. And, 
throughout, they provided 
the customer’s AOG teams 
around the world with 
step-by-step live updates 
on the crucial move.
Preparing the 
paperwork
Air Partner advised 
and assisted on the 
preparation of the cargo 
for safe transportation, 
as well as on the extensive 
paperwork relating to 
the movement, including 
for temporary import 
into the US as the part 
was required in Miami. 
The chartered Antonov 
– AN124 was to lay over 
in Miami to allow the 
replacement cowl to be 
fitted on the grounded 
aircraft, before returning 
to London Heathrow with 
the damaged part.
21 20
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 22 23
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Business model  
Our strategy involves the effective allocation of capital 
resources to the best investment opportunities which should 
drive performance and raise expectations internally and 
externally, thereby enhancing not just shareholder but also, 
and crucially, wider stakeholder value. There is a degree of 
controlled disruption of the status quo which is required in 
order to fuel future growth aspirations but which is enabled 
by a clear set of levers to alter business trajectory. In turn, 
we can increasingly optimise existing capital and achieve 
full potential, all set against a backdrop of a dynamic and 
competitive marketplace.
We place our customers at the heart of every decision 
we make, supported and optimised by our people and our 
infrastructure. We strive to continuously enhance and extend 
our products and services to deliver a differentiated and 
exceptional customer experience.
Air Partner’s brand and status as a listed plc allows us to stand 
out among our peer group. Our greatest asset is our people 
and so investment to attract, retain and develop our people 
is critical to the ongoing success of Air Partner. Our policy on 
investment in new talent is closely aligned to our focus on key 
markets and where we are likely to achieve the greatest return.
Aircraft Charter is at the core of our business model, providing 
tailored services for many years, leveraging our relationships 
with the majority of aircraft operators and enabling us to select 
the aircraft appropriate for our customers’ needs. 
Profit is largely generated through commissions, although 
some fee income is generated through the provision of 
professional services or, in the case of our Emergency 
Planning Division, subscriptions.
Our charter customer base predominantly includes corporate 
customers (which also encompass sports teams and tour 
operators), governments, and high net worth individuals, 
who require our skills and expertise to solve often complex 
aviation requirements. The projects themselves can range from 
one-off charters, particularly for high net worth individuals 
requiring a private jet, to much longer or more complicated 
projects spanning many months or multiple rotations. Our 
ability to meet and exceed our customers’ expectations when 
delivering these solutions allows Air Partner to build long term 
relationships with these customers as they understand and 
appreciate what we can do for them. 
While each segment of Air Partner’s charter business specialises 
in a different area of aviation, the services are complementary 
and often service the same customer, allowing us to deliver 
the same level of service wherever they are in the world. 
Aircraft remarketing was added to our offer following the 
acquisition of Cabot Aviation in May 2015. Cabot Aviation 
provides comprehensive remarketing programmes for all 
types of commercial and corporate aircraft to a wide range 
of international customers drawn from the airline and financial 
services sectors, including banks, lessors and liquidators. 
Cabot Aviation has a global market presence.
Projects involve selling or leasing aircraft and selling aircraft with 
leases attached or arranging sale and leasebacks. In addition, 
Cabot Aviation undertakes aircraft acquisition mandates for 
lessors and airlines, wet leasing, consultancy and aircraft 
technical services.
Profit is largely generated through commissions attached 
to mandates as well as through retainers.
Baines Simmons was acquired by Air Partner in August 2015 
and is a world leader in aviation safety consulting, specialising 
in aviation regulation, compliance and safety management and 
partnering with both civil and defence aviation organisations 
to improve safety performance.
Baines Simmons is structured into three practices of Training, 
Consulting and Outsourced Services.
Through our bespoke consultancy programmes and 
practically-focused training services, we help to bridge gaps 
of knowledge, competence, skills and understanding between 
regulated organisations and their employees, and regulatory 
authorities and their inspectors. Our outsourcing operations 
are mostly covered by the service we provide to support the 
Isle of Man Aircraft Registry.
Every one of our consultants are hand-picked for their specialist 
skills, expertise and knowledge in a particular field of aviation 
safety risk management and regulatory compliance. Through 
them, we deliver customised solutions that are designed to 
reduce exposure to safety risk, enhance organisational safety 
and manage and improve regulatory compliance.
Key element Description
Creating value by putting 
our customers first
In such a competitive market place, repeat business is the most effective and efficient way to achieving 
sustainable growth.
Our aim is to become industry leaders, famous for differentiating ourselves from the competition, putting  
the customer first in all we do and delivering an elevated customer experience consistently and proactively.
Optimise our core Central to the strategy is Customer First which will change the way we operate and critically change the way 
that we think about our customers. Via improved customer insights alongside increased people and process 
capabilities, the Broking business should be able to identify clear growth opportunities as well as being able  
to operate from a significantly more efficient infrastructure.
Enhance our offer Identify products and services which can sit alongside the core and which will enhance the existing customer 
proposition. Our acquisition of Cabot Aviation in May 2015 is a clear example of enhancing our service 
proposition while at the same time leveraging our existing customer relationships.
Extend our offer Identify areas of strategic attractiveness within aviation which as standalone entities have strong growth 
characteristics but which also have product and service overlays on the existing operating model. 
Our acquisition of Baines Simmons in August 2015 is a great example of how we have extended our product  
and service proposition while being able to drive synergies across our infrastructure as well as across our 
existing operating model.
Developing and retaining  
our people
Our people are critical to delivering our objective of putting the customer first and ensuring we have the ability 
to deliver our product offering. To ensure we retain and develop our people, Air Partner:
•  has a commitment to training, especially through a long-standing partnership with Cranfield University,  
as well as professional training for finance and internal courses;
• gives employees experience of working in other parts of the Group, where appropriate;
•  offers performance-related remuneration, such as commission for brokers as well as bonuses for achieving 
local, Group and personal targets; and
• operates a structured and regular appraisal process.
Maintaining and enhancing  
brand identity
The global aviation services market is broad, fragmented and competitive and differentiating our brand identity 
from the competition remains critical to our current and future success. Key to maintaining and enhancing brand 
identity is delivery of a consistently elevated customer service. Our Customer First programme enables our 
people to be effective, supported with the right tools and to be able to provide our customers with an unrivalled 
level of service, enhanced by over 50 years of knowledge and skills within the business.
Strategic initiatives
Air Partner is a global aviation services group 
that applies its accumulated knowledge from 
over 50 years of trading to provide a range of 
comprehensive and bespoke worldwide solutions 
to its customer base which is often faced with 
complex problems.
Air Partner’ s strategy is to build a global aviation 
services company and to create long term 
shareholder value by leveraging our brand 
reputation and utilising the experience and 
expertise of our greatest asset, our people.
By putting our customers first, we aspire to 
deliver a differentiated and exceptional customer 
experience which in turn will increase the value of 
our brand, grow sales and profits, and deliver long 
term value to our people and our shareholders.
There are six key pillars underpinning our strategy: Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
CABOT AVIATION 
FLIGHT PATH OF 
A SUCCESSFUL 
AIRCRAFT SALE
JOB 
DONE
New business
• Target potential sellers
•  Respond to request 
for proposal (RFP) for 
remarketing agents
• Referrals
• Former customers
Remarketing 
agreements
Negotiate acceptable 
terms in the agreement 
which covers: 
• duration of agreement
• success fees
• exclusivity
Contact all  
potential buyers
Using a third party 
database we identify 
the operators we plan 
to contact using our own 
9,000+ contact database. 
We also target lessors, 
teardown companies 
and traders.
Negotiate price 
On behalf of the customer 
we engage in negotiations 
with interested parties. 
Our aim is to obtain the 
best price but to make 
sure that the buyer has 
the ability to perform. 
Once our customer is 
in agreement we move  
to the next stage.
LOI
A letter of intent (LOI) 
is issued and negotiated. 
Both parties need to agree 
on deposits, payment 
terms, delivery conditions, 
location and the date. 
Inspection
The buyer carries out an 
inspection to ensure the 
aircraft meets the delivery 
conditions. If it doesn’t 
then usually they will 
look to renegotiate the 
deal or possibly to pull 
out completely. If they are 
happy then they sign a 
technical acceptance.
Sale agreement
Once happy with the 
inspection the parties 
negotiate a Sale 
Agreement. Once signed 
then both parties move 
forward to undertake 
all their contractual 
obligations so that the 
delivery date can be met.
Payment
Payment is made by the 
buyer on the delivery date, 
any liens and mortgages 
are discharged and once 
funds have cleared a Bill 
of Sale is issued and the 
aircraft is de-registered.
Ferry flight
The buyer then ferries 
the aircraft to its chosen 
delivery location. 
Cabot Aviation invoices 
seller for its commission.
Aircraft marketing 
data
In order to create a useful 
specification for the aircraft 
we collect data from 
the seller. This includes 
airframe, auxillary power 
unit (APU) and engine 
status plus layout of 
passenger accommodation 
(LOPA) and photos. We 
also collect additional data 
such as life-limited part 
(LLP) and Airworthiness 
Directives (AD) summaries 
that buyers will request.
24 25
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 26 27
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Key performance indicators
The Group’ s Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) 
are shown here. The financial indicators are 
designed to help management and investors 
to assess performance and are capable of being 
measured over the longer term. All KPIs are based 
on total rather than underlying measures, except 
for underlying profit before tax and underlying 
basic earnings per share. 
A high percentage of the Group’ s business is 
driven by the short term needs of our customers. 
A long forward order book is therefore not 
available and not appropriate to use as a 
measure of the Group’ s longer term prospects. 
Detailed segmental reporting is set out in  
note 4 to the financial statements.
Gross transaction value
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
281.9
227.6
211.5
192.1
210.8
Key performance indicators for the last five financial periods, 
being the financial years ended 31 July 2011, 31 July 2012, the 
unaudited pro-forma financial year ended 31 January 2014 and 
the financial years ended 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2016, 
are set out below:
Gross profit
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
25.9
21.8
23.4
22.0
27.3
Underlying profit before tax
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
5.7
3.2
4.1
2.6
4.3
Return on equity
%
Return on equity is calculated as 
operating profit over net assets.
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
44.2
29.8 29.7
20.4
23.8
T otal shareholder return
%
T otal shareholder return is calculated 
using the following formula: (closing 
share price + dividends - opening share 
price)/opening share price.
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
40.9
-40.2
117.6
-37.6
31.8
T otal cash
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
7.2
15.7
18.4
18.8
19.8
Underlying basic  
earnings per share
Pence
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
36.0
21.3
28.6
27.7
29.7
Basic earnings per share
Pence
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
39.6
29.1
29.8
27.6
19.1
Dividends per share
Pence
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
16.5
18.2
28.0
22.1
24.3
Non-JetCard cash
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
1.6
8.1
9.7
4.7
3.0 BAINES SIMMONS
INSTILLING 
SAFETY INTO 
A LARGE AND 
COMPLEX 
BUSINESS
JOB 
DONE
Determine the 
culture of the 
organisation 
By independently listening 
to employees, and 
collating and challenging 
their comments, we 
analysed the nature of 
the organisation’s safety 
culture and, importantly, 
why it was like that. 
We recommended 
47 changes, all of which 
were accepted.
Enhanced the  
safety leadership  
of the executive
We challenged and 
coached the executive 
team and senior managers 
(top 50) to understand 
and ‘pull’ safety 
performance into their 
business through active 
safety leadership.
Established the 
vision for safety 
By supporting the 
senior team in working 
out what effective safety 
performance should 
look like, we assisted 
the wider organisation 
in setting their overall 
safety direction.
Developed the plan 
to achieve enhanced 
safety performance
Using a structured 
approach, we supported 
the development of a 
coherent and fully costed 
plan to deliver the agreed 
vision within 24 months. 
This plan was confidently 
endorsed by the Board.
Powering up  
their people 
Developing and rolling 
out a behavioural change 
programme requires 
close engagement. We 
are currently delivering 
increased safety 
understanding and 
initiating behavioural 
change, across around 
2,000 people, in under 
four months.
Embedding the 
cultural shift 
As trusted advisers, we 
support the management 
of safety in the aftermath 
of the power-up phase. 
We remain alongside to 
coach and mentor key 
individuals and groups as 
they start to apply the new 
safety principles and tools.
Built the enablers 
Through applying good 
practice from across the 
industry, we supported 
the development 
of clear, consistent 
and robust policies, 
processes, procedures 
and tools through which 
culture change could 
be supported.
28 29
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 30 31
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Resources and relationships
Our customers
The service and experience that we provide to our customers 
are critical in terms of our ability to build long term and trusted 
customer relationships. Our Customer First programme is 
a clear commitment to this philosophy. We take the time to 
understand our customers’ needs, down to the smallest details, 
so our team can deliver consistently and exceed expectations 
time and time again. Our unrivalled experience means that we 
are ready for any type of request that comes our way.
The acquisitions of Cabot Aviation and Baines Simmons have 
enhanced and extended our aviation capabilities and services. 
While each segment of Air Partner’s business specialises 
in a particular area of aviation, many of the services are 
complementary and often service the same customer, allowing 
us to deliver consistent levels of service wherever they are in 
the world. 
The Broking business’ customers currently include 
governments, royal households, tour operators, financial 
institutions, sports teams, high net worth individuals and 
celebrities. Cabot Aviation provides services to a wide range 
of international customers including flag carriers, regional 
airlines, operating lessors, manufacturers, insolvency 
practitioners and financial institutions, as well as high net 
worth individuals. Baines Simmons, specialising in aviation 
regulation, compliance and safety management, advises 
customers across civil and military markets such as KLM, 
SAS, Thomas Cook, Thomson, British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, 
The Isle of Man Government, BAE Systems, MoD, Rolls Royce, 
Royal Air Force, Royal Navy, Airbus, the European Aviation 
Safety Agency (EASA) and UK Military Aviation Authority (MAA). 
Our people
Air Partner’s greatest assets are our people and teamwork is the 
cornerstone of our business. We are known within the broking 
market for consistently delivering the impossible as a matter of 
routine and our ability to achieve this stems from having a high 
performing, dedicated and customer-focused team. 
Our consultants at Baines Simmons are also renowned for their 
professional expertise, skills and knowledge, and are known as 
some of the best in the industry. 
We invest in our people and provide them with an environment 
in which they feel included, valued, empowered and able to 
reach their full potential. Having a team of skilled and motivated 
brokers, trainers and consultants with the experience to deliver 
the levels of service our customers expect is critical for our 
ongoing success. 
Whether our people are experienced, professional support 
staff, part of our sales and broking team or aviation safety 
consultants, everyone is expected to contribute to the success 
of the business. Accordingly, we recognise the hard work and 
dedication of our team by linking remuneration to performance 
throughout the business; and we actively encourage personal 
development by offering a range of training opportunities to 
build the capabilities of our team for the future and encourage 
the behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy. 
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities 
and ensuring that employees are able to work without 
discrimination. Full and fair consideration is given to 
employment applications from people with a disability.  
If an employee were to become disabled while in employment, 
the Group would make every effort to enable the employee to 
continue in employment and would make arrangements for 
additional equipment, support and training as appropriate. 
The Group is also committed to providing a professional 
and safe working environment for all our people, which is 
achieved through the application of our policies throughout 
the organisation.
Air Partner’ s customers are central to everything 
we do and to ensure that this remains the case, 
we require a strong team to deliver a quality 
service 24-hours-a-day , seven-days-a-week. 
The efforts and talent of our people are critical 
to continuing the reputation for which the 
Air Partner brand is known: the experience and 
knowledge to make delivering the impossible 
a matter of routine.
The Air Partner team comprises of people with a broad range  
of backgrounds and has not adopted a quota system, preferring 
to appoint the best candidate for any position. Instructions to 
external agents for appointments require a list of candidates 
from as many different backgrounds as possible. 
As at 22 April 2016, Air Partner had six directors, five of whom 
were male and one of whom was female. Of the Group’s 260 
employees, 148 were male and 112 female and of its 17 senior 
managers, including the Operating Board, three were female.
Air Partner has a responsibility to conduct business in an 
ethical and transparent way. Accordingly, we adhere to a set of 
business principles including a commitment to internationally 
proclaimed human rights standards. The Company has in 
place internal policies to support recognised human rights 
principles. These include policies on non-discrimination, health 
and safety, anti-bribery and environmental issues. We also 
maintain a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption 
and a programme of internal training is in place to ensure that 
all staff are aware of the Group’s policies.
As a relatively small services group, we have a small direct 
footprint in terms of human rights, social and community 
issues but we recognise that the markets in which we operate 
can have a considerable impact on these areas and our 
behaviour and advice can have a positive effect.
Recruiting and developing talent
Our people are critical to delivering our objective of putting 
the customer first and ensuring we have the ability to deliver 
our core product offering. We work hard to attract, recruit and 
retain the best people in our industry and have a commitment 
to training and continued professional development. We 
encourage and support our people in achieving their full 
potential by providing a range of learning and development 
courses designed to build the capabilities and encourage the 
behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy. The Group 
provides induction training for every new member of staff, 
followed by short courses designed to increase knowledge, 
develop new ideas and promote and strengthen relationships 
between international teams and offices. 
As part of our commitment to continual staff development, 
each individual is set personal objectives in line with their 
specific role and / or development needs. Our people have 
a key role in shaping their own development through regular 
discussions with their managers. Financial targets are set and 
measured on a quarterly basis against the annual budget and 
personal objectives are scored using clear criteria, with overall 
scores for management and above being linked to a proportion 
of an annual performance bonus. Individual objectives are 
derived directly from the team objectives, and the divisional 
objectives of the business as a whole. The performance review 
process links back directly to the performance of the individual, 
performance of the business against our core business strategy , 
the mission statement and ethos and the brand values. 
Air Partner aims to strike a balance between internal 
promotions and strategic external hires. Our commitment to 
development allows us to create a pool of management and 
leadership talent, which has led to us filling many management 
positions with internal candidates. A culture of advancement 
encourages our team to work harder, which boosts 
productivity, cultivates loyalty and keeps our people focused 
on business goals. Hiring externally where required is however 
also recognised as essential for the growth, innovation and the 
overall sustainability of the business for the longer term.
Our brand, reputation, experience and knowledge
Air Partner has been working in the aviation industry for over 
50 years, which gives us the strength of service to provide every 
type of business with any type of aircraft, for every conceivable 
mission, in every country in the world. As we have been in the 
broking industry longer than anyone else, our team of aviation 
professionals regularly organise some of the most complex 
civil aviation operations flown in the world today and have 
therefore developed world-class procedures and processes for 
each sector we operate in. Furthermore, we have relationships 
with the majority of aircraft operators, which allows us to 
select the aircraft appropriate for our customers’ needs. It also 
ensures that the operator adheres to strict quality standards 
and, if required, can also assist our customers in selecting 
aircraft that meet their environmental concerns via our carbon 
offset programme. This means that our customers have access 
to our experience and proven techniques to match all their 
specific needs. Air Partner has also achieved ISO 9001:2008 
certification, compliant for commercial airline and private jet 
solutions worldwide.
Baines Simmons has become recognised as one of the world’s 
most influential aviation consultancies in organisational 
safety and is a trusted adviser to more than 750 aviation 
organisations and 40 aviation authorities around the world. 
Our consultants have led a comprehensive range of regulatory, 
compliance and safety improvement programmes which 
have developed the skills and expertise of more than 120,000 
aviation professionals across all sectors of the industry. 
Our consultants are hand-picked for their specialist skills, 
expertise and knowledge in a particular field of aviation safety 
risk management and regulatory compliance. Through them, 
we deliver customised solutions that are designed to reduce 
exposure to safety risk, enhance organisational safety and 
manage and improve regulatory compliance. 32 33
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Group including 
those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity . 
However, this risk is balanced in so much as aircraft charter 
broking on the Air Partner model can be classed as a relatively 
low financial risk business, in that the broker sells capacity 
on aircraft owned and operated by a third party and contracts 
are normally placed as mirrored transactions. The Group does 
not have any contractual arrangements with any significant 
individual or company which are essential to continuation 
of the business.
The principal risk to the Group’s business stems from the 
general economic conditions in which our customers operate, 
affecting their willingness and ability to charter. Ad hoc 
charters are likely to continue to be impacted by serious 
economic instability in the major world markets.
There are general business risks faced by the Group, such 
as those disclosed within note 23, which are those generally 
faced by businesses with similar characteristics. However, 
there are also more industry-specific concentrated risks and 
uncertainties that affect our business or specific industry. 
The principal risks presented are those risks considered by 
the Board to have a potentially material impact on the Group 
not achieving its long term strategic objectives. There are 
additional risks that the Group is exposed to, which are not 
considered material but could have an adverse impact.
Risk
Change
in risk 
assessment
Strategic 
initiatives 
potentially 
impacted Potential impact Controls/processes to mitigate
Market conditions / cost 
structure
Forward visibility into air 
charter bookings is often 
measured in days or weeks, 
rather than months, and can 
be materially impacted by 
changes in financial markets, 
political instability and natural 
events affecting the movement 
of people or cargo from one 
country to another.
Creating value
Maintaining 
brand value
Limited visibility 
into future bookings 
may result in a cost 
structure that does 
not align with market 
conditions.
Extension of the offering following the 
acquisition of Cabot Aviation Services Limited 
and particularly Baines Simmons Limited has 
enhanced the stability of earnings by adding 
more predictable revenue streams to the Group.
Further diversification of the customer 
base of the aircraft chartering business 
across governments and non-governmental 
organisations, commercial enterprises and 
individuals, as well as across geographic 
regions, allows for some smoothing when there 
are seasonal or sectorial changes in demand.
There is a continual senior management focus 
on overheads to ensure they are appropriate to 
the level of business and appropriate action is 
taken if necessary.
Retaining, developing and 
expanding the Group’s 
customer base
The challenge of retaining 
and expanding customers in a 
highly competitive environment 
with low barriers to entry.
Creating value The Group’s ability 
to maintain and grow 
revenue could be 
adversely affected.
Roll out of the Customer First programme which 
underpins the Group’s strategy for identification 
of, and marketing to, potential customers while 
elevating the customer experience through 
improved process capabilities.
Attraction, retention and 
motivation of staff
The challenge of attracting 
new talent and retaining 
existing key staff.
Creating value
Developing 
and retaining 
our people
Optimising 
our core
Enhancing 
our offer
Loss of earnings. Investment in recruitment and in talent 
management, through internal and external 
courses, especially through a longstanding 
arrangement with Cranfield University to 
improve performance.
Elements of remuneration are tied to individual 
and Group performance.
Regular review of remuneration and other 
incentives to ensure the Group remains on a par 
with its competitors.
Financial counterparty risk
Financial exposure following 
payments in advance of 
services to operators.
Creating value Loss of earnings. When selecting which operator to use, 
reputation and financial strength are assessed 
in order to mitigate the risk of making payments 
to businesses that may fail. In addition, where 
possible, third party bank guarantees are 
utilised instead of cash deposits.
Non-financial counterparty risk
Reliance on third parties 
for delivery of services 
to end customers.
Operator compliance with 
relevant regulations.
Creating value
Maintaining 
brand value
Failure of aircraft or 
operator chartered 
by Air Partner.
High quality standards apply to the choice of 
aircraft and carrier for each charter. Air Partner 
maintains non-owned aircraft liability insurance 
which can also be extended to customers. 
All flights are watched in operation by the 
in-house operations team. In addition, there 
is both an internal audit and external audit 
process, the latter performed as part of the 
ISO accreditation.
The Board defines the risk appetite and monitors the 
management of significant risks to ensure that the nature 
and the extent of the significant risks taken by the Group 
are aligned with the overall goals and strategic objectives 
that have been communicated. The Group’s risk appetite 
influences the culture of our business and how we operate, 
and is reflected in our management structure. The Operating 
Board supports the Board in monitoring the exposures 
through regular reviews. Exposures outside of our appetite 
are communicated to the Board alongside actions to reduce 
the risk.
New and existing risks were identified and assessed over the 
course of the year as the Group’s overall risk profile continued 
to evolve. The Board and the Operating Board performed 
further analysis to prioritise these risks, with a focus on those 
considered to pose the greatest risk to achieving our objectives. 
During the year, the Board reduced the priority of one of 
the principal risks highlighted in the previous year (cash 
management) having determined that mitigating actions taken 
throughout the year had addressed the risk to a level that the 
Board no longer considers principal.
The pervasive risk to Air Partner’s chartering business is 
the fact that lead times for ad hoc bookings are measured 
in days or weeks, rather than months. Forward bookings can 
be impacted very suddenly by changes in financial markets, 
political instability and natural events affecting the movement 
of people or cargo from one country to another. Economic 
uncertainty affects corporate, government and individual 
customers and affects the quality of aircraft supply as operators 
consolidate or leave the market. These trends are outside the 
Group’s control but the strategy remains to diversify in order 
to address seasonality and changes in the customer mix.  35
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
34
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Dear Shareholder
We are committed to conducting business responsibly  
and to achieving a high standard of corporate governance. 
We believe this is essential to our reputation and to the 
continuing support of our shareholders, customers, 
employees and other stakeholders.
The Board of directors (“the Board”) supports the principles 
and provisions set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 
(“the Code”). This statement and the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 49 to 69 explain how the Board and its sub-
committees operate and how the Company has complied with 
the Code during the year ended 31 January 2016. 
Richard Everitt
Chairman
27 April 2016
Corporate governance statement
Chairman’ s introduction
Compliance with The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board recognises the importance of high standards 
of corporate governance and is committed to managing 
the Group’s operations in accordance with the Code. A full 
version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website: http://www.frc.org.uk. The September 2014 
edition of the Code was applied throughout the financial year 
under review. The Board believes that the Company applied 
the Main Principles and complied with the Provisions of 
the Code during the year.
The Listing Rules require that we state how we have applied 
the Principles set out in the Code. This information, together 
with the required detail on specific Code Provisions, is 
set out in this Corporate governance statement. Detailed 
reports on the Nomination Committee, the Audit and Risk 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee can be found 
on pages 43 to 69.
Going concern
Having considered the Group’s current financial position, 
the factors affecting its cost base, the state of the air charter 
market as a whole and budget forecast figures for a period 
of not less than twelve months from the date of approval of 
these financial statements, the directors are satisfied that 
the Group and the Company have adequate resources to 
continue in business for the foreseeable future and that the 
Company is a going concern. The directors have continued 
to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the 
financial statements.
Richard Everitt
Chairman
Compliance statements
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risk
Change
in risk 
assessment
Strategic 
initiatives 
potentially 
impacted Potential impact Controls/processes to mitigate
Competitor risk
The risk of falling behind 
competitors in product 
development, standards of 
service or cost effectiveness.
Creating value
Maintaining 
and enhancing 
brand identity
Loss of customers. Roll out of the Customer First programme 
across the Group will embed a unified and 
elevated level of customer service delivery 
by aligning the sales and marketing strategy 
with service delivery.
The Group also undertakes regular customer 
surveys to ensure it remains responsive to 
competitor activity and customer demands 
within acceptable price levels for the quality 
and standards of service provided.
Legal and regulatory
The challenge of operating in 
multiple jurisdictions subject to 
a large number of different and 
evolving laws and regulations, 
including tax and civil aviation 
authority requirements.
Creating value
Maintaining 
and enhancing 
brand identity
Non-compliance 
with regulations 
could result in loss of 
customers or damage 
to the Group’s brand.
Management reviews policies and processes 
at Operating Board level. The business has a 
range of policies to minimise these risks and 
reviews and updates them on a regular basis.
Business growth
Challenges in enhancing and 
extending the Air Partner offer 
following recent acquisitions.
Creating value 
Extending 
our offer
Enhancing 
our offer
Maintaining control 
over the strategic and 
commercial activities 
of new operations 
resulting in financial 
loss or reputational 
damage.
A dedicated integration team has been 
established to ensure that benefits arising 
from the acquisition are maximised while 
maintaining control over operations.
Reputational risk
Damage to Air Partner’s 
reputation following incident or 
inappropriate action.
Creating value
Maintaining 
and enhancing 
brand identity
Damage to the Group’s 
brand could result 
in loss of customers 
or impair its ability 
to expand the 
customer base.
Air Partner’s brand values of honesty, truth 
and reliability are treated very seriously. 
Discretion is key to our customer service and 
its importance is communicated to all members 
of the team.
Business interruption
Reliance on systems for 
sourcing and booking aircraft 
and customer management.
Creating value
Maintaining 
and enhancing 
brand identity
Systems failure could 
result in business 
interruption.
International scope reduces reliance on a single 
office location. Back-up operating systems 
are provided for this and employees can work 
remotely if necessary.
Directors’ approval statement
This Strategic report has been reviewed and approved  
by the Board of directors on 27 April 2016.
 
Neil Morris
Chief Financial Officer 36 37
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2. of the Code, the Board 
assessed the prospects of the Company over a period longer 
than the twelve months required by the ‘Going Concern’ 
provision. The Board conducted this review for a period of 
three years, which was selected for the following reasons:
•  the Group’s strategic plan covers a three-year period; and 
•  the variability of earnings means that forecasting beyond 
three years is more subjective, hence the Board believes 
a three-year period is the most appropriate.
The three-year strategic plan considers the Group’s cash 
flows, forecasted underlying profit, covenant compliance 
and investment in technology. 
These metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis which 
involves consideration of downside scenarios. Where 
possible, this analysis is carried out to evaluate the potential 
impact of the Group’s principal risks (refer to the Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties on page 32 to 34 for further detail).
The three-year plan review is underpinned by the regular 
Board briefings provided by the business unit heads and the 
discussion of any new strategic initiatives undertaken by the 
Board in its normal course of business. 
Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a 
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the three-year period of their assessment.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy.
Robust review of risk
The Audit and Risk Committee acts on behalf of the Board 
to review the effectiveness of the internal control system and 
risk management processes on a regular and ongoing basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee undertook this review process 
throughout the year and subsequent to the balance sheet 
date to include the date of approval of this Annual Report. 
At each meeting, the Audit and Risk Committee receives an 
update from the CFO on any material matters together with 
a report from the Group’s internal audit process. The external 
auditor, Deloitte LLP , presents its findings to the Audit and 
Risk Committee twice a year, specifically after the half year 
review and following the year end audit process. Issues 
reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee are detailed 
on page 46.
Internal control environment
The Board is ultimately responsible for the operation of 
an effective system of internal control appropriate to the 
business. This control environment is designed to identify, 
evaluate, manage and minimise, rather than totally eliminate, 
the risks faced by the Group in carrying out its business 
objectives. The internal control environment is composed 
of the following key elements:
•  a clear organisational structure with defined lines 
of responsibility;
•  robust financial controls, budgeting and forecasting, 
which includes regular review and assessment of risks 
at the Board;
•  the policies under which the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements are prepared, which includes the monitoring 
of financial reporting risks through changes in accounting 
standards and/or business practices;
•  a regular and thorough annual strategic review process;
•  established control procedures, which include appropriate 
authority levels, for making key decisions and transactions; 
and
•  an experienced, qualified and commercially focused finance 
department that supports the Group’s commercial functions 
as well as regularly assessing the possible financial impact 
of risks faced by the Group.
Corporate governance statement continued
Compliance statements continued
 
Compliance with the Code 
Application of the Main Principles of the Code 
During the 2016 financial year, the Board continued to comply with the Main Principles of the Code as follows:
A. Leadership
A.1 The role of the Board
The Board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the 
Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which 
enables risk to be assessed and managed. The Board sets the Group’s 
strategic aims and ensures that the necessary resources are in place 
to achieve those aims. The Board met formally eight times during 
the year. There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board, 
together with delegated authorities throughout the Group.
A.2 Division of responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly 
defined. The Chairman, Richard Everitt, is responsible for the 
leadership and effectiveness of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer, 
Mark Briffa, is responsible for leading the day-to-day management of 
the Group in line with the strategy set by the Board.
A.3 The role of the Chairman
The Chairman sets the agendas for the Board meetings, manages 
the meeting timetable in conjunction with the Company Secretary 
and promotes open and constructive debate between directors and 
non-executive directors during meetings.
A.4 The role of Non-executive directors
The Chairman actively invites the non-executive directors’ views. 
They scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed 
goals and provide objective and constructive challenge to the 
Executive directors. They attend an Annual Strategy day with the 
Operating Board and help develop proposals on strategy. If a director 
had a concern which could not be resolved about the running of the 
company or a proposed action, they would ensure that their concerns 
were recorded in the Board minutes.
B. Effectiveness
B.1 The composition of the Board
When making appointments to the Board, the Board and the 
Nomination Committee consider the wide range of skills, knowledge, 
experience and independence required to maintain an effective Board.
B.2 Board appointments
The Board is responsible for the appointment of executive directors. 
The appointment of new non-executive directors to the Board is led 
by the Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee report 
is on page 43 and gives details of the recruitment process and 
appointment of Amanda Wills as Independent Non-executive director 
on 20 April 2016 and Shaun Smith as Independent Non-executive 
director on 1 May 2016. 
B.3 Commitment
When appointed, directors are informed of the time commitment 
expected from them. 
B.4 Development
Newly appointed Board members are entitled to receive a full and 
tailored induction. Following this induction, meetings are arranged 
with key executives and managers within the business to provide 
ongoing education and information about the business. All directors 
attend an annual Strategy Day with the Operating Board and other 
senior managers. As part of the annual effectiveness evaluation 
undertaken by the Board, the training and development needs  
of each director are assessed. 
B.5 Information and support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures 
that all Board members receive accurate and timely information. 
The Board ensures that all directors have access to independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense where they judge it 
necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors. All directors 
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. 
B.6 Board evaluation
During the year, the Board and its committees undertook an 
evaluation of their performance. The Non-executive directors are 
responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman taking into 
account the views of the Executive directors. The evaluation of the 
Board in early 2017 will be externally facilitated.
B.7 Re-election of the directors
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
after their appointment and to annual re-election thereafter.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and business reporting
The Board is responsible for preparing fair, balanced and 
understandable financial information. The Strategic report is set out 
on pages 0 to 34 inclusive and this provides information about the 
performance of the Group, the business model, strategy and the risks 
and uncertainties relating to the Group’s business.
C.2 Risk management and internal control systems
The Board sets out the nature and extent of the significant risks 
and maintains sound risk management and internal control systems. 
Further information on risk management and internal control systems 
is set out on page 44.
C.3 The role of the Audit and Risk Committee
The activities of the Audit and Risk Committee, which assists the 
Board with its responsibilities for risk management, internal control 
and its relationship with the auditors are set out in the Audit and 
Risk Committee report on pages 45 to 47.
D. Remuneration
D.1 Setting levels of remuneration
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration to 
promote the long term success of the Company and structures 
executive remuneration so as to link rewards to corporate and 
individual performance.
D.2 Procedure
The composition of the Remuneration Committee and its activities 
and approach to setting the remuneration policy for the Executive 
directors and recommendations and monitoring of the level and 
structure of remuneration for senior management can be found in the 
Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
set out on pages 49 to 52. The Board determines the remuneration 
of the Non-executive directors within the limits set in the Company’s 
Articles of Association. Shareholders will be invited to approve a 
revised Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) at the 2016 AGM.
E. Relations with shareholders
E.1 Shareholder contact
The Board values opportunities to meet with shareholders and is kept 
informed of shareholder views.
E.2 Annual General Meeting
The Board welcomes the opportunity to meet with shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting. 38 39
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Role of the Board
The Board carries ultimate responsibility for the effective 
direction and control of the Group’s business. 
The Board’s activities during the year have included monitoring 
the financial reporting process, monitoring the effectiveness 
of internal control, internal audit and risk management 
systems, monitoring the statutory audit of the Annual Report 
and financial statements, reviewing and monitoring the 
independence of the external auditor, and the level of non-
audit work performed by the auditor. Additionally, the Board 
reviews trading performance against strategic initiatives and 
financial targets set at the beginning of the year. The Board 
meets formally at least five times a year with additional 
meetings as necessary.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved for Board decision, 
including formulation and development of strategy, major 
acquisitions or disposals, significant bank borrowings,  
Board level appointments, the approval of financial reports 
and price-sensitive statements and overall business risk 
assessment. A copy of the schedule is available online  
Board meetings 
Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its committees held during the year, and the attendance of each director 
at those meetings, are set out below. 
Number of meetings Main Board Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Executive directors
Mark Briffa 10/10 4/4 3/4 1/1
Neil Morris 10/10 4/4 – –
Non-executive directors
Richard Everitt 8/10 4/4 4/4 1/1
Andrew Wood 8/10 4/4 3/4 –
Grahame Chilton* – – – –
Peter Saunders 8/10 4/4 4/4 1/1
*
 
Grahame Chilton resigned as a director on 16 March 2015.
Amanda Wills and Shaun Smith were appointed after the year end on 20 April 2016 and 1 May 2016 respectively .
Mark Briffa and Neil Morris are not members of the Audit and Risk Committee or Remuneration Committee but attend meetings 
when appropriate by invitation.
Other senior executives are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
at http://www.airpartner.com/en/investors/governance-
documents. The Board receives reports at each meeting 
from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer 
and, following meetings of Board committees, from their 
respective Chairmen.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive 
directors and four Non-executive directors. Andrew Wood, 
Independent Non-executive director, will step down from the 
Board at the 2016 AGM. The balance of the Board is such that 
no individual or group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision making and there is a mix of skills and experience. 
Neither of the Executive directors is a director of a public 
company outside the Group. The Non-executive directors’  
other directorships are listed in their biographies on page 40.
Clear responsibilities are allocated to each of the Non-
executive Chairman, the CEO, the CFO and the Senior 
Independent director. These responsibilities are set out 
in writing and are available from the Company Secretary 
or at http://www.airpartner.com/en/investors/governance-
documents.
Corporate governance statement continued
Leadership 
Board committees
The Board has three committees, Audit and Risk, Nomination 
and Remuneration, to which the Board has delegated certain 
responsibilities. Each of the Board committees comprises 
solely non-executive directors, with the exception of the 
Nomination Committee of which Mark Briffa is a member. 
The principal activities of each committee are set out in their 
respective reports on pages 43 to 69. Executive directors also 
attend meetings of the committees when required to do so by 
the chair of the relevant committee.
The current membership of each Board committee is as follows:
Director Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination
Richard Everitt X X X*
Peter Saunders X* X X
Amanda Wills X X
Andrew Wood X X*
* denotes the chair of the relevant committee.
Shaun Smith will join the Remuneration Committee and Audit and Risk Committee 
on his appointment to the Board on 1 May 2016.
The Nomination Committee report is set out on page 43.
The Audit and Risk Committee report is set on pages 45 to 47.
The Remuneration Committee report is set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 63 to 69 and is included in this 
Corporate governance statement by reference.
 
Operating Board
The Operating Board meets monthly to monitor operational 
performance, to consider new developments in line with 
the Group’s strategic aims and to discuss matters relating 
to different trading divisions or geographic regions. The 
Operating Board has its own terms of reference and limits of 
authority, below those of the Board. The Executive directors 
report back to each Board meeting. Operating Board members 
are invited to attend Board sessions during each year, to have 
the opportunity to present their business plans, report on 
progress and give an update on key operational activity, future 
plans and business opportunities. In turn, Non-executive 
directors attend some sessions of the Operating Board, purely 
as observers, to gain a better understanding of current issues 
across the Group. 40 41
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Corporate governance statement continued
Board of directors
Peter Saunders joined the Board 
in September 2014 and became 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee in March 2015. Peter 
brings to the Board a wealth of 
experience in marketing and 
customer service. He is Lead 
Director of Godiva Chocolatier 
NV, Non-executive director of 
Total Wines & More and was 
Chief Executive Officer of Body 
Shop International plc from 
2002 to 2008. Other past board 
experience includes Canadian 
Tire Corporation, Jack Wills 
Limited, the British high-fashion 
retailer and The Second Cup, 
the Canadian specialty coffee 
chain. When Andrew Wood 
retires as a non-executive 
director at the 2016 AGM, 
Peter will be appointed as 
Senior Independent Director.
Amanda Wills joined the Board 
on 20 April 2016 and brings 
a deep understanding of the 
travel industry and international 
experience. She started her 
career with Airtours plc in 1987 
and was CEO of Virgin Holidays 
Travel Group from 2001 to 
2014. Amanda is currently 
Non-executive director of 
eDreams ODIGEO S.A., a global 
online travel agency listed on 
the Madrid Stock Exchange, 
and Chairman of Urbanologie.
com, a digital startup business 
catering for the high net worth 
and luxury sector. She was 
awarded a CBE in the Queen’s 
2015 New Year Honours list for 
services to the British travel 
industry and to charity. 
Richard qualified as a solicitor, 
rising to the position of Director 
of BAA plc with responsibility for 
strategy and regulatory matters 
following its privatisation. He 
subsequently became Chief 
Executive of National Air Traffic 
Services in 2001 and Chief 
Executive of the Port of London 
Authority from 2004 until 2014. 
Richard was appointed as Non-
executive Chairman of Air Partner 
in February 2012. In February 
2016, he was appointed as a 
Commissioner of Belfast Harbour.  
Mark started his career with 
Air Partner as a Commercial 
Jets broker in 1996 and joined 
the Board in 2006 as Chief 
Operating Officer, becoming 
Chief Executive Officer in 
April 2010. He has a wealth of 
experience of air charter broking 
and a wide knowledge of the 
aviation industry worldwide, 
built up over more than 25 years 
in the industry.
Neil was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer in June 2014 
having held the position of 
interim Chief Financial Officer 
from April 2014 and Group 
Financial Controller prior to 
that. Neil was previously Group 
Finance Director of All Leisure 
Group plc, an AIM traded tour 
operator, and before that spent 
11 years at Deloitte LLP , primarily 
working in the aviation and 
travel sector.
Andrew joined the Board in 
June 2011 and is the Senior 
Independent director and 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee. From 1995 to 2000 
he was Group Finance Director 
of RACAL Electronics Group and 
from 2001 to 2010 he was Group 
Finance Director of BBA Aviation 
plc. A chartered management 
accountant, Andrew is also Non-
executive director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committees of 
Berendsen plc, Lavendon Group 
plc and Stobart Group Limited. 
Andrew will retire as a director 
of the Company at the 2016 AGM.
ARC – Member of the  
Audit and Risk Committee
RC – Member of the 
Remuneration Committee
NC – Member of the  
Nomination Committee 
Richard Everitt
Independent 
Non-executive Chairman
ARC RC NC
Mark Briffa 
Chief Executive Officer 
NC 
Neil Morris
Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Wood 
Senior Independent  
Non-executive director
ARC RC 
Peter Saunders 
Independent  
Non-executive director
ARC RC NC
Amanda Wills 
Independent  
Non-executive director
ARC RC
Senior management
The Operating Board has collective responsibility for running 
the Group’s business by:
•  developing Air Partner’s strategy and budget for Board 
approval;
•  recommending to the Board capital expenditure and 
investment budgets;
• monitoring financial, operational and service performance;
•  allocating resources across Air Partner as agreed by the Board; 
• planning and delivering major programmes; and
• reviewing the senior talent base and succession plans. 
The Terms of Reference for the Operating Board are reviewed 
and approved by the Board annually, under which it can 
approve, up to limits beyond which Board approval is required, 
capital expenditure, and disposals of fixed assets, investments 
and divestments.
Mark Briffa
Chief Executive 
Officer 
Neil Morris
Chief Financial 
Officer
Richard Smith
Head of Product,  
Air Partner 
Broking 
T ony Whitty
Managing 
Director,  
Cabot Aviation
Lee Pyle
Group Head  
of Technology
Rachel Thripp
Group Head 
of Human 
Resources
Justin Scarborough
Interim Managing 
Director, Baines 
Simmons 
and Director 
of Corporate 
Development and 
Investor Relations  42 43
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Composition of the Board
The composition of the Board is shown on page 40.
As previously stated in the 2015 Annual Report, Grahame 
Chilton resigned as a Non-executive director of the Company 
with effect from 16 March 2015.
Amanda Wills was appointed to the Board as Independent, 
Non-executive director on 20 April 2016. 
Shaun Smith has been appointed to the Board as Independent, 
Non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2016.
After five years on the Board, Andrew Wood has decided to 
step down as a Non-executive director and therefore will not 
stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM. 
After Andrew retires from the Board, Peter Saunders will be 
appointed as Senior Independent director.
Full details of the decision to seek new Non-executive directors 
and the selection process are set out in the Nomination 
Committee report on page 43.
Independence of Non-executive directors
The Board considers all the Non-executive directors to be 
independent. Given their relatively small shareholdings, the 
Board does not believe that these impact on the independence 
of Richard Everitt and Andrew Wood.
Board performance evaluation
The Company continues each year to evaluate the 
performance of the Board and its committees. In 2016, 
the Board’s effectiveness was assessed internally by way of 
a questionnaire completed by Board members and the results 
evaluated by the Chairman and the Company Secretary. 
A Board evaluation exercise conducted by an external 
facilitator will be undertaken in early 2017. 
The Board confirms its belief that all directors bring significant 
value to the business, are effective in Board decision-making 
and show the appropriate level of commitment to their roles. 
Corporate governance statement continued
Effectiveness 
Election and re-election of directors
Following her appointment to the Board on 20 April 2016, 
Amanda Wills will stand for election at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting. The Board recommends the election of 
Amanda Wills as listed in the separate Notice of Annual 
General Meeting.
Following his appointment to the Board with effect from  
1 May 2016, Shaun Smith will stand for election at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting. The Board recommends the election 
of Shaun Smith as listed in the separate Notice of Annual 
General Meeting.
In accordance with best practice, all other directors will resign 
at the 2016 AGM and stand for re-election. 
Dear Shareholder
The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee 
(“the Committee”) is to lead the process for the appointment 
of new non-executive directors to the Board. 
Membership will vary but the terms of reference for the 
Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available 
online at http://www.airpartner.com/en/investors/ 
governance-documents. The Committee is made up of three 
directors, including one Executive director.
When proposing appointments of non-executive directors, 
the Committee considers the independence, skills, knowledge 
and experience that a candidate possesses compared to 
the skill sets and experience of the Board as it currently 
stands. Selection of candidates also takes into consideration 
the breadth of knowledge that the Board has and that 
it may require to provide a well-balanced environment 
which encourages scrutiny and appropriate challenge 
of executive management.
 
Changes to non-executive roles
In 2015, the Nomination Committee made up of Richard 
Everitt, Peter Saunders and Mark Briffa decided to seek 
a non-executive director with the appropriate expertise to 
assist the Board in developing its strategy in response to 
the rapid technology changes occurring in the aviation and 
travel industry. The Committee consulted with its advisers to 
obtain recommendations for suitable candidates. After careful 
consideration of the candidates against criteria and interviews 
by each member of the Committee and the CFO, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that Amanda Wills be appointed as 
a Non-executive director. Amanda was appointed to the Board 
with effect from 20 April 2016.
Following Andrew Wood’s decision to step down as a 
non-executive director after the 2016 AGM, the Committee 
also sought a non-executive director with the appropriate 
expertise to replace Andrew as Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee. Following consultation with its advisers, a number 
of recommendations were put forward and after careful 
consideration of candidates against criteria and interviews 
by each member of the Committee and the CFO, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that Shaun Smith be appointed 
as a Non-executive director. Shaun will join the Board on 
1 May 2016.
Diversity
The Company is a team made up of people with a broad range 
of backgrounds. Our policy is to ensure that the best candidate 
is selected to join the Board; this policy will remain in place 
going forward and the Board does not intend to adopt a quota 
system with prescriptive, quantitative targets. Instructions 
to any external adviser conducting a search for appropriate 
candidates require them to search for candidates from as 
many different backgrounds as possible.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee 
Richard Everitt
Chairman
27 April 2016
Nomination Committee report 
Richard Everitt
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 44 45
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Corporate governance statement continued
Accountability 
Risk management and internal control 
During the period, the full Board was responsible for the 
Group’s system of risk management and internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness, though reports are provided 
in the first instance to the Audit and Risk committee by the 
Chief Financial Officer. The Board has established an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant 
risk. This process is reviewed regularly by the Board. 
The key internal procedures in place for the year ended 
31 January 2016 and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report are as follows:
•  a detailed and comprehensive annual budget is produced 
and formally approved by the Board;
•  the Board maintains a schedule of key matters reserved for 
its approval, which include financing and changes to banking 
arrangements, all significant capital expenditure and all 
acquisitions and disposals;
•  both the Board and the Operating Board receive monthly 
financial reports, showing the performance of each division 
and country, with relevant commentaries to highlight 
variance from budget or particular areas of concern;
•  business performance reports are circulated to the Operating 
Board on a weekly basis for sales bookings, and monthly to 
monitor overall performance;
•  clearly defined authority limits and controls are in place 
over contract signing limits, purchasing commitments and 
the extension of credit to customers. In particular, brokers 
operate within individual, pre-set limits of authority and only 
those staff who have successfully completed a six-month 
probationary period can sign charter commitments on 
behalf of the Group. Adherence to these limits and controls 
are tested on an ongoing basis as part of the internal 
audit process; 
•  each of the Group’s major offices is visited at least once 
a year by a senior member of the Finance team; 
•  the Company has a robust risk management process that 
follows a sequence of risk identification, assessment of 
probability and impact, and assigns an owner to manage 
mitigation activities. A risk register is monitored by senior 
management and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee. 
The risk register and the methodology applied are the subject 
of continuous review by senior management and updated 
to reflect new and developing areas which might impact 
business strategy. The Audit and Risk Committee actively 
reviews the risk register and assesses the actions being 
taken by senior management to monitor and mitigate the 
risks. Those risks which are considered to be the principal 
risks of the Group are presented on pages 32 to 34; and
•  the Group does not trade speculatively in derivatives. Other 
than forward foreign exchange contracts, the Group does 
not use complex treasury instruments in the normal course 
of business and any specific projects that may involve such 
instruments require Board approval. 
The Board confirms that it has complied with the Code with 
regard to its responsibilities relating to risk management and 
internal controls.
The directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems during the year. In their 
review, which covered all material controls including financial, 
operational and compliance controls, the directors considered 
the nature of the Group’s business, the risks to which that 
particular business is exposed, the likelihood of such risks 
occurring and the costs of protecting against them. However, 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only 
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance.
Whistle-blowing
A whistle-blowing policy is in place across the Group to enable 
members of staff to bring to the attention of any director 
serious matters of financial misconduct which they believe 
would damage the performance or reputation of the Company.
Audit and Risk Committee report
Dear Shareholder
The Audit and Risk Committee (“the Committee”) supports 
the Board in maintaining sound risk management and 
internal control procedures. It is responsible for ensuring that 
appropriate corporate reporting, risk management and internal 
control systems are applied throughout the Group and reports 
regularly to the Board.
The Committee’s principal duties are to monitor the integrity of 
the Company’s financial statements, to review the consistency 
of, and any changes to, accounting policies and standards, 
to review on behalf of the Board the effectiveness of audit 
procedures and the work of the internal and external auditor 
and to monitor on behalf of the Board the systems for risk 
management and internal financial control. The Board as a 
whole is responsible for internal control and risk management. 
The Committee is required to report its findings to the 
Board, making any necessary recommendations for action 
or improvements. 
The Committee’s terms of reference can be found on the 
Company’s website http://www.airpartner.com/en/investors/
governance-documents.
 
Membership
The Committee is made up of the Non-executive directors:
Andrew Wood (Chairman) 
Richard Everitt 
Peter Saunders 
Amanda Wills
Shaun Smith will be appointed to the Committee with effect 
from 1 May 2016. Andrew Wood, a chartered management 
accountant, is considered to have recent and relevant financial 
experience. Biographies of the Non-executive directors are set 
out on page 40. When Andrew retires from the Board at the 
2016 AGM, it is proposed that Shaun Smith will be appointed 
as Chairman of the Committee. Shaun is considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience.
Although not members, the external auditor, Deloitte LLP 
(“Deloitte”), the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer are notified of all meetings and may attend by 
invitation. At each meeting, the Committee has the opportunity 
to talk to the external auditor without the CEO or the CFO being 
present. Deloitte attended all meetings during the year. 
Meetings
The attendance of directors at the meetings of the Committee 
is set out on page 38.
The Committee met four times during the year. 
In addition to reviewing the interim and annual results 
announcements in advance of publication and planning for 
the annual statutory audit, the Committee has focused on the 
process for risk management and continues to review internal 
control developments.
Andrew Wood
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 46 47
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Corporate governance statement continued
Audit and Risk Committee report continued
Significant issues related to the financial statements
The significant accounting and audit matters considered by the 
Committee and discussed with the external auditors during the 
year and in relation to the 31 January 2016 year end were: 
Revenue recognition
During the year, the directors reviewed the Group’s revenue 
recognition methodology. Following this review, it was 
identified that the Group acted as agent in the vast majority of 
its contractual arrangements with its customers based on the 
specific terms of the Group’s standard contracts. Accordingly, 
revenue and cost of sales in the prior period were restated as 
shown in note 2 to the financial statements. These changes 
were agreed with the Group’s external auditor in advance of 
the annual audit.
Adoption of new contract approval policy
As a result of the change in revenue recognition policy, the 
Group has had to adapt its controls around contract approval 
to ensure that it is possible for management to be able to 
identify contracts that might be principal in nature. Given 
the change in recognition took place during the year, a 
retrospective review process was adopted for the year under 
review, with the adoption of the new methodology applied in 
the current financial year.
The completeness of provisions against operator prepayments 
It is Air Partner’s policy to negotiate contract terms with aircraft 
operators which minimise deposit payments and align the final 
flight payment with the flight date as closely as possible. In 
addition Air Partner’s internal quality control function assesses 
aircraft operators prior to selection to ensure that only 
operators of the highest quality are used. Further to ensuring 
the completeness of the provisions against prepayments, 
the Committee sought to ensure that the control procedures 
pertaining to the authorisation of payments to operators were 
complied with via the internal audit process.
The accuracy and occurrence of revenue recognition 
Given Air Partner normally receives payment for flights in 
advance of departure, and can also arrange multi-leg charters 
that involve flights either side of the balance sheet date, there 
is a risk of revenue being recognised either too early or in the 
incorrect accounting period. This risk is mitigated by monthly 
reconciliations undertaken between the Group’s flight booking 
system and finance system which results in the identification, 
investigation and, if necessary, the adjustment of reconciling 
items. These reconciliations are reviewed monthly by senior 
finance staff. 
 
Completeness of operator accruals
When revenues and costs for air charter contracts are initially 
recognised, estimates may need to be made in order to accrue 
items of income and expenditure that have not been invoiced. 
These estimates may differ from the actual outcome. Judgment 
is exercised when assessing the level of provisions necessary 
and the Committee requires that prudent but reasonable 
discretion is exercised on matters of judgment. The Committee 
determined that the level of accruals was reasonable following 
a detailed review of the controls and the level of accruals in 
relation to trading activity in the period before year end.
The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets created 
through acquisitions
During the year ended 31 January 2016, the Group made 
two acquisitions: Cabot Aviation Services Limited and Baines 
Simmons Limited. There is significant judgement required 
in the valuation of the intangibles and the Group has used 
a third party to assist in the process to ensure the assets 
identified are valued in accordance with IFRS 3 (revised) 
– Business Combinations.
External audit
Deloitte was appointed as the Group’s external auditor in 2011. 
The Group’s current audit engagement partner was appointed 
during the period ended 31 January 2014, with the next partner 
rotation being due after 31 January 2018. 
Prior to the audit being conducted, the Committee considered 
the content and scope of audit work and the audit fees 
proposed by Deloitte and discussed changes in accounting 
policies and new developments within the business which 
might affect financial reporting going forward.
A formal report was received from Deloitte in respect of the 
audit and matters arising from the report were discussed prior 
to the Board’s approval of the financial statements. 
In assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process by 
the Committee, the auditors were asked to articulate the steps 
that they have taken to ensure objectivity and independence. 
This year, the Committee reviewed and challenged the external 
audit plan to ensure that, having identified potential areas 
of risk, Deloitte would employ effective audit procedures 
to examine them. The Committee monitors the auditors’ 
performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise 
of their duties, which informs the Audit and Risk Committee’s 
decision to recommend re-appointment on an annual basis. 
During the year ended 31 January 2016, Deloitte also provided 
taxation advice to the Group but a clear distinction is 
maintained between audit and non-audit work to ensure that 
their independence and objectivity is not prejudiced by the 
level of fees received, or the nature of the work performed. 
Fees payable to Deloitte for audit and other services are 
disclosed in note 6 on page 98. Subsequent to the year end, 
the Group has appointed BDO as its tax adviser and as a result 
Deloitte’s non-audit fees are likely to be lower going forward.
External auditor effectiveness
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the external 
auditor with the CFO at the end of each audit period. The 
Committee has begun the process of formally assessing 
Deloitte’s effectiveness by asking members of the Committee, 
the CFO and individuals who have worked with Deloitte during 
the year under review to provide their feedback. This process 
will conclude after the completion of the 2016 audit and further 
details will be included in the 2017 Annual Report.
Deloitte has indicated its willingness to continue in office and 
the Committee has recommended Deloitte’s appointment to 
the Board. A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte will be proposed 
at the 2016 AGM. 
Internal audit
In 2013 the Committee reviewed and approved a work 
programme for the function comprising internal audit visits 
to selected offices with a self-review programme of work. 
The largest offices receive an annual internal audit visit 
with smaller offices reviewed less frequently. The findings 
of the internal audit work programme are presented to the 
Committee for review. The internal audit function is not fully 
independent of management as it is currently staffed by a 
senior member of the Group finance function.
No significant deficiencies in the system of internal controls 
were identified following the internal audit review. 
Internal audit effectiveness
The Code and the Committee’s terms of reference require 
the Committee to monitor and review the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit processes. The Committee is satisfied 
that the internal audit function fulfilled its objectives for the year.
Whistle-blowing
The Committee reviewed the Group’s whistle-blowing policy, 
known as the Concern at Work policy, which is in place to 
enable members of staff to raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other 
matters which they believe would damage the performance 
or reputation of the Company.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board sought advice from the Committee that the 
information presented in this Annual Report, when taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and contains the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
The steps taken by the Committee, or on its behalf, to provide 
this advice to the Board included setting up a committee of 
senior individuals within the Group to draft the Annual Report, 
with each of these individuals having responsibility for the 
production of certain sections of the document.
Following a detailed review of the Annual Report, the Committee 
concluded that it was fair, balanced and understandable and 
advised the Board accordingly.
Discharge of responsibilities
During the year, the Committee has continued its detailed 
scrutiny of the appropriateness of the Group’s system of 
risk management and internal controls, the robustness and 
integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, along with both 
the internal and external audit processes. 
The Committee has devoted significant time to reviewing  
these areas, which are integral to the Group’s core 
management and financial processes, as well as engaging 
regularly with management.
The Committee has, where necessary, taken initiative in 
requesting information in order to provide the appropriate 
constructive challenge for its role. During the course of the 
year, the information that the Committee has received has 
been timely and clear and has enabled the Committee to 
discharge its duties effectively.
Approval
On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee
Andrew Wood
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee
27 April 2016 48 49
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Corporate governance statement continued
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of effective 
communication with shareholders, analysts and the financial 
press and is keen to gain an understanding of the views of 
both institutional and private individual shareholders. This is 
conducted primarily through meetings of the Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer with analysts and significant 
shareholders following both the interim and preliminary 
announcements of the results of the Group, and the Chairman 
and Senior Independent director are available if requested. 
Feedback of shareholder meetings is provided via the Group’s 
corporate stockbroker. 
The Board exercises care to ensure that all information, 
including that which is potentially price sensitive, is released 
to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Annual General Meeting
The Company welcomes the participation of shareholders at 
its Annual General Meeting. The Chairmen of the Board and its 
Committees will be available at the AGM to answer questions 
that might arise. During the year under review, the AGM was 
held in June 2015 and each member of the Board attended 
and was available to take questions. All shareholders will be 
entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM and all votes 
cast will be counted, whether in person or by proxy, by means 
of a poll on every resolution in the Notice of AGM. The results 
of the votes on the resolutions, including the number of votes 
for and against each resolution and the number of shares 
for which the vote was directed to be withheld, will be given 
at the meeting, made public by means of an announcement 
through a Regulatory News Service and published on the 
Company’s website.
The 2016 AGM will be held at 11am on Wednesday 29 June 
at Ropemaker Place, 25 Ropemaker Street, London EC2Y 9LY. 
The Company confirms that it will send the Notice of AGM and 
related documentation to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the meeting, either by post, to those shareholders 
who prefer a paper copy, or by email to those shareholders 
who have agreed that the Company can communicate with 
them electronically. Both the Notice of AGM and the Proxy form 
are available to download from the Investors section on the 
Company’s website.
Website information
All shareholders and potential shareholders can access 
investor-related information on the share price, corporate 
governance, annual reports, presentations to investors, AGM 
documentation, regulatory news and other information about 
Air Partner in the Investors section of the Company’s website, 
www.airpartner.com. This site also provides contact details 
for any investor-related queries.
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”), I am pleased to present the Directors’ remuneration report  
for the year ended 31 January 2016. 
I have set out in my statement the following information:
• the Committee’s philosophy for remuneration;
• how the Committee reflects employee remuneration arrangements in considering executive remuneration;
•  the key activities undertaken by the Committee during the year and in particular, details of the outcome and proposals  
arising from the independent review of the Group’s remuneration policy which was carried out during the year; and 
• the key areas of focus for the Committee during 2016/2017 and beyond.
Our remuneration philosophy
The Group’s total remuneration packages are designed to be competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality individuals 
throughout the business. Our packages aim to recruit talented executives and senior managers capable of effectively delivering 
on the Group’s strategy and driving business outcomes through their teams, thereby enhancing long term shareholder value. 
The principles of our remuneration policy are to: 
•  ensure overall remuneration is market competitive to attract and retain the leadership and talent required to drive the business 
for the benefit of all stakeholders;
•  adopt a simple, transparent and cost-effective approach to remuneration which is clear and understandable for business 
leaders, shareholders and the wider team;
• align compensation to performance and incorporate a balance of fixed and variable remuneration;
•  design incentive plans which reinforce both short and long term behaviours, promote long term development and support 
the strategic plans of the business; and
•  ensure remuneration packages motivate and incentivise Executive directors, management and the broader team to deliver 
on stretching performance targets.
 
Directors’ remuneration report 
Annual statement by the Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee
Peter Saunders
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
“ On behalf of the Remuneration 
Committee (“the Committee”), I am 
pleased to present the Directors’ 
remuneration report for the year 
ended 31 January 2016.” 50 51
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
Annual statement by the Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee continued
The Company employs a number of people in a variety of roles, from brokers and administration support staff to senior 
management and directors across a range of geographies. Its reward structure for all people is built around a set of common 
reward principles on a framework adapted to suit the needs of the business. Reward packages differ, taking into account a 
number of factors including seniority, role, impact on the business, local practice, custom and legislation.
The remuneration policy for the Executive directors reflects the overall remuneration philosophy and principles of the wider 
Group. When determining remuneration policy and arrangements for executive directors, the Committee considers the wider 
pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure pay structures from director to senior management are 
aligned and appropriate.
When considering salary increases for the Executive directors, the Committee considers the general level of salary increase 
across the Group. Typically, salary increases will be aligned with those received elsewhere in the Group unless the Committee 
considers that specific circumstances require a different level of increase for Executive directors. 
Key remuneration activities during the year
The key ongoing activities undertaken by the Committee during the year were:
• determining the extent to which the performance measures in respect of the incentives plan have been achieved; and
• setting bonus targets following the approval of the financial budget.
Last year we said that we would undertake a review of the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) and, if deemed necessary, seek 
approval from shareholders for the implementation of a revised plan. We decided to appoint an independent remuneration 
consultant to assist us with this review and, following a tender process, the Committee appointed h2glenfern Limited 
(“h2glenfern” – for further information about their appointment, please see page 63 in the Annual report on remuneration). 
As part of the Company’s growth strategy, and given the revised focus in The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 to promote the 
long term success of the Company, we decided it would be appropriate, and more efficient, to undertake an independent review 
of the Group’s total remuneration policy to ensure that remuneration packages are effective in promoting the Group’s strategy. 
Review of remuneration
The scope of the work undertaken by h2glenfern was to:
•  review the remuneration package of the Group’s CEO, Mark Briffa, comparing earnings over a three-year period against 
the market, specifically with the earnings of other comparable CEOs;
•  review the Group’s executive remuneration policy and provide advice on incorporating more opportunity, flexibility and 
discretion while continuing to meet shareholder expectations and reflecting the spirit of the corporate governance framework; 
• review the current short and long term bonus plans for executives, senior managers and the wider team; and 
•  advise and support the design of variable pay schemes, creating simple, effective and affordable schemes that attract and 
motivate individuals to drive company performance. 
Although the review was focused on executive and senior management schemes, the objective was to develop a remuneration 
framework that can be adapted for use throughout the Company. 
Outcome of the review of remuneration
The review identified a number of changes to remuneration which are intended to allow the Company to manage remuneration 
for Executive directors, other senior executives, managers and the employee group as a whole more effectively and to align 
remuneration more closely with shareholder interests. Recommendations arising from the review included the following items:
• amendments to the annual bonus plan in which the Executive directors, senior executives and managers participate;
• an above-inflation increase in the salary of the CEO;
•  amendments to the remuneration policy and LTIP to give the Committee greater flexibility in structuring long term incentive 
awards each year; and
• the introduction of a shareholding guideline for the Executive directors.
A summary of each of these recommendations is set out below.
Significant changes have been made, effective from 1 February 2016, to the annual bonus plan in which Executive directors, 
senior executives and managers participate to make the plan simpler, more closely aligned to Company performance and more 
affordable. Further information on these changes is set out in the Annual bonus section on page 54.
The CEO’s salary was increased from £225,000 to £250,000, an increase of 11%, with effect from 1 January 2016. The Committee 
believes that this increase reflects the CEO’s achievements and his contribution to the Group over recent years, including 
developing and leading the implementation of the Company’s strategy, and supports the Committee’s aim to retain Mark Briffa 
and promote the long term success of the Company. 
The implementation of the other recommendations requires the approval of shareholders either as a change to the current 
executive remuneration policy or an amendment to the Company’s LTIP or both. The proposals will be put to shareholders at 
the 2016 AGM. The Committee has considered these proposals carefully and believes that they are in the best interests of the 
Company and its shareholders. The Committee consulted with its largest shareholders on recommendations arising from the 
outcome of the review and made changes in response to shareholder views.
The key proposals
•  Amend the remuneration policy and the LTIP to give the Committee greater flexibility in structuring long term incentive 
awards and, in particular, defining performance conditions to fit the circumstances each year against the Company’s strategic 
development, being mindful of market and shareholder expectations. Under the current policy and LTIP , the structure and 
targets of the performance conditions to be applied to LTIP awards each year are fixed. The proposed amendments will allow the 
Committee to: select appropriate performance condition criteria and mix each year, to set appropriate growth target levels each 
year, to make adjustments to EPS to reflect underlying performance and TSR baseline within sensible parameters at the time of 
making awards, to average EPS over up to three years to address volatility of business and reward sustained improvement, and 
to average the share price at the start and end of the measurement period for the TSR condition.
  Further amendments to the LTIP are proposed to allow dividend equivalent payments to be added to performance share awards 
and to introduce malus and clawback provisions. No change is proposed to the annual LTIP award level limits. The Committee 
believes that these changes to the policy and LTIP will enable it to manage remuneration more flexibly and efficiently and will 
improve alignment between performance and pay-outs. The amendments to the remuneration policy and to the LTIP require 
shareholder approval. 
•  Introduce a shareholding guideline with a target value of shareholding of 100% of salary for the CEO and 50% of salary for 
the CFO to be achieved over five years. This proposal supports the building of Executive directors’ shareholdings and will be 
included in the revised remuneration policy for which shareholder approval is required.
The Committee intends to make awards under the 2016 LTIP at 150% of salary for the CEO and 50% of salary for the CFO following 
the 2016 AGM and to apply both an EPS growth and TSR performance condition to these awards. The proposed CEO award for 
2016 is at the maximum level permitted under the remuneration policy to be used in exceptional circumstances. The Committee 
sees that this award reflects Mark Briffa’s achievements and contribution to the Group over recent years and furthermore it 
supports his retention and the building of the CEO’s shareholding in the Company. Further information on the performance 
conditions which the Remuneration Committee intends to apply to 2016 awards is set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
The Company intends in due course to introduce a Company-wide share plan, the details of which will be determined during 
2016/2017. The introduction of this plan will require shareholder approval which will be sought in due course. 
As stated in the 2015 Annual Report, the Company has implemented clawback provisions in respect of annual bonuses for the 
Executive directors. This has been reflected in the policy table. 52 53
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
As part of the review, the Committee considered the introduction of a deferred bonus plan whereby a proportion of the annual 
bonus would be deferred into shares. However it determined that at present current policy on this should be maintained, with 
the Committee having discretion to settle bonus awards in cash or shares. The Committee is also proposing an amendment to 
the executive remuneration policy to allow the Executive directors to receive some or all of the Company’s pension contribution 
in cash as an alternative to the Company making a contribution into a personal pension plan. This change is proposed in response 
to changes in the UK pensions regime.
Overall, the Committee believes that the changes implemented and proposed support the future business strategy and reinforce 
the link between pay and performance. The Committee sees that the retention and appropriate incentivisation of the CEO is 
critical to the implementation of strategy. The proposed changes to the LTIP policy will allow the Committee better to align 
remuneration with strategy, long term objectives and positive outcomes for shareholders.
The Committee has consulted with significant shareholders on the key elements of the changes proposed and is seeking approval 
from shareholders for a revised remuneration policy, set out in the table and notes on pages 53 to 62, at the 2016 AGM. 
Focus for 2016/2017 and beyond
During the current year, the Committee will implement the revised policy following approval by shareholders and consider the 
introduction of a Company-wide share incentive plan. The Committee will continue to review executive remuneration to ensure 
it remains appropriate to promote the long term success of the Company. 
Compliance statement
This report complies with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules and applies the Main Principles relating to remuneration which 
are set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code. 
I will be available, together with my fellow Committee members, at the 2016 AGM to answer any questions or receive your 
feedback with regard to our policy and how we have implemented it. 
On behalf of the Committee, I look forward to receiving your support at the AGM. 
Peter Saunders
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 April 2016 
The information contained in the following parts of this report has been audited: the table containing the single total figure 
of remuneration for directors and accompanying notes, pension entitlements and incentive awards made during the year 
on page 64 and directors’ beneficial interests in shares on page 67.
The information set out on pages 63 to 69 of this report includes, as indicated, the auditable disclosures referred to in the 
Auditors’ report on pages 74 to 80 as specified by the UK Listing Authority and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (“the Regulations”). 
As required by the Regulations, the rest of this report is divided into two sections:
•  the Directors’ remuneration policy, which sets out the Company’s policy on director remuneration, including proposed 
changes to the policy, which will be put to the shareholder vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on Wednesday 
29 June 2016; and
•  the Annual report on remuneration which sets out payments made to the Directors which also will be put to shareholder 
vote at the 2016 AGM.
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
Annual statement by the Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee continued
This section of the report sets out the Directors’ remuneration policy (“the Policy”) as determined by the Committee. The changes 
outlined above have been reflected in the policy table below and will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM.
Remuneration policy table – Executive directors
The following table sets out a summary of the Company’s remuneration policy for Executive directors. Components in the table 
below are described in more detail on pages 55 to 62.
Remuneration 
element
Purpose and link to 
remuneration policy Key features and operation Maximum potential value
Performance 
metrics
Provision for 
clawback or 
withholding 
of payment
Base salary Supports the 
recruitment and 
retention of executive 
directors of the 
calibre required to 
fulfil the role without 
paying more than is 
necessary.
Rewards executives 
for the performance of 
their role.
Reflects the individual 
skills, experience and 
role within the Group.
Paid in cash.
Normally reviewed annually to take 
effect on 1 August but exceptionally 
may take place at other times of the 
year.
In determining base salaries, 
the Committee considers:
•  pay levels at companies of  
a similar size and complexity;
•  external market conditions;
•  pay and conditions elsewhere  
in the Group; and
•  personal performance.
The Committee’s policy 
is to set base salary at 
an appropriate level 
taking into account 
the factors outlined in 
this table; there is no 
maximum value. The 
Committee considers 
individual salaries 
at the appropriate 
Committee meeting 
each year.
N/A None
Pension Provides funds to 
allow executives to 
save for retirement.
Provides a 
market-competitive 
retirement benefit.
Incentivises and 
encourages retention.
In determining pension arrangements, 
the Committee takes into account 
relevant market practice.
The scheme is defined contribution.
A salary sacrifice scheme is in 
operation for executive directors.
Executive directors may elect, with 
the Committee’s consent, to receive 
some or all of the Company’s pension 
contribution as a cash alternative.
Bonuses are non-pensionable.
Both the CEO and CFO 
receive a company 
contribution of 12% 
of basic salary.
N/A None
Benefits 
in kind
Provides a 
market-competitive 
level of benefits to 
executive directors.
Executive directors can receive life 
assurance, health insurance, car 
allowance, income protection, critical 
illness cover and sports club or gym 
membership.
There is no maximum 
value.
N/A None
Relocation/ 
expatriate 
assistance
Provides assistance 
to executive directors 
who are required to 
work away from their 
home location to 
enable the Company 
to recruit the best 
person for the role.
Assistance will include (but is not 
limited to) facilitating or meeting 
the costs of obtaining visas or work 
permits for executive directors and 
their immediate family, removal 
and other relocation costs, 
house purchase or rental costs, 
limited amount of travel costs, tax 
equalisation arrangements.
There are a number 
of variables affecting 
the amount that 
may be payable, but 
the Remuneration 
Committee would pay 
no more than it judged 
reasonably necessary. 
The maximum amount 
payable shall not 
exceed £50,000 per 
individual in any 
financial year.
N/A None
Remuneration policy report 54 55
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Remuneration 
element
Purpose and link to 
remuneration policy
Key features and 
operation
Maximum potential 
value Performance metrics
Provision for clawback  
or withholding  
of payment
Annual bonus Rewards and 
incentivises the 
achievement of 
annual financial 
objectives which 
are aligned with 
key strategic goals 
and support the 
enhancement of 
shareholder value.
Paid in cash following 
announcement of 
financial year results.
Bonuses are non-
pensionable.
May be paid in shares 
at the Committee’s 
discretion.
Maximum 
opportunity to 
achieve:
•  CEO: 150% of base 
salary; and
•  CFO: 100% of base 
salary.
Bonus accrues from 
threshold levels of 
performance.
Both CEO and CFO 
bonus payment 
based on:
•  Personal objectives: 
30% based on 
performance towards 
Key Results Areas 
(“KRA”) defined at 
the beginning of each 
financial year; and
•  Company 
performance: 70% 
based on financial 
metrics.
Bonus is usually not 
paid to a good leaver 
should they leave 
before the payment 
date of said bonus.
From 2016, 
arrangements in 
place under which 
amounts paid out in 
bonus can be clawed 
back from Executive 
Directors in defined 
circumstances.
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (“LTIP”)
Incentivises 
executives to achieve 
the Company’s long 
term strategy and 
create sustainable 
shareholder value.
Enhances shareholder 
value by motivating 
growth in earnings 
and maintenance 
of an efficient and 
sustainable level of 
return of capital.
Aligns with 
shareholder interests 
through the delivery 
of shares.
Awards vest after three 
years based on Group 
financial targets.
Awards are in the form 
of nil-cost options and 
must be exercised 
within four years of 
vesting.
25% of awards vest 
at threshold levels 
of performance. For 
performance above 
threshold, awards vest 
on a straight-line basis 
up to a maximum 
of 100%.
Maximum plan 
award of 150% of 
base salary to be 
used in exceptional 
circumstances.
Usual award levels 
will be:
•  CEO – 100 to 150% 
of base salary; and
•  CFO – 75 to 100% 
of base salary.
The Committee 
will review the 
appropriateness of 
performance measures 
on an annual basis 
and set challenging 
targets consistent with 
the business strategy. 
The Committee 
has the ability to 
select appropriate 
performance condition 
criteria, mix and 
targets each year. 
In the past these 
have been EPS and 
TSR-based targets and 
the Committee expects 
this to continue. 
Further detail of the 
specific measures that 
the Remuneration 
Committee intends to 
apply to awards made 
in the year ending 31 
January 2017 are set 
out in the annual report 
of this report.
As per the rules of the 
scheme, awards will 
lapse if the executive 
leaves before the end 
of the performance 
period.
The Committee has 
discretion in certain 
circumstances (for 
example death, 
serious illness, 
redundancy) to permit 
an award to vest 
before the end of the 
performance period.
Contains provisions 
under which amounts 
paid out can be clawed 
back from Executive 
directors in defined 
circumstances.
Contains a ‘malus’ 
provision. See further 
detail under Long term 
incentives on page 56.
Shareholding 
guideline
Incentivises 
executives to achieve 
the Company’s long 
term strategy and 
create sustainable 
shareholder value. 
Aligns with 
shareholder interests.
Target value to be 
achieved over five 
years: 
•  CEO – 100% of 
salary; and
• CFO – 50% of salary.
Until the guideline 
has been achieved, 
executives must retain 
at least half vested 
LTIP awards beyond 
those needing to be 
sold to pay tax.
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Individual components of remuneration
Executive director packages are set out in the Company’s remuneration policy. The components of executive remuneration 
(the “Policy”) are determined by the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”). This Policy will be subject to shareholder 
approval at the 2016 AGM and, subject to that approval, will become effective from that date.
Components of Executive directors’ remuneration are described below in more detail: 
Bonus scheme
The bonus scheme for senior executives was introduced in September 2010 and is based on on-target performance. The first 30% 
of the on-target bonus depends on individual achievement in Key Result Areas (KRAs), determined each year by the Remuneration 
Committee. The remaining 70% is linked to corporate performance, evidenced by the reported underlying profit of the Group, 
excluding discontinued and exceptional items. 
Following the review of remuneration carried out during 2015, key elements of the bonus scheme remain as before. For the 
Executive directors, 30% of annual bonus remains based on KRAs and 70% remains linked to corporate performance, the 
maximum opportunity remains the same and clawback provisions have been introduced. 
Changes across the Company include the following; 
• employees who are entitled to receive commission no longer participate in the annual bonus plan; and
•  for performance between threshold and target, only bonus based on KRAs is paid. Previously, for senior executives excluding 
the Executive directors, a portion of bonus was based on divisional performance. This portion of bonus has been reduced and 
now forms part of the KRA portion of bonus.
Targets for the previous and current financial years are deemed commercially sensitive and therefore are not disclosed before the 
end of the year to which they relate. Retrospective disclosure of performance targets will be made in the Annual Report prepared 
in respect of that year.
Share options
Share options were awarded at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion under the Company Share Option Plan which was first 
approved by shareholders in 2003. This plan is now closed and no further grants of options may be made under this scheme. 
Exercises of options by staff below director level and exercises of all options granted before 24 May 2010 are subject only 
to a service condition. Options vest three years from the date of grant and expire if not exercised within ten years, except in 
exceptional circumstances such as the death of the holder. All outstanding options lapse upon cessation of employment, unless 
there are special circumstances such as redundancy or retirement when options must be exercised within a six-month period. 
Options may not be granted at a discount and the aggregate market price for options awarded during any one-year period may 
not exceed four times the individual’s relevant emoluments. 
Under the Air Partner Share Option Scheme 2012 (“the 2012 Scheme”), options were granted to eligible employees (including 
Executive directors) within the Group, subject to defined limits. No further grants of options may be made to the Executive 
directors of the Company under the 2012 Scheme.
Grants of options will generally be made within 42 days of the announcement of annual or half yearly results and the base 
measurement for EPS will be that shown in the annual or half yearly accounts of the Company most recently published. The 
Remuneration Committee must be satisfied at the time of vesting that the underlying performance of the Company justifies 
the vesting. No options may vest until the Remuneration Committee has written to participants to confirm that the necessary 
conditions have been fulfilled.
  56 57
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Long term incentives
Long term incentives are awarded at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion under the Air Partner Long Term Incentive Plan 
2012 (“LTIP”) which was approved by shareholders in 2012.
Under the current LTIP rules, awards made under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions based on Total Shareholder 
Return (“TSR”) and Earnings per Share (“EPS”) as, in the view of the Remuneration Committee, these remain key performance 
indicators of the business.
Individual limits will normally be restricted to 100% of basic salary per annum. However, in circumstances considered by 
the Remuneration Committee to be exceptional, the limit may be increased to 150% of basic salary on a non-recurring basis. 
These are the maximum annual limits and the actual level of awards will be considered each year by the Remuneration Committee 
before they are made. The vesting of awards will be subject to challenging EPS and TSR performance conditions being achieved 
over a minimum period of three years. 
The objective of the LTIP is to provide a variable element which aligns the reward of all directors with long term performance 
delivered for shareholders. This element enhances shareholder value by motivating growth in earnings and maintenance of 
an efficient and sustainable level of return of capital and aligns with shareholder interests through the delivery of shares.
Following the review of remuneration carried out during 2015, the Committee is proposing a number of amendments to the LTIP 
rules to give the Committee greater flexibility in structuring long term incentive awards and, in particular, defining performance 
conditions to fit the circumstances each year against the Company’s strategic development, being mindful of market and 
shareholder expectations. The proposed amendments will allow the Committee to select appropriate performance condition 
criteria and mix each year, to set appropriate growth target levels each year, to make adjustments to EPS to reflect underlying 
performance and TSR baseline within sensible parameters at time of making awards, to average EPS over up to three years 
to address volatility of business and reward sustained improvement, and to average share price at the start and end of the 
measurement period for TSR condition. 
Further amendments to the LTIP are proposed to allow dividend-equivalent payments to be added to performance share 
awards and to introduce malus and clawback provisions. These allow the Committee to determine, at its absolute discretion, 
that an unvested LTIP award (or part of an award) may not be permitted to vest or that the level of vesting is reduced in certain 
circumstances or payment back of some or all of an award is required after vesting. Examples of such circumstances shall include, 
but are not limited to:
• a material misstatement of the Group’s financial statements;
• a material error in determining the level of satisfaction of a performance condition or target;
•  a participant deliberately misleading the Company, the market and/or shareholders in relation to the financial performance 
of the Group; 
• a material failure of risk management; and
•  a participant having been found to have engaged in any form of misconduct and/or there are in existence circumstances which 
justify a participant’s summary dismissal.
The Committee has the right to apply the malus provision to an individual or on a collective basis. It shall also (acting reasonably 
and in good faith) determine the amount or award subject to clawback.
No change is proposed to the annual LTIP award level limits. The Committee believes that these changes to the policy and LTIP 
will enable it to manage remuneration more flexibly and efficiently and will improve alignment between performance and pay-outs. 
Policy provisions relating to Executive directors’ remuneration
How employee pay is taken into consideration
When determining remuneration policy and arrangements for executive directors, the Committee considers the wider pay 
and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure pay structures from director to senior management are aligned 
and appropriate.
When considering salary increases for the Executive directors, the Committee considers the general level of salary increase across 
the Group. Typically, salary increases will be aligned with those received elsewhere in the Group unless the Committee considers 
that specific circumstances (such as change of role) require a different level of increase for Executive directors. 
The Committee did not consult with its employees in formulating this policy.
Shareholder views on remuneration
The Chairman of the Committee will be available for contact with institutional investors concerning the Company’s approach to 
remuneration. The Company welcomes a dialogue with its shareholders and will seek the views of its major shareholders if and 
when any major changes are being proposed to the policy. The Committee consulted with major shareholders in respect of key 
changes to the policy outlined above. 
Alignment of executive remuneration and the market
The Committee sets executive remuneration policy in the light of its knowledge of remuneration at comparable companies 
and undertakes benchmarking exercises periodically so that it can do this. This is done to ensure executive remuneration 
is appropriate, competitive and not excessive.
Approach to remuneration on recruitment
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements and in the event that the Company recruits a new Executive director 
(either from within the organisation or externally), the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors (including but 
not limited to quantum, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from) to ensure 
that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary 
to recruit an executive of the required calibre.
The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration package offered with the Company’s remuneration policy outlined 
in the table above. However, the Committee retains the discretion to make proposals on hiring a new Executive director which are 
outside the standard policy: 
•  in the first year of appointment, the Committee may offer additional remuneration arrangements that it considers appropriate 
and necessary to recruit and retain the individual which shall not be offered in successive years; 
•  it may also offer awards on appointing an Executive director to ‘buy-out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving 
a previous employer; 
•  any arrangement established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a particular individual would take the form of performance-
related variable remuneration. The value of this would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, than the awards which the 
individual had to surrender in order to be recruited. The same remuneration policy as for the existing Executive directors would 
apply to the balance of the individual’s remuneration package. The Committee does not envisage any cash payment being 
offered which could be construed as a ‘golden hello’; and
•  in the event of recruitment, the Committee may also grant awards to a new Executive director under Listing Rule 9.4.2 (2) which 
allows for the granting of awards specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of an Executive 
director, without seeking prior shareholder approval. 58 59
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive director service contracts
The Executive directors have rolling service contracts that provide for a twelve-month notice period by either party. Other than 
in circumstances such as gross misconduct or other immediate justifiable cause, the Company may terminate the Executive 
director’s contract by making a payment in lieu of notice of the unexpired notice period equivalent to a value comprising salary, 
pension and other contractual benefits, such as accrued but unpaid annual leave. There is no provision in any of the service 
contracts of either Executive director for any ex-gratia payments.
Director Date of service contract Date of appointment
Unexpired term at  
31 Jan 2016 Notice period
M Briffa 8 Feb 2012 1 Jan 2005 12 months 12 months
N Morris 6 Oct 2014 1 May 2014 12 months 12 months
The service agreements are held at the registered office and are available to shareholders to view on request from the 
Company Secretary.
Policy for payments for loss of office
Notice periods set in the Executive directors’ service contracts are driven by the need to protect shareholder value and interests. 
As noted above, both Executive directors have notice periods of twelve months. A bonus is not usually paid to a ‘good leaver’ 
should they leave before the payment date of said bonus. 
The principles governing determination of payments for loss of office are:
•  service contracts legally oblige the Company to either continue to pay salary and pension allowances and other contractual 
benefits for any unworked notice period or, at the option of the Company, to make payment in lieu of notice unless where an 
Executive director’s employment is summarily terminated. The Committee reserves the right to make discretionary payments 
in lieu of notice which may be paid in a lump sum, quarterly or monthly;
•  the payment of a performance bonus and/or other short term incentives may be offered to the departing Executive director 
during his/her notice period, based on an assessment of personal and corporate performance up to the date of departure. 
Bonuses will not be paid for any unworked period of notice;
•  where a role fulfilled by an Executive director is declared redundant, the individual may have the legal right to either statutory 
redundancy pay or to a payment under the Group’s normal severance arrangements applicable to employees generally; and
•  in case of poor performance, contractual termination payments may generate undue and potentially excessive reward;  
in such circumstances, the Committee will consider terminating a service contract on a fair basis, while protecting the rights  
of the Company.
The Company’s various incentive schemes are governed by formal rules, all of which have been approved by shareholders. 
Directors have no contractual rights to the value inherent in any awards held under these plans and these plans provide for 
vesting in different leaver scenarios.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing executive may have a legal entitlement (under statute or otherwise) 
to additional amounts, which would need to be met. The Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably 
due to the executive where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement. In certain circumstances, the Committee 
may approve new contractual arrangements with departing executives, potentially including settlement, confidentiality, restrictive 
covenants and/or consultancy arrangements. These will only be used where the Committee believes it is in the best interests of 
the Company.
The Committee generally seeks to apply practical mitigation in respect of termination payments where appropriate. Under terms 
of reference agreed in September 2010, any ex-gratia payments made at the discretion of the Committee in excess of statutory 
or contractual obligations will be limited to an amount not exceeding one year’s bonus plus legal fees, so long as such fees  
do not exceed £5,000.
Flexibility, discretion and judgment
Every attempt has been made to ensure that the majority of situations and scenarios that may arise in relation to directors’ 
remuneration have been covered in this policy. However, there may be times when the Committee may need to exercise 
appropriate flexibility, discretion and judgment to achieve a fair result as no remuneration policy, however comprehensive 
and carefully designed and implemented, can pre-empt every possible scenario. Discretion must be available to the Committee 
at times when changes to business requirements demand it has the ability to assess and amend pay and short term or other 
incentives as appropriate in order to motivate, drive appropriate behaviours and incentivise performance to promote the long 
term success of the Company. Judgment and flexibility may also be needed in downgrading, as well as upgrading, certain 
remuneration elements, or in determining a suitable balance between fixed and performance-related, immediate and deferred 
remuneration, thereby permitting the Committee to adapt to changing or challenging situations in the overall business 
environment for the benefit of the Company, including considerations of political and social pressures to which the Company 
may be subject. Although the Committee will seek to maintain a strict adherence to the three-year policy whenever possible, 
the requirement to engage with shareholders each and every time a measure is identified as being required can be onerous 
in time and expense. The Committee remains wholly committed to maintaining engagement with shareholders throughout the 
three-year life of the policy and, where appropriate, shall formally engage them in placing a revised policy to a General Meeting 
for approval before the three-year period expires. The Committee, however, requests the ability (and flexibility) to exercise their 
discretion and judgment to ensure that the determination and implementation of this policy is fair to both the directors and the 
shareholders, while taking into account the overall performance of the Company and any relevant internal and external factors.
The Committee shall exercise such discretion for the key areas detailed as follows:
Bonus – Bonus programmes for executive directors are unique and tailored to their respective roles with the annual setting of 
performance criteria which shall be transparent and challenging and also aligned to the needs of the Company and shareholders. 
Maximum bonuses are capped for the CEO and CFO at 150% and 100% respectively. The Committee will have the discretion to 
develop the bonus programme, as necessary, by application of sufficient flexibility regarding the determination of the terms 
applied: (1) to alter the performance criteria each year as necessary as progress is made towards the Group’s strategy and the 
needs of the Group (but in no event to exceed the maximum capped bonus stated in the policy table above without reference 
to shareholders in General Meeting); (2) in relation to leavers as provided for in the policy table; (3) on a change of control of 
the Company, to determine the amount of bonus for that year taking into account such factors it considers appropriate, including 
performance, loyalty, transitional considerations, time-apportionment and any additional terms which may be reasonably applied 
to such payment; (4) whether to settle bonus awards in cash or shares or a combination of both to obtain an appropriate balance 
for the Company; and (5) for the implementation of appropriate arrangements for withholding or clawback of any bonus in 
defined circumstances. 
LTIP – The Committee will have the discretion in respect of: (1) determination of who is to participate each year in the plan and 
the levels of award to be made (but not to exceed the levels stated in the LTIP Rules); (2) leavers as provided for in the policy 
table; (3) a change of control of the Company, to determine the level of vesting of awards taking into account performance and 
such other factors as the Committee believes to be relevant; and (4) for the implementation of appropriate arrangements for 
withholding an award or clawback of any award made or paid in defined circumstances.
Relocation / expatriate assistance – As provided for in the policy table up to a maximum amount payable not to exceed £50,000 
per individual in any financial year.
Recruitment – The making of remuneration proposals on hiring a new Executive director which are outside the standard policy, 
but remain generally as stipulated above under Approach to remuneration on recruitment on page 57.
  60 61
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Remuneration policy table – Non-executive directors
The Company intends to have at least two independent Non-executive directors on the Board at any time. The Board considers 
each of the Non-executive directors to be independent. 
The Non-executive directors’ remuneration (including that of the Chairman) reflects the anticipated time commitment to fulfil 
their duties. Non-executive directors do not receive benefits, bonuses, long term incentive awards, a pension or compensation 
on termination of their appointments. 
The following table sets out a summary of the Company’s remuneration policy for Non-executive directors:
Remuneration element Purpose and link to remuneration policy Key features and operation (including maximum levels)
Fees Fees for Non-executive directors are set at an 
appropriate level to recruit and retain directors 
of a sufficient calibre without paying more 
than is necessary to do so. Fees are set taking 
into account the following factors: the time 
commitment required to fulfil the role, typical 
practice at other companies of a similar size and 
salary levels of employees throughout the Group.
The Non-executive director fees policy is:
• to pay a basic fee for membership of the Board; and
•  to pay additional fees for chairmanship of the Board 
and chairmanship of a committee to take into account 
the additional responsibilities and time commitment 
of these roles.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate levels at appropriate 
intervals (normally once every year) by the Board with 
reference to individual experience, the external market 
and the expected time commitment required of the 
director. The Company’s current maximum fees are 
as follows:
• Basic fee – £30,000
• Additional fee for Board Chairman – £30,000
• Additional fee for Committee Chairman – £5,000
Recruiting Non-executive directors
When recruiting a new Non-executive director, the Remuneration Committee will follow the policy set out in the table above. 
No sign-on payments will be made to Non-executive directors and they will not be offered share options or LTIPs.
Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment
The Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but have entered into letters of appointment with the Company 
covering matters such as duties, time commitment, fees and other business interests. 
The Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-year period which may be renewed once by mutual consent. 
In exceptional circumstances, a further extension may be agreed, but no non-executive director, with the exception of the 
Chairman, may serve for a period of more than nine years from their date of initial appointment.
The letters of appointment do not include any provisions for the payment of pre-determined compensation upon termination 
of appointment and notice may be served by either party.
Details of the letters of appointment of the Non-executive directors at 31 January 2016 are set out below: 
Director
Date of appointment 
or re-appointment Term 
Unexpired term at  
31 Jan 2016 Notice period
Richard Everitt 9 Feb 2015 3 years 2 y 3 months
Peter Saunders 18 Sept 2014 3 years 1 y 8 m 3 months
Amanda Wills 20 April 2016 3 years – 3 months
Andrew Wood* 7 Jun 2014 3 years 1 y 5 m 3 months
* Andrew Wood will retire as a Non-executive director after the 2016 AGM.
Shaun Smith will join the Board with effect from 1 May 2016 for a term of 3 years, with a notice period of 3 months.
Terms and conditions for the Chairman and Non-executive directors
Richard Everitt was appointed as a Non-executive director of the Company on 1 January 2005. His letter of appointment was 
updated following his appointment as Chairman on 9 February 2012 and his appointment was for a period of three years ending 
on 8 February 2015. A further three-year term was agreed on 9 February 2015.
The Chairman’s appointment may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the letter of appointment giving three 
months’ notice, the Company’s Articles of Association or the Companies Act 2006. In the event of early termination of contract, 
there will be no payment for loss of office for the unexpired appointment term. In addition to the time commitment, the annual 
engagement fee and other business interests, the Chairman is entitled to hold other directorships provided such appointment 
does not interfere with his position at the Company.
Andrew Wood was re-appointed as Independent Non-executive director of the Company on 7 June 2014 for a period of three years 
ending on 7 June 2017. He has taken the decision to step down from the Board after the 2016 AGM.
Peter Saunders was appointed as Independent Non-executive director of the Company on 18 September 2014 for a period  
of three years.
Amanda Wills was appointed as Independent Non-executive director of the Company on 20 April 2016 for a period of three years.
Shaun Smith has been appointed as Independent Non-executive director of the Company with effect from 1 May 2016 for a period 
of three years.
All appointments are subject to the Company’s Articles of Association and annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-executive director appointments may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the letter of appointment giving 
three months’ notice, the Company’s Articles of Association or the Companies Act 2006. In the event of early termination, 
there will be no payment for loss of office for the unexpired appointment term. In addition to the time commitment, the annual 
engagement fee and other business interests, the Non-executive directors are entitled to hold other directorships provided such 
appointment does not interfere with his or her position at the Company. 
No director has any direct or indirect interest in any contract or arrangement subsisting at the date of these financial statements 
which is significant in relation to the business of the Group and which has not otherwise been disclosed.
The service agreements are held at the registered office and are available for shareholders to view on request from the 
Company Secretary.  62 63
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive Officer
£’000
 Annual bonus 
 Fixed pay
Below 
threshold 
performance
At expectation 
performance
Maximum 
performance
£299
£637
£495
Illustration of application of remuneration policy
Three scenarios of Executive director remuneration are illustrated below: 
CEO CFO
Maximum performance 
(fixed pay plus full vesting of all performance-related pay)
Fixed remuneration
Performance bonus pay-out 
equivalent to 150% of base salary
Fixed remuneration
Performance bonus pay-out 
equivalent to 100% of base salary
At expectation performance  
(fixed pay plus short and long term performance-related 
pay vesting at the levels reasonably expected)
Fixed remuneration
Performance bonus pay-out 
equivalent to 78.5% of base salary
Fixed remuneration
Performance bonus pay-out 
equivalent to 54.75% of base salary
Below threshold performance  
(only fixed pay (salary, benefits in kind and pension) 
is payable and no short or long term performance-related 
pay accrues)
Fixed remuneration
No performance bonus pay-out
Fixed remuneration
No performance bonus pay-out
The chart below sets out an illustration of the potential value of the current components of the Executive directors’ remuneration 
for the year ended 31 January 2017, showing the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component and the value of 
each component.
100%
Chief Financial Officer
£’000
 Annual bonus 
 Fixed pay
Below 
threshold 
performance
At expectation 
performance
Maximum 
performance
£182
£332
£264
100%
60% 47%
69% 55%
31%
45%
40%
53%
The L TIP is not included in the above illustration as it will not vest in the year ended 31 January 2017.
Salary , benefits in kind and pension (as per the remuneration policy) are shown as estimated cash cost or taxable value to the individual.
The Company’s bonus schemes operate so that amounts in respect of the current financial period are only paid in the following financial year, after the completion  
of the audit and Board approval of the accounts. The chart reflects the bonus amount earned in the period but not necessarily paid at year end. 
Bonus at below threshold performance reflects a position where none of the personal or corporate metrics were achieved at threshold level; expectation reflects  
metrics achieved at target level and maximum reflects the position where every metric is achieved at stretch up to the amount of bonus cap. Please refer to the table  
above for an illustration of the criteria that have been applied to the three scenarios presented in this table.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
This section of the report sets out the annual report on remuneration for the year ended 31 January 2016.
Remuneration Committee structure
The Committee is constituted as a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own defined Terms of Reference. Its primary role 
is to review and set the remuneration policy for the Executive directors, within the context of salaries and benefits paid across 
the Group as a whole, and making discretionary performance-related awards to the Executive directors. The Board agrees the 
remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors on the principle that no individual should be able to determine their 
own remuneration. 
Remuneration Committee membership
The members of the Committee during the year until the date of this report were:
Peter Saunders (Chairman)  
Richard Everitt 
Amanda Wills 
Andrew Wood 
Grahame Chilton (resigned 16 March 2015)
The Committee was chaired by Grahame Chilton until his resignation on 16 March 2015, when he was succeeded by 
Peter Saunders. Richard Everitt, Peter Saunders and Andrew Wood were members of the Committee for the whole year. 
Amanda Wills joined the Committee on her appointment to the Board on 20 April 2016 and Shaun Smith will join the 
Committee on his appointment to the Board with effect from 1 May 2016. 
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are invited from time to time to attend meetings of the 
Committee. No individuals are involved in decisions relating to their own remuneration. The Committee met formally six times 
during the year. The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Company’s website.
Advisers to the Committee
The Committee can and did obtain information and advice during the period under review from the Group HR Director, 
Rachel Thripp, the Company Secretary, Sally Chandler and the Executive directors, Neil Morris and Mark Briffa, and may seek 
advice from any other employees as required. 
It may also obtain, at the expense of the Company, any necessary legal or professional advice, up to a pre-determined 
limit. During the year under review, the Committee decided to seek advice on executive remuneration from an independent 
remuneration adviser as detailed in the Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 49 to 52. 
Following a tender process involving four remuneration consulting firms, the Committee selected h2glenfern Limited to conduct 
a review of executive remuneration. h2glenfern voluntarily operates in accordance with the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom and has confirmed that it has adhered 
to the Code of Conduct throughout the year for all remuneration services provided to the Group. The Committee has therefore 
satisfied itself that all advice provided by h2glenfern was objective and independent. A fee of £25,000 was payable to h2glenfern 
in respect of this review. h2glenfern does not provide services to the Group other than remuneration advice.
 
 
Annual report on remuneration 64 65
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 January 2016 (audited)
The following table provides details of the directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 January 2016, together with their 
remuneration for the year ended 31 January 2015:
(Audited)
Salary Taxable benefits Bonus
Gain on vesting 
of share option Pension Total
2016 
£‘000
2015 
£‘000
2016 
£‘000
2015 
£‘000
2016 
£‘000
2015 
£‘000
2016 
£‘000
2015 
£‘000
2016 
£‘000
2015 
£‘000
2016 
£‘000
2015 
£‘000
Executive directors
Mark Briffa
3
230 225 19 19 246 – – – 75 27 570 271
Neil Morris
3
152 109 13 8 78 – – – 32 13 275 130
Non-executive directors
Richard Everitt 60 60 – – – – – – – – 60 60
Andrew Wood 35 35 – – – – – – – – 35 35
Grahame Chilton
1
4 35 – – – – – – – – 4 35
Peter Saunders
2
34 11 – – – – – – – – 34 11
T otal 515 475 32 27 324 – – – 107 40 978 542
1 Grahame Chilton resigned from the Board on 16 March 2015. 
2  Peter was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 16 March 2015. Expenses reimbursed to Peter, including air fares to Board meetings, amounted 
to £21,207 in the year to 31 January 2016.
3 Mark Briffa and Neil Morris surrendered £47,000 and £13,000 respectively out of their bonuses to be paid as pension contributions.
Taxable benefits – Executive directors receive a benefits package including a car allowance, life assurance, subsidised gym 
membership and home telephone and internet facility. The car allowance payable to the CEO and CFO included in the above 
amount was £15,000 and £10,000 respectively (2015:£15,000 and £5,833).
Bonus – the maximum bonus for the period for the CEO and CFO was capped at 150% of the financial element of the bonus, 
which equates to a maximum of 150% of salary and 100% of salary respectively.
LTIP – awards under the Air Partner Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 were made to both Executive directors in the period under 
review and are subject to performance and continued service conditions.
Pension-related benefit – both Executive directors are members of the Air Partner Pension Scheme (a defined contribution 
scheme) and receive a pension contribution of 12% of base salary. Executive directors may elect with the Committee’s consent 
to receive some or all of the Company’s pension contribution as a cash alternative.
Annual bonus (audited)
As noted above, the bonus payments for both the CEO and CFO are based on the following weighting: 70% on achievement of 
the Group’s underlying profit before tax target and 30% attributable to personal objectives, which only become payable should 
the Group achieve 65% or higher of its underlying profit before tax target. For reference, the underlying profit before tax target 
for the financial year ended 31 January 2016 was £3.8m and for the financial year ended 31 January 2015 was £4.8m.
In respect of the personal objective element, the Executive directors receive four to five objectives each year against which they 
will receive a score from 0 (unacceptable performance) to 4 (excellent performance). Although every effort is made to ensure 
that personal objectives are SMART (specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, time-bound), there is likely to be a degree 
of subjectivity to the scores attributed against each objective. 
As the Group achieved its underlying profit before tax target and surpassed the 65% underpin level of the payment of the 
personal objective element, bonuses were payable to the Executive directors for the period ending 31 January 2016.
Mark Briffa Neil Morris
Weighting as 
% of bonus
% achieved in 
2016
Total bonus 
earned 
£
Weighting as 
% of bonus
% achieved in 
2016
Total bonus 
earned 
£
Personal objectives 30% 90% 60,750 30% 56% 17,640
Financial target 70% 100% 232,250 70% 100% 73,500
Total bonus achieved 100% 293,000 100% 91,140
The specific performance targets for the annual bonus for the current and previous year are considered to be commercially 
sensitive and accordingly are not disclosed. 
Payment table of employee wages and other Company metrics
2015-2016 2014-2015 % variance
Total employee pay (£m) 15,396 13,066 17.8
Profit before tax (£m)* 3,163 2,636 20.0
Total dividends paid (pence) 22.73 20.66 10.0
*
 
The Remuneration Committee considers profit before tax to be a key measure of the Group’s performance, therefore it is shown above.
  66 67
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued
Performance graph and CEO remuneration table
To help investors to measure the Company’s comparative performance, the graph below shows the change in the total 
shareholder return of the Company for each of the last seven financial years compared with the FTSE All Share Index. 
 
The Company is not currently a constituent member of the FTSE All Share Index but the Index has been selected as an appropriate 
comparator because it is easily accessible by investors and covers the performance of a broad range of companies, including 
aviation, transport and luxury retail businesses. 
The table below sets out the details for the director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer:
Year
CEO single figure of 
total remuneration 
£‘000
Annual bonus pay-out 
against maximum 
%
Long term incentive vesting rates 
against maximum opportunity 
%
2016 570 73.9 –
2015 271 – –
2014 – 18 months 656 92.8 66.7
2012 249 16.8 –
2011 369 100.0 –
2010 215 15.0 –
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer and 
the Group’s UK employees as a whole between the year ended 31 January 2016, on an annualised basis, and 31 January 2015. All 
UK employees employed by the Group in both January 2015 and January 2016 were chosen as the most appropriate comparator 
group as this includes senior management and excludes international employees who are on different pay structures. 
% Salary Benefits Annual bonus
CEO 11.1% 4.1% 100%
Average pay based on all of the Group’s UK employees 6.0% 17.8% 258.8%
Air Partner and FTSE All Share Index total return (rebased)
£’000
 Air Partner 
 FTSE All Share
250
200
150
100
50
0
Jan 2009 Jan 2010 Jan 2011 Jan 2012 Jan 2013 Jan 2014 Jan 2015 Jan 2016
0
50
100
150
200
250
Directors’ beneficial interests in shares (audited)
The directors who held office during the year had the following beneficial interests in ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company, 
fully paid up, at the beginning and end of the year, or as shown:
31 January 
2016
31 January 
2015
M A Briffa 33,061 33,061 
N M Morris – –
R L Everitt 5,000 5,000 
A R Wood 10,000 10,000 
G Chilton – – 
P Saunders – – 
There were no changes in the directors’ beneficial interests in shares between 31 January 2016 and 27 April 2016 (being the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication of this report). No director has a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the Company.
Share options 
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Company’s share option scheme. Details of the options held 
by Executive directors at the beginning and end of the year are as follows:
Share options (audited)
Number of options
Name
31 January 
2015 Granted Exercised Expired Lapsed
31 January 
2016
Exercise 
price
Earliest date 
of exercise Expiry date
M A Briffa (a) 40,000 – – – – 40,000 792.5p* 21 Nov 2009 21 Nov 2016
(b) 10,000 – – – – 10,000 884.0p* 24 Jan 2011 24 Jan 2018
(c) 40,000 – – – – 40,000 545.0p* 27 Nov 2011 27 Nov 2018
5,000 – – – (5,000)
†
– 392.5p 26 Oct 2013 26 Oct 2020
75,000 – – – (75,000)
†
– 277.5p 20 Apr 2015 20 Apr 2022
170,000 – – (37,500) – 90,000
* option vested but not exercised.
† 
as none of the performance criteria for these share options were met the options have lapsed. 
Options are generally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant, subject to continuing service.  
Exercises of options in under grants (a) (b) and (c) are not subject to any additional performance criteria.  68 69
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued
Long term incentive plan (“LTIP”) (audited) 
Long term incentive plan (audited) Number of LTIP
Name Date of Grant
31 January 
2015 Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited
31 January 
2016
Exercise 
price
Earliest date 
of exercise Expiry date
M A Briffa 21 Oct 2013 55,840 – – – – 55,840 0.0p 22 Oct 2016 22 Oct 2020
3 Jun 2015 – 87,097 – – – 87,097 0.0p 04 Jun 2018 04 Jun 2025
Total 55,840 87,097 – – – 142,937
N M Morris 3 Jun 2015 – 38,710 – – – 38,710 0.0p 04 Jun 2018 04 Jun 2025
Total – 38,710 – – – 38,710
The face value of awards made to Mark Briffa and Neil Morris are £340,000 and £151,000. This is calculated based on a closing 
share price of £3.89 on 3 June 2015.
The awards granted are subject to the achievement of performance and employment conditions as specified by the Remuneration 
Committee. Vesting of the grants is subject to a combination of 50% earnings per share (“EPS”) and 50% total shareholder return 
(“TSR”) related targets: 
EPS:
• 100% vest if performance greater than RPI + 20% per annum
• 25% vest if performance equal to RPI +15% per annum
TSR:
• 100% vest if performance greater than 75th percentile
• 25% if performance equal to 50th percentile
Between these target levels, share options will vest on a straight-line basis and shares will vest, subject to achievement  
of these performance conditions, on 3 June 2018.
The adjusted underlying EPS for the base year ending 31 January 2015 has been calculated as 19.5p excluding the impact  
of one-off tax credits.
The number of share options awarded under the LTIP was determined by using the closing price of an Air Partner plc share on the 
day preceding the date of grant as ascertained by the Official List, which was 502.5p on 21 October 2013 and 387.5p on 2 June 2015. 
The market price per share at 31 January 2016 was 385.13 pence (31 January 2015: 299.9 pence) and ranged between 277.75 pence 
and 448.75 pence during the year. The average price during the year ended 31 January 2016 was 380.59 (31 January 2015: 385.91) 
pence per share.
Shareholder voting
At the 2015 AGM, the results of the votes on the Directors’ remuneration report and Directors’ remuneration policy were: 
Directors’ remuneration report Directors’ remuneration policy
 Number of votes % of votes cast Number of votes % of votes cast
For (including discretionary) 4,125,067 99.85 4,122,817 99.78
Against 6,368 0.15 9,118 0.22
Votes withheld 7,773 – 7,273 –
Application of the policy for 2016/2017
Fixed pay
Following an independent review of the remuneration of the CEO conducted during the year, the CEO salary was increased  
with effect from 1 January 2016 by 11% as described in the Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
on pages 49 to 52. Details of the fixed pay of the Executive directors for the current year are set out in the table below:
Revised fixed pay elements Previous fixed pay elements
Basic salary 
£‘000
Car allowance 
£‘000
Total 
£‘000
Basic salary 
£‘000
Car allowance 
£‘000
Total 
£‘000
CEO 250* 15 265 225 15 240 
CFO 155 10 165 150 10 160
* with effect from 1 January 2016.
There will be no change to the benefits arrangements of the Executive directors in the current financial year.
Pension
The Company pension contribution for the Executive directors will remain the same in the current financial year. Executive directors 
may elect with the Committee’s consent to receive some or all of the Company’s pension contribution as a cash alternative.
Annual bonus
The Committee has set stretching targets for both group financial performance and KRAs under the annual bonus plan.  
Detail on the targets is considered commercially sensitive and for this reason is not disclosed during the current financial year.
The performance measures and weightings for the financial year ending 31 January 2017 are as follows:
As percentage of maximum 
bonus opportunity
Measure CEO CFO
Underlying profit before tax 70% 70%
KRAs 30% 30%
LTIP
The Committee intends to make awards under the LTIP at 150% of salary for the CEO and 50% of salary for the CFO following 
the 2016 AGM. The rationale for an award of this size to the CEO is laid out in the Annual statement by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee on pages 49 to 52.The Committee intends that two thirds of the award will be subject to an earnings 
per share (“EPS”) growth target to be averaged over a two-year period, with threshold vesting at RPI + 5% per annum and full 
vesting at RPI + 10% per annum, and one third of the award will be subject to an absolute total shareholder return (“TSR”) target, 
with threshold vesting at 9% per annum returns and full vesting at 16% per annum returns. The Committee believes that these 
performance condition types strike an appropriate balance between internal financial performance and shareholder alignment. 
The use of absolute TSR is simpler to explain, understand and calculate than relative TSR and avoids the challenges of selecting 
a peer group.
The Directors’ remuneration report was approved by the Board on 27 April 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: 
Peter Saunders
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 70 71
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Directors’ report
The directors present their reports and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 January 2016. 
Statutory information contained elsewhere in the  
Annual Report
Information required to be part of the Directors’ report 
can be found elsewhere in this document, as indicated, 
is incorporated into this Report by reference:
Results and dividend in the Chairman’s statement on  
pages 4 and 5.
Corporate governance and the Group’s financial risk 
management objectives and policies in the Corporate 
governance statement on pages 35 to 73. 
Details of the salaries, bonuses, benefits and share interests 
of directors in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 64.
Directors’ responsibility statement on page 73.
Employee relations and equal opportunities in Resources 
and relationships on pages 30 and 31.
Likely future events and all post balance sheet events are 
disclosed within the Strategic report on pages 0 to 34.
Management report
The Strategic report on pages 0 to 34 and this Directors’ 
report, with its inclusions as indicated above, form the 
Management report as required by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules 4.1.5R.
 
Directors and directors’ interests
The names of the directors of the Company are shown on 
page 40 and changes to directorships during the reporting 
period are shown on page 5. Biographical details of the current 
directors of the Company are shown on page 40. Details of 
directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are shown 
on page 67. This information is incorporated into this Report 
by reference. 
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions for the benefit of its directors which remain in 
force at the date of this report. In certain circumstances, 
the Company can indemnify directors, in accordance with its 
Articles of Association, against costs incurred in the defence 
of legal proceedings brought against them by virtue of their 
office. Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover remains 
in place to protect all directors and senior managers.
Directors’ conflict of interest
No director had, during the year, any beneficial interest in any 
contract significant to the Company’s business, other than a 
contract of employment. The Company has procedures in place 
for managing conflicts of interest. Should a director become 
aware that they, or their connected parties, have an interest 
in an existing or proposed transaction with the Company, 
they are required to notify the Board in writing or at the next 
Board meeting.
Articles of Association
Any amendment to the Company’s Articles of Association 
may only be made by passing a special resolution of the 
shareholders of the Company.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 27 April 2016, the Company was aware of substantial interests in the Company’s shares or had been notified of interests 
in voting rights under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, as follows: 
Shareholder Number of shares % held Nature of holding
Schroder Investments Ltd 1,816,783 17.40 Indirect
Aberforth Partners LLP 1,337,835 12.81 Indirect
Barclays Stockbrokers 738,080 7.07 Indirect
Hargreaves Lansdown, stockbrokers 724,010 6.93 Indirect
BlackRock 687,672 6.58 Indirect
T D Waterhouse, stockbrokers 387,143 3.71 Indirect
Brewin Dolphin, stockbrokers 355,235 3.40 Indirect
The interests shown may include shares held under discretionary management agreements for which the manager may not 
exercise voting rights.
Share capital structure, issue and buying back and 
shareholder rights
The authorised share capital of the Company is £750,000 
divided into 15,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each. 
All ordinary shares have equal rights to dividends and capital 
and to vote at general meetings of the Company, as set out in 
the Company’s Articles of Association. The number of ordinary 
shares of 5 pence each issued and fully paid at 31 January 2016 
was 10,443,513 (2015: 10,261,693). 181,820 shares were issued 
on 12 May 2015 in respect of the acquisition of Cabot Aviation 
Services Limited.
Options outstanding under all employee share schemes 
amounted to 7.5% of the Company’s issued share capital as 
at 31 January 2016. This includes options granted which have 
not yet vested. In addition options representing 5.99% of the 
issued share capital have been exercised within the 10 years 
preceding 31 January 2016. No more than 10% of the issued 
share capital in any rolling 10-year period may currently be 
taken up by employee share schemes by way of dilution with 
any excess (up to a further 10% of the issued share capital) 
being acquired by purchase in the market via The Air Partner 
Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”). Under the Articles of 
Association, the Company has authority to issue 15,000,000 
ordinary shares. Resolutions to renew the authorities given to 
directors to allot shares, to dis-apply certain pre-emption rights 
and to make market purchases of the Company’s own shares, 
all subject to appropriate limits, will be put to the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) to replace the authorities granted 
in 2015.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding 
nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the 
general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. No individual 
or corporate entity has the right to appoint a director. The 
appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the 
Articles of Association, The UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. 
The Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company in order 
to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. 
At 31 January 2016, the number of ordinary shares held by 
the Trust was 159,236. Shares held by the Trust abstain from 
voting and are not entitled to receive dividends. A further 
100,910 shares are held by the Trust in a nominee capacity 
for two beneficiaries of the Trust. 
Change of control – significant contracts
There are a number of commercial agreements that take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company; 
none is considered to be significant in terms of their potential 
impact on the business of the Group as a whole. 
The Company does not have agreements with any director 
or employee that would provide compensation for loss of 
office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that 
provisions of the Company’s share schemes and plans may 
cause options and awards granted to employees under such 
schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Branches 
The Company and its subsidiaries have an established branch 
in Austria. 
Greenhouse gas emissions
2016 
Global 
tonnes of 
CO2E
2015 
Global 
tonnes of 
CO2E
Vehicles 16 15
Electricity for heat and cooling 307 230
Total 323 245
We have reported on all of the emission sources required 
under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended in 
August 2013. The reporting boundary used for collation of 
the above data is consistent with that used for consolidation 
purposes in the financial statements. We have used the 
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition), data gathered to fulfil our requirements 
under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission 
factors from the UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting 2014 to calculate the above disclosures.
Given the Group’s operations, CO2E emissions are restricted 
to office use and the operation of a small number of vehicles. 
In the case of offices, occupation is within a multi-occupied 
building for all of the Group’s subsidiaries without separate 
metering for individual usage by each tenant. Accordingly, 
an estimate has been used. 72 73
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Political contributions
There were no political contributions during the year 
(2015: £nil). 
Directors’ statements
As required under the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 and the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (“DTRs”), various statements have been made by the 
Board as set out on pages 0 to 34 and are incorporated into 
this Report by reference.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP has confirmed that they are willing to  
be re-appointed as auditor for the financial year ending  
31 January 2017. 
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006,  
a resolution proposing the appointment of a statutory auditor 
will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The 2016 AGM will be held at 11am on Wednesday 29 June  
at Ropemaker Place, 25 Ropemaker Street, London EC2Y 9LY. 
The Company confirms that it will send the Notice of AGM and 
related documentation to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the meeting, either by post, to those shareholders 
who prefer a paper copy, or by email to those shareholders 
who have agreed that the Company can communicate with 
them electronically. Both the Notice of AGM and the Proxy form 
are available to download from the Investors section on the 
Company’s website.
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board on  
27 April 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: 
Sally Chandler
Company Secretary
Air Partner plc 
Directors’ report continued Directors’ responsibility statement  
The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic report 
incorporating the business review, the Directors’ report, the 
Directors’ remuneration report and the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements. The directors are required 
to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
adopted for use in the European Union and have also elected 
to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union. Company 
law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial 
statements present fairly for each financial year the Group’s 
and Company’s financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows. This requires the fair presentation of the effects 
of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance 
with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International 
Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the Preparation 
and Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually 
all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved 
by compliance with all applicable IFRS. 
Directors are also required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
•  state whether applicable accounting standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements;
•  present information, including accounting policies,  
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information;
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Group and of the Company, for 
safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities 
and for the preparation of a Directors’ report and Directors’ 
remuneration report which comply with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Group website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ statement of responsibility for financial statements
Each of the directors serving at the date of approval of the 
accounts confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge 
and belief:
•  the financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and financial performance of the Group and 
Company; and
•  the Strategic report and the Directors’ report give a fair 
review of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
Directors’ statement of responsibility for disclosure 
of information to auditor
As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, 
each director serving at the date of approval of the financial 
statements confirms that:
•  to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is 
no information relevant to the preparation of their reports 
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
•  each director has taken all the steps a director might 
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be 
interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
The Directors’ statements were approved by the Board  
on 27 April 2016 and are signed on its behalf by:
Sally Chandler
Company Secretary
Air Partner plc  74 75
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Opinion on financial statements of Air Partner plc
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 January 
2016 and the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
•  the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
the Consolidated and Company Statements of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows, the 
Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 36. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent 
Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern 
basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the directors’ statement on the longer term viability 
of the Group contained within the corporate governance statement on page 36. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
•  the directors’ confirmation on page 36 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
•  the disclosures on pages 32 to 34 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
•  the directors’ statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and 
•  the directors’ explanation on page 90 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they 
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agree with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee  
as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we 
are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. 
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, 
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the Group audit engagement team.
Focus areas – risks of material misstatement
1 Revenue recognition: classification as either principal or agent 
2 Revenue recognition: early recognition of Jetcard and other deferred income
3 Completeness of provisions against operator prepayments
4 Completeness of operator accruals
5 Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets created through new acquisitions
The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk 
Committee discussed on page 46.
1 Revenue recognition: classification as either principal or agent
Risk 
Historically, the Group has accounted for itself as principal 
in all contract arrangements (except some tour operations 
contracts). In the interim financial information for the period 
ended 31 July 2015, management effected a retrospective 
adjustment to account for revenue on the majority of contracts 
on an agent basis. This resulted in a significant adjustment to 
revenue and cost of sales. The change of accounting treatment 
had no impact on profit, cash or net assets. This is discussed 
by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 46.
For our audit of the year ended 31 January 2016 we highlighted 
an audit risk around the classification of revenue as either 
principal or agent.
The recognition of revenue as either ‘agent’ or ‘principal’ is 
determined by the application of the criteria set out in IAS 
(International Accounting Standard) 18 Revenue. Under this 
standard, an entity is acting as principal when it has exposure 
to the significant risks and rewards associated with the 
rendering of services. The overriding identifier for treatment 
of revenue as agent or principal is the level of risk and reward 
taken on by the Group.
The Group’s revenue recognition accounting policy is included 
on page 94 of the notes to the financial statements. 
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
We performed the following procedures to address this risk:
•  we reviewed Air Partner’s standard contract terms to 
evaluate management’s assessment on whether Air Partner 
is an agent;
•  for those contracts where management concluded that they 
were principal, we obtained and reviewed those contracts 
against the IAS 18 criteria to assess whether the correct 
application of IAS 18 recognition had been applied; 
•  we also selected a random sample of recorded revenue 
amounts, obtained and reviewed the customer contract in 
order to assess whether the correct application of IAS 18 
revenue classification had been applied; and
•  we performed focused testing on a further sample of 
contracts which management has classified as agent 
arrangements by selecting a sample of those which had 
similar characteristics (industry, size, margin) to customer 
contracts where Air Partner were classified as principal. 
For these we evaluated management’s assessment on 
whether Air Partner is an agent using the criteria of IAS 18.
Independent auditor’ s report to the members of Air Partner plc 76 77
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
2 Revenue recognition: early recognition of Jetcard and other deferred income
Risk 
The Group’s revenue recognition accounting policy is 
included on page 94 of the notes to the financial statements 
and states that broking income is recognised at the time the 
flight departs.
Our risk is focused on revenue being inappropriately 
recognised in order to improve the business’ results through 
the early recognition of pre-purchased private Jetcard 
programme (“Jetcard”) and other deferred income before 
the flight has occurred.
This is discussed by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 46.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
We performed the following procedures to address this risk: 
•  we selected a sample of recorded revenue amounts relating 
to both Jetcard and other deferred income to check that the 
flight had occurred by verifying to underlying flight records, 
customer contract and assessing for recoverability;
•  we assessed the accuracy of the recorded revenue amount 
to the price agreed with the customer per the contract; and
•  we performed analytical procedures to compare the gross 
margins made on the different types of revenue streams 
in the year compared to the prior year. If we identified an 
unexpected margin, we carried out more focussed testing 
on these revenue streams.
3 Completeness of provisions against operator prepayments
Risk 
The Group enters sales contracts with customers for aircraft 
and enters purchase contracts ‘back-to-back’. The Group is 
required to prepay operators for flights which occur in the 
future. At the year end the value of operator prepayments 
was £5.0m (2015: £4.3m).
Although the Group matches the purchase contract with the 
customer receipt, there is a credit risk in cases where suppliers 
default before the flight takes off and monies prepaid to 
suppliers are not recoverable. In certain cases Air Partner 
may still fulfil the flight for the customer. There is a risk these 
prepayments need to be provided for. This is discussed by the 
Audit and Risk Committee on page 46.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
In order to address this risk: 
•  we checked the accuracy of the listing of prepaid operator 
costs as at 31 January 2016 by agreeing a sample through 
to signed contract;
•  we traced this sample through to post year end flight records 
to ensure that the operator has settled the prepaid cost with 
a flight; 
•  for those flights that had not yet taken off at the date of our 
testing we reviewed their business history with the Group for 
evidence of dispute and slow payment as well as third party 
evidence of their financial position; and
•  we requested details from the Group’s external legal advisors 
to identify legal disputes with operators.
4 Completeness of operator accruals
Risk 
Flights and related services are purchased from a large 
number of suppliers across a number of jurisdictions and 
are bespoke in nature. The completeness of operator accruals 
is a significant risk because:
•  suppliers submit invoices with differing timescales, often 
significantly later than the date of the service provision; and
•  certain employees have elements of their remuneration 
based on a commission calculated with reference to gross 
profit on flight services.
The combination of these two factors result in a heightened 
risk of under accrual of costs where purchase invoices have 
not yet been received. This is discussed by the Audit and Risk 
Committee on page 46.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
We tested a sample of purchase invoices received and 
payments made after 31 January 2016. We agreed to 
evidence supporting the date of flights or service delivery 
and considered whether, where this was before the year end, 
an accrual had been recorded.
We performed analytical procedures on gross margin for the 
components in our scope to highlight instances where costs 
may not have been recorded. If we identified an unexpected 
margin, we carried out more focussed testing on the 
completeness of accruals.
We reviewed significant accrual amounts against amounts 
recorded at the prior period end to highlight any potential 
risk of under accrual.
5 Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets created through new acquisitions
Risk 
During the year ending 31 January 2016 Air Partner has made 
two acquisitions, Cabot Aviation Services Limited and Baines 
Simmons Limited. The value of acquisition goodwill and 
intangible assets is £6.5m.
There is significant judgement required in the valuation of 
the goodwill and intangible assets acquired and management 
has used an expert to assist in this process. The financial 
statements also required disclosure of the transactions in 
accordance with IFRS 3 (revised) – Business Combinations. 
We have identified the valuation of goodwill and intangible 
assets as the key audit risk in the acquisition accounting.
The Group’s accounting policy is included on page 92 of the 
notes to the financial statements. This is discussed by the 
Audit and Risk Committee on page 46.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
In order to address this risk:
•  we checked the accuracy of the schedules supporting the 
valuation of goodwill and intangible assets acquired as at 
31 January 2016.
•  we challenged the inputs and assumptions built into the 
valuation by involving internal specialists; and 
•  we audited the accounting journals posted in relation to 
the transaction including agreeing the consideration paid 
to contracts and bank statements to confirm that they were 
in accordance line with IFRS 3.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: The valuation of goodwill relating to 
Air Partner S.A.S. because in the year ended 31 January 2015 Air Partner S.A.S. incurred a loss. This year there were no impairment 
indicators. Further, last year within our revenue recognition risk we included the risk that revenue is allocated inappropriately 
across multi-flight contract itineraries. At 31 January 2016 there were no such contracts.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope 
of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £285,000 (2015: £286,000), which is 7.5% (2015: 7.5%) of normalised pre-tax 
profit, 2.1% (2015: 2.1%) of equity and below 0.6% of statutory revenue (2015: below 0.8%).
 
We used pre-tax profit as a basis to determine materiality as this is the financial measure most observed by the users of the 
financial statements of Air Partner plc. Pre-tax profit has been normalised by excluding non-trading items, which for the year 
ended 31 January 2016 were shared based payment charges and the amortisation of intangibles relating to acquisitions and 
restructuring costs. We have used an average of normalised profit before tax over the last three periods.
We agreed with the Company’s Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them on all audit differences in excess of 
£5,700 (2015: £5,700), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation 
of the financial statements.
Independent auditor’ s report to the members of Air Partner plc continued
Materiality
 Statutory PBT £3.2m 
 Materiality £0.29m
(PBT: Profit before taxes)
  78 79
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including internal control, and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement. Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the 
audit engagement team. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the Group operations in the 
UK, France, the USA, Germany and Italy.
UK and France were subject to a full audit, whilst the USA, Germany and Italy were subject to specified audit procedures including 
full audit procedures on significant risks. Our testing in the USA, Germany and Italy was based on our assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations at those locations including an audit of account balances 
relating to the significant risks areas applicable to these locations. The Group audit engagement team visited all overseas 
component audit teams as part of our oversight of their work. 
For all other locations we have performed analytical review procedures at Group level. At the parent entity level we also tested the 
consolidation process. The only change in scope this year is that we performed specified audit procedures in Italy rather than an 
analytical review. 
The Group audit engagement team have obtained an understanding of the Group, including the consolidation process and 
Group-wide controls, to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances. The Group results 
are split as follows:
 
The Group audit engagement team performs the audit of the UK business and procedures on the US business without the 
involvement of a component team. The materiality used in each location where we performed an audit or specified audit 
procedures ranged from £128,000 to £228,000 (2015: £142,700 to £242,700).
 
We visited each of the four overseas locations set out above in order for a senior member of the Group audit engagement team 
to update our understanding of the operations, risks and control environments of each component as well as a review of the 
component auditor’s working papers and attend key meetings with component management.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•  the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
•  the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have 
not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group’s 
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during 
the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the 
Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider 
should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Independent auditor’ s report to the members of Air Partner plc continued
Audit scoping
%
 Full scope 
 Specified audit procedures* 
 Analytical prodedures
* Specified audit procedures including  
full audit of significant risks
Revenue
Revenue (2015) 
PBT
PBT (2015)
 
Net assets
Net assets (2015)
0 20 40 60 80 100
Revenue
 UK 73% 
 France 5% 
 USA 6% 
 Germany 6% 
 Italy 3% 
 Other 6% 80 81
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure 
that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
Professional Standards Review and independent partner review.
This report is made solely to the Group’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Group’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Group’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and the parent Company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
Robert Knight FCA
(Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Crawley, United Kingdom
27 April 2016
 
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 January 2016
Year ended 31 January 2016
Year ended 31 January 2015
(as restated – see note 2)
Continuing operations Note
Underlying* 
£’000
Other items 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
Underlying* 
£’000
Other items 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Gross transaction value (GTV) 2 210,752 – 210,752 192,100 – 192,100
Revenue 3 49,942 – 49,942 37,585 – 37,585
Gross profit 4 27,269 – 27,269 22,025 – 22,025
Administrative expenses (22,883) (1,152) (24,035) (19,393) – (19,393) 
Operating profit 4,386 (1,152) 3,234 2,632 – 2,632
Finance income 9 10 – 10 25 – 25
Finance expense 9 (81) – (81) (21) – (21)
Profit before tax 4,315 (1,152) 3,163 2,636 – 2,636
Taxation 10 (1,311) 81 (1,230) 151 – 151
Profit for the year from  
continuing operations 3,004 (1,071) 1,933 2,787 – 2,787
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
discontinued operations 11 387 – 387 (7) – (7)
Profit for the year 3,391 (1,071) 2,320 2,780 – 2,780
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent company 3,391 (1,071) 2,320 2,780 – 2,780
Earnings/(loss) per share:
Continuing operations
Basic 13 29.7p (10.6)p 19.1p 27.7p – 27.7p
Diluted 13 29.5p (10.5)p 19.0p 27.5p – 27.5p
Discontinued operations
Basic 13 3.8p – 3.8p (0.1)p – (0.1)p
Diluted 13 3.8p – 3.8p (0.1)p – (0.1)p
Continuing and  
discontinued operations
Basic 13 33.5p (10.6)p 22.9p 27.6p – 27.6p
Diluted 13 33.3p (10.5)p 22.8p 27.4p – 27.4p
*Before other items (see note 7)
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 January 2016
Year ended 
31 January 
2016 
£’000
Year ended 
31 January 
2015 
£’000
Profit for the year 2,320 2,780
Other comprehensive income – items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (29) (8)
T otal comprehensive income for the year 2,291 2,772
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent company 2,291 2,772
Financial statements Independent auditor’ s report to the members of Air Partner plc continued
Earnings/(loss) per share:
Continuing operations
Basic 13 29.7p (10.6)p 19.1p 27.7p – 27.7p
Diluted 13 29.5p (10.5)p 19.0p 27.5p – 27.5p
Discontinued operations
Basic 13 3.8p – 3.8p (0.1)p – (0.1)p
Diluted 13 3.8p – 3.8p (0.1)p – (0.1)p
Continuing and  
discontinued operations
Basic 13 33.5p (10.6)p 22.9p 27.6p – 27.6p
Diluted 13 33.3p (10.5)p 22.8p 27.4p – 27.4p 82 83
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 January 2016
Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Own 
shares 
£’000
 Translation 
reserve 
£’000
Share 
option 
reserve 
£’000
 Retained 
earnings 
£’000
 T otal
 equity 
£’000
Opening equity as at 1 February 2014 513 4,518 – (1,154) 1,101 1,430 6,105 12,513
Profit for the year – – – – – – 2,780 2,780
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – – – (8) – – (8)
T otal comprehensive income for the year – – – – (8) – 2,780 2,772
Share option movement for the year – – – – – 55 – 55
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions (note 25) – – – – – – 8 8
Share options exercised during the year – – – 103 – – (22) 81
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations – – – – – – (41) (41)
Dividends paid (note 12) – – – – – – (2,077) (2,077)
Closing equity as at 31 January 2015 513 4,518 – (1,051) 1,093 1,485 6,753 13,311
 Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
 Own 
shares 
£’000
 Translation 
reserve 
£’000
Share 
option 
reserve 
£’000
 Retained 
earnings 
£’000
 T otal 
equity 
£’000
Opening equity as at 1 February 2015 513 4,518 – (1,051) 1,093 1,485 6,753 13,311
Profit for the year – – – – – – 2,320 2,320
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – – – (29) – – (29)
T otal comprehensive income for the year – – – – (29) – 2,320 2,291
Issue of shares 9 296 295 (300) – – – 300
Share option movement for the year – – – – – 223 – 223
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions (note 25) – – – – – – 18 18
Share options exercised during the year – – – 152 – – (84) 68
Dividends paid (note 12) – – – – – – (2,331) (2,331)
Closing equity as at 31 January 2016 522 4,814 295 (1,199) 1,064 1,708 6,676 13,880
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 January 2016
 Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
 Own 
shares 
£’000
Share 
option 
reserve 
£’000
 Retained 
earnings 
£’000
 T otal 
equity 
£’000
Opening equity as at 1 February 2014 513 4,518 – (1,154) 1,430 5,389 10,696
Profit for the year – – – – – 1,251 1,251
T otal comprehensive income for the period – – – – – 1,251 1,251
Share option movement for the year – – – – 55 – 55
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions (note 25) – – – – – 8 8
Share options exercised during the year – – – 103 – (22) 81
Dividends paid (note 12) – – – – – (2,077) (2,077)
Closing equity as at 31 January 2015 513 4,518 – (1,051) 1,485 4,549 10,014
 Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
 Own 
shares 
£’000
Share 
option 
reserve 
£’000
 Retained 
earnings 
£’000
 T otal 
equity 
£’000
Opening equity as at 1 February 2015 513 4,518 – (1,051) 1,485 4,549 10,014
Profit for the year – – – – – 5,636 5,636
T otal comprehensive income for the year – – – – – 5,636 5,636
Issue of shares 9 296 295 (300) – – 300
Share option movement for the year – – – – 223 – 223
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions (note 25) – – – – – 18 18
Share options exercised during the year – – – 152 – (84) 68
Dividends paid (note 12) – – – – – (2,331) (2,331)
Closing equity as at 31 January 2016 522 4,814 295 (1,199) 1,708 7,788 13,928
Own shares
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Air Partner plc purchased in the market and held by the Air Partner 
Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes (see note 30).
Translation reserve
The translation reserve represents the accumulated exchange differences arising from the impact of the translation 
of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than pounds sterling.
Share option reserve
The share option reserve relates to the accumulated costs associated with the outstanding share options issued to staff  
but not exercised.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve represents the fair value of the consideration given in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares 
issued in an acquisition partly made by the issue of shares. 
Financial statements continued 84 85
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement of financial position 
as at 31 January 2016
Note
31 January 
2016 
£’000
31 January 
2015 
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 4,450 838
Other intangible assets 15 3,714 1,066
Property, plant and equipment 16 1,281 1,273
Deferred tax assets 25 389 299
  9,834 3,476
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 23,708 21,029
Current tax assets 438 1,157
Restricted bank balances 2,840 1,842
Other cash and cash equivalents 16,951 16,952
Total cash and cash equivalents 19,791 18,794
Derivative financial instruments 23 36 –
  43,973 40,980
T otal assets 53,807 44,456
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (3,911) (2,660)
Current tax liabilities (133) (87)
Other liabilities 21 (5,633) (4,067)
Borrowings 19 (514) –
Deferred income (25,807) (23,669)
Provisions 22 (421) (512)
Derivative financial instruments 23 – (150)
  (36,419) (31,145)
Net current assets 7,554 9,835
Long term liabilities
Borrowings 19 (2,957) –
Deferred tax liability 25 (551) –
T otal long term liabilities (3,508) –
T otal liabilities (39,927) (31,145)
Net assets 13,880 13,311
Equity
Share capital 27 522 513
Share premium account 28 4,814 4,518
Merger Reserve 29 295 –
Own shares 30 (1,199) (1,051)
Translation reserve 1,064 1,093
Share option reserve 1,708 1,485
Retained earnings 6,676 6,753
T otal equity 13,880 13,311
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 27 April 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
M A Briffa N J Morris
Director Director 
Company statement of financial position
as at 31 January 2016
  Note
31 January 
2016 
£’000
31 January 
2015 
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 992 1,063
Property, plant and equipment 16 897 1,032
Investments 17 8,587 2,025
Deferred tax assets 25 75 45
  10,551 4,165
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 15,483 12,290
Current tax assets 337 484
Restricted bank balances 2,840 1,842
Other cash and cash equivalents 12,146 8,887
Total cash and cash equivalents 14,986 10,729
Derivative financial instruments 23 36 –
  30,842 23,503
T otal assets 41,393 27,668
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (1,462) (797)
Current tax liabilities – –
Other liabilities 21 (5,460) (2,232)
Borrowings 19 (514) –
Deferred income (16,906) (13,997)
Provisions 22 (166) (478)
Derivative financial instruments 23 – (150)
  (24,508) (17,654)
Net current assets 6,334 5,849
Long term liabilities
Borrowings 19 (2,957) –
T otal liabilities (27,465) (17,654)
Net assets 13,928 10,014
Equity
Share capital 27 522 513
Share premium account 28 4,814 4,518
Merger reserve 29 295 –
Own shares 30 (1,199) (1,051)
Share option reserve 1,708 1,485
Retained earnings 7,788 4,549
T otal equity 13,928 10,014
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 27 April 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
M A Briffa N J Morris
Director Director
Air Partner plc Registered no. 00980675 
Financial statements continued 86 87
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Consolidated and company statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 January 2016
Group Company
 Note
Year ended 
31 January 
2016 
£’000
Year ended 
31 January 
2015 
£’000
Year ended 
31 January 
2016 
£’000
Year ended 
31 January 
2015 
£’000
Net cash inflow from operating activities 32 5,785 4,405 387 3,679
Investing activities
Continuing operations
– Interest received 10 25 3 15
– Dividends received from subsidiaries – – 3,277 –
– Purchases of property, plant and equipment (118) (820) (69) (624)
– Purchases of intangible assets (153) (705) (153) (701)
– Acquisition of subsidiary 31 (5,902) – (514) –
Net cash (used in)/generated by investing activities (6,163) (1,500) 2,544 (1,310)
Financing activities
Continuing operations
– Dividends paid (2,331) (2,077) (2,331) (2,077)
– Proceeds on exercise of share options 68 81 68 81
– New bank loans raised 3,600 – 3,600 –
– Repayments of borrowings (129) – (129) –
Net cash generated by/(used in) financing activities 1,208 (1,996) 1,208 (1,996)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 830 909 4,139 373
Opening cash and cash equivalents 18,794 18,419 10,729 10,899
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 167 (534) 118 (543)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 19,791 18,794 14,986 10,729
JetCard cash
The closing cash and cash equivalents balance can be further analysed into ‘JetCard cash’ (being restricted and unrestricted cash 
received by the Group and Company in respect of its JetCard product) and ‘non-JetCard cash’ as follows:
Group Company
 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
JetCard cash restricted in its use 2,840 1,842 2,840 1,842
Jetcard cash unrestricted in its use 13,936 12,251 10,303 9,648
Total JetCard cash 16,776 14,093 13,143 11,490
Non-JetCard cash 3,015 4,701 1,843 (761)
Cash and cash equivalents 19,791 18,794 14,986 10,729
 
1 General information
Air Partner plc (“the Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under registration number 
00980675. The address of the registered office is 2 City Place, Beehive Ring Road, Gatwick, West Sussex, RH6 0PA. The nature 
of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic report on pages 0 to 34.
2 Accounting policies 
a) Basis of preparation of financial statements
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted 
for use in the European Union in accordance with EU law (IAS regulation EC1606/2002) and those parts of the Companies Act 
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group 
operates. Unless otherwise stated, figures are rounded to the nearest thousand. They are prepared on the historical cost basis, 
except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments which are stated at fair value. 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except as described in the following 
sections.
Adoption of new and revised standards
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year. 
Annual Improvements 2010-2012 cycle and 2011-2013 cycle
The Annual Improvements cycle provides a streamlined process for dealing efficiently with a collection of amendments to IFRSs. 
The primary objective of the process is to enhance the quality of standards, by amending existing IFRSs to clarify guidance and 
wording, or to correct for relatively minor unintended consequences, conflicts or oversights.
Adoption of the Annual Improvements 2010-2012 cycle or 2011-2013 cycle has had no impact on the disclosures or on the 
amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011)
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (amended 2011) outlines the accounting requirements for employee benefits, post-employment 
benefits, other long term benefits and termination benefits. The standard, which is mandatorily effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2015 establishes the principle that the cost of providing employee benefits should be recognised 
in the period in which the benefit is earned by the employee, rather than when it is paid or payable, and outlines how each 
category of employee benefits are measured, providing detailed guidance in particular about post-employment benefits.
Adoption of IAS 19 has had no impact on the disclosures or in the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016
Financial statements continued 88 89
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
2 Accounting policies continued
New standards, amendments and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published, are not mandatory  
for the current accounting period, and have not been early adopted by the Group:
• annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 cycle; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016;
•  IFRS 11 (amendments) Accounting for acquisitions of interest in Joint Operations; effective for periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2016;
•  IAS 16 (amendments) Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: Amendments regarding the clarification 
of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016;
•  IAS 16 and IAS 41 (amendments) Property, Plant and Equipment: Amendments to bring bearer plants into the scope of IAS 16 
rather than IAS 41; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016;
•  IAS 27 (amendments) Separate Financial Statements; Amendments reinstating the equity method; effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016; 
•  IAS 1 (amendments) Disclosure initiative; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016;
•  IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities and IAS 28 Investment in associates; 
applying the consolidation exception for investment entities; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016;
•  IAS 12 Income taxes: clarify recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses; effective for periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2017; 
• IAS 7 Statement of cash flows: clarify disclosure requirements; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017;
• IFRS 9 (2014) Financial Instruments; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018;
• IFRS 16 Leases; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019; and 
• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers; effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
There are no standards and interpretations in issue but not yet adopted which, in the opinion of the directors, will have a material 
effect on the reported income or net assets of the Group or Company.
b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 January each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern 
the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. All intra-group 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
 
2 Accounting policies continued
c) Critical accounting estimates and judgments
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
Actual results could differ from these estimates. These underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions  
to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period;  
or in the period of the revision and future periods if these are also affected. 
Impairment of goodwill
Management conducts annual impairment reviews of the carrying value of goodwill in relation to the French company, Air Partner 
International S.A.S. and Cabot Aviation Services Limited. As Baines Simmons Limited has been held for less than a year and there 
are no indications of impairment, no impairment review has been undertaken. 
Third party claims
In previous years an assessment had been made of the potential costs of settlement of third party claims received following the 
closure of Air Partner Private Jets Limited, based on discussions with advisors and the outcomes of similar legal cases. The time 
period for such claims to be made has now passed and the provision relating to these has been released. See note 22 for further 
details.
Accruals related to air charter contracts
When revenues and costs for air charter contracts are initially recognised, estimates may need to be made in order to accrue 
items of income and expenditure that have not been invoiced but are expected to crystallise. These estimates may not reflect 
the ultimate outcome.
Restatement of prior year
During the year ended 31 January 2016, the directors reviewed the Group’s revenue recognition methodology. Following 
this review, which was conducted with reference to the contractual terms between the Group and its customers, the directors 
determined that it was more appropriate to recognise the majority of the Group’s customer contracts on an agency basis, 
rather than that of principal.
Accordingly, revenue for the year to 31 January 2015 has been restated at £37.6m due to this change in methodology. The Group 
will continue to present the former revenue amount, now called “Gross transaction value” (see definition below in note 2 r) on the 
face of the income statement.
There has been no impact on reported profit, net assets or cash flows as a result of this change in methodology.
The table below reconciles the income statement for the year ended 31 January 2015 as previously reported to the current position:
Year ended 31 January 2015
As 
previously 
Stated 
£’000
Change in 
revenue 
methodology 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
Revenue 192,100 (154,515) 37,585
Gross profit 22,025 – 22,025
Administrative expenses (19,393) – (19,393)
Operating profit 2,632 – 2,632 90 91
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
2 Accounting policies continued
g) Intangible assets 
Internally generated assets 
Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are recognised only if all of the following conditions are met:
• an asset is created that can be identified;
• it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
• the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which it is incurred. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement so as to write off the cost of assets less their residual values over their estimated 
useful lives, which in the case of software is 10%-20% per annum on a straight-line basis. The carrying value of intangible assets 
with a finite life is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not 
be recoverable.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets arising on acquisition are stated at fair value less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. 
Amortisation of the carrying value intangible assets arising on acquisition is charged to the income statement over the estimated 
useful life, which is as follows:
Brands   10% per annum straight line
Mandates / order book 100% per annum
Customer relationships 5% - 16.7% per annum straight line
Training materials  10% per annum straight line
The carrying value of intangible assets with a finite life is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
h) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement so as to write off the cost of assets less their residual values over their estimated 
useful lives, as follows:
Short leasehold property over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis
Leasehold improvements over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis
Fixtures and equipment 10–33% per annum on a straight-line basis
Motor vehicles   25% reducing balance
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
2 Accounting policies continued
d) Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Strategic report on pages 0 to 34. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Strategic report on pages 0 to 34. In addition, note 23 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital risk; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; 
and its exposures to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Group has considerable cash resources and little debt. As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed 
to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial 
statements.
e) Foreign currency
i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the time of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currency of the entity 
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income 
statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
ii) Financial statements of foreign operations 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. Income and 
expenses are translated at the average rate for the period. Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred 
to the Group’s translation reserve. 
f) Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired (the acquisition date). 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Goodwill denominated in currencies other than sterling is revalued at the rate of exchange ruling at balance sheet date.
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the 
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously 
held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-
generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an 
indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount 
of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to 
the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised 
for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 92 93
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
2 Accounting policies continued
i) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows 
that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there 
is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately 
in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a 
revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued 
amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
j) Assets in disposal groups classified as held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale only if available for immediate sale in their present 
condition and a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification. Such assets 
are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not depreciated or amortised.
k) Financial instruments
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and receivables. 
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the 
classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase 
or sell the asset. Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs, except for financial assets held 
at fair value through profit or loss which are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the income 
statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this 
category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading 
unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 
12 months; otherwise, they are classified as non-current. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially 
recognised at fair value at the date the contract is entered into, and subsequently gains or losses arising from changes in their 
fair value are presented in the income statement within administrative expenses in the period in which they arise. The Group’s 
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, to manage its exposure to 
foreign exchange rate risk. Derivatives not designated into an effective hedge relationship are classified as a financial asset or a 
financial liability. The Group has not designated any derivatives as hedging items and therefore does not apply hedge accounting.
2 Accounting policies continued
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months at the end of the reporting period. These 
are classified as non-current assets. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade receivables’, ‘other receivables’, ‘accrued income’ and ‘cash and cash 
equivalents’ in the balance sheet. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection 
is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Other receivables
Other receivables are other amounts contractually due from third parties, for example deposits receivable for leased assets. 
Accrued income
Accrued income is revenue that has been contracted and recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies,  
but not yet invoiced.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Financial liabilities
The Group classifies its financial liabilities in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and at amortised 
cost. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial liabilities were acquired. Management determines the 
classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. Financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party 
to the contractual agreement of the instrument. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are financial liabilities held for trading. A financial liability is classified in 
this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading 
unless they are designated as hedges. Liabilities in this category are classified as current liabilities if expected to be settled 
within 12 months; otherwise, they are classified as non-current. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially 
recognised at fair value at the date the contract is entered into, and subsequently gains or losses arising from changes in their 
fair value are presented in the income statement within administrative expenses in the period in which they arise. The Group’s 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss comprise derivative financial instruments.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
The Group’s financial liabilities at amortised cost comprise ‘trade payables’, ‘other payables’, ‘accrued costs’ and ‘borrowings’. 
They are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented 
as non-current liabilities.
Other payables
Other payables that are financial liabilities at amortised cost are certain customer deposits which are contractually refundable 
to customers on demand.
Accrued costs
Accrued costs are costs that have been contracted and recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies, but for 
which invoices have not yet been received or payments made, as applicable.
Borrowings
Borrowings consist of an interest bearing bank loan which is recorded at fair value.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 94 95
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
2 Accounting policies continued
Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.
Other items
The directors believe that the underlying profit and earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for 
shareholders on the underlying performance of the business. These measures are consistent with how underlying business 
performance is measured internally. The underlying profit before tax measure is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS 
and may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit measures used by other companies. The adjustments made to 
reported profit before tax are to exclude the following:
• restructuring costs;
• significant and one-off impairment charges and provisions that distort underlying trading;
• costs relating to strategy changes that are not considered normal operating costs of the underlying business;
• acquisition costs;
• amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition; and
• acquisition consideration classified as an employee cost under IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Equity instruments issued by the Group
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest in the asset of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. The Group’s equity instruments comprise 
‘share capital’ in the balance sheet.
l) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group 
will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised 
a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its 
main features to those affected by it.
m) Revenue
Revenues are derived from aircraft chartering services, aircraft remarketing services, aircraft inspection services and the provision 
of training and safety consulting services. In line with IAS 18 Revenue, where a contract has been determined as principal, the 
full amount of the invoice is recognised as revenue, where Air Partner is not acting as Principal revenue is recognised on an 
agency basis. Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received for the provision of goods and services to 
third-party customers and is stated exclusive of Value Added T ax and is only recognised where there is a contractual right to receive 
consideration for work undertaken, the amount can be measured reliably and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow. 
Aircraft chartering services
Amounts receivable in respect of aircraft chartering services are recognised as revenue when the economic benefits are deemed 
to have passed to the customer, which is generally the flight date. In instances where the Group is acting as agent, the net amount 
receivable by the Group is recognised as revenue. In instances where the Group is acting as principal, the full amount of the 
contract is recognised as revenue.
Aircraft remarketing services
Cabot Aviation System Limited’s principal activity is that of an aircraft remarketing broker. Fees earned in respect of these services 
are recognised when they become payable in accordance with the terms of the contract with the customer.
2 Accounting policies continued
Aircraft inspection services
Aircraft registered with the Isle of Man registry, which is managed by Baines Simmons Limited, require an annual inspection. 
Amounts receivable in respect of such inspections are recognised as revenue once the aircraft has been inspected. 
Provision of aviation related training and safety consulting services
Baines Simmons Limited provides aviation related specialist training and consultancy services. Revenue is recognised by 
reference to the stage of completion of the contract determined by the value of the services provided at balance sheet date as a 
proportion of the total value of the assignment. Amounts in respect of unbilled services provided to customers are recognised 
as revenue at balance sheet date.
n) Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for resource allocation and assessing performance of the 
operating segments, is considered to be the Board. The nature of the operating segments is set out in note 4.
o) Share-based payments
The Group will from time to time grant options to employees to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company. The fair value 
of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured 
at grant date and spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options, based on 
management’s estimate of the number of options which will ultimately vest, adjusting at each reporting date for the effect 
of non-market based vesting conditions. 
p) Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense in the period in which the employees 
render service. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution 
schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement 
benefit scheme.
q) Taxation
The tax expense represents current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates 
to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date, and any adjustments to the tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial 
recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable 
profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
r) Gross transaction value
Gross transaction value (“GTV”) represents the total value invoiced to customers and is stated exclusive of Value Added Tax. 
s) Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer all, or substantially all, of the risks and rewards 
of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Rental income or expenditure from operating leases 
is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
t) Dividends 
Final dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by the 
Company’s shareholders. Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 96 97
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
3 Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Continuing operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Aircraft chartering 47,289 37,585
Aircraft remarketing 273 –
Aircraft inspection 627 –
Training and safety consulting services 1,753 –
49,942 37,585
Included in revenue arising from the United Kingdom is revenue of approximately £21,963,000 (2015: £12,945,000) which arose 
from sales to the Group’s two largest customers. No other single customers contributed more than 10% to the Group’s revenue 
in 2016 or 2015. 
4 Segmental analysis
The services provided by the Group consist of chartering different types of aircraft and related aviation services. 
Following acquisitions in the year the group has four operating segments: Commercial Jets Broking, Private Jets Broking, Freight 
Broking and Baines Simmons. Cabot Aviation Services results are aggregated in to Commercial Jets Broking. As a result, prior 
year segmental analysis has been restated to reflect the current segmental reporting of continuing operations and the change 
in accounting methodology referred to in note 2. Overheads with the exception of Corporate costs are allocated to the Group’s 
operating segments in relation to operating activities. 
The Segmental analysis for the year ended 31 January 2015 has been restated following a change in accounting methodology 
referred to in note 2. 
Sales transactions between operating segments are carried out on an arm’s length basis. All results, assets and liabilities 
reviewed by the Board (which is the chief operating decision maker) are prepared on a basis consistent with those that are 
reported in the financial statements.
The Board does not review revenue, assets and liabilities at segmental level, therefore these items are not disclosed.
The segmental information, as provided to the Board on a monthly basis, is as follows:
Year ended 31 January 2016 
Continuing operations
Commercial 
Jets Broking 
£’000
Private Jets 
Broking 
£’000
Freight 
Broking 
£’000
Baines 
Simmons 
£’000
Corporate 
costs 
£’000
 T otal 
£’000
Segmental gross profit 14,005 9,361 1,857 2,046 – 27,269
Depreciation and amortisation (339) (186) – (6) – (531)
Impairment losses (361) – – (29) – (390)
Underlying operating profit 2,952 2,387 767 (99) (1,621) 4,386
Other items (see note 7) (436) (261) (44) (411) – (1,152)
Segment result 2,516 2,126 723 (510) (1,621) 3,234
Finance income 10
Finance expense (81)
Profit before tax 3,163
Tax (1,230)
Profit after tax 1,933
Discontinued operations 387
Profit for the year 2,320
4 Segmental analysis continued
Year ended 31 January 2015 
Continuing operations
Commercial 
Jets Broking 
£’000
Private Jets 
Broking 
£’000
Freight 
broking 
£’000
Corporate 
costs 
£’000
 T otal 
£’000
Segmental gross profit 12,483 8,009 1,533 – 22,025
Depreciation and amortisation (177) (84) – – (261)
Impairment losses – – – – –
Underlying operating profit 2,693 791 368 (1,220) 2,632
Other items (see note 7) – – – – –
Segment result 2,693 791 368 (1,220) 2,632
Finance income 25
Finance expense (21)
Profit before tax 2,636
Tax 151
Profit after tax 2,787
Discontinued operations (7)
Profit for the year 2,780
The company is domiciled in the UK but due to the nature of the Group’s operations, a significant amount of gross profit is derived 
from overseas countries. The Group reviews gross profit based upon location of the assets used to generate that gross profit. 
Apart from the UK, no single country is deemed to have material non-current asset levels other than goodwill in relation to the 
French operation. 
The Board also reviews information on a geographical basis based on parts of the world which are considered to be key to 
operational activities. As a result the following additional information is provided showing a geographical split of the United 
Kingdom, Europe, the United States of America and the Rest of the World:
Continuing operations
United 
Kingdom 
£’000
 Europe 
£’000
United States 
of America 
£’000
Rest of the 
World 
£’000
 T otal 
£’000
Year ended 31 January 2016
Gross profit 16,486 7,353 3,187 243 27,269
Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) 8,396 995 48 6 9,445
Year ended 31 January 2015
Gross profit 10,951 7,136 3,741 197 22,025
Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) 2,094 1,017 66 – 3,177
Europe can be further analysed as:
Continuing operations
France 
£’000
Germany 
£’000
Italy 
£’000
Other 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
Year ended 31 January 2016
Gross profit 2,730 2,306 1,491 826 7,353
Year ended 31 January 2015
Gross profit 2,474 2,048 1,818 796 7,136
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 98 99
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
5 Operating profit 
Operating profit for the year has been arrived at after charging / (crediting) the following:
Continuing operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Net foreign exchange gain (2) (24)
Change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments (186) 104
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 304 226
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets – acquired 216 –
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets – other 225 35
Impairment of trade receivable 390 124
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 5
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 494 526
Operating lease rentals – other 99 69
Staff costs (see note 8) 15,291 13,066
6 Auditor’s remuneration
Fees payable to the principal auditor and its network firms for audit and other services are disclosed below:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 179 130
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of subsidiaries pursuant to 
legislation (including that of countries and territories outside Great Britain) 18 19
T otal audit fees 197 149
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group:
Tax services 22 13
Other tax services – 43
Other non-audit services 21 –
T otal non-audit fees 43 56
7 Other items
Continuing operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Restructuring costs (419) –
Amortisation of purchased intangibles (216) –
Acquisition costs (419) –
Non-cash acquisition related costs (98) –
(1,152) –
Tax effect of other items 81 –
Other items after taxation (1,071) –
Restructuring costs relate to changes to the management structure following the acquisitions made during the year.
8 Staff costs
The average number of people employed by the Group (including directors) during the year, analysed by category was as follows:
Continuing operations
2016 
Number
2015 
Number
Operations 155 104
Administration 105 91
 260 195
The aggregate payroll costs comprised:
Continuing operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Wages and salaries 12,730 10,752
Social security costs 1,956 1,835
Pension costs 480 424
Share-based payments 125 55
 15,291 13,066
The Group contributes to personal pension plans of certain employees and this cost is charged to the income statement in the 
period in which it is incurred.
Full disclosure of directors’ emoluments, share options and directors’ pension entitlements which form part of their remuneration 
packages, and their interests in the Company’s share capital are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report.
9 Finance income and expense
Continuing operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Finance income
Interest on bank deposits 10 25
Continuing operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Finance expense
Interest on loans and bank overdrafts 74 8
Unwinding of discount on provisions 7 13
81 21
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 100 101
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
10 Taxation
Continuing operations Discontinued operations T otal
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 561 207 98 (2) 659 205
Foreign tax 488 513 – – 488 513
Current tax adjustments in respect of prior years 345 (788) – – 345 (788)
 1,394 (68) 98 (2) 1,492 (70)
Deferred tax (see note 25) (164) (83) – – (164) (83)
T otal tax 1,230 (151) 98 (2) 1,328 (153)
Of which:
Tax on underlying profit 1,311 (151) 98 (2) 1,409 (153)
Tax on other items (see note 7) (81) – – – (81) –
 1,230 (151) 98 (2) 1,328 (153)
Corporation tax in the UK was calculated at 20.16% (2015: 21.3%) of the estimated assessable profit for the period. Taxation for 
other jurisdictions was calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the period can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated income statement as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Profit from continuing operations before tax 3,163 2,636
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations before tax 485 (9)
Accounting profit before tax 3,648 2,627
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.16% (2015: 21.3%) 735 560
Effect of UK corporation tax rate at 21% from 1 February 2015 to 31 March 2015  
(2015: 23% from 1 February 2014 to 31 March 2014) (61) –
Tax effect of items that are not recognised in determining taxable profit 205 (24)
Tax effect of losses not previously recognised – (82)
Tax effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 139 181
Current tax adjustments in respect of prior years 303 (788)
Deferred tax not recognised 7 –
T otal tax charge/(credit) 1,328 (153)
The UK corporation tax rate decreased from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. The impact on the tax charge is shown above.
Further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate have been announced. A reduction to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 
18% on 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 16 October 2015 and the deferred tax balance has been adjusted to reflect this 
change (see note 25).
11 Discontinued operations
In March 2010, Air Partner Private Jets Limited was closed. A claim against the company was filed by former employees of that 
business on the grounds that contractual undertakings could no longer be fulfilled. The last date for the claims to be pursued 
was 16 March 2016. As no further actions have been taken by the claimants, the claims have lapsed. As a result the provision 
was derecognised. 
On 20 January 2014, management closed the fuel department. Accordingly, in 2015, results of the fuel department were disclosed 
as discontinuing operations. 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Revenue – 62
Cost of sales – (64)
Gross profit/(loss) – (2)
Administrative expenses 485 (7)
Profit/(loss) before tax 485 (9)
Taxation (98) 2
Net profit/(loss) attributable to discontinued operations 387 (7)
There were no cash flows attributable to discontinued operations in the year ended 31 January 2016 (2015: £7,000 cash outflow).
12 Dividends
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the parent company
Final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2015 of 15.4 pence per share 1,578 1,407
(Final dividend the year ended 31 January 2014 of 14.0 pence)
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2016 of 7.33 pence per share 753 670
(Interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2015 of 6.66 pence)
2,331 2,077
The Directors propose a final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2016 of 16.9 pence per share, subject to to shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 June 2016.
The Air Partner Employee Benefit Trust, which held 159,236 ordinary shares at 31 January 2016 (31 January 2015: 199,236) 
representing 1.6% (2015: 1.9%) of the Company’s issued share capital is not entitled to receive dividends. A further 100,910 
shares are held by the Trust in a nominee capacity for two beneficiaries of the Trust.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 102 103
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
13 Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Continuing and discontinued operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Earnings for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share
Profit attributable to owners of the parent company 2,320 2,780
Adjustment to exclude other items 1,071 –
Underlying profit attributable to owners of the parent company 3,391 2,780
Number of shares Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the calculation of basic earnings per share 10,121,245 10,056,276
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: share options 55,144 75,764
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the calculation of diluted earnings per share 10,176,389 10,132,040
From continuing operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Earnings
Profit attributable to owners of the parent company 2,320 2,780
Adjustment to exclude (profit)/loss for the year from discontinued operations (387) 7
Adjustment to exclude other items 1,071 –
Underlying earnings for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share 3,004 2,787
From discontinued operations
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Earnings
Earnings for the calculation of discontinued basic and diluted earnings per share 387 (7)
The denominators used are the same as those above for both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing and 
discontinued operations.
The calculation of underlying earnings per share (before other items) is included as the directors believe it provides a better 
understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. Other items are disclosed in note 7.
14 Goodwill
Group £’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 918
Foreign currency adjustments (80)
At 31 January 2015 838
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries (note 31) 3,602
Foreign currency adjustments 10
At 31 January 2016 4,450
Provision for impairment
At 1 February 2014, 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2016 –
Net book value
At 31 January 2016 4,450
At 31 January 2015 838
At 1 February 2014 918
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs), or group of units 
that are expected to benefit from that business combination. Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of 
goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Air Partner International S.A.S. 848 838
Cabot Aviation Services Limited 787 –
Baines Simmons Limited (Training and consulting) 2,488 –
Baines Simmons Limited (Managed Services) 327 –
4,450 838
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit was measured on the basis of its value 
in use, by applying cash flow projections based on financial forecasts covering a three-year period. The key assumptions for the 
value in use calculation were those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct 
costs during the forecast period. The estimated growth rates were based on past performance and expectation of future changes 
in the market. The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the financial forecasts was 
2% (2015: 2%). The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows was 13% (2015: 11%).
The directors do not believe that there are any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions that would result in a material 
impairment of goodwill.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 104 105
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
15 Other intangible assets 
Group
Brands 
£’000
Other 
mandates 
£’000
Customer 
relationships 
£’000
Training 
materials 
£’000
Software 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 – – – – 1,217 1,217
Additions – – – – 705 705
Foreign currency adjustments – – – – (1) (1)
At 31 January 2015 – – – – 1,921 1,921
Additions – – – – 153 153
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries (note 31) 202 171 1,942 620 – 2,935
At 31 January 2016 202 171 1,942 620 2,074 5,009
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 February 2014 – – – – 821 821
Charge for the year – – – – 35 35
Foreign currency adjustments – – – – (1) (1)
At 31 January 2015 – – – – 855 855
Charge for the year 9 123 55 29 225 441
Foreign currency adjustments – – – – (1) (1)
At 31 January 2016 9 123 55 29 1,079 1,295
Net book value
At 31 January 2016 193 48 1,887 591 995 3,714
At 31 January 2015 – – – – 1,066 1,066
At 1 February 2014 – – – – 396 396
Software
Company 
£’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 1,204
Additions 701
At 31 January 2015 1,905
Additions 153
At 31 January 2016 2,058
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 February 2014 812
Charge for the year 30
At 31 January 2015 842
Charge for the year 224
At 31 January 2016 1,066
Net book value
At 31 January 2016 992
At 31 January 2015 1,063
At 1 February 2014 392
Other intangible assets comprise acquired software and assets acquired on acquisitions including training materials, 
customer relationships, mandates to remarket aircraft and brands. 
16 Property, plant and equipment 
Group
Short 
leasehold 
property and 
leasehold 
improvements 
£’000
 Fixtures and 
equipment 
£’000
 Motor 
vehicles 
£’000
 T otal 
£’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 823 1,786 4 2,613
Additions 71 749 – 820
Foreign currency adjustments (6) (20) (1) (27)
Disposals (119) (88) (3) (210)
At 31 January 2015 769 2,427 – 3,196
Additions 47 34 37 118
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries (note 31) 40 151 – 191
Foreign currency adjustments 2 3 – 5
At 31 January 2016 858 2,615 37 3,510
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 February 2014 281 1,634 1 1,916
Charge for the year 83 143 – 226
Foreign currency adjustments (3) (11) – (14)
Disposals (119) (85) (1) (205)
At 31 January 2015 242 1,681 – 1,923
Charge for the year 92 210 2 304
Foreign currency adjustments 1 1 – 2
At 31 January 2016 335 1,892 2 2,229
Net book value
At 31 January 2016 523 723 35 1,281
At 31 January 2015 527 746 – 1,273
At 1 February 2014 542 152 3 697
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 106 107
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
16 Property, plant and equipment continued
Company
Short 
leasehold 
property and 
leasehold 
improvements 
£’000
 Fixtures and 
equipment 
£’000
 Motor 
vehicles 
£’000
 T otal 
£’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 715 899 15 1,629
Additions (1) 625 – 624
Disposals – – (15) (15)
At 31 January 2015 714 1,524 – 2,238
Additions 20 12 37 69
At 31 January 2016 734 1,536 37 2,307
Depreciation
At 1 February 2014 159 881 13 1,053
Charge for the year 72 94 – 166
Disposals – – (13) (13)
At 31 January 2015 231 975 – 1,206
Charge for the year 72 130 2 204
At 31 January 2016 303 1,105 2 1,410
Net book value
At 31 January 2016 431 431 35 897
At 31 January 2015 483 549 – 1,032
At 1 February 2014 556 18 2 576
17 Investments 
Company
Investments 
in shares of 
subsidiaries 
£’000
Capital 
contributions 
to 
subsidiaries 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 1,179 1,220 2,399
Additions – capital contributions – 341 341
Additions – group share-based payments – 21 21
At 31 January 2015 1,179 1,582 2,761
Additions – Cabot Aviation Services Limited 814 – 814
Additions – capital contributions – 5,650 5,650
Additions – group share-based payments – 98 98
At 31 January 2016 1,993 7,330 9,323
Amounts provided
At 1 February 2014 101 454 555
Impairment of investment in Air Partner Nordic AB – 173 173
Impairment of investment in Air Partner (Switzerland) AG – 8 8
At 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2016 101 635 736
Net book value
At 31 January 2016 1,892 6,695 8,587
At 31 January 2015 1,078 947 2,025
At 1 February 2014 1,078 766 1,844
Air Partner plc made a capital contribution of £5,650,000 to Air Partner Consulting Limited during the year for the purchase 
of Baines Simmons Limited. 
The Company tests its investments for impairment if there are indications that the investments may be impaired. The recoverable 
amount of each investment was measured on the basis of its value in use, by applying cash flow projections based on the 
financial forecasts covering a three-year period. The key assumptions for the value in use calculation for each subsidiary were 
those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. The 
estimated growth rates were based on past performance and expectation of future changes in the market. The growth rate used 
to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the financial forecasts was 2% (2015: 2%). The pre-tax rate 
used to discount the forecast cash flows was 13% (2015: 11%). The directors do not believe that there are any reasonably possible 
changes to the key assumptions that would result in a further impairment of the Company’s investments. 108 109
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
17 Investments continued 
The following is a list of the subsidiaries of which Air Partner plc, incorporated in England and Wales, is the beneficial owner:
Name Principal activity Country of incorporation Holding
Air Partner International S.A.S. Air charter broking France 100%
Air Partner International GmbH Air charter broking Germany 100%
Air Partner, Inc. Air charter broking US 100%
Air Partner (Switzerland) AG Air charter broking Switzerland 100%
Air Partner Travel Management Company Limited Travel agency England and Wales 100%
Air Partner Srl Air charter broking Italy 100%
Air Partner Havacilik ve Tasimacilik Limited Sirketi Air charter broking Turkey 100%*
Cabot Aviation Services Limited Aircraft remarketing England and Wales 100%
Air Partner Consulting Limited Holding company England and Wales 100%
Baines Simmons Limited Aviation safety consultants England and Wales 100%
Aviation Compliance Limited Aviation safety consultants England and Wales 100%
Air Partner Jet Charter and Sales Private Limited Air charter broking India 100%
†
Business Jets Limited Dormant England and Wales 100%
Air Partner Group Limited Dormant England and Wales 100%
Air Partner Investments Limited Dormant England and Wales 100%
Air Partner Enclave Limited Dormant England and Wales 100%
Air Partner Nordic Air Charter Broking Sweden 100%
* 40% is held by a subsidiary undertaking.
† 99.99% is held by one subsidiary company and 0.01% is held by another subsidiary company
In the opinion of the directors the recoverable amount of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings is considered to be in excess 
of the carrying value.
18 Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Gross trade receivables 16,318 14,764 8,558 7,212
Allowance for bad and doubtful debts (809) (385) (135) (128)
Trade receivables 15,509 14,379 8,423 7,084
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 1,505 1,683
Social security and other taxes 1,018 1,182 726 1,033
Other receivables 172 196 49 49
Prepayments and accrued income 7,009 5,272 4,780 2,441
 23,708 21,029 15,483 12,290
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
All trade and other receivables have been reviewed for indicators of impairment. The movement in impaired receivables in the 
year is shown below:
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
At 31 January 2014 381 235
Charge for the period 124 13
Receivables written off during the year (120) (120)
At 31 January 2015 385 128
Acquired on acquisition 61 –
Charge for the year 390 –
Receivables written off during the year (60) (10)
Foreign currency adjustments 33 17
At 31 January 2016 809 135
Of the amounts impaired during the period, £386,000 was for an amount past due by less than 1 year with the remainder being all 
overdue by more than one year. 
In addition, some of the unimpaired trade receivables were past due at the reporting date. The ageing of financial assets was 
as follows:
Group Company
 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Neither past due nor impaired 10,346 9,976 5,803 5,032
Ageing of past due but not impaired:
– By not more than 3 months 4,459 3,588 2,431 1,383
– By more than 3 months but not more than 6 months 146 371 (32) 302
– By more than 6 months but not more than 1 year 227 215 3 136
– By more than 1 year 331 229 218 231
 15,509 14,379 8,423 7,084 110 111
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
19 Borrowings
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Secured bank loans 3,471 – 3,471 –
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015
 £’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 514 – 514 –
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 2,957 – 2,957 –
3,471 – 3,471 –
All borrowings are in sterling. 
The Group’s borrowings consists of a bank loan of £3.6m from the company bankers. The loan was taken out on 12 August 2015. 
Repayments commenced on 12 November 2015 and will continue until 12 August 2020. The loan is secured by a floating charge 
over the Company’s assets. The loan carries interest rate at 2.5% above LIBOR.
20 Trade and other payables
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015
 £’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Trade payables 3,182 2,127 1,333 636
Other taxation and social security payable 729 533 129 161
 3,911 2,660 1,462 797
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
21 Other liabilities
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Accruals 4,980 3,499 2,772 1,487
Other liabilities 653 568 – 4
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 2,688 741
 5,633 4,067 5,460 2,232
The directors consider that the carrying amount of other liabilities approximates their fair value. 
22 Provisions
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Administration claims – 478 – 478
Restructuring costs 421 34 166 –
 421 512 166 478
Group Company
Administration 
claims 
£’000
Restructuring 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
Administration 
claims 
£’000
Restructuring 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
At 1 February 2015 478 34 512 478 – 478
Additional provision in the year – 421 421 – 166 166
Utilisation of provision – (34) (34) – – –
Unwinding of discount 7 – 7 7 – 7
Release of provision (note 11) (485) – (485) (485) – (485)
At 31 January 2016 – 421 421 – 166 166
A provision of £nil (2015: £478,000) was held in relation to the potential costs of settlement of claims which have been received 
from third parties following the closure of Air Partner Private Jets Limited. The claims expired in March 2016. 
A provision of £421,000 was created in the year in relation to the potential costs of reorganising the leadership team into the 
operating board. These were expected to be settled by the end of May 2016 (see note 7). 112 113
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
23 Financial instruments
The objectives of the Group’s treasury activities are to manage financial risk, minimise adverse effects of fluctuations in the 
financial markets on the value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities and to ensure that the working capital requirements 
fit the needs of the ongoing business.
The Group has various financial instruments such as cash, trade receivables, trade payables and borrowings that arise directly 
from its operations, along with forward currency contracts undertaken to minimise risk on future business.
a) Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage interest rate risk and to maximise its return from its cash balances. The Group’s main interest rate 
risk is related to variable rates on cash held at the bank. Certain cash balances are deposits on fixed interest terms, but are never 
lodged for more than three months to ensure that the Group does not suffer unduly from the risk of interest rate variation.
Group Company
 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash held at year end on fixed interest rates 4,290 6,712 2,156 2,219
Cash held at year end on variable interest rates 15,501 12,082 12,830 8,510
 19,791 18,794 14,986 10,729
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of cash held on variable interest rates on profit before tax for the year to a reasonably 
possible change in interest rates, with effect from the beginning of the year. There was no additional impact on shareholders’ 
equity. These changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on observation of current market conditions. The rate 
range on which interest was receivable during the year was 0.0% to 1.0% (2015: 0.0% to 0.5%).
Effect on profit before tax
100 basis points increase 100 basis points decrease
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash held at year end on variable interest rates 155 121 (155) (121)
Effect on profit before tax
100 basis points increase 100 basis points decrease
Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash held at year end on variable interest rates 128 85 (128) (85)
The group is further exposed to interest rate risk due to variable interest owed on its borrowings, £3,471,000, linked to LIBOR. 
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of borrowings on variable interest rates on profit before tax for the year to a 
reasonably possible change in interest rates, with effect from the beginning of the year. There was no additional impact on 
shareholders’ equity. These changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on observation of current market conditions. 
The rate range on which interest was payable during the year was 3.09% (2015: 0.0%).
Effect on profit before tax
100 basis points increase 100 basis points decrease
Group and company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Borrowings on variable interest rates (35) – 35 –
23 Financial instruments continued
b) Credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the reporting date, as summarised below, represents the Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk:
Group Company
 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 19,791 18,794 14,986 10,729
Trade and other receivables 17,651 15,543 10,163 9,385
 37,442 34,337 25,149 20,114
The Group constantly monitors defaults of customers and other counterparties and incorporates this information into its credit 
risk controls. It is the Group’s policy that all counterparties who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to an external credit 
verification process. 
The directors consider that all of the above financial assets that are not impaired for each of the reporting dates under review 
are of good credit quality, including those that are past due.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk to commercial customers, as credit risk is predominantly government based.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high 
credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Refer to note 18 for details of impairment losses for financial instruments.
c) Liquidity risk
The Group faces liquidity risks in paying operators before a flight occurs or before payment is received from the customer. 
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by, where possible, making payments to operators only once payment from the customer 
has been received.
The Group manages cash within its operations and ensures that cash collection is efficiently managed. Any excess cash is placed 
on low-risk, short term interest-bearing deposits or distributed to shareholders through dividends, although the Group retains 
enough working capital in the business to ensure that the business operations can run smoothly.
As at 31 January 2016, the Group and Company’s financial liabilities had contractual maturities which are summarised below:
Current Non-current
Within 6 months 6 to 12 months 1 to 5 years More than 5 years
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Trade and other payables 22,353 19,719 257 – 2,957 – – –
Derivative financial instruments – 150 – – – – – –
 22,353 19,869 257 – 2,957 – – –
Current Non-current
Within 6 months 6 to 12 months 1 to 5 years More than 5 years
Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Trade and other payables 17,353 14,354 257 – 2,957 – – –
Derivative financial instruments – 150 – – – – – –
 17,353 14,504 257 – 2,957 – – –
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 114 115
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
23 Financial instruments continued
d) Foreign currency risk
The Group has invested in foreign operations outside the United Kingdom and also buys and sells goods and services 
denominated in currencies other than sterling. As a result the value of the Group’s non-sterling revenue, purchases, financial 
assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates in general and in US Dollar and Euro rates 
in particular. The Group’s policy on foreign currency risk is not to enter into forward contracts until a firm contract has been signed.
The Group considers using derivatives where appropriate to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 
The purpose is to manage the currency risks arising from the Group operations. It is the Group’s policy that no trading in financial 
instruments will be undertaken.
Foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities, translated into sterling at the closing rate, are as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Group Eur € US $ GBP £ Other Eur € US $ GBP £ Other
Financial assets 15,628 4,714 16,825 275 18,134 5,973 9,930 300
Financial liabilities (15,397) (3,176) (3,750) (53) (14,877) (3,277) (1,382) (183)
Short term exposure 231 1,538 13,075 222 3,257 2,696 8,548 117
Financial assets – – – – – – – –
Financial liabilities – – (2,957) – – – – –
Long term exposure – – (2,957) – – – – –
231 1,538 10,118 222 3,257 2,696 8,548 117
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Company Eur € US $ GBP £ Other Eur € US $ GBP £ Other
Financial assets 10,027 2,058 14,176 395 9,220 2,232 8,904 (74)
Financial liabilities (13,271) (34) (4,059) (173) (12,086) (570) (1,618) (80)
Short term exposure (3,244) 2,024 10,117 222 (2,866) 1,662 7,286 (154)
Financial assets – – – – – – – –
Financial liabilities – – (2,957) – – – – –
Long term exposure – – (2,957) – – – – –
(3,244) 2,024 7,160 222 (2,866) 1,662 7,286 (154)
23 Financial instruments continued
d) Foreign currency risk continued
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in the Euro and US 
Dollar exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on profit before tax and equity. It assumes a 10% change of the 
Sterling/Euro exchange rate for the year ended 31 January 2016 (2015: 10%). A 10% change is also assumed for the Sterling/
US Dollar exchange rate (2015: 10%). Both of these percentages have been determined based on the average market volatility 
in exchange rates in the previous 12 months. The sensitivity is based on the Group’s foreign currency financial instruments held 
at each reporting date and also takes into account forward exchange contracts that offset effects from changes in currency 
exchange rates.
If sterling had strengthened against the Euro and US Dollar by 10% (2015: 10%) and 10% (2015: 10%) respectively the impact 
would have been as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Group Eur € US $ T otal Eur € US $ Total
Financial assets (1,563) (471) (2,034) (1,813) (597) (2,410)
Financial liabilities 1,540 318 1,858 1,488 328 1,816
Effect on profit before tax (23) (153) (176) (325) (269) (594)
2016 2015
Company Eur € US $ T otal Eur € US $ Total
Financial assets (1,003) (206) (1,209) (922) (223) (1,145)
Financial liabilities 1,327 3 1,330 1,209 57 1,266
Effect on profit before tax 324 (203) 121 287 (166) 121
If sterling had weakened against the Euro and US Dollar by 10% (2015: 10%) and 10% (2015: 10%) respectively the impact would 
have been as follows:
2016 2015
Group Eur € US $ T otal Eur € US $ Total
Financial assets 1,563 471 2,034 1,813 597 2,410
Financial liabilities (1,540) (318) (1,858) (1,488) (328) (1,816)
Effect on profit before tax 23 153 176 325 269 594
2016 2015
Company Eur € US $ T otal Eur € US $ Total
Financial assets 1,003 206 1,209 922 223 1,145
Financial liabilities (1,327) (3) (1,330) (1,209) (57) (1,266)
Effect on profit before tax (324) 203 (121) (287) 166 (121)
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 116 117
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
23 Financial instruments continued
e) Forward contracts
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. The Group is a party to foreign 
currency forward contracts in the management of its exchange rate exposures. The instruments purchased are primarily 
denominated in the currencies of the Group’s principal markets.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments and any change in their fair value 
determined as the mark-to-market value at balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement. No derivatives qualified 
for hedge accounting during the year (2015: none).
At the reporting date, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group had committed 
are as below and their related fair value was as follows (terms not exceeding three months from 31 January 2016):
Group and Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – notional amount 537 2,261
Financial asset/(liability) 36 (150)
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments amounting to £186,000 have been credited to the income statement 
in the period (2015: charge of £104,000). 
These derivative financial instruments are not traded in active markets. Their fair value has been determined by using valuation 
techniques which maximise the use of observable market data, namely the contract exchange rate and the bank’s forward rate. 
The derivatives are therefore categorised as level 2 using the fair value hierarchy.
f) Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. 
The Group’s primary tool in managing risk is cash flow analysis. In addition to strategic cash flow management the Group 
performs detailed weekly cash flow modelling.
The schedule of matters reserved for Board decision includes approval of any financial instruments or bank borrowings in excess 
of £2,000,000.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt (borrowings and other long term liabilities disclosed in note 19 after 
deducting non-JetCard cash and bank balances) and equity of the group (comprising issued capital, reserves, and retained 
earnings disclosed in notes 27 to 30)
The group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. The Group’s gearing ratio at year end is as follows:
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Debt 3,471 –
Cash and cash equivalents 3,015 4,701
Net (debt)/cash (456) 4,701
Equity 13,880 13,311
Net debt to equity ratio 3.29% 0.00%
Debt is defined as long and short term borrowings and other long term liabilities as detailed in note 19.
Equity includes all share capital and reserves of the Group that are managed as capital. 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
23 Financial instruments continued
g) Financial assets by category
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash and bank balances 19,791 18,794
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 36 –
Loans and receivables 17,651 15,543
Current assets which are not financial assets 6,495 6,643
Total current assets 43,973 40,980
Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash and bank balances 14,986 10,729
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 36 –
Loans and receivables 10,163 9,385
Current assets which are not financial assets 5,657 3,389
Total current assets 30,842 23,503
h) Financial liabilities by category
Group
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss – (150)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (8,676) (5,604)
Current liabilities which are not financial liabilities (27,743) (25,391)
Total current liabilities (36,419) (31,145)
Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss – (150)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (7,307) (2,864)
Current liabilities which are not financial liabilities (17,201) (14,640)
Total current liabilities (24,508) (17,654)
Group and Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (2,957) –
Total long term liabilities (2,957) –
The directors consider that the carrying amount of the financial assets and liabilities approximates their fair value. 118 119
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
24 Share-based payments
The Company operates a share option scheme under which options may be granted to certain staff of the Group to subscribe 
for ordinary shares in the Company. The Scheme rules cover grants under an Approved and an Unapproved section of the scheme. 
According to those rules, options may be granted at an exercise price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s 
shares on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of grant. The vesting period is three years. With certain exceptions, 
options are forfeited if an employee leaves the Group and outstanding options expire if they remain unexercised after a period 
of 6.8 to 10 years from the date of grant.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2016 2015
 
Number 
of share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Number 
of share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Outstanding as at start of year 702,136 371.9 899,067 343.7
Granted during the year 246,717 29.2 – –
Forfeited/lapsed during the year (133,793) 286.3 (171,235) 237.7
Exercised during the year (30,000) 284.1 (25,696) 314.0
Outstanding at year end 785,060 301.7 702,136 371.9
Exercisable at year end 403,775 282.2 346,520 579.3
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at the year end was 4.14 years (2015: 5.79 years).
The exercise prices of share options outstanding at year end ranged from nil pence to 1,316 pence (2015: nil pence to 884 pence).
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £223,000 (2015: £55,000), all of which related 
to equity share-based payment transactions.
In the current year, options were granted on 1 May, 14 May and 4 June. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options 
granted on those dates is £673,000. In 2015 no options were granted. The inputs into the Monte-Carlo model are as follows:
1 May 2015 
options
14 May 2015 
options
4 June 2015 
options
Weighted average share price 360p 330p 388p
Weighted average exercise price 0.00-360p 0.00p 0.00p
Expected volatility 38% 38% 38%
Expected life 3 years 1-4 years 3 years
Risk-free rate 0.99% 0.99% 0.99%
Expected dividend yields 0.0% 0.0% 6.0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the group’s share price over the previous three years, 
based on the historical median 50 day volatility. 
25 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax has been calculated at 18% (2015: 20%) in respect of UK companies and at the prevailing tax rates for the overseas 
subsidiaries. The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and the Company with 
movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods.
Group
IFRS3 
intangibles 
£’000
Net 
accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£’000
 Tax losses 
£’000
 Share-based 
payment 
£’000
Other 
temporary 
differences 
£’000
 T otal 
£’000
At 1 February 2014 – 40 – 130 77 247
Exchange differences on opening balances – – – – (39) (39)
(Charge)/credit to the income statement – (124) 130 – 77 83
Credit direct to equity – – – 8 – 8
At 31 January 2015 – (84) 130 138 115 299
Acquired on acquisition (584) (30) – – – (614)
Exchange differences – (3) – – (26) (29)
Credit/(charge) to the income statement 97 63 (128) – 132 164
Credit direct to equity – – – 18 – 18
At 31 January 2016 (487) (54) 2 156 221 (162)
Company
Net 
accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£’000
Share-based 
payment 
£’000
 T otal 
£’000
At 1 February 2014 19 130 149
(Charge)/credit to the income statement (112) – (112)
Credit direct to equity – 8 8
At 31 January 2015 (93) 138 45
Charge to the income statement 12 – 12
Credit direct to equity – 18 18
At 31 January 2016 (81) 156 75
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the analysis 
of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes:
Group Company
 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Deferred tax liabilities (551) (74) – –
Deferred tax assets 389 373 75 45
(162) 299 75 45
At the balance sheet date the Group had undistributed earnings in respect of overseas subsidiaries that would be subject to 
overseas withholding taxes on remission to the UK. No liability has been recognised in respect of these earnings because the 
Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses totalling £232,000 (2015: £212,000) for which no deferred tax asset 
was recognised, as it is not considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 120 121
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
26 Employee benefits
In the UK, the Company operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for all qualifying employees. The assets  
of the scheme are held in individual personal pension schemes which are fully transferable if the employee leaves the Company.
Similar schemes operate across the rest of the Group depending on local regulations and individual social contribution levels.  
The amount of expense related to such pension contributions is disclosed in note 8. 
In other subsidiaries, the employees are members of state-managed retirement funds operated by respective governments, 
with contributions payable being a specified percentage of payroll costs. The only obligation of the group with respect to the 
retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions. The total cost charged to income of £480,000 (2015: £424,000) 
represents contributions payable to these various schemes by the Group. As at the balance sheet date £129,000 (2015: £11,000) 
was accrued in respect of such schemes.
27 Share capital
 
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Authorised
15,000,000 (2015: 15,000,000) ordinary shares of 5.0 pence each 750 750
Issued and fully paid
10,443,513 (2015: 10,261,693) ordinary shares of 5.0 pence each 522 513
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income and entitles holders to one vote per share 
at general meetings of the Company.
181,820 shares were issued in the year as part of the acquisition consideration for Cabot Aviation Services Limited. 
28 Share Premium
 
Group and 
Company 
£’000
Balance at 1 February 2015 4,518
Shares issued for acquisition 296
Balance at 31 January 2016 4,814
29 Merger Reserve
 
Group and 
Company 
£’000
Balance at 1 February 2015 –
Shares issued for acquisition 295
Balance at 31 January 2016 295
The merger reserve represents the fair value of the consideration given in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares 
issued as part of the acquisition consideration for Cabot Aviation Services Limited. 
30 Own shares
 
Group and 
Company 
£’000
Balance at 1 February 2015 (1,051)
Shares issued for acquisition (300)
Disposed of on exercise of options 152
Balance at 31 January 2016 (1,199)
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Air Partner plc purchased in the market and held by the Air Partner 
Employee Benefit Trust, which was established to satisfy the future exercise of options under the Group’s share options schemes 
(see note 24). The number of ordinary shares held by the Air Partner Employee Benefit Trust at 31 January 2016 was 159,236 
(2015: 199,236). A further 100,910 shares are held by the Trust in a nominee capacity for two beneficiaries of the Trust. 
31 Acquisition of subsidiaries
On 12 May 2015, Air Partner plc acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Cabot Aviation Services Limited, obtaining control 
of the company on that date. Cabot Aviation Services Limited is a leading global aircraft remarketing broker. The acquisition of 
Cabot Aviation Services Limited adds significant aircraft sales and dry lease expertise and knowledge to the group. 
On 18 August 2015, Air Partner Consulting Limited acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Baines Simmons Limited, 
obtaining control of the company on that date. Baines Simmons Limited is a leading aviation safety consultant. Baines Simmons 
Limited will enable Air Partner to extend the Group’s service and product capabilities with offerings complementary to its existing 
broking business. 
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below.
Cabot 
Aviation 
Services 
Limited 
£’000
Baines 
Simmons 
Limited 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
Fair values of assets acquired
Financial assets 23 1,490 1,513
Property, plant and equipment – 191 191
Intangible assets – brands – 202 202
Intangible assets – customer relationships 93 1,849 1,942
Intangible assets – order book 171 – 171
Intangible assets – training materials – 620 620
Deferred tax on intangible assets (50) (534) (584)
Financial liabilities (210) (983) (1,193)
27 2,835 2,862
Goodwill 787 2,815 3,602
Total Consideration 814 5,650 6,464
Satisfied by
Cash 514 5,650 6,164
Equity instruments (90,910 ordinary shares of parent company) 300 – 300
Total consideration transferred 814 5,650 6,464
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 514 5,650 6,164
Less cash and cash equivalents acquired 88 (350) (262)
Net cash outflow 602 5,300 5,902
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued 122 123
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
31 Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
No goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. 
Cabot Aviation Services
The goodwill of £787,000 arising from the acquisition is attributable to the value of the assembled workforce and the ability  
of the senior staff to generate future business. 
Acquisition related costs (included in Other Items) amounted to £93,000. 
Cabot Aviation Services Limited contributed revenue of £273,000 and losses after tax of £95,000 being the results for the period 
between the date of acquisition and 31 January 2016. 
If the acquisition of Cabot Aviation Services Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues  
for the period would have been £50,149,000 and Group profit after tax would have been £2,305,000.
Baines Simmons
The goodwill of £2.8m arising from the acquisition consists of the value of the assembled workforce and the ability of the 
company to generate new revenue. 
Acquisition related costs (included in other items) amount to £326,000. 
Baines Simmons Limited contributed revenue of £2,381,000 and losses after tax of £74,000, being the results for the period 
between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. 
If the acquisition of Baines Simmons Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the 
period would have been £52,776,000 and Group profit after tax would have been £2,437,000. 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
32 Net cash inflow from operating activities
Group Company
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2016 
£’000 2015 £’000
Profit for the year
Continuing operations 1,933 2,787 5,285 1,283
Discontinued operations 387 (7) 387 (7)
2,320 2,780 5,672 1,276
Adjustments for:
Dividends received – – (3,277) –
Finance income (10) (25) (3) (15)
Finance expense 81 21 28 19
Income tax expense/(credit) 1,328 (153) 640 (282)
Depreciation and amortisation 745 261 428 196
Impairment of investments – – – 181
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 5 – 2
Fair value (gains)/losses on derivative financial instruments (186) 104 (186) 104
Share option cost for period 223 55 223 55
Decrease in provisions (91) (238) (312) (210)
Foreign exchange differences (140) 496 (118) 543
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 4,270 3,306 3,095 1,869
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (1,377) (773) (3,193) 302
Increase in payables 3,901 2,343 1,054 1,805
Cash generated from operations 6,794 4,876 956 3,976
Income taxes paid (928) (463) (541) (291)
Interest paid (81) (8) (28) (6)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,785 4,405 387 3,679
33 Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
2016 
Land and 
buildings 
£’000
2015 
Land and 
buildings 
£’000
2016 
Other 
£’000
2015 
Other 
£’000
2016 
T otal 
£’000
2015 
Total 
£’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases 
recognised as costs for the period 494 526 99 69 593 595
At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
The Group as lessee
2016 
Land and 
buildings 
£’000
2015 
Land and 
buildings 
£’000
2016 
Other 
£’000
2015 
Other 
£’000
2016 
T otal 
£’000
2015 
Total 
£’000
Within one year 457 469 66 56 523 525
In the second to fifth year inclusive 1,411 1,309 108 94 1,519 1,403
After five years 119 490 5 – 124 490
 1,987 2,268 179 150 2,166 2,418
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain office properties, motor vehicles and office 
equipment it uses. Leases are negotiated in isolation, dependent on the trading conditions in the country/region concerned. 124
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
34 Profit for the financial year
The Group financial statements do not include a separate income statement for Air Partner plc (the parent undertaking) as 
permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The parent company profit after tax for the financial year was £5,636,000 
(2015: £1,251,000) including dividends from subsidiary companies of £3,277,000 (2015: £nil). The parent company has no other 
items of comprehensive income.
35 Related party transactions
The Company had the following transactions with related parties in the ordinary course of business during the year under review.
Trading transactions
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Subsidiaries
Sales to subsidiaries 31 116
Purchases from subsidiaries (33) 1,255
Amounts owed by subsidiaries at period end 1,505 1,683
Amounts owed to subsidiaries at period end (2,688) (741)
Outstanding balances that relate to trading balances are placed on inter-company accounts with no specific credit period.
Compensation of key management personnel (being the Board of directors)
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Short term employee benefits 871 581
Post-employment benefits 107 44
 978 625
In addition to the above amounts, key management personnel who were also shareholders received £11,000 of dividends 
in respect of their shareholdings in the year ending 31 January 2016 (period ending 31 January 2015: £26,000). 
Board of director’s remuneration in accordance with Schedule 5 of the Accounting Regulations was as follows:
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Emoluments 871 581
Company contributions to money purchase pension contributions 107 44
 978 625
Two (2015: two) directors are members of money purchase pension schemes.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 63 to 69.
36 Contingent liabilities
The Group had issued the following guarantees at the year end. 
Description Currency
2016
 ’000
2015
 ’000
Passenger sales agency agreement Sterling – 398
Dubai employee rights Sterling 17 17
Rental deposit Euros – 11
In addition, the Company’s bankers hold a free and floating charge over the Company’s assets.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 January 2016 continued
Designed and produced by 
Langsford +44 (0)20 7378 1457 
www.langsford.co.uk
Printed by CPI Colour. CPI 
Colour are ISO 14001 certified, 
CarbonNeutral, alcohol free 
and FSC and PEFC Chain 
of Custody certified.
This report has been printed on 
Vision Superior – an FSC
®
 certified 
paper containing 100% ECF pulp  
and manufactured at a mill 
accredited with the ISO 14001 and 
EMAS environmental standards. Air Partner plc 
2 City Place 
Beehive Ring Road 
Gatwick 
West Sussex 
RH6 0PA
+44 (0)1293 844 800 
www.airpartner.com
