 Reach new
markets
Seek out
opportunities
Lead through
innovation
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
A GLOBAL
PERSPECTIVE We are a diversified, global resources company.
With more than 100 assets, operations and
offices in over 25 countries, we sell our products
to meet the world’s needs.
Group Highlights 1
Chairman’s Review 2
Chief Executive Officer’s Report 4
Company Overview 12
Customer Sector Group Highlights 20
BHP Billiton Locations 24
Review of Operations 26
Corporate Governance Statement 28
Board of Directors 30
Remuneration Report 44
BHP Billiton Charter 59
Directors’ Report 60
Financial Review 66
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 74
Independent Auditor’s Report 75
Financial Statements 77
Supplementary Oil and Gas Information 185
Supplementary Mineral Resource and 
Ore Reserves Information 194
Shareholder Information 21 4
Corporate Directory IBC
Annual general meeting
The annual general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, on Thursday 20 October 2005 commencing at 1 0.30 am.
Contents
BHP Billiton Limited. ABN 49 004 028 077. Registered in Australia. Registered office: 180 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne Victoria 3000 Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc. Registration Number 31 96209. Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: Neathouse Place, London SW1V 1BH UK. 1
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS 2005
Turnover
(1)
up
2 7 .5%
Earnings
Before Interest
and Tax
(1)(2)
up
70.0%
Net operating assets
at 30 June 
up
36.3%
Available 
cash flow
(3)
up
70.4%
Attributable 
profit
(1)(2)
up
85.5%
•Record results with year-on-year Earnings Before Interest and T ax increases 
in every Customer Sector Group.
•Eight major growth projects commissioned during the year with a further ten
major projects under development. Current project pipeline of US$1 1 .9 billion 
of new growth-related investments. 
•Final dividend of 14.5 US cents declared (a 53 per cent increase above the 
2004 final dividend) bringing the full year dividend to 28.0 US cents per share.
0
2
4
6
8
US$ billion
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
0
3
6
9
US$ billion
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
0
600
1200
1800
US$ million
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
0
30
60
90
US$ billion
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
Attributable profit
(1)(2)
US$6.5B
Available cash flow
(3)
US$8.7B
Dividends to 
shareholders
(4)
US$1695M
Market capitalisation 
at 30 June
US$82B
BHP Billiton Plc
FTSE 1 00
Standard & Poor’s 500
Relative share price performance index – 5 year (US$)
June 2005 June 2004 June 2003 June 2002 June 2001 June 2000
0
100
200
300
400
(1)
From continuing operations and including the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates. EBIT and EBITDA are defined on page 66.
(2)
Excluding exceptional items.  
(3)
Available cash flow is operating cash flow including dividends from joint ventures and associates and after net interest and tax.
(4)
Three dividends were declared for the year ended 30 June 2004, compared to two dividends declared in 2005 and prior to 2004, as a result of the Group’s
decision to realign dividend declarations to coincide with the announcements of our interim and full year results.
➔ ➔
➔
➔
➔ The year has seen an outstanding result for the Company 
with operating and financial results reflecting strong market
conditions. BHP Billiton’s market capitalisation has continued 
to grow, reaching around US$95 billion compared with 
US$58 billion this time last year and US$35 billion the previous
year . 
Our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
were US$1 1 .4 billion (excluding exceptional items); our net
operating cash flows increased to US$8.7 billion and our total
dividend payment for the year was 28 US cents a share, a further
increase on last year’s significant rise and reflecting the seventh
consecutive increase in our dividend.
The strength of commodity prices and the volumes produced
across our operations – record volumes in many of the businesses
– were integral to our financial performance and while input costs
have increased as a result of the tight supply and strong demand
environment, our profit margins continue to increase.
Despite the constant prediction that global economies are about
to head into cyclical declines, high energy prices and geopolitical
stresses, solid economic growth continues. North east Asia is
acquiring enormous economic power . Korea, T aiwan, China and
Japan are influencing business decisions, trade flows, costs and
pricing for most major companies around the world. India
continues to make economic progress, suggesting significant
growth opportunities over the next decades.
Part of the Board’s response has been to support and endorse
management in rolling out a programme of development
projects that will enable us to meet a continuing increase in
demand and maintain our share of a rapidly growing global
market. This year, as well as approving four new projects – two
in Petroleum, and one each in copper and iron ore – the Board
endorsed the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd, providing us a
further set of future development options as part of its world-
class suite of copper/uranium/gold and nickel assets.
While each of these projects will provide good returns at any
point in the commodity cycle, the Board is conscious that it must
ensure the Company is well-positioned to take advantage of
growing demand if, in fact, the economic trends we are
witnessing are a sign of sustained demand growth and, hence, 
a long-term shift in the global economy.
It is the Board’s responsibility to ensure the Company can
respond to meet the requirements of our global customers and
maintain our market share as the world’s markets change and
develop.
Corporate Governance
The concept of corporate governance has unquestionably
climbed the corporate agenda. Across the globe we have
witnessed a proliferation of regulations, codes, recommendations
and principles on the subject. These have been generated by
governments, shareholders and lobby groups. Barely a single
aspect of modern corporate life has been left untouched in 
this process of regulation.
When BHP and Billiton merged in 2001 the Board determined
that the appropriate approach to governance was to adopt a
common framework that drew on the governance requirements
and best practices from all of the jurisdictions in which we
operated, and are regulated. As we have developed the
framework applicable to BHP Billiton, we have been motivated
by a desire to ensure that corporate governance does not simply
become synonymous with a mandated system of rules, based 
on a ‘tick a box’ system of compliance where shareholders,
creditors and other corporate stakeholders might lower their
guard to their own detriment.
Chairman’s Review
2 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
‘The Board has supported 
and endorsed management in
rolling out a programme of
development projects that will
enable us to meet a continuing
increase in demand and
maintain our share of a rapidly
growing global market.’
Don Argus, Chairman T o ensure we go beyond this regimented approach the Board 
has adopted its own Board Governance Document. 
This Document outlines:
• the processes the Board has developed to govern its own
tasks and activities (including our expectations of Directors
and the characteristics we are looking for in those we appoint
to the Board)
• the matters specifically reserved for Board decision-making
• the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the
accountability of the CEO for that authority
• the relationship between the Board and the CEO, and
• the boundaries the Board has placed on CEO actions.
We believe that compliance of itself will not lead to a high
performing board and that it is incumbent on boards to develop
their own practices and processes that not only accommodate
mandated rules, but implement systems to ensure that the 
board most effectively represents the shareholders and 
promotes and protects the interests of the company. The Board
Governance Document has moved the emphasis from mere
compliance to a practice of informed responsible corporate
governance in the modern business environment. The 
Document is published on the website and can be accessed 
at www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
Our Corporate Governance Statement starts on page 28 
of this Report and a summary of our compliance with our 
multi-jurisdictional obligations and our own internal control
mechanisms is published on our website.
Our programme of Board renewal continued throughout the year .
In February we were able to secure the services of Mr Carlos
Cordeiro and, more recently the Hon Gail de Planque. Both
appointments followed a worldwide search by international 
firms retained to recruit directors with the requisite skill sets,
capabilities and attributes to add value to the oversight of this
complex Company.
Michael Chaney and Lord Renwick will retire by rotation this 
year and have both indicated that they do not wish to seek 
re-election. There is never a right time for hard-working, quality
directors to leave a board and, on behalf of all shareholders, I
thank Michael and Robin for their contribution to the
development of this high performing Company.
I pay tribute to all my Board colleagues for their contribution
throughout the year and for their continued commitment to the
prudent oversight of the Group’s affairs.
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate responsibility is essentially concerned with how
organisations develop their business in order to produce an
overall net benefit to society.
Since 1 997 BHP Billiton has produced a report on non-financial
issues and this initially covered environmental performance, 
with safety, health and community data included in subsequent
reports. This year we have introduced the Sustainability Report
(previously the Health, Safety, Environment and Community
Report) and this Report highlights our commitment to socio-
economic and ethical issues as well as those matters previously
covered in the HSEC Report.
Our commitment to responsible business practice was
recognised with the Company of the Year Award 2005 at the
Business in the Community (BITC) National Awards for
Excellence. BHP Billiton is the first company in the extractive
industries to receive the award and is the first recipient
recognised for its global activities.
All of our people around the world have a strong commitment 
to our sustainability initiatives and they have gained their own
confidence and understanding as well as enjoying the chance 
to make a difference in a constructive way to the communities
where we operate.
Outlook
While global economic growth rates have slowed from the
exceptionally high levels of 2004, the emerging economies
remain buoyant, offsetting slowing industrial production growth
in the OECD nations. It is the emerging economies of Asia, 
South America, Africa and Russia that will continue to drive
global growth, thereby providing a sound underpinning for
commodity demand.
We expect China to remain a large and sustainable consumer 
of raw materials and resources over the coming decades, and 
the Chinese government’s measures to tackle excessive growth
rates in certain sectors of their economy are to be welcomed.
However, developing economies, like all economies, will be
subject to business cycles which will impact economic activity
from time to time.
Commodity prices will inevitably ease from their highs as
demand growth slows and new supply comes on stream,
although we continue to expect prices to remain high by recent
historical standards.
Once again, I commend Chip Goodyear, his management team
and all of BHP Billiton’s many thousands of employees and
contractors for their continued commitment which has enabled
the Company to turn in another outstanding performance for the
2005 financial year .
Don Argus
3
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 For the past few years, we at BHP Billiton have had the privilege
of sitting in the front row of a new and, possibly, multi-decade
phase of world economic and social development. While this 
is exciting, our role as the world’s largest diversified resources
company brings with it an enormous responsibility to ensure 
we are running the business in a sustainable way, from
environmental, health and safety, community, customer,
employee and shareholder value perspectives. It also means 
we must constantly look at how to maintain and build on our
position in a rapidly-changing world.
We achieved strong outcomes against our Health, Safety,
Environmental and Community (HSEC) targets, which measure
our progress on our journey towards sustainable development. 
A detailed analysis of our fatalities, incidents and accidents from
the previous financial year found that our systems and processes
are robust and, in many instances, leading practice. The key
opportunity for improvement identified relates to our operating
discipline – ensuring that the systems we have in place are
understood and followed by everyone and that we share across
the organisation what we learn from each incident. As a result
we have identified necessary HSEC leadership attributes and
integrated these into our leadership model for the organisation.
Strong performance in HSEC is now a prerequisite for promotion.
Despite our efforts, three of our colleagues lost their lives at
work during the reporting year and we have suffered further
fatalities since. All of us are impacted by these needless deaths;
our resolve is even stronger to provide a workplace that delivers
Zero Harm.
Operating performance
Across the businesses, our financial and operational
performance has been excellent with many records set during
the year . In a climate of strong prices, the record volumes made
possible through operational excellence and expanded capacity
laid the groundwork for record profits. 
In most of our businesses we have been operating at full
capacity or better, extracting efficiencies that have enabled 
us to sell record volumes of products into our markets. 
Our project pipeline
Across the resources industry, increasing numbers of projects 
are being developed to provide greater capacity to meet growing
demand. During the year we completed eight major projects, 
but our pipeline of projects continued to be refreshed and now
stands at US$1 1 .9 billion worth of projects in either feasibility
stage or development. Our continuing global programme of
project development means we have dedicated and highly-
experienced teams able to move between projects and bring 
to each their skills and expertise. However, there is no doubt 
an industry shortage of skilled labour and materials is impacting
costs and schedules. This places additional stress on our
business.
Despite these pressures, the response from our people has 
been excellent. Their commitment and alignment to our values
demonstrate the increasing maturity of the BHP Billiton culture.
This commitment has enabled us to progress projects and
exercise growth options that allow us to increase capacity from
low-cost, high-quality assets as we see demand for products
materialise. Our project pipeline and our development efforts
ensure that we have the growth options available to us. The
planning, preparation and robust assessment processes inherent
in this pipeline have paid dividends for the past four years.
T oday, we have a proven track record both in project delivery
and in capturing the opportunity presented by a strong demand
environment. We will continue to invest in value-adding growth
opportunities throughout the economic cycle as this is a key
driver of value for our shareholders. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
4 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
‘In most of our businesses we
have been operating at full
capacity or better , extracting
efficiencies that have enabled
us to sell record volumes of
products in our markets.’
Chip Goodyear , Chief Executive Officer Meeting customer demand
Meeting our customers’ requirements remains a critical
objective. While the 2005 financial year was characterised by
tight supply coupled with strong demand, our interests and
those of our customers will be best served in an environment of
greater stability and certainty. We must maintain our day-to-day
focus on operational performance and maximising production
and build solid relationships with customers. These relationships
with customers lead to mutually beneficial arrangements and a
shared understanding of future demand requirements.
The acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd this year adds to our
portfolio a set of high-quality, long-life existing operations that
fits well with our existing portfolio and aligns with our business
strategy. In addition, the future expansion and development
options inherent in the Olympic Dam copper/uranium/gold asset
and the Western Australian nickel business, assist us in being
able to capture our share of future demand. We are very
fortunate as well to have been able to welcome some excellent
people who joined us from WMC. 
Capital management
We have consistently said that our priorities for using our 
cash flow are to reinvest in value-adding growth opportunities,
manage the balance sheet appropriately and return capital to
shareholders. During the year, excess capital was returned to
shareholders through a US$2 billion capital management
programme that comprised an off-market share buy-back of 
US$1 .78 billion and a rebasing of the underlying level of our
dividend from 9.5 to 1 3.5 US cents. In the past four years, 
the Company has returned a total of US$8.3 billion to its
shareholders, including buy-backs, spin-offs and dividends. 
We believe that the revised dividend base is supported by 
the earnings and cash flow outlook for the Company.
Our people
It is important that we recognise the efforts of our 36 000
people who are the foundation of the Company. They have been
an integral element in delivering this year’s performance and
positioning the Company to meet our future objectives. Our
people are the face of our Company and our success would 
not be possible without their commitment and dedication. 
Chip Goodyear
5
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 6 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
REACH NEW
MARKETS
at a time when 
the economy is
experiencing
significant growth. 
We constantly 
> 7
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 8 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
SEEK OUT OPPORTUNITIES
and work closely with our customers to help
grow their businesses. Our integrated approach
allows us to organise our production to suit
customer requirements and assist them in
meeting the needs of our changing world. 
We aim to 
> 9
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 10 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 11
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
LEAD THROUGH INNOVATION
in every facet of our operations. From the 
way we create value for shareholders, to our
commitment to the communities we operate
in, to the mutual respect we have with our
most important asset, our people. Our people performing safely and excellently
12
Our Business Excellence programme
combines several years of asset-based
performance improvement projects
implemented under the banner of
Operating Excellence, with a new
programme of Organisational Excellence,
designed to ensure we have in place the
best possible corporate structures,
processes and systems.
Attracting and retaining the best people 
is an increasing challenge for our industry,
particularly at this time of substantial
growth in demand for our products. We
have committed to several programmes
designed to ensure that BHP Billiton can
compete effectively for those employees,
from graduates through to executives.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Statistics 
36000 employees
100 operations
25 countries
30 languages
Win-win relationships
In late July 2005, we signed a Technical Collaboration Agreement with Shanghai’s Baosteel Group for joint technical work on optimising the use 
of raw materials in the production of carbon steel and stainless steel. Cooperative work had begun well before the Agreement was signed, with
Baosteel and BHP Billiton benefiting from technical work, which improved productivity in Baosteel’s ironmaking process using optimised blends 
of BHP Billiton iron ore, coking coal and manganese. We were delighted to sign an agreement that formalises this win-win initiative. Baosteel’s
consumption of BHP Billiton products is set to rise strongly in the future and the relationship between Baosteel’s technical and commercial
management and BHP Billiton’s Carbon Steel Materials (CSM) marketing and technical people in China is providing a platform for a discussion
regarding even broader commercial cooperation that will ensure BHP Billiton is one of Baosteel’s key raw materials suppliers for decades to come.
Safety is Worsley Alumina’s job at hand
Operating Excellence at Worsley Alumina has been tackling the problem of hand and finger injuries
using the Six Sigma business improvement methodology. The ‘Safe Hands Project’ identified the causes
of the injuries with team members from Worsley’s operations, maintenance and major contractors. 
From the beginning, communication played an important role in building awareness of the project 
and keeping everyone informed of suggestions on ways to reduce the number of injuries. In the 
spirit of sharing knowledge, suggestions came from BHP Billiton operations in Mozambique and 
across Australia. They included a ‘Safe Hands’ video, a weekly newsletter, stickers, posters and a
suggestion box. 
At every operational site, office and
development project, we need to have the
best possible people managing our assets.
It is our people who, over time, identify
resource deposits and turn these into
world-class operating and financial assets.
We rely on our people to share information
and knowledge between businesses and
functions, using formal networks and
programmes to improve efficiency and
performance in all areas. We also rely 
on our people, from senior management
down, to ensure that safe working
practices are always put before
performance. Our experience shows that
high levels of performance are sustained
only when safety is our first priority.
Operating Excellence 
BHP Billiton’s journey to Operating
Excellence began in 2000 and over the 
last five years hundreds of projects using
teams from all parts of the business have
been undertaken. Using Six Sigma and 
other business improvement methodologies,
projects in safety, maintenance, mine
operations, supply, mine planning and
processing have unified our activities and
our people. ‘Knowledge sharing’ networks
connect our people and encourage a culture
of innovation and teamwork. The benefits
are delivered in projects that are improving
efficiency and reliability and achieving
sustainable outcomes. 
Company Overview 13
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
T ailor-made products 
The development of a specialty cobalt product
derived by way of a value-added process at 
BHP Billiton’s Yabulu Refinery has been an exciting
initiative which has taken an intermediate product
of the nickel refining process to a specialty
material of choice for the electronic battery
industry. By working with manufacturers in this
fast-growing market we tailored our product to
meet their specific chemical requirements. As a
result of this research and development in an
essentially niche market, there is a reasonable
chance that your laptop computer battery 
contains BHP Billiton cobalt. 
Our customers and the markets we supply
Traditional resources companies put their
efforts into extracting commodities and
selling them to available markets. 
At BHP Billiton we have taken a new
approach by first identifying our
customers’ needs, then working with them
to determine and help meet their
requirements.
T o assist this approach, we structured our
various businesses into seven Customer
Sector Groups (CSGs), each of which has a
dedicated, customer-oriented marketing
team. A good example of how this works is
our CSM CSG, whose marketing team,
based in Singapore, works directly with
individual steelmakers to determine how
best we can provide the raw products that
an individual customer requires, being iron
ore, coking (metallurgical) coal and
manganese.
These relationships with customers not
only equip us to better meet their needs
but give us valuable feedback on likely
trends in customer demand, helping us
plan for future production. Our marketing
hubs in Singapore and The Hague co-
ordinate all our customer relationships
across our major markets of north and
east Asia, Europe and North America.
While Europe remains our largest overall
market, the size and strength of our
markets are changing, reflecting the pace
of economic development in particular
regions like Asia. This year China became
our largest single country market,
representing nearly 1 3 per cent of our total
sales. The pie chart shows a breakdown of
our sales across countries and regions this
year . We expect the size of the China and
Other Asia slices to keep growing into the
future. This year we also started looking
more seriously at other parts of the world
that might follow the China growth story:
countries such as India, Russia and Brazil
where rapidly growing middle classes are
demanding the computers, air conditioners
and office complexes, together with the
energy that fuels them, that other parts of
the world take for granted and that require
the raw products we provide.
Europe 
32
12
13
13
9
8
13
Sales by market (percentage)
Data for the year ended 30 June 2005
Japan 
China
Other Asia 
North America 
Australia 
Rest of world 
Branding diamonds 
After EKATI was brought into production as Canada’s first diamond mine, it became apparent that Canadian consumers liked buying
diamonds from a local mine. BHP Billiton developed a diamond brand for retailers to supply directly to consumers, which is now
marketed as the Aurias™ brand. Following the launch of this programme, market research indicated that a diamond of Canadian origin
would have appeal in other countries. This, combined with issues affecting consumer confidence such as conflict diamonds, synthetic
diamonds, money laundering and child labour, focused attention on developing a programme where the integrity of the diamond 
could be assured. CanadaMark™ diamonds are being sold through high-end retail jewellery stores in Canada, the US, Australia, Europe
and Japan.
Innovations in marketing
Our Energy Coal CSG continued to provide innovative solutions to
customers. In the most complex of these Energy Coal supplied coal,
emissions allowances, freight and foreign exchange hedging in
exchange for power that was then sold into the liquid power market in
the UK. Energy Coal's ability to successfully structure these and other 
customer-focused solutions is underpinned by a strong team
comprising commercial structurers, modellers, middle-office risk
management personnel and individual commodity experts. 14
Company Overview continued
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
World-class assets across the globe
Our mantra of low-cost, long-life, 
high-quality assets continues to underpin
our strategy and provide the foundation 
for our business. These assets are not
restricted to particular commodities or
businesses or to geographic regions. 
We invest in assets that, over the 
long-term, generate consistent, robust
cash flow, throughout the commodity
cycle.
Some of the great natural resources in 
the world today, for example: Chile’s
copper; Australia’s Bowen Basin coking
coal and Pilbara iron ore; and the Gulf of
Mexico’s oil and gas fields, offer long-term
development options within our asset
portfolio.
As the availability of new resources and
assets in the traditional regions of the
world depletes, we look increasingly to
more remote and complex regions to
identify assets that meet our requirements.
North and central Africa, Russia and
central Europe, India, China and other
Asian regions may each produce the next
assets of significance over the coming
century.
Assets in easily accessible, lower-risk parts
of the world, which are already producing
long-term and stable cash flows and have
development options for the future, appear
on our horizon rarely. During the year we
successfully bid for and acquired WMC
Resources Ltd, a company defined by its
long-life, high-quality assets, particularly
the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold
mine in South Australia and its set of nickel
operations in Western Australia. The
addition of these assets to our portfolio
positions us even more strongly to meet
the requirements of our markets over
coming decades and provide strong future
cash flow.
Long-life, world-class assets
North West Shelf
Bass Strait
Pilbara Iron Ore
Queensland Coal
Ingwe Coal
Escondida
Worsley
Hillside
Mozal
2005
2024
Going deep in the Gulf of Mexico
The US Gulf of Mexico is emerging as a
third core business for our Petroleum
CSG. In January, the Mad Dog oil and gas
field, in which we have a 23.9 per cent
working interest, came into production,
with a design daily capacity of 1 00 000
barrels of oil (gross) and 60 million
standard cubic feet of gas. We have a 
44 per cent interest in the massive
Atlantis development, which is expected
to start producing next year . In June, we
gave the go-ahead to the Neptune oil 
and gas development, which will be the
first deepwater standalone facility that
we operate in the Gulf. Neptune is
expected to start producing by the end 
of 2007. With Mad Dog, Atlantis and
Neptune, BHP Billiton’s net production
from the Gulf of Mexico is expected to
exceed 1 00 000 barrels of oil equivalent
(boe) per day by the end of 2007 – a four-
fold increase in production in just over 
two years.
Escondida
Escondida is the world’s largest copper mine, located in northern Chile’s
Atacama Desert. BHP Billiton owns 57.5 per cent of Escondida, and is the
operator and product sales agent. Escondida’s strong profitability is derived
from the quality of its ore reserves and from economies of scale. The mine
accounts for approximately 8 per cent of world primary copper production.
Escondida’s proved and probable reserves are currently 3.9 billion tonnes,
including the addition of 1 .2 billion tonnes from the Escondida Norte project.
Current mine operations are projected for 34 years. 
EBIT from the above assets represented 62 per cent of EBIT in FY 2005.
An expanded nickel business 
The addition of WMC Resources Ltd’s
extensive Western Australia nickel
assets to our portfolio has created the
world’s third largest nickel business,
providing BHP Billiton with high-
quality operating assets maximising
demand growth from stainless steel
producers worldwide. Growth – using our cash flow to meet future demand and 
create options
15
Making good profits today from our
excellent asset base is not enough. T o
ensure we are able to meet the growing
demands of the developing economies of
the world, we need to reinvest continually
in projects that will enhance our long-life,
high-quality assets on which we base 
our business.
In the past four years we have developed
24 growth projects that are now producing
significant additional volumes of a spread
of commodities including petroleum,
aluminium, iron ore and copper . These
projects represent a total investment of
around US$5.7 billion. In addition, we
spent US$7.2 billion on acquiring WMC
Resources Ltd, adding incremental 
copper and nickel to our portfolio and
allowing us to enter a new commodity –
uranium.
Our growth pipeline currently shows 
26 growth projects that are either in the
feasibility stage or are under development
and are expected to come on line over the
next few years. They represent a total
investment of more than US$1 1 billion
and, again, cover a range of commodities.
Behind this pipeline sits a much larger
group of projects that are still progressing
through our very rigorous assessment
process, towards their feasibility stage.
How do we decide which projects to
develop? All of our projects are assessed
against a range of long-term price
forecasts and other variables and will 
only be progressed if they can be shown 
to be economically viable even when
prices are low.
When we announced our intention to
develop Mozal, the state-of-the-art
aluminium smelter in Mozambique, at a
time when the aluminium price was low,
reflecting an oversupply in the world
market, and when Mozambique had only
recently emerged from a devastating 
1 7 years of civil war, it was because the
fundamentals of the project were right.
T oday, Mozal is a high-performing
operation and a model, both from a
financial and social perspective, for the
world’s aluminium industry.
An important element of our growth
strategy is to have a broad range of
options, so that we can bring on line 
low-cost, high-quality production to meet
market demand at the right time. As a
result we will look to enter non-traditional
markets in the search for new resources.
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Expansions in iron ore
BHP Billiton’s Western Australian iron ore business has been in
a constant state of growth for the past five years. The business
is based on a world-class resource, efficient and continuously
expanding infrastructure, a well-established marketing network
and close proximity to the industry growth centres of Asia. 
A leader in the global seaborne iron ore business for the past
40 years, we have shipped more than two billion tonnes of 
iron ore to steelmakers all over the world. Extensive iron ore
resources support many more decades of iron ore production
and we expect our resource base to increase as our exploration
programmes continue. T oday, we have six open-cut mining
operations, including one of the world’s largest at Mt Whaleback.
The next stage of development is a plan to increase annual
capacity to around 150 million tonnes – double our production
of only two years ago.
EKATI goes underground
Diamonds are formed deep in the earth’s crust and carried to the surface in kimberlite pipes. These pipes are generally small in
diameter (300 metres across is a good-sized pipe) and are nearly vertical structures extending deep into the earth. Like most diamond
mines, mining at EKATI started at the surface as an open pit. As pits are deepened, they start to look like a funnel, with more and more
waste rock having to be mined to allow access to deeper ore. At some point, it becomes more economical to mine by underground
means. The Panda pipe was the original mine at EKATI. Panda was the best combination of size, grade and diamond quality at the site.
T wo years ago, Panda reached the economic limit of open pit mining. A US$182 million (US$146 million BHP Billiton share) project was
approved in 2004 to recover additional Panda diamonds by underground mining. This project is on schedule to reach full production
early in calendar 2006 and is expected to be completed for slightly less than the original budget. 16 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Growth in coking coal
BHP Billiton is the world’s largest producer of seaborne
metallurgical coal from operations in Australia’s eastern
states. T ogether, BHP Billiton and its partners plan to
increase annual production towards 1 00 million tonnes
by 201 0.
Additional production will come primarily from mines
held in partnership with Mitsubishi and Mitsui in
Queensland’s Bowen Basin. These mines will increase
production capacity to 59 million tonnes per annum
(Mtpa) by 2006, and we are reviewing options to boost
production to 80 Mtpa by 201 0 from greenfield and
brownfield expansion projects. This growth phase is
supported by upgrades at Hay Point coal terminal,
together with recent expansions in coal processing 
and handling infrastructure. Production from the niche
Illawarra operations and potential new developments
such as the Maruwai project in Indonesia will ensure
BHP Billiton remains the world’s premier supplier of
metallurgical coal to the international steel industry. Sound financial management
17
Our diversified model – by commodity, geographic location of assets and the
markets we sell to – has proven its ability to generate relatively stable cash flow
regardless of external factors. It provides the business with a set of natural hedges,
ensuring that any one variable, high commodity prices for example, is usually offset
by others, such as increased cost pressures in strong producer currencies.
Our ability to use this cash flow and invest in growth projects through the
commodity cycle has resulted in new production coming on line into a particularly
strong demand and price environment, so providing even greater returns. Our
margins and return on capital have improved steadily during the past three years.
Once we have invested in growth and are confident of a solid balance sheet, 
we aim to return capital to our shareholders. During the year we returned 
US$3.2 billion to shareholders through an off-market share buy-back programme,
through rebasing the underlying level of our dividend and through the dividend
payments.
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Managing debt
Consistent with the Group’s priorities for its cash flow, the share buy-back and increased dividend were preceded by a considerable 
reduction in net debt over the past two years. Underlying these increased returns to shareholders is a confidence in the financial strength 
of the Group, which is also shared by the financial markets. This was best demonstrated by the reaction to the increase in debt associated
with the US$7.2 billion acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd. While the acquisition was entirely debt-funded, the international credit rating
agencies did not change the Group’s credit ratings and the cost of the Group’s debt in the debt markets also remained essentially unchanged.
In March, when we announced the WMC acquisition, we indicated that this would increase our net gearing to around 42 per cent by 
30 June 2005. In fact, our net gearing is a full 6 per cent lower at 35.7 per cent as a result of the strength of our cash flow during the period.
Gearing (%) EBITDA interest cover (times)
0
10
20
30
40
Financial flexibility
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
Capital management
BHP Billiton is committed to closely managing its capital. The priorities for application
of the Group’s cash are clear . First, we aim to reinvest in projects with attractive 
rates of return. Then we look to return capital to shareholders through the
continuation of our progressive dividend policy and through other forms of capital
return, such as share buy-backs. During the year, the Group returned US$2.0 billion 
to shareholders via a US$1 .78 billion off-market buy-back of BHP Billiton Limited
shares at a 12 per cent discount to the prevailing market price. The remaining 
US$220 million were distributed to shareholders as part of the interim dividend, 
at 1 3.5 US cents per share. This was an increase of 69 per cent over last year’s interim
dividend and a 42 per cent increase from the dividend declared in August 2004. 
This rebased dividend level will be the starting reference point for future periods, 
a sign of the confidence we have in the medium term outlook and our ability to
consistently deliver earnings and cash flow to support this higher level of dividend
payment. Sustainable development
18
Company Overview continued
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Reclamation success in the US
The ‘Best of the Best’ Reclamation Award by the Office of Surface Mining of the
US Department of the Interior was presented to BHP Billiton’s San Juan Coal
Company in September 2004 at the MINExpo in Las Vegas. This is the most
prestigious mine reclamation award in the United States. The award was given for
the innovative development and implementation of fluvial geomorphic principles
to re-establish drainage in reclaimed land. Natural meandering stream beds, which
resist erosion and allow for the natural re-establishment of vegetation in the
stream channels, are established, while dozers equipped with GPS-based systems
create the fluvial geomorphic terrain. The result is land that will support wildlife.
Black Economic Empowerment Procurement Policy implemented across 
our sites in southern Africa
Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) legislation has been introduced in South
Africa to address inequalities created by past history, particularly the exclusion 
of black people from participating in the country’s economy. The Company has
been responding to the legislation through the implementation of our BEE
Procurement Policy, which was introduced in 2003, and the establishment of a
central BEE Supply Unit. The Policy attempts to address the socio-economic
imbalance by increasing the participation of previously disadvantaged groups. 
It has been rolled out throughout the country.
The objectives of the Supply Unit are to provide access by black suppliers to the
Company’s procurement activities, and to ensure that all buying organisations
within the Group have the support to successfully achieve legislated procurement
targets.
The benefits of these objectives are being realised through increased
understanding of the issues surrounding encouragement of BEE involvement, 
and closer monitoring and reporting of the engagement of BEE suppliers.
The Company’s commitment to sustainable
development has evolved over our long
history of operational experience and
through lessons learned along the way.
Working through complex issues
associated with our operations has
highlighted environmental and social
performance as a critical success factor 
for the Company. We are well aware 
of the costs of getting it wrong but, 
more importantly, we recognise the value
that can be created by getting it right.
Consequently, we adopt a holistic
approach to business strategy, seeking 
to realise value for all our stakeholders
through a sustainable business philosophy.
Mozal – a model for integrating
sustainability into resource projects
BHP Billiton is committed to sustainable
development, as articulated in our Charter,
Sustainable Development Policy and HSEC
Management Standards. Social and
environmental performance is a critical
factor in business success. Our aim, while
creating value for all our stakeholders, is
to enhance the societal benefit of our
operations and to reduce their
environmental impact. 
We recognise that the journey towards
sustainable development is about engaging
and partnering with our stakeholders to
address the challenges associated with
establishing resource projects and to jointly
share the benefits of success. 
Our Mozal aluminium smelter project 
in Mozambique stands as a model for
realising a sustainable long-term
investment based on sound business
principles that encompass the recognition
and effective management of social and
environmental responsibilities. 
For further information, refer to our
Sustainability Report at http://sustainability .
bhpbilliton.com/2005/report/. 
BHP Billiton wins prestigious UK award
for Corporate Social Responsibility
In July 2005, BHP Billiton was awarded
the title ‘Company of the Year’ at
London’s ‘Business in the Community
Awards’. BHP Billiton is the first 
company in the extractive industries to
receive the award and we are the first
recipient recognised for our global
activities.  Exploration
19
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Technical innovation through FALCON™
Our FALCON™ technology gives us a unique competitive advantage in
the search for mineral deposits and hydrocarbon reserves. FALCON™ is
an airborne gravity gradiometer that measures minute changes in the
Earth’s gravity. This technology provides BHP Billiton with a unique
advantage in the search for mineral and hydrocarbon deposits and has
helped in the resource evaluation of some major operations, such as the
EKATI diamond mine in Northwest Territories, Canada, and the
Cannington silver and lead mine in Queensland, Australia. BHP Billiton
currently has four operational systems dedicated to minerals exploration
across the globe. This provides us with innovative commercial strategies
involving partnerships and alliances through increased exposure to a
disproportionate number of potential new discoveries. BHP Billiton has
also developed its own FALCON™ data processing software to further
enhance this competitive advantage. In this way BHP Billiton continues 
to gain exposure to a large proportion of high-quality opportunities 
and has a cost-effective means of screening them, thereby significantly
increasing its overall probability of success. 
Exploration statistics in 2005
57 joint ventures
US$82.7m expenditure
Exploration centres 
from Australia to Asia
to Africa to North and
South America
Our exploration programme is integral to 
our growth strategy and is focused on
identifying and capturing new world-class
projects for future development, thereby
securing options for long-term value
creation.
Globally, the rate of discovery of new
mineral resources is declining, in large 
part driven by increasing maturity of
established mining areas. Our approach 
to reverse this trend is to explore
established areas with new technologies
and techniques, and to increasingly
explore new ground in emerging countries.
With this in mind we developed and
operate the FALCON™ airborne gravity
gradiometer, the first truly new exploration
technology for about 15 years, and the
geoferret EM system, which enables us to
detect mineralisation deeper than was
previously possible. Both techniques
provide competitive advantage in
established areas and have opened up
new exploration opportunities for us, 
both on our own and through
Frontier exploration
Our primary exploration focus for petroleum products is on the US Gulf of Mexico. Using leading-edge technology and drilling in
water depths of up to 1 0 000 feet to locate resources 25 000 feet beneath the ocean floor, we have had positive results at several
wells. Industry reports show BHP Billiton to have been the single most active driller at one stage of the year, participating in up to
nine exploration, appraisal and development wells. Importantly, this drilling and appraisal programme has been conducted with an
excellent safety record. We have also been active with our drilling programme at the Stybarrow, Pyrenees and Scarborough fields
off the coast of Western Australia. During the year our position was strengthened by the acquisition of additional exploration
acreage in Algeria, Pakistan and the Gulf of Mexico. BHP Billiton now holds working interests in around 400 leases in the Gulf of
Mexico, including 378 exploration blocks and 1 9 blocks held by production.
arrangements with junior explorers. 
We are currently using FALCON™ for
diamond exploration in Canada, Australia
and southern Africa, and geoferret for
nickel exploration in Western Australia.
We are also pursuing an increasing
number of opportunities in highly
prospective developing countries. For
example, while we continue to pursue
copper exploration activities in Chile and
Peru, we are also exploring opportunities
in the Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC), Mongolia and Pakistan. Likewise, 
in diamonds we have an extensive
programme in Canada and in Angola, 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo
(DRC) and Botswana. In nickel we have a
programme in Western Australia and we
are also exploring in the Philippines, 
Africa and Brazil. In the bulk commodities,
activities are focused on a small number 
of world-class terrains in Australia, Brazil,
India and west Africa. In total, we
discovered 50 new mineralised prospects
in 2005.  20 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
CUSTOMER
SECTOR GROUP
HIGHLIGHTS 
>
• Eight major growth projects
commissioned during the year: 
six in Petroleum and one each in
Diamonds and Specialty Products 
and Carbon Steel Materials.
• Ten major projects currently in
development.
• Year-on-year Earnings Before Interest
and T ax (EBIT) increases in every
Customer Sector Group.
• Record annual production volumes in 
1 1 commodities at a time of strong
product prices.
• Record aluminium production with 
both Mozal and Hillside operating 
above nameplate capacity and expected
to continue.
• Record total production of silver, lead
and molybdenum.
• Record annual production of iron ore,
coking coal and manganese ore and
alloys. 
• Record nickel production from 
Cerro Matoso. 
• The acquisition of WMC has added
materially to our nickel and copper
businesses. BHP Billiton is now the
world’s second largest copper producer
and the third largest nickel producer .
Petroleum
EBIT increased
3 1 .6%
➔
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT), excluding
exceptional items, were US$1830 million, compared with
US$1 391 million in 2004, an increase of US$439 million.
The new projects commissioned were North West Shelf
LNG Train 4 (Australia), ROD oil project (Algeria), Mad
Dog oil project (US), Angostura oil project (Trinidad and
T obago), Minerva gas project (Australia) and Gulf of
Mexico Caesar and Cleopatra pipeline infrastructure (US).
The commissioning of six major projects during the year
was the culmination of many years’ work and will provide
a base for increasing oil and gas production in the future.
We started seeing a ramp-up in production from these
projects in the second half of the financial year which,
combined with high oil prices, helped us achieve a strong
result. 
US$ million
Turnover 5 970
EBIT (excluding exceptional items) 1 830
Capital and investment expenditure 962
Net operating assets 4 435 21
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Aluminium
EBIT increased
25.9%
➔
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT) were US$977
million, compared with US$776 million in 2004, an
increase of US$201 million. The increase was mainly
attributable to higher realised prices for aluminium and
alumina together with higher aluminium sales volumes
reflecting the first full year of production from the
expansion at Hillside (South Africa). 
The success of our portfolio of mining, refining and
smelting operations is based largely on our access to
economic bauxite and competitive power . The quality 
of the portfolio reflects our ability to construct, 
commission and operate our assets efficiently.
We intend to increase our portfolio through brownfield
expansions and the identification of high quality
greenfield opportunities through an increased and
targeted business development programme.
Base Metals
EBIT increased
88.3%
➔
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT), excluding
exceptional items, were US$21 77 million, compared with
US$1 156 million in 2004, an increase of US$1 021 million.
High copper, molybdenum, silver, lead and zinc prices
combined with production records at Escondida,
Antamina and Cannington drove this record result. 
These factors were partially offset by increased input 
and price-linked costs and a stronger Australian dollar 
to US dollar exchange rate.
The addition of the Olympic Dam copper/uranium
operation to the Base Metals portfolio, plus the start-up
of the Escondida Sulphide Leach project will see
production capacity expand rapidly in 2006.
US$ million
Turnover 5 265
EBIT 977
Capital and investment expenditure 280
Net operating assets 5 353
US$ million
Turnover 5 071
EBIT (excluding exceptional items) 2 1 77
Capital and investment expenditure 668
Net operating assets 8 030 22 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Diamonds and Specialty Products
EBIT increased
1. 7%
➔
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT), excluding
exceptional items, were US$41 7 million, compared with
US$41 0 million in 2004, an increase of US$7 million.
The increase was driven by higher realised prices for
diamonds and titanium feedstock, offset by lower
diamond sales volumes and higher costs due to the
processing of lower grade material and a stronger
Canadian dollar .
The EKATI Diamond Mine enjoyed another year of strong
operating performance and profitability, while Richards
Bay Minerals is benefiting from a strong market for its
titanium, zircon and pig iron products.
The acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd added one of the
world’s largest known titanium dioxide deposits, Corridor
Sands, to our portfolio. It also brought a fertilisers
business as well as valuable new technical capabilities.
US$ million
Turnover 1 544
EBIT (excluding exceptional items) 41 7
Capital and investment expenditure 244
Net operating assets 1 806
Carbon Steel Materials
EBIT increased
1 48. 1%
➔
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT), excluding
exceptional items, were US$2821 million, compared with
US$1 1 37 million in 2004, an increase of US$1684 million.
The increase was mainly attributable to stronger
commodity prices for all products and increased volumes
from Western Australian iron ore, Queensland coal and
our manganese ore operations.
The result reflects a new growth phase in the global steel
industry, which has led to strong demand and prices for
seaborne iron ore, metallurgical coal and manganese. 
The business continues to expand production of each of
these commodities to meet growing demand.
US$ million
Turnover 7 606
EBIT (excluding exceptional items) 2 821
Capital and investment expenditure 1 071
Net operating assets 3 698 23
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Energy Coal
EBIT increased
1 63.2%
➔
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT), excluding
exceptional items, were US$616 million, compared with
US$234 million in 2004, an increase of US$382 million. 
This increase was mainly attributable to higher export
prices, resulting from continued strong demand in the
Atlantic and Pacific markets. The strength of the rand,
Australian dollar and Colombian peso against the 
US dollar as well as inflation in South Africa had an
unfavourable impact on operating costs.
While over half our South African coal production is 
sold domestically, we are increasing our emphasis on 
the export market and seeking opportunities to supply
new countries.
Expansions of Cerrejon Coal Company in Colombia 
and the progression of an underground project at 
Mount Arthur Coal in Australia to pre-feasibility will 
help meet increasing global demand for energy sources.
Stainless Steel Materials
EBIT increased
32. 7%
➔
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT), excluding
exceptional items, were US$758 million, compared with
US$571 million in 2004, an increase of US$187 million. 
The increase was mainly due to higher nickel and
ferrochrome prices compared to the prior year . The
ferrochrome operations were sold, effective 1 June 2005.
Record production at Cerro Matoso in Colombia and
another strong result from the Yabulu refinery in Australia
reflect both operating excellence initiatives and higher
recoveries.
The combination of WMC Resources Ltd’s nickel
operations with our existing assets has created a world-
class nickel business and a major global supplier of
materials to the stainless steel industry.
US$ million
Turnover 3 390
EBIT (excluding exceptional items) 616
Capital and investment expenditure 169
Net operating assets 2 087
US$ million
Turnover 2 274
EBIT (excluding exceptional items) 758
Capital and investment expenditure 449
Net operating assets 4 605 24 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
BHP Billiton Locations
Ref Country Location
1 Australia Adelaide ♦ ● 
2 Australia Brisbane ● ▲
3 Australia Melbourne 
(Global Headquarters) ♦ ● ▲ ■ 
4 Australia Newcastle ■
5 Australia Perth ♦ ● ▲ ■
6 Belgium Antwerp ●
7 Brazil Rio de Janeiro ● ▲
8 Canada Vancouver ▲
9 Chile Santiago ♦ ● ▲
10China Beijing ● ▲ ■
1 1 China Shanghai ●
1 2 Germany Essen ●
13India New Delhi ● ▲
14Indonesia Jakarta ●
1 5 Japan T okyo ●
16Korea Seoul ●
1 7 Netherlands The Hague ●
1 8 Peru Lima ▲
1 9 Russia Moscow ● ▲ 
20 Singapore Singapore ●
21 South Africa Johannesburg ♦ ● ▲ ■
22 Switzerland Baar ●
23 UK London ♦
24 UK Sheffield ●
25 US Houston ♦ ● 
26 US Pittsburgh ●
Ref Country Site/Asset Description Ownership
27 Algeria Ohanet Joint operator with Sonatrach 45%
of wet gas development
28 Algeria ROD Integrated Onshore oil development 36.04%
Development
29 Australia Bass Strait The Bass Strait operations produce oil, 50% 
condensate, LPG, natural gas and ethane
30 Australia Griffin Operator of oil and gas project offshore WA 45%
31 Australia Minerva Operator of Minerva gas field 
development in the Otway Basin 90%
32 Australia North West One of Australia’s largest 8.33–16.67%
Shelf resource projects, producing 
liquids, LNG and domestic gas
33 Pakistan Zamzama Operator of onshore gas development 38.5%
34 Trinidad Angostura Operator of oil field
and T obago 45%
35 UK Bruce/Keith Oil and gas production in the 16–31 .83%
UK North Sea
36 UK Liverpool Bay Operator of oil and gas development 46. 1%
in the Irish Sea
37 US Gulf of Mexico Interests in several producing assets, 4.95–1 00%
the Atlantis and Neptune developments,
and a significant exploration acreage 
position
– Various Exploration Exploration interests in Algeria, Australia, –
Brazil, Brunei, Maritime Canada, Pakistan, 
South Africa, Trinidad and T obago, UK, US
Petroleum
Petroleum
Aluminium 
Base Metals 
Carbon Steel Materials 
Diamonds and Specialty Products
Energy Coal
Stainless Steel Materials 
Offices
63 63
64 64
6 6
21
70 70 42 42
59 59
43 43
33 33 
35 35
27 27
28 28
36 36
62 62
18 18
71 71
25
37 37
68 68
34 34
44 44
39 39
58 58
41 41 
9
47
48
51
50
75
49
23 17 17
13 13 
19 19
7 7
22 22
12 12
24 24
26 26
40 40
8 8
Offices
♦ Corporate Centres
● Marketing Offices
▲ Minerals Exploration 
Offices
■ Technology Centres 25
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Ref Country Site/Asset Description Ownership
38 Australia Worsley Integrated alumina refinery/ 86%
bauxite mine
39 Brazil Alumar Alumina refinery and aluminium smelter 36–46.3%
40 Brazil MRN Bauxite mine 14.8%
41 Brazil Valesul Aluminio Aluminium smelter 45.5%
42 Mozambique Mozal Aluminium smelter 47. 1%
43 South Africa Hillside/Bayside T wo aluminium smelters 1 00%
44 Suriname Paranam Alumina refinery and bauxite mines 45%
Ref Country Site/Asset Description Ownership
45 Australia Cannington Silver, lead and zinc mine in 1 00%
north-west Queensland
46 Australia Olympic Dam Large underground copper/uranium 1 00%
mine in South Australia
47 Chile Cerro Colorado Copper mine in northern Chile, 1 00%
producing cathode copper through  
a SX-EW leach operation
48 Chile Escondida The world’s largest copper 57.5%
mine, located in northern Chile
49 Chile Spence Open cut copper mine under development 1 00%
50 Peru Antamina Large copper-zinc mine 33.75%
51 Peru Tintaya Produces copper concentrate and 99.95%
copper cathode within the ‘Skarn Belt’ 
of south-eastern Peru
Base Metals
Aluminium
55 55
54 54
56 56
53 53
52 52
57 57
31 31 29 29
30 30
32 32
69 69
67 67
16 16
14 14
15 15
38 38
46
45
3 3
5
11 11
10 10
20 20
4 4
2 2
60 60
73
72
74
65 65
66 66
61 61
1 1
Ref Country Site/Asset Description Ownership
52 Australia Boodarie Hot briquetted iron plant 1 00%
Iron (permanently closed 24 August 2005)
53 Australia GEMCO Producer of manganese ore 60%
54 Australia Illawarra Three underground coal mines 1 00%
Coal
55 Australia Queensland World’s largest supplier of 50–80%
Coal high-quality metallurgical coal for 
steel production
56 Australia TEMCO Producer of manganese alloys ● 60%
57 Australia WA Iron Ore Pilbara iron ore mine, rail and port 85–1 00%
operations 
58 Brazil Samarco An efficient low-cost producer of iron 50%
ore pellets 
59 South Africa Samancor Integrated producer of manganese 60%
Manganese alloys and ferroalloys 
Ref Country Site/Asset Description Ownership
60 Australia Melbourne Hi Fert head office 33.3%
61 Australia Southern Mt Isa sulphuric acid manufacture and 1 00%
Cross Phosphate Hill phosphate mine and 
Fertilisers plant (formerly known as Queensland 
Fertilizer Operations)
62 Canada Yellowknife EKATI diamond mine in the 80%
Northwest Territories of Canada
63 South Africa Richards Bay World’s largest producer of titanium slag ● 50%
Minerals
64 Mozambique Corridor Sands Titanium minerals project ▲ 90%
Minerals Exploration Offices and Technology Centres are managed by 
Diamonds and Specialty Products and are shown under the Offices section.
Ref Country Site/Asset Description Ownership
65 Australia Hunter Valley Mt Arthur Coal 1 00%
Energy Coal
66 Australia Illawarra Coal Marketing agent for energy coal output –
67 Australia Queensland Coal Marketing agent for energy coal output –
68 Colombia Cerrejon Largest coal producer in Colombia 33.3%
69 Indonesia PT Arutmin Exclusive agent for coal output –
70 South Africa Ingwe Largest coal producer in South Africa 1 00%
71 US New Mexico Coal Mine-mouth operations 1 00%
Ref Country Site/Asset Description Ownership
72 Australia Nickel West Nickel assets including Mt Keith and 1 00%
Leinster operations, Kalgoorlie nickel smelter, 
Kwinana nickel refinery, Kambalda concentrator
73 Australia QNI Yabulu The Yabulu refinery is one of the world’s 1 00%
Refinery major laterite nickel-cobalt processing plants
74 Australia Ravensthorpe Ravensthorpe nickel mine and processing 1 00%
Nickel Project facility (currently in development)
75 Colombia Cerro Matoso Integrated ferronickel mining and 99.8%
smelting complex in north Colombia
Stainless Steel Materials 
Energy Coal
Diamonds and Specialty Products 
Carbon Steel Materials 26 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Review of Operations 
All references to production volumes are BHP Billiton share unless noted otherwise.
Principal product Country
BHP Billiton 
ownership (%)
2005 production
BHP Billiton share
CSG Assets
Crude Oil & Condensate (’000 barrels)
Bass Strait Oil & gas Australia 50.0 16 736
Minerva Oil & gas Australia 90.0 54
North West Shelf – condensate LNG, liquids & gas Australia 8.33–16.67 5 340
North West Shelf – Wanaea/Cossack LNG, liquids & gas Australia 8.33–16.67 5 853
Laminaria/Corallina
(a)
Oil Australia 25–32.6 1 153
Griffin Oil & gas Australia 45.0 1 743
Pakistan Gas & condensate Pakistan 38.5 21 1
Typhoon/Boris Oil & gas US 50.0 4 330
Mad Dog Oil & gas US 23.9 813
Other Americas Oil & gas US 4.95–50 666
Angostura Oil & gas Trinidad and Tobago 45.0 1 796
Liverpool Bay Oil & gas United Kingdom 46.1 6 1 16
Bruce/Keith Oil, gas & LPG United Kingdom 16.0–31.83 1 01 1
Ohanet Oil & gas Algeria 45.0 2 040
ROD Oil & gas Algeria 36.04–45 2 978
50 840
Natural Gas (billion cubic feet)
Bass Strait Oil & gas Australia 50.0 1 15.74
Minerva Oil & gas Australia 90.0 16.42
North West Shelf – Domestic LNG, liquids & gas Australia 8.33–16.67 14.63
North West Shelf – LNG LNG, liquids & gas Australia 8.33–16.67 83.09
Griffin Oil & gas Australia 45.0 2.63
Moranbah Coal Bed Methane Gas Australia 50.0 3.24
Illawarra Coal Bed Methane Gas Australia 100.0 5.48
Pakistan Gas & condensate Pakistan 38.5 31.69
Typhoon/Boris Oil & gas US 50.0 7.12
Mad Dog Oil & gas US 23.9 0.21
Other Americas Oil & gas US 4.95–50 7.68
Bruce/Keith Oil, gas & LPG United Kingdom 16.0–31.83 23.77
Liverpool Bay Oil & gas United Kingdom 46.1 33.98
345.68
LPG (‘000 tonnes)
Bass Strait Oil & gas Australia 50.0 510.61
North West Shelf LNG, liquids & gas Australia 8.33–16.67 129.52
Bruce/Keith Oil, gas & LPG United Kingdom 16.0–31.83 59.96
Ohanet Oil & gas Algeria 36.04–45 160.01
860. 10
Ethane (‘000 tonnes) 101 .53
TOTAL PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (million barrels of oil equivalent) 11 9.03
Growth Projects Increased Capacity
Development Atlantis South – Q3 CY06 Oil & gas US 44.0
(b)
Neptune – End CY07 Oil & gas US 35.0
(c)
North West Shelf 5th Train – End CY08 LNG Australia 16.67 4.2
(d)
Feasibility Zamzama Phase 2 – Q3 CY07 Gas & condensate Pakistan 38.5 150
(e)
Atlantis North – Q1CY08 Oil & gas US 44.0 0
(f)
Stybarrow – Q1 CY08 Oil & gas Australia 50.0 80 000
(g)
Shenzi – Mid CY08 Oil & gas US 44.0 100 000
(h)
NWS Angel – End CY08 Gas Australia 16.67
(a) 
BHP Billiton sold its interest in Laminaria/Corallina with effect from 14 January 2005.
(d) 
Million tonnes per annum (100 per cent).
(g) 
Barrels per day (100 per cent).
(b) 
200 000 barrels of oil and 180 million cubic feet of gas per day (100 per cent).
(e) 
mmscf per day (100 per cent).
(h) 
Barrels per day (100 per cent).
(c) 
50 000 barrels of oil and 50 million cubic feet of gas per day (100 per cent).
(f) 
Tie-back to Atlantis South.
Alumina (‘000 tonnes)
Worsley Alumina & bauxite Australia 86.0 2 813
Paranam Alumina Suriname 45.0874
Alumar Alumina Brazil 36.0495
4 182
Aluminium (‘000 tonnes)
Hillside Aluminium South Africa 100.0 685
Bayside Aluminium South Africa 100.0 166
Alumar Aluminium Brazil 46.3 176
Valesul Aluminium Brazil 45.5 43
Mozal Aluminium Mozambique 47.1 260
1 330
Growth Projects Increased Capacity
(’000 tonnes per annum)
Development Worsley Development Capital Projects – Q1 CY06 Alumina Australia 86.0 250 (100% basis)
Paranam – Q3 CY05 Alumina Suriname 45.0 250 (100% basis)
Feasibility Alumar Alumina Refinery – Q1 CY08 Alumina Brazil 36.0 2 000 (100% basis)
Copper (‘000 tonnes)
Concentrate
Escondida Copper Chile 57.5 578.2
Antamina Copper-zinc Peru 33.75123.1
Tintaya Copper Peru 99.9572.7
774.0
Cathode
Escondida Copper Chile 57.587.3
Cerro Colorado Copper Chile 100.0 1 13.1
Tintaya Copper Peru 99.9534.4
Pinto Valley Copper US 100.0 9.1
Olympic Dam
(a)
Copper-uranium Australia 100.0 16.1
260.0
Lead (tonnes)
Cannington Silver, lead & zinc Australia 100.0 281 970
281 970
Zinc (tonnes)
Cannington Silver, lead & zinc Australia 100.0 52 841
Antamina Copper-zinc Peru 33.75 52 520
105 361
Base Metals
Aluminium
Petroleum 27
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Principal product Country
BHP Billiton 
ownership (%)
2005 production
BHP Billiton share
CSG Assets
Gold (ounces)
Escondida Copper Chile 57.596 606
Tintaya Copper Peru 99.9521 765
Olympic Dam
(a)
Copper-uranium Australia 100.0 7 042
125 413
Silver (’000 ounces)
Escondida Copper Chile 57.52 551
Antamina Copper-zinc Peru 33.752 774
Tintaya Copper Peru 99.95629
Cannington Silver, lead & zinc Australia 100.0 44 030
Olympic Dam
(a)
Copper-uranium Australia 100.0 62
50 046
Uranium Oxide Concentrate (tonnes)
Olympic Dam
(a)
Copper-uranium Australia 100.0 415
415
Growth Projects Increased Capacity
(tonnes per annum)
Development Escondida Norte – Q4 CY05 Copper Chile 57.5
(b)
Escondida Sulphide Leach – H2 CY06 Copper Chile 57.5 180 000 (100% basis)
Spence – Q4 CY06 Copper Chile 100.0 200 000
Feasibility Escondida Coarse Particle Recovery – Q3 CY07 Copper Chile 57.5 50 000 (100% basis)
(a) 
BHP Billiton acquired Olympic Dam with the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd. Production data is shown from 1 June 2005.
(b) 
Maintains Escondida’s total capacity at 1.25 mtpa (100 per cent basis).
Iron Ore (‘000 tonnes)
Mt Newman Iron ore Australia 85.0 25 736
Mt Goldsworthy Iron ore Australia 85.0 4 685
Area C Joint Venture Iron ore Australia 85.0 16 612
Yandi Iron ore Australia 85.0 35 661
Jimblebar Iron ore Australia 100.0 6 364
Samarco Iron ore Brazil 50.0 7 687
96 745
Metallurgical Coal (‘000 tonnes)
BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Metallurgical coal Australia 50.0 25 395
BHP Mitsui Coal Metallurgical coal Australia 80.0 5 657 (100% basis)
Illawarra Coal Metallurgical coal Australia 100.0 6 251
37 303
Manganese (‘000 tonnes)
Australia and South Africa Manganese ore Australia/South Africa 60.0 5 455 (100% basis)
Australia and South Africa Manganese alloy Australia/South Africa 60.0 755 (100% basis)
Growth Projects Increased Capacity
(‘000 tonnes per annum)
Development BMA Phase 1 – Mid CY05 Metallurgical coal Australia 50.0 5 000 (100% basis)
Blackwater Coal Preparation Plant – H1 CY06 Metallurgical coal Australia 50.0
(a)
BMA Phase 2 – H2 CY06 Metallurgical coal Australia 50.0 2 000 (100% basis)
WA Iron Ore RGP2 – H2 CY06 Iron ore Australia 85.0 8 000 (100% basis)
Feasibility WA Iron Ore RGP3 – Q2 CY08 Iron ore Australia 85.0 20 000 (100% basis)
Samarco – H2 CY08 Iron ore Brazil 50.0 7 000 (100% basis)
WA Iron Ore RGP4+ – H1 CY10 Iron ore Australia 85.0
(b)
Maruwai – H1 CY09 Metallurgical coal Indonesia 100.0 5 000
(a) 
New coal handling and processing facility to replace three existing plants.
(b) 
Takes total system capacity at Western Australian Iron Ore to 152 million tonnes per annum (100 per cent).
Diamonds (‘000 carats)
EKATI Diamond Mine Diamonds Canada 80.0 3 61 7
Richards Bay Minerals (‘000 tonnes) Titanium dioxide South Africa 50.0 525
(a)
Integris Metals (million lbs)
(b)
Metals distribution US 50.0 336
Fertiliser (‘000 tonnes)
Queensland Fertilizer Operations
(c)
Fertiliser Australia 1 00.0 73.9
Growth Projects Increased Capacity
(‘000 carats)
Feasibility Koala Underground – Q1 CY08 Diamonds Canada 80.0
(d)
(a) 
Attributable capacity.
(b) 
BHP Billiton sold its interest in Integris Metals Inc effective 4 January 2005.
(c) 
BHP Billiton acquired Queensland Fertilizer Operations with the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd. Production data is shown from 1 June 2005.
(d) 
3 000 tonnes per day ore processed (100 per cent).
Energy Coal (‘000 tonnes)
Ingwe Energy coal South Africa 100.0 54 650
New Mexico Energy coal US 100.0 14 927
Hunter Valley Energy coal Australia 100.0 9 865
Cerrejon Energy coal Colombia 33.3 7 974
87 416
Nickel (‘000 tonnes)
Cerro Matoso SA Nickel Colombia 99.8 51.3
QNI Yabulu Nickel Australia 100.0 31.4
Nickel West
(a)
Nickel Australia 100.09.2
91.9
Ferrochrome (‘000 tonnes)
South Africa
(b)
Ferrochrome South Africa 60.0 954 (100% basis)
Growth Projects Increased Capacity
(‘000 tonnes per annum)
Development Ravensthorpe – Q2 CY07 Contained nickel in concentrate Australia 100.0 50.0
Yabulu – End CY07 Nickel Australia 100.0 45.0
(a) 
BHP Billiton acquired Nickel West with the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd. Production data is shown from 1 June 2005.
(b) 
BHP Billiton sold its interest in Samancor Chrome with effect from 1 June 2005.
Stainless Steel Materials
Energy Coal
Diamonds and Specialty Products
Carbon Steel Materials
Base Metals continued Corporate Governance at a Glance
page
1. Governance at BHP Billiton 29
2. Shareholders 29
3. Board of Directors – role and responsibilities 29
4. Board of Directors – composition, structure 
and process 31
4.1 Membership 31
4.2 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes 
of Directors 33
4.3 Independence 33
4.4 Terms of appointment 34
4.5 Induction and training 34
4.6 Independent advice 34
4.7 Remuneration 34
4.8 Share ownership and dealing 35
4.9 Chairman 35
4. 1 0 Senior Independent Director 35
4. 1 1 Company Secretary 35
4.12 Meetings 35
5. Board of Directors – review, re-election and 
renewal 35
5. 1 Review 35
5.2 Re-election 36
5.3 Renewal 36
6. Management 37
7 . Business conduct 39
8. Board Committees 39
8. 1 Risk and Audit Committee report 39
8.2 Remuneration Committee report 42
8.3 Sustainability Committee report 42
8.4 Nomination Committee report 43
9. Conformance with corporate governance standards 43
Corporate Governance Statement
28 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 1. Governance at BHP Billiton
BHP Billiton’s corporate objective is to create long-term value for
shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion
of natural resources, and the provision of innovative customer
and market-focused solutions (Corporate Objective). In pursuing
the Corporate Objective we have committed to the highest level
of governance and strive to foster a culture that values and
rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate
integrity, and respect for others. This approach to governance is
predicated on the belief that there is a link between high-quality
governance and the creation of shareholder value. Our
expectations of our employees and those to whom we contract
business are set out in our Guide to Business Conduct. A copy of
the Guide can be found on the Group’s website at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
This Statement outlines BHP Billiton’s system of governance.
Shareholders are reminded that BHP Billiton operates under a
dual listed companies structure with primary listings in Australia
and the UK. BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, the parent
entities of BHP Billiton, are registered in the US and listed on the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). In formulating our governance
framework, the regulatory requirements in Australia, the UK and
the US have been taken into account, together with prevailing
standards of best practice. Where governance principles vary
across these jurisdictions, as they inevitably do, the Directors
have resolved to adopt those principles that they consider to be
the better of the prevailing standards.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have identical Boards 
of Directors. (The Boards are hereafter referred to collectively 
as the Board.)
2. Shareholders
The Board of BHP Billiton represents the shareholders who, 
in turn, elect its members. Shareholders vote on important
matters affecting the Group including changes to the Group’s
constitutional documents, the receipt of annual financial
statements and incentive arrangements for executive Directors. 
The Board recognises that to vote in an informed manner
shareholders must receive high-quality, relevant information 
in a timely manner . T o safeguard the effective dissemination 
of information, BHP Billiton has developed a Market Disclosure
and Communications Policy. A copy of this Policy is available at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance. The Policy outlines
how BHP Billiton identifies and distributes information in a
timely way to all shareholders and market participants. It also
reinforces BHP Billiton’s commitment to the continuous
disclosure obligations imposed by law, and describes the
procedures implemented to ensure compliance.
Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which 
BHP Billiton is listed, investor briefings, half-yearly financial
statements, the Annual Report and other relevant information 
are posted to the Group’s website at www.bhpbilliton.com.
Any person wishing to receive advice by email of Group news
releases can subscribe at www.bhpbilliton.com. 
Shareholders are encouraged to make their views known to 
the Group and to directly raise any matters of concern. The
Chairman has regular meetings with shareholders to discuss
governance matters and keeps the Board informed of the views
and concerns that have been raised. From time to time the
Group will enter into dialogue with shareholders to share views
on matters of interest. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend annual general meetings
and to use this opportunity to ask questions. Questions can be
registered prior to the meeting by completing the relevant form
accompanying the notice of meeting or by emailing the Group
at: investor .relations@bhpbilliton.com. Questions that have been
lodged, and their answers, are posted to the website. The
external auditor attends the annual general meetings and is
available to answer questions.
Shareholders may appoint proxies electronically through the
website. The notice of meeting describes how this can be done. 
Proceedings at shareholder meetings and important Company
briefings are broadcast live from the Company’s website. Copies
of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) to the annual general meeting, a summary of the
proceedings of the meeting, and the outcome of voting on the
items of business are posted to the website following the
meeting. 
3. Board of Directors – role and responsibilities
The role of the Board is to represent the shareholders and to
promote and protect the interests of the Company. It does so 
by governing the Group. 
The Board has published a ‘Board Governance Document’ which
is a statement of the practices and processes the Board has
adopted to discharge its role. It includes the processes it has
implemented to undertake its own tasks and activities; the
matters it has reserved for its own decision-making; the
authority it has delegated to the CEO, including the limits on 
the way in which the CEO can execute that authority; and
provides guidance on the relationship between the Board and
the CEO. The Board Governance Document can be found at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance. 
The Board has specifically reserved the following matters for 
its decision: 
• appointments to the position of CEO and approval of
appointments of executives reporting to the CEO
• approval of strategy and annual budgets
• determination of matters in accordance with the approvals
framework, and 
• formal determinations that are required by the Group’s
constitutional documents, by statute or by other external
regulation. 
The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision,
subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional
documents and the law.
Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to
achieve the Corporate Objective to the CEO who is free to take
all decisions and actions which, in the CEO’s judgement, are
reasonable having regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
The limits are published in the Board Governance Document. 
The CEO remains accountable to the Board for the authority that
is delegated to him, and for the performance of the Group. 
The Board monitors the decisions and actions of the CEO and the
performance of the Group to gain assurance that progress is
being made towards the Corporate Objective, within the limits it
has imposed. The Board also monitors the performance of the
29
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 30 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Board of Directors
Miklos Salamon Karen Wood,
Company Secretary
David Crawford
Don Argus
Lord Renwick of Clifton
John Schubert David Brink
Charles Goodyear
John Buchanan Michael Chaney Carlos Cordeiro
David Jenkins Corporate Governance Statement continued
31
Group through its Committees. Reports from each of the
Committees are set out on pages 39 to 43.
The CEO is required to report systematically in a spirit of
openness and trust on the progress being made by the Group’s
businesses. The Board (and its Committees) determine the
information required from the CEO, any employee of the 
Group or any external party including the auditor . Dialogue
between individual members of the Board and the CEO and
senior executives is encouraged to enable Directors to gain a
better understanding of the Group’s businesses. Directors are
encouraged to participate in debate and to bring independent
judgement to bear on matters being considered. The Board
believes that constructive differences of opinion lead to more
robust evaluation of the issues and, ultimately, better outcomes.
4. Board of Directors – composition, structure and process
This section outlines how the Board has structured itself to best
fulfil its role. 
4. 1 Membership
The Board currently comprises nine non-executive Directors and
two executive Directors. The names and biographical details of
the Directors are set out below:
Don Argus AO, FAIB, FCPA, FAICD, 67
Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since
November 1 996 and Chairman since April 1 999.
Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP
Billiton Plc since June 2001 . Mr Argus was last 
re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or standing
for re-election in 2005.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Don Argus has
considerable experience in international business
and a strong management background. He has
more than 40 years’ experience in the banking
industry and is a former Managing Director and
CEO of the National Australia Bank Limited.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent): 
• Chairman of Brambles Industries Ltd (since
September 1 999) and a director (since May
1 999)
• Chairman of Brambles Industries Plc and a
director (since August 2001)
• Director of Australian Foundation Investment
Company Ltd (since May 1 999)
• Former Director of Southcorp Limited (from
May 1 999 until August 2003)
• Member of the International Advisory Council 
of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft (since April 2000)
Board Committee membership:
• Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Charles Goodyear BSc, MBA, FCPA, 47
Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited
and BHP Billiton Plc since November 2001 .
Appointed CEO in January 2003. Mr Goodyear
was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring 
or standing for re-election in 2005.
Independent: No
Skills and experience: Charles Goodyear has
extensive experience in finance, corporate
restructuring and mergers and acquisitions. 
He joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer
(CFO) in 1 999. He was previously President of
Goodyear Capital Corporation and Executive Vice
President and CFO of Freeport-McMoRan Inc.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Member of the International Council of 
Mining and Metals
• Member of the United States National
Petroleum Council
Board Committee membership: Nil
David Brink MSc Eng (Mining), D Com (hc), 66
Term of office: Director of Billiton Plc since June
1 997. Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP
Billiton Plc since June 2001 . Mr Brink was last 
re-elected in 2003 and is not retiring or standing
for re-election in 2005.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: David Brink brings
considerable mining and finance experience to
the Group. He has over 20 years’ experience in
the mining industry, in particular shaft sinking,
tunnelling and exploration contracting, followed
by 12 years as the CEO of a major listed
construction, engineering and manufacturing
conglomerate.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Chairman of Unitrans Limited (since 
November 1 997)
• Deputy Chairman of ABSA Bank Limited and
ABSA Group Limited (since April 1 992)
• Director of Sanlam Limited (since January
1 994)
• Director of Sappi Limited (since March 1 994)
• Former Director of Murray & Roberts Holdings
Ltd (from July 1 984 until December 2003)
• Vice President of the South African Institute 
of Directors
Board Committee membership:
• Chairman of the Sustainability Committee
• Member of the Risk and Audit Committee
John Buchanan BSc, MSc (Hons 1), PhD, 62
Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited
and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003. Mr
Buchanan was last re-elected by shareholders 
in 2003 and is not retiring or standing for 
re-election in 2005.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: John Buchanan has had
a wide international business career gained in
large and complex international businesses. 
He has substantial experience in the petroleum
industry and knowledge of the United Kingdom
and international investor community. He has
held various leadership roles in strategic,
financial, operational and marketing positions,
including executive experience in different
countries. He is a former executive Director and
Group CFO of BP , Treasurer and Chief Executive
of BP Finance, and Chief Operating Officer of 
BP Chemicals.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent): 
• Deputy Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc 
(since February 2005)
• Director of AstraZeneca Plc (since April 2002)
• Director of Vodafone Group Plc (since April
2003)
• Former Director of Boots Plc (from December
1 997 until July 2003)
• Former executive Director of BP Plc (from 1 996
until November 2002)
Board Committee membership:
• Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
• Member of the Nomination Committee
Michael Chaney AO, BSc, MBA, Hon. LLD W. Aust,
FAIM, FAICD, 55
Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since
May 1 995 and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited
and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001 . Mr Chaney
was last re-elected in 2003 and is retiring in
2005 and not seeking re-election. 
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Michael Chaney brings
commercial expertise to the Board, developed
over 1 3 years as the CEO and Managing Director
of Wesfarmers Limited.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Director of National Australia Bank Limited
(since December 2004)
• Chairman of Gresham Partners Holdings Limited
(since November 1 985)
• Vice President of the Business Council of
Australia (since November 2003)
• Director of the Centre for Independent Studies
Limited (since October 2000)
• Chairman of the Australian Research Alliance for
Children and Y outh Limited (since July 2002)
• Member of the JPMorgan International Council
(since October 2003)
• Member of the Council of the National Gallery
of Australia (since December 2000)
• Former Managing Director of Wesfarmers
Limited (from July 1 988 until July 2005)
Board Committee membership: Nil
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Carlos Cordeiro AB, MBA, 49
Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited
and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2005. 
Mr Cordeiro vacated his office on 3 April and
was re-appointed by the Board on 26 August.
This unusual situation arose because Mr
Cordeiro was not able to satisfy the minimum
shareholding requirement of Directors as
provided for in the Articles of Association of 
BHP Billiton Plc and the Constitution of BHP
Billiton Limited because, like all other Directors
and senior executives, he was in possession of
unpublished, price sensitive information relating
to the acquisition by BHP Billiton of WMC
Resources Ltd for the whole of the period that
was available to him to comply. Mr Cordeiro is
seeking election in 2005.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Carlos Cordeiro brings 
to the Board more than 20 years’ experience 
in providing strategic and financial advice 
to corporations, financial institutions and
governments around the world. He was
previously Partner and Managing Director of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc, and was the senior
banker to the World Bank.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs 
Group Inc (since December 2001)
• Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs (Asia) 
(since June 2000)
Board Committee membership: Nil
David Crawford B Comm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, 
FAICD, 61
Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since
May 1 994. Director of BHP Billiton Limited and
BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001 . Mr Crawford
was last re-elected in 2004 and in accordance
with the Company’s policy described under
‘Tenure’ in section 4.3.2 below is retiring and
standing for re-election in 2005.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: David Crawford has
extensive experience in risk management and
business reorganisation. He has acted as a
consultant, scheme manager, receiver and
manager and liquidator to very large and
complex groups of companies. He was previously
Australian National Chairman of KPMG,
Chartered Accountants.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation Limited
(since May 2003), Director (since July 2001)
• Director of Foster’s Group Limited (since
August 2001)
• Director of Westpac Banking Corporation
(since May 2002)
• Former Chairman of National Foods Limited
(from November 2001 until June 2005)
Board Committee membership:
• Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee
Gail de Planque AB Mathematics MS (Physics)
PhD (Env Health Sciences), 60
On 8 September 2005 Directors agreed to
appoint The Hon Gail de Planque a Director of
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with
such appointment to become effective on 
1 9 October 2005. Dr de Planque is standing for
election at the 2005 annual general meeting.
Gail de Planque is an expert in nuclear
technology and has over 30 years’ experience as
a physicist, adviser and regulator in the field of
nuclear energy. She also has significant
experience as a non-executive director of global
energy companies. Dr de Planque’s biography is
included in the notice of annual general meeting. 
David Jenkins BA, PhD (Geology), 66
Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since
March 2000. Director of BHP Billiton Limited 
and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001 . Mr Jenkins
was last re-elected in 2002 and is retiring and
standing for re-election in 2005.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: David Jenkins’ executive
career at BP makes him a recognised authority
on oil and gas technology. He was previously
Chief Geologist, Director Technology and Chief
Technology Advisor to BP Plc. He was also a
member of the Technology Advisory Committee
of the Halliburton Company and the Advisory
Council of Consort Resources and Chairman of
the Energy Advisory Panel of Science
Applications International Corporation.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Director of Chartwood Resources Ltd 
(since November 1 998)
• Director of Orion Energy Associates Limited
(since March 2005)
Board Committee membership: 
• Member of the Remuneration Committee
• Member of the Risk and Audit Committee
Lord Renwick of Clifton KCMG, MA, 67
Term of office: Director of Billiton Plc since 
June 1 997. Director of BHP Billiton Limited and
BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001 . Lord Renwick
was last re-elected in 2003 and is retiring in
2005 and not seeking re-election.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has wide
international and financial expertise. He served
as British Ambassador to South Africa from 1 987
to 1 991 and as British Ambassador to the US
from 1 991 to 1 995. He is currently Vice Chairman
of Investment Banking at JPMorgan.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Director of Fluor Corporation Inc and Chairman
of Fluor Limited (since July 1 997)
• Director of Compagnie Financiere Richemont
AG (since December 1 995)
• Director of SABMiller Plc (since February 1 999)
• Vice Chairman of Investment Banking at
JPMorgan (since January 2001) 
• Director of Fleming Family & Partners Limited
(since November 2000)
• Former Director of British Airways Plc (from
March 1 996 until July 2005)
• Former Director of Harmony Gold Mining
Company Limited (from October 1 999 until
October 2004)
Board Committee membership:
• Member of the Nomination Committee
• Member of the Remuneration Committee
Miklos (Mike) Salamon BSc Mining Eng, MBA, 50
Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited
and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003. Mr
Salamon was last elected by shareholders in
2003 and is standing for re-election in 2005.
Independent: No
Skills and experience: Mike Salamon has
extensive knowledge of the mining industry and
of BHP Billiton’s operations. He was previously
Executive Chairman of Samancor, Managing
Director of Trans-Natal Coal Corporation and
Chairman of Columbus. From July 1 997 to June
2001 he was an executive Director of Billiton Plc
with responsibilities for nickel, chrome,
manganese, stainless steel and titanium. 
He was appointed Group President Non-Ferrous
Materials in March 2004, with responsibility for
the Aluminium, Base Metals and Stainless Steel
Materials Customer Sector Groups.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Chairman of WMC Resources Ltd 
(a wholly-owned subsidiary of BHP Billiton)
(since June 2005)
• Chairman of Samancor Limited 
(since October 1 993)
• Director of Richards Bay Iron and Titanium 
Pty Ltd (since July 1 997)
• Director of Cerro Matoso SA (since March 1 996)
• Director of Minera Escondida Ltda (since
November 2001)
Board Committee membership: Nil
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 32
Corporate Governance Statement continued 33
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Company Secretary
Karen Wood BEd, LLB (Hons), FCIS, 49
Term of office: Appointed Company Secretary 
of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in
June 2001 . 
Skills and experience: Karen Wood is a member
of the T akeovers Panel (Australia), the Business
Regulatory Advisory Group (Australia) and the 
JD (Juris Doctor) Advisory Board of the University
of Melbourne. She is a Fellow of the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries and a member of the 
Law Council of Australia and the Law Institute of
Victoria. She chairs the Disclosure Committee of
BHP Billiton. Before joining BHP Billiton, she was
General Counsel and Company Secretary for
Bonlac Foods Limited.
John Schubert BC Eng, PhD (Chem Eng), FIEAust,
FTSE, 62
Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since
June 2000 and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited
and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001 . Dr Schubert
was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or
standing for re-election in 2005.
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: John Schubert has
considerable experience in the international 
oil industry including at CEO level. He has had
executive mining and financial responsibilities
and was CEO of Pioneer International Limited 
for six years where he operated in the building
materials industry in 16 countries. He has
experience in mergers, acquisitions and
divestments, project analysis and management.
He was previously Chairman and Managing
Director of Esso Australia Limited and President
of the Business Council of Australia.
Other directorships and offices 
(current and recent):
• Chairman of Commonwealth Bank of Australia
(since November 2004), Director (since October
199 1)
• Director of Qantas Airways Limited (since
October 2000)
• Chairman of G2 Therapies Limited (since
November 2000)
• Former Director of Hanson Plc (from May 2000
until May 2003) 
• Former Chairman and Director of Worley
Parsons Limited (from November 2002 until
February 2005)
Board Committee membership:
• Member of the Nomination Committee
• Member of the Remuneration Committee
4.2 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors
The Board considers that the executive and non-executive
Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge and
experience necessary to govern the Group. The non-executive
Directors contribute international and operational experience;
understanding of the economics of the sectors in which the
Group operates; knowledge of world capital markets; and an
understanding of the health, safety, environmental and
community challenges that the Group faces. Executive Directors
bring additional perspectives to the Board’s work through a deep
understanding of the Group’s business. 
Directors must demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity;
a preparedness to question, challenge and critique; and a
willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards
of governance. Each Director must ensure that no decision or
action is taken that places his or her interests in front of the
interests of the Group.
Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes 
of the Board. Individual Directors are required to debate issues
openly and constructively and be free to question or challenge
the opinions of others. 
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that
the Board is comprised of high calibre individuals whose
background, skills, experience and personal characteristics 
will augment the present Board and meet its future needs.
4.3 Independence
The Board considers that an appropriate balance between
executive and non-executive Directors is necessary to promote
shareholder interests and to govern the Group effectively. It is
committed to ensuring a majority of Directors are independent.
Independent Directors bring clear judgement because they do
not have relationships with the Group or others that create, or
could be perceived by shareholders to create, conflicting
interests. The Board considers the balance of non-executive and
executive Directors when recommending individuals for election
or re-election as Directors. 
4.3. 1 Process to determine independence
The Board has developed a Policy that it uses to determine the
independence of its Directors. This determination is carried out
annually or at any other time where the circumstances of a
Director change such as to warrant reconsideration. A copy of the
Independence Policy is available at: www.bhpbilliton.com/
aboutus/governance.
The Independence Policy provides that to be independent a
Director must be:
‘independent of management and any business or other
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise
of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the
Director or the Director’s ability to act in the best interests 
of the BHP Billiton Group’.
In assessing relationships that might compromise a Director’s
independence, the Board considers criteria set out in the
Independence Policy. Those criteria include relationships with
management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated
companies, other directors, other companies or bodies with
whom BHP Billiton transacts business, the Group’s auditors and
professional advisers, and the Group’s suppliers and customers.
Other factors that are considered include the Director’s character,
the period the Director has served on the Board, the number of
shares in the Group held by the Director, how the Director is
remunerated and other benefits the Director receives from the
Group.
The Independence Policy contains materiality thresholds that 
the Board uses to measure the impact of these factors on a
Director’s independence. Each criterion is considered individually
to determine whether it is material.
The Board conducted an assessment in August 2005 and
determined that all of the non-executive Directors were
independent. Where a Director is considered by the Board to be
independent but the Board forms a view that circumstances exist
that may give rise to a perception that the Director is not
independent, the Board has undertaken to explain the reasons
why it reached its conclusion. A summary of the factors that 
may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors of
BHP Billiton is set out below.
4.3.2 Factors that may be perceived to affect independence
T enure
The Board has a Policy requiring non-executive Directors who
have served on the Board for more than nine years to stand for
annual re-election. All Directors seeking re-election must
undergo a formal performance assessment, irrespective of the
period they have served on the Board. For further information 
on the re-election and review process refer to section 5 of this
Statement. A copy of the Policy is available at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.  Corporate Governance Statement continued
34 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
The Board does not believe that any Director has served on the
Board for a period which could materially interfere with the
Director’s ability to act in the best interests of the Group. In
reaching this conclusion, the Board specifically noted that in
September 2005 Mr David Crawford and Mr Michael Chaney will
have served on the Board for 1 1 years and ten years respectively.
Mr Chaney has indicated to the Board that he will not be seeking
re-election at the 2005 annual general meetings. Mr Crawford
has offered himself for re-election in accordance with BHP
Billiton’s Policy described above. The Board has concluded that,
notwithstanding Mr Crawford’s period of service, he has retained
independence of character and judgement. The Board believes
that Mr Crawford makes an outstanding contribution to the
work of the Board. He brings his unique skills to the Board and
participates in robust and constructive debate. He has not
formed associations with management (or others) that might be
said to compromise his ability to effectively monitor the
performance of the Group. 
Retirement plan
The former Directors of BHP Limited (Mr Don Argus, Mr Michael
Chaney, Mr David Crawford, Dr David Jenkins and Dr John
Schubert) participated in a retirement plan approved by
shareholders in 1 989. Under that plan they were entitled to receive
a payment on retirement calculated by reference to years of
service. The plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits
accrued to that date are held by the Company and will be paid 
on retirement. The Board approved the application of an earnings
rate to those benefits fixed at the five-year Australian Government
Bond Rate. The Board does not believe that the independence of
any participating Director is compromised.
Relationships and associations
Mr David Crawford was the National Chairman of KPMG in
Australia. He retired in June 2001 and has no ongoing
relationship with KPMG. KPMG Audit Plc was the joint auditor
(with PricewaterhouseCoopers) of Billiton Plc prior to the merger
with BHP Limited and of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc
for the 2002 and 2003 financial years. KPMG was the sole
auditor of BHP Billiton for the 2004 and 2005 financial years. 
The Board has considered this matter annually since the time of
the merger, and again revisited it prior to the publication of this
Statement and does not consider Mr Crawford’s independence to
be compromised. The Board considers Mr Crawford’s financial
acumen to be important to the discharge of the Board’s
responsibilities. Accordingly, his membership of the Board and
Chairmanship of the Risk and Audit Committee are considered
by the Board to be appropriate and desirable.
Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in
companies with which BHP Billiton has commercial relationships.
Those positions and companies are set out on pages 31 to 33 
of this Annual Report, and include JPMorgan Plc, of which Lord
Renwick is Vice Chairman Investment Banking, and The Goldman
Sachs Group Inc, of which Mr Carlos Cordeiro is an Advisory
Director and Vice Chairman Goldman Sachs (Asia). Neither Lord
Renwick or Mr Cordeiro participated in any way in transactions
between their firms and BHP Billiton. All transactions between
each of these companies and BHP Billiton, including the
transactions entered into with JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs
have been assessed in accordance with the Independence Policy
and are not material. All transactions between BHP Billiton and
the companies with which the Directors are associated were
entered into in the usual course of BHP Billiton’s business and
were within the scope of management’s authority under the
terms of the Board Governance Document. Accordingly, the
Board was not required to consider, or approve, any of these
transactions. If Board approval was required for a transaction
between BHP Billiton and any company with which a Director
has an association, then BHP Billiton’s protocols would apply and
the Director concerned would excuse himself or herself from
participating in the decision. 
The only transactions during the year which amounted to
related-party transactions with Director-related entities under
Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, 
are the transactions between BHP Billiton and the Wesfarmers
Group of which Mr Michael Chaney was the Managing Director
until July 2005. Details are set out in note 30 to the financial
statements.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships between 
BHP Billiton and the non-executive Directors and in all cases
concluded that the relationships do not interfere with the
Directors’ exercise of objective, unfettered or independent
judgement or the Directors’ ability to act in the best interests 
of the BHP Billiton Group.
Executive Directors 
The two executive Directors, Mr Charles Goodyear and Mr Miklos
(Mike) Salamon, are not considered independent because of
their executive responsibilities. Neither of the executive Directors
hold directorships in any other company included in the ASX 1 00
or FTSE 1 00. 
4.4 Terms of appointment
The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that 
contains the terms on which non-executive Directors will 
be appointed, including the basis upon which they will be
indemnified. A copy of the letter is available at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
4.5 Induction and training
Each new non-executive Director undertakes an induction
programme specifically tailored to their needs. These
programmes include meetings with major shareholders, one-on-
one meetings with members of management and visits to 
key assets. A copy of the induction programme is available at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
Non-executive Directors agree to participate in continuous
improvement programmes throughout their tenure. 
4.6 Independent advice
The Board and its Committees may seek advice from
independent experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
Individual Directors, with the consent of the Chairman, may 
seek independent professional advice on any matter connected
with the discharge of their responsibilities, at the Group’s
expense. No Director availed himself of this right during the
course of the year .
4.7 Remuneration
Details of the remuneration policies and practices of the Group
and the remuneration paid to the Directors (executive and 
non-executive) are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages
44 to 58. Shareholders will be invited to consider and to approve
the Remuneration Report at the 2005 annual general meetings. 35
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
4.8 Share ownership and dealing
Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent
of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton Shares 
(in either Shares or American Depositary Receipts of BHP Billiton
Limited or BHP Billiton Plc) until they achieve a shareholding
equivalent in value to one-year’s remuneration. Thereafter, they
must maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout
their tenure.
Details of the Shares held by Directors are set out on page 65 of
this Report. As at the date of this Report all of the Directors had
met this requirement.
BHP Billiton has a Securities Dealing Code that covers dealings 
in securities by Directors and senior managers. Under the Code,
Directors are required to obtain the Chairman’s consent before
dealing in Shares or other securities of BHP Billiton. The
Chairman needs to get approval from the Senior Independent
Director to deal. Directors and senior managers must not deal 
in Shares or other securities of BHP Billiton during designated
prohibited periods and at any time at which the individual
possesses unpublished price sensitive information. 
All BHP Billiton Share or securities dealings by Directors are
reported to the Board and to the Australian and London Stock
Exchanges and all secondary exchanges on which BHP Billiton 
is listed.
A copy of the Securities Dealing Code can be viewed at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
4.9 Chairman
The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, is considered by the Board to be
independent. He was appointed Chairman of BHP Limited in
1 999 and has been Chairman of the Group since 2001 .
The Chairman leads the Board and facilitates its work. He is
responsible for ensuring that the principles and processes of 
the Board are maintained, including the provision of accurate,
timely and clear information. He encourages debate and
constructive criticism. The Chairman, in conjunction with the
CEO and Company Secretary, sets agendas for meetings of the
Board that focus on the strategic direction and performance 
of the Group. He commits to and leads Board and individual
Director performance assessments. The Chairman has authority
to speak and act for the Board and to represent the Board 
to shareholders. He also presents shareholders’ views to the
Board and facilitates the relationship between the Board and 
the CEO.
Mr Argus is Chairman of Brambles Industries, a company listed
on the Australian and London Stock Exchanges. The Board
considers that neither his Chairmanship of Brambles, nor any 
of his other commitments (set out on page 31 of this Report),
interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to BHP Billiton.
The Board is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to
serve BHP Billiton effectively.
The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman but has identified
Dr John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at
short notice. 
4. 10 Senior Independent Director
The Board has appointed Dr John Buchanan as the Senior
Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc. Dr Buchanan is
available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be
addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
4. 1 1 Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is Ms Karen Wood. She is responsible 
for developing and maintaining the information systems and
processes that enable the Board to fulfil its role. The Company
Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that 
Board procedures are complied with. She advises the Board on
governance matters. All Directors have access to her advice and
services, and she retains independent advisory services at the
request of the Board or a Board Committee. The Board appoints
and removes the Company Secretary. 
4. 12 Meetings
The Board met nine times during the year . Generally, meetings
run for two days. Six of those meetings were held in Australia,
two in the United Kingdom and one in China.
Attendance by Directors at Board and Board Committee
meetings is set out in the table on page 36. The Chairman sets
the agenda for each meeting in consultation with the CEO and
the Company Secretary. Any Director may have any matter added
to the agenda. Directors are provided with comprehensive
papers on matters to be considered by the Board.
The non-executive Directors met three times during the year in
the absence of executive Directors and other executives except
the Company Secretary.
Members of the Office of the Chief Executive and other members
of senior management attend meetings of the Board by invitation.
5. Board of Directors – review, re-election and renewal
5. 1 Review
The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board
membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
Contemporary performance measures are considered an
important part of this process. 
The Board regularly evaluates the performance of the Board as 
a whole, its Committees, the Chairman, individual Directors and
the governance processes which support Board work.
The performance of the Board is reviewed each year . That review
focuses on individual Directors and the Board as a whole in
alternate years. A review of the performance of each of the
Board Committees is underway. Reviews of the Sustainability
and Risk and Audit Committees were completed in June 2005. 
Reviews of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees will
be completed by the end of calendar year 2005. Going forward
the Board will assess the performance of its Committees each
year . 
Performance of individual Directors is assessed against a range
of dimensions including: the ability of the Director to consistently
take the perspective of creating shareholder value; to contribute
to the development of strategy and identification of risks; to
provide clear direction to management; to be a source of wise
counsel for the CEO; to bring a broad perspective to discussions
and an understanding of key issues; to commit the time required
to fulfil the role; and to listen to and respect the ideas of fellow
Directors and members of management. 
The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on the
Chairman’s performance is provided to him by Dr Schubert. Corporate Governance Statement continued
36 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability^
Other Board
Committee
Meetings
A* B A B A B A B A B A B
Don Argus 9 9 5
†
520
†
20
David Brink 9899 4
†
444
John Buchanan 9 9 5 5 7
†
777
Michael Chaney 9 8 77
Carlos Cordeiro
#
55 33
David Crawford 9 9 9
†
91818
Charles Goodyear 9 9 4 4 18 18
David Jenkins 9999 77 66
Lord Renwick of Clifton
+
97
+
5476 11
Mike Salamon 9 7 4366
John Schubert 9 9 5476 99
Column A – indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and/or Committee.
Column B – indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and/or Committee.
* Includes two meetings held by telephone.
# Appointed 3 February 2005. Mr Cordeiro vacated his office on 3 April and was re-appointed by the Board on 26 August. This unusual situation arose because 
Mr Cordeiro was not able to satisfy the minimum shareholding requirement of Directors as provided for in the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc and the
Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited because, like all other Directors and senior executives, he was in possession of unpublished, price sensitive information
relating to the acquisition by BHP Billiton of WMC Resources Ltd for the whole of the period that was available to him to comply. During the period for which 
Mr Cordeiro did not hold office as a Director he attended meetings by invitation.
+ A conflict of interest for one telephone meeting, therefore did not attend by agreement.
† Chairman of the Committee.
^ The other members of this Committee are external experts in the fields of health, safety or the environment. They are Professor Jim Galvin, Professor Jimmy
Perkins, Dr David Slater and Mr Ed Spence. In addition, Mr Anthony Lennox, Group Vice President Health, Safety and Environment, is a member of this Committee.
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2005
5.2 Re-election
The Board has determined that non-executive Directors who
have served on the Board for more than nine years from the date
of their first election must stand for annual re-election from the
first annual general meeting after the expiration of their current
term. At least one-third of the remaining Directors retire at each
annual general meeting. Directors are not appointed for a fixed
term but must submit themselves to shareholders for re-election
after three years. The period that Directors have served on the
Board and the years in which they were first appointed and last
elected are set out in section 4. 1 . 
Re-appointment is not automatic. Retiring Directors who are
seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal
overseen by the Nomination Committee. Following that
appraisal, the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination
Committee, makes a determination as to whether it will endorse
a retiring Director for re-election. The Board will not endorse 
a Director for re-election if his or her performance is not
considered satisfactory. The Board will advise shareholders in 
the notice of meeting whether or not re-election is supported. 
Directors cannot be re-appointed if they have reached the age of
70 years, unless that appointment is approved by shareholders in
the form of a special resolution. A Director so appointed must
retire at the next annual general meeting.
5.3 Renewal
The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance of 
the Nomination Committee. In so doing, the Board:
• considers the skill, knowledge and experience necessary to
allow it to meet the strategic vision for the Group
• assesses the skill, knowledge and experience currently
represented
• identifies any skills, knowledge and experience not adequately
represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure a
candidate is selected that brings those traits, and
• reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both 
at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the
Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position
specification that is provided to an independent recruitment
organisation retained to conduct a global search. In addition to
the specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary,
the specification contains criteria such as a proven track record
of creating shareholder value; unquestioned integrity; a
commitment to the highest standards of governance; having the
required time available to devote to the job; a clear grasp of
strategic thinking; an awareness of market leadership;
outstanding monitoring skills; a preparedness to question,
challenge and critique; and an independent point of view. 
Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to
shareholders for election at the first annual general meeting
following their appointment. 37
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
6. Management 
The CEO holds delegated authority from the Board to achieve
the Corporate Objective, save for those matters the Board has
retained for its own decision-making (set out in section 3 above).
In devolving that authority the CEO has developed an Approvals
Framework that delegates authority to committees and
individual members of management. Notwithstanding those
further delegations the CEO remains accountable to the Board
for the authority delegated to him.
The Chief Executive has established the Office of the Chief
Executive (OCE) to assist him in exercising his authority. The role
of the OCE is to provide advice to the CEO and to make
determinations on matters defined in its Charter . The members
of the Committee are: 
• Charles Goodyear, CEO and Executive Director
• Philip Aiken, Group President Energy
• John Fast, Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs
• Robert Kirkby, Group President Carbon Steel Materials
• Marius Kloppers, Chief Commercial Officer
• Chris Lynch, CFO
• Marcus Randolph, Chief Human Capital and Excellence Officer
• Mike Salamon, Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and
Executive Director
Mr Ian Fraser, former Group Vice President Human Resources,
retired from BHP Billiton on 4 September 2005. The CEO draws
on the work of other Committees including the Executive
Committee, Financial Risk Management Committee (FRMC) and
the Investment Risk Committee (IRC). The Executive Committee
has a communications and influencing role across the Group.
The FRMC monitors the Group’s financial risk management
policies and exposures and approves financial transactions
within the scope of its authority. The IRC oversees the
management approval processes for major investments, which
are designed to ensure that: investments are aligned to the
Group’s agreed strategies and values; risks are identified and
evaluated; investments are fully optimised to produce the
maximum shareholder value within an acceptable risk
framework; and appropriate risk management strategies 
are pursued.
The names and biographical details of members of the 
Executive Committee are set out below. 
Charles Goodyear BSc, MBA, FCPA, 47 
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director
Chairman of the Office of the Chief Executive
and Executive Committee and a member of 
the Financial Risk Management Committee.
Charles Goodyear joined the Group as Chief
Financial Officer in 1 999. He was appointed 
to the Boards of BHP Billiton Limited and 
BHP Billiton Plc in November 2001 and as Chief
Executive Officer in January 2003. He previously
held positions of Chief Development Officer 
and of Chief Financial Officer . He is a former
President of Goodyear Capital Corporation and
former Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Freeport-McMoRan Inc, and
has extensive financial, corporate restructuring
and merger and acquisition experience.
Miklos (Mike) Salamon BSc Mining Engineering,
MBA, 50
Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and
Executive Director
Member of the Office of the Chief Executive and
Executive Committee, and Chairman of the
Operating Committee.
Appointed an Executive Director in February
2003 and Group President Non-Ferrous Materials
(consisting of Aluminium, Base Metals and
Stainless Steel Materials) in March 2004 and
Chairman of WMC Resources Ltd in June 2005.
He is Chairman of Samancor and a Director of
Richards Bay Minerals, Cerro Matoso and
Escondida. From July 1 997 to June 2001 he was
an executive Director of Billiton Plc with
responsibilities for nickel, chrome, manganese,
stainless steel and titanium. Former Executive
Chairman of Samancor, Managing Director of
Trans-Natal Coal Corporation and Chairman of
Columbus.
Philip Aiken BE (Chemical Engineering), Harvard
Business School – Advanced Management Program, 56
Group President Energy
Member of the Office of the Chief Executive and
Executive Committee.
Joined the Group in 1 997 as President and 
Chief Executive Officer Petroleum and appointed
Group President Energy (consisting of Energy
Coal and Petroleum) in March 2004. He is a
former Director of BTR Plc and former Managing
Director of BTR Nylex, following a long career 
at BOC Plc where his last role was Managing
Director Gases Europe. He is a Director of Robert
Walters Plc and was previously Chairman of the
Sydney 2004 World Energy Congress Organising
Committee.
John Fast BEc (Hons), LLB (Hons), ASIA, 55
Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs
Member of the Office of the Chief Executive,
Executive Committee, Investment Risk
Committee, Disclosure Committee and Chairman
of the Global Ethics Panel.
Joined the Group as Vice President and Chief
Legal Counsel in December 1 999, and was
appointed Head of Asset Protection in July 2001
and Head of External Affairs (Government and
Community Relations) in January 2003. He is a
Director of the Medical Research Foundation for
Women and Babies (Australia), Chairman of the
Rotary Indigenous Australian T ertiary Scholarship
Advisory Board, a member of the T akeovers Panel
(Australia), a member of the Strategic Advisory
Board to The University of Melbourne Law
School’s Graduate Program, an Associate of the
Securities Institute of Australia, a member of the
Law Institute of Victoria, a member of the General
Counsel 1 00 (UK), and a member of the Corporate
Counsel Advisory Committee of the Metropolitan
Corporate Counsel (USA). Before joining BHP
Billiton, he was the Senior Commercial Partner at
the law firm Arnold Bloch Leibler .
Diego Hernandez Civil Mining Engineer, Ecole
Nationale Supérieure des Mines de Paris, 56
President Base Metals
Member of the Executive Committee and
Operating Committee.
Joined the Group as President Base Metals in
April 2004. He was previously Executive Director,
CVRD Non Ferrous Division and has extensive
experience in the resources sector in South
America. His previous positions include President
and Chief Executive Officer Compañía Minera
Collahuasi, Chief Executive Officer Minera
Mantos Blancos, Chief Executive Officer
Compañía Minera Tres Cruces, Technical Director
Rio Tinto Brazil, and Assistant General Manager
Empresa.
Graeme Hunt B Met, MBA, FAusIMM, London
Business School – Senior Executive Programme, 48
President Iron Ore
Member of the Executive Committee and
Operating Committee.
Joined the Group in 1 975 and appointed
President Iron Ore in January 2004. He was
previously President Western Australia Iron Ore,
Vice President Portfolio Restructuring Strategy –
BHP Corporate, Group General Manager – 
BHP Manganese, General Manager Port Kembla
Coal Terminal Ltd, NSW Ports Manager – 
BHP Transport Ltd and has held various other
positions in BHP Steel. He is Vice President of 
the Australian Mines & Metals Association, 
and Vice President and Director of the Minerals
Council of Australia.  Corporate Governance Statement continued
38 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Robert Kirkby BE Civil (Hons), Harvard Business
School – Advanced Management Program, 58
Group President Carbon Steel Materials
Member of the Office of the Chief Executive,
Executive Committee, Operating Committee and
Forum for Corporate Responsibility.
Joined the Group in 1 978 and appointed Group
President Carbon Steel Materials in March 2004,
after being President Carbon Steel Materials 
from 2001 . He has been Chairman of Samarco
Mineracao SA, BHP Mitsui Coal and BHP Billiton
Mitsubishi Alliance and a Director of Samancor .
Previously he was Chief Operating Officer 
BHP Minerals, President BHP Steelmaking and
Energy, Group General Manager and Chief
Executive Officer BHP Coal, Group General
Manager and Chief Operating Officer of various
divisions in BHP Steel, and General Manager
Newman-BHP Minerals.
Marius Kloppers BE (Chem), MBA, PhD 
(Materials Science), 43
Chief Commercial Officer
Member of the Office of the Chief Executive,
Executive Committee, Operating Committee,
Financial Risk Management Committee and
Investment Risk Committee.
Joined the Group in 1 993 and appointed 
Chief Commercial Officer in December 2003. 
He was previously Chief Marketing Officer, 
Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Executive
of Samancor Manganese, and held various
positions at Billiton Aluminium, amongst them
Chief Operating Officer and General Manager 
of Hillside Aluminium.
Chris Lynch BComm, MBA, FCPA, 51
Chief Financial Officer
Member of the Office of the Chief Executive,
Executive Committee, Operating Committee,
Disclosure Committee and Chairman of the
Investment Risk Committee and Financial Risk
Management Committee.
Joined the Group in 2000 as Chief Financial
Officer of the Minerals Group and appointed
Chief Financial Officer in September 2001 . 
He was Vice President and Chief Information
Officer for Alcoa Inc based in Pittsburgh, US, and
Chief Financial Officer, Alcoa Europe located in
Lausanne, Switzerland. He was also Managing
Director KAAL Australia Ltd, a joint venture
company formed by Alcoa Inc and Kobe Steel,
Manager Financial Risk and Treasury Operations
for Alcoa Inc in Pittsburgh, US, and Corporate
Accounting Manager at Alcoa of Australia Ltd.
Rebecca McDonald BSc, 53
President Gas and Power
Member of the Executive Committee.
Joined the Group as President Gas and Power in
March 2004. She was previously President of the
Houston Museum of Natural Science, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Enron Global
Assets after a long career at Amoco, where her
last role was President and Chief Executive
Officer of Amoco Energy Development Company.
She is an independent director of Granite
Construction and BOC Group.
David (Dave) Murray BSc (Civil Engineering);
Post Grad Dip (Mining); Advanced Executive Program
UNISA, 50
President Metallurgical Coal
Member of the Executive Committee and
Operating Committee
From 1 978 until 1 999 David worked for the 
Trans-Natal Coal Corporation/Ingwe Coal
Corporation, progressing through various
operational, project and managerial positions. 
In 1 993 he was appointed Managing Director
Trans-Natal Coal Corporation then appointed
Chief Executive of Billiton Coal in 1 999. He
moved to Australia in 2001 as CEO of the newly
formed BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance. In 2005
David moved into his current role as President
Metallurgical Coal within Carbon Steel Materials.
Chris Pointon BSc (Chemistry & Earth Sciences),
PhD (Geology), 57
President Stainless Steel Materials
Member of the Executive Committee and
Operating Committee.
Appointed President Stainless Steel Materials in
June 2001 . He was previously Chief Executive
Officer, Nickel and Chrome for Billiton Plc and
Managing Director of QNI Ltd. He has over 20
years of global experience as a mining executive
and has led the Group’s nickel business since its
formation in 1 996.
Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA Harvard Business
School, 49
Chief Human Capital and Excellence Officer
Member of the Executive Committee and
Operating Committee.
Joined BHP Minerals in 1 999 as Chief
Development Officer and held the role of
President, Diamonds and Specialty Products 
from August 2002 until September 2005. In
September 2005 he was appointed Chief Human
Capital and Excellence Officer with responsibility
for Human Resources, Business Excellence and
Information Technology. His earlier career was 
as Chief Executive Officer of a Singapore-based
gold and petroleum company. He also held
senior positions with Rio Tinto and Asarco.
Greg Robinson BSc (Hons), MBA, 43
Project Director Business Excellence Project,
Corporation Alignment 
Member of the Executive Committee.
Joined the Group in February 2001 and in 
August 2005 was appointed to lead the Group’s
Business Excellence Project, Corporation
Alignment to improve the alignment, quality and
efficiency of the Group’s planning, forecasting,
measurement, reporting and appraisal
processes. He previously held the positions of
Chief Financial Officer Petroleum and Chief
Finance Officer and Chief Development Officer
Energy. He was formerly Director Investment
Banking Group, Merrill Lynch & Co, and
Resources Research Analyst, McCaughan 
Dyson Limited.
Mahomed Seedat BEc (Electrical), MDP Harvard,
PMD UNISA, 49
President Energy Coal
Member of the Executive Committee and
Operating Committee.
Appointed President Energy Coal in January
2005. He previously held the positions of
President and Chief Operating Officer Ingwe
Collieries, President and Chief Operating Officer
Aluminium Southern Africa with responsibility
for the operations at the Hillside and Bayside
Aluminium Smelters in Richards Bay, South Africa
and the Mozal Aluminium Smelter in Maputo,
Mozambique. His former roles in the Aluminium
Customer Sector Group include Engineering
Manager, Maintenance Manager and General
Manager of the Hillside Aluminium Smelter in
Richards Bay. His previous career was in the coal
industry with Amcoal, where he held various
positions at its collieries.
Alex Vanselow BComm, Wharton AMP , 43
President Aluminium
Member of the Executive Committee and
Operating Committee.
Joined the Group in 1 989 and appointed
President Aluminium in March 2004. He was
previously Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer for Aluminium, Vice President Finance
and Chief Financial Officer for Orinoco Iron,
Manager Accounting and Control and Manager
Finance and Administration Rails and Ports for
BHP Iron Ore and Senior Auditor BHP Minerals.
He is Chairman of Mozal and Worsley and Vice
Chairman of the International Aluminium
Institute.  39
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
7 . Business conduct
The BHP Billiton Group has published a Guide to Business
Conduct which is available in eight languages. The Guide 
reflects the Charter values of integrity, respect, trust and
openness. It provides clear direction and advice on conducting
business internationally; interacting with communities,
governments and business partners; and general workplace
behaviour . It states BHP Billiton’s position on a wide range of
ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial
inducements, bribery, trading in securities and political
contributions. The Guide applies to Directors and to all
employees, regardless of their position or location. Consultants,
contractors and business partners are also expected to act in
accordance with the Guide. The Guide can be found at the
Group’s website at www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance. 
BHP Billiton has established regional helplines so that employees
can seek guidance or express concerns on Company related
issues. Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of
retaliation. A fraud hotline facility is available for reporting cases
of suspected misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Arrangements are in place to investigate such matters. Where
appropriate, investigations are conducted independently. Further
information on the Business Conduct Helpline and fraud hotline
can be found in the BHP Billiton Guide to Business Conduct.
The BHP Billiton Group maintains a position of impartiality with
respect to party politics. Accordingly, it does not contribute
funds to any political party, politician or candidate for public
office. It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy
issues that may affect it in the countries in which it operates. 
8. Board Committees 
The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising
its authority, including in monitoring the performance of the
Group to gain assurance that progress is being made towards
the Corporate Objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
The permanent Committees of the Board are the Risk and Audit
Committee, the Sustainability Committee, the Nomination
Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Ad hoc
Committees are formed from time to time to deal with specific
matters.
Each of the permanent Committees has terms of reference 
under which authority is delegated from the Board. The terms 
of reference for each Committee can be found at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services
for each of the Committees. Committee meeting agendas, papers
and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the
Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use whatever resources
they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
Each Committee is composed of the people the Board considers
best suited to fulfil the role of the Committee. 
Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
8. 1 Risk and Audit Committee report
The Risk and Audit Committee (RAC) met nine times during
the year . Its members are Mr D A Crawford (Chairman), 
Dr D C Brink and Dr D A L Jenkins.
Role and focus
The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in gaining assurance
as to the integrity of the financial statements and the
effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk
management. Its focus is: the integrity of the financial
statements; the appointment, remuneration, qualifications,
performance and independence of the external auditor, and
the integrity of the audit process as a whole; the
effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk
management; the performance and leadership of the role of
the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance and of
the internal audit function; and compliance by management
with constraints imposed by the Board.
A summary of its work appears below.
Integrity of financial statements
BHP Billiton prepares combined financial statements according
to Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP) and reconciles the UK financial statements to US GAAP .
These statements meet Australian, UK and US regulatory
requirements. The combined financial statements reflect the fact
that the Group operates as a single economic entity.
The Directors are committed to providing financial statements
that present a balanced and clear assessment of the Group’s
financial position and prospects. This assessment is provided 
in the Chairman’s Review, the CEO’s Report, the Company
Overview, the Review of Operations, the Customer Sector Group
Highlights and financial statements contained in this Report. 
The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of the
financial statements. The RAC evaluates and makes
recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness of, 
and changes to, accounting policies and practices, areas of
judgement, compliance with Accounting Standards, stock
exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external
audit. It reviews the half-yearly and annual financial statements
and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions
(including formal adoption of the financial statements and
reports) the Board should consider in order to maintain the
integrity of the financial statements. From time to time the
Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the release
of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders and the
financial community.
The CEO and CFO certify that the financial statements present a
true and fair view, in all material respects, of the Company’s
financial condition and operating results and are in accordance
with applicable regulatory requirements.
Managing the relationship with the External Auditor
The RAC manages the relationship between the Group and 
the External Auditor on behalf of the Board. It recommends to
the Board potential auditors for appointment and the terms of
engagement, including remuneration. In December 2003, the
Board, on the recommendation of the RAC, approved the
appointment of KPMG. Shareholders are asked to approve 
re-appointment of the auditors each year in the UK. The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor
during its term of appointment against specified criteria
including delivering value to shareholders and the Group, 
cost-effectiveness and maintaining the highest levels of
professional integrity, objectivity and independence.
BHP Billiton is committed to auditor independence and the RAC
reviews the independence and objectivity of the External
Auditor . This review includes:
• confirming that the External Auditor is, in its professional
judgement, independent of the Group
• obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all
relationships between the External Auditor and the Group
• monitoring the number of former employees of the External
Auditor currently employed in senior positions in the Group
and assessing whether those appointments impair, or appear
to impair, the External Auditor’s judgement or independence
• considering whether the various relationships between the
Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear
to impair, the External Auditor’s judgement or independence
• determining whether the compensation of individuals
employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is
tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, consider
whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the External
Auditor’s judgement or independence, and
• reviewing the economic importance of the Group to the
External Auditor and assessing whether that importance
impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditor’s
judgement or independence.
The Group audit engagement partner will rotate every five years.
The Group has a Policy governing the conduct of non-audit work
by the auditors. Under that Policy the External Auditor cannot
provide services where the External Auditor:
• may be required to audit its own work
• participates in activities that would normally be undertaken 
by management
• is remunerated through a ‘success fee’ structure, or
• acts in an advocacy role for BHP Billiton.
This Policy can be viewed at www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/
governance.
Fees paid to the External Auditor during the year for audit and
other services were US$12.84 million of which 79 per cent
comprised audit fees, 9 per cent audit related fees and 12 per
cent taxation and other services. Details of the fees paid are set
out in note 7 to the financial statements.
Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that 
the External Auditor is independent.
Effectiveness of systems of internal control and 
risk management
In delegating authority to the CEO to make the decisions
necessary to run the business, the Board established limits on
the manner in which that authority can be exercised. One of the
limits is to ensure that there is a system of control for identifying
and managing risk. The Directors, through the RAC, review the
systems that have been established for this purpose and
regularly review their effectiveness.
The principal aim of the system of internal control is to 
manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value of
Corporate Governance Statement continued
40 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Key Policies
Charter
Guide to Business Conduct
Anti Trust Protocols
Approvals Framework
Contracts and Commitments
Risk Management
Sustainable Development
Portfolio Risk Management 
  Governance Framework
Securities Dealing Code
Market Disclosure and Communications
Non-Audit Services
Tax 
Information Management
Financial Accounting
Key Processes
Office of the Chief Executive
Financial Risk Management Committee
CSG Appraisals
CSG RACs
Enterprise-Wide Risk Management
Stewardship Reviews
Management Representation Letters
Market Risk Management Committee
Disclosure Committee
Investment Risk Committee
Investment Evaluation Standard
Financial and Management Reporting
HSEC Management Standards
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Sustainability  
Committee
Board
(Board Governance Document)
Risk and Audit 
Committee (RAC)
Board
Governance
External
Auditors
Group Audit 
Services
HSEC 
Audits
Ore/Oil/Gas
Reserves Review
Independent Assurance
Delegation
Accountability
Management Governance and Assurance
Peer Reviews
Major Projects
Chief Executive Officer
Governance assurance
This diagram illustrates the key policies, processes and independent controls put in place by management to provide assurance to the
Board as to the integrity of the Group’s reporting and effectiveness of its systems of internal control and risk management. 41
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
shareholders’ investments and safeguarding assets. Although 
no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance
that the business risks will be fully mitigated, the internal control
systems are designed to meet the Group’s specific needs and the
risks to which it is exposed. 
The RAC is responsible for reviewing the internal controls and
risk management systems, including:
• the procedure for identifying business risks and controlling
their financial impact on the Group and the operational
effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to risk 
and control
• the budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting
systems and controls
• policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting,
reporting and preventing fraud, serious breaches of business
conduct and whistleblowing procedures
• the policies for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory
and legal requirements
• arrangements for protecting the Group’s ownership of
intellectual property and other non-physical assets
• the operational effectiveness of the Customer Sector Groups’
(CSG) RAC structures
• the application of the principles of the Turnbull Guidance
within the Group, including the adequacy of the internal
control systems and allocation of responsibilities for
monitoring internal financial controls, and
• policies, information systems and procedures for preparation
and dissemination of information to shareholders, stock
exchanges and the financial community.
T o assist management in providing the information necessary to
allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, separate Risk and
Audit Committees have been established for each of the CSGs
and key functional areas. These Committees have been
established and operate as Committees of management but are
chaired by members of the Board’s RAC or by other external
appointees with appropriate skills and experience. They perform
an important monitoring function in the overall governance of
the Group.
Minutes and reports of meetings are prepared and are provided
to the Board RAC. In addition, Committee Chairs provide verbal
reports of the meetings to the Board RAC. 
Each half year, the President and CFOs of each CSG and each of
the Marketing, Shared Services Centres and Treasury functions
must review internal controls and provide formal representations
to the Vice President Group Accounting and Controller, which are
noted by the applicable CSG RAC, assuring compliance with
Group policies and procedures and confirming that internal
control systems are adequate. These representations are
summarised and provided to the Board’s RAC. 
The Sustainability Committee of the Board reviews the
effectiveness of the internal controls covering health, safety,
environment and community risks.
Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk
and control. The Financial Risk Management Committee (FRMC)
reviews the effectiveness of internal controls relating to
commodity price risk, counter-party credit risk, currency risk,
financing risk and interest rate risk. Minutes of the FRMC are
provided to the Board. The Investment Risk Committee (IRC)
provides oversight for investment processes across the Group
and coordinates the investment toll-gating process for major
investments. Reports are made to the Board on findings by the
IRC in relation to major capital projects. 
The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial
statements are founded on a sound system of risk management
and internal compliance, and that the system is operating
efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
Business risk 
The Group operates an Enterprise-Wide Risk Management
System, which continues to be enhanced at all operations. This
System forms the cornerstone of the Group’s risk management
activities. Its aim is to meet the obligations of the CEO in
ensuring a system is in place for identifying and managing risk.
Its existence provides the RAC with the assurance that the major
risks facing the Group have been identified and assessed, and
that there are controls either in place or planned to address
these risks. Independent validation is undertaken by Internal
Audit. The Group’s Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Policy can
be found at www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in the
Group’s business environment are regularly reviewed by the
Office of the Chief Executive and discussed by the Board.
Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, 
the Sustainability Committee, the Remuneration Committee and
Internal Audit.
The scope of BHP Billiton’s operations, and the range of
industries in which the Group is engaged, mean that a range 
of factors may impact Group results. Material risks that could
negatively affect the Group’s results and performance include: 
• fluctuations in commodity prices and currency exchange rates
• failure to discover new reserves or enhance existing reserves
• fewer mineral oil or gas reserves than our estimates indicate
• compliance with health, safety and environment regulations
may impose burdensome costs
• land tenure disputes
• actions by governments in the countries in which we operate
• risks associated with emerging markets
• inability to successfully integrate our acquired businesses or
recover our investments in exploration and new mining and 
oil and gas projects
• increased reliance upon the Chinese market in the event of a
slowdown in consumption
• shortages of skilled labour could negatively impact our
operations and expansion plans, and
• costs may increase due to inflationary pressures.
Internal audit
BHP Billiton has an internal audit function known as Group Audit
Services (GAS) which assists with the identification and
controlling of Group business risks. The Board’s RAC reviews 
the mission and charter of GAS, ensures that it is adequately
staffed and that its scope of work is appropriate in light of the
key risks facing the Group and the other monitoring functions in
place. It also reviews and approves an annual internal audit
plan. The role of the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance
includes:
• achievement of GAS objectives which are:
– assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of
controls governing key operational processes and business
risks
– provision of an assessment, independent of management, 
as to the adequacy of the Group’s internal operating and
financial controls, systems and practices
– assisting the Board in meeting its corporate governance and
regulatory responsibilities
– provision of advisory services to management to enhance
the control environment and improve business performance
• enterprise wide risk management
• risk management information systems, and
• insurance strategy.
The RAC approves the appointment and dismissal of the Vice
President Risk Management and Assurance and assesses his or
her independence and objectivity. The Vice President Risk
Management and Assurance has unfettered access to
management and the Board’s RAC.
Review of effectiveness
During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control for the
financial year and up to the date of this Report in accordance
with the Turnbull Guidance and the Principles of Good Corporate
Governance published by the Australian Stock Exchange
Corporate Governance Council. These reviews which were
overseen by the Board RAC covered financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk assessment. Findings and
recommendations were reported to the Board.
In addition to considering the key risks facing the Group, the
Board reviewed an assessment of the effectiveness of internal
controls over the key risks identified through the work of the
Board Committees and management Committees described
above.
8.2 Remuneration Committee report
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during 
the year . Its members are Dr J G Buchanan (Chairman), 
Dr D A L Jenkins, Lord Renwick of Clifton and Dr J M Schubert.
Role and focus
The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in setting 
the Remuneration Policy for the Group. In doing its work the
Committee focuses on:
• determining remuneration policy and its application to the
executive Directors and executives who report to the CEO
• adopting the annual and long-term incentive plans
• providing guidance to the Chairman on the annual
evaluation of the performance of the CEO
• determining the levels of reward to the CEO and approval
of rewards to those who report to the CEO, and
• communicating to shareholders on remuneration policy and
the Committee’s work on behalf of the Board.
Full details of the Committee’s work on behalf of the Board
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 58.
8.3 Sustainability Committee report
The Sustainability Committee (previously called the Health,
Safety and Environment Committee) met four times during
the year . During the year the members of the Committee were 
Dr D C Brink (Chairman), Mr C W Goodyear, Mr M Salamon, 
Mr A T Lennox, Prof J Galvin, Prof J Perkins, Dr D Slater and 
Mr E Spence. Following a review of the Committee which 
was conducted during the year the Board has restructured
the Committee and will be increasing the number of non-
executive Director members. Executive members and external
advisors will no longer sit as members of the Committee but
may participate in Committee work at the discretion of the
non-executive Director members. At the time of printing of
this Report the new members of the Committee had not been
appointed.
Role and focus
Following the review of the Committee referred to above, 
the role of the Sustainability Committee is now to assist the
Board in gaining assurance that the appropriate systems are
in place to deal with the health, safety, environmental and
community risks faced by the Group. In so doing, the
Committee focuses on:
• evaluating the effectiveness of the Group’s policies and
systems for identifying and managing the health, safety,
environment and community risks that are material to the
achievement of the Corporate Objective
• assessing the policies and systems within the Group for
ensuring compliance with health, safety, environment and
community regulatory requirements
• assessing the performance of the Group having regard to
the impact of health, safety, environment and community
decisions and actions on employees, communities and third
parties and on the reputation of BHP Billiton, and
• evaluation and oversight on behalf of the Board of the
quality and integrity of sustainability reporting to external
stakeholders.
A Sustainability Report (formerly the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Community Report) is published each year . 
The Report identifies BHP Billiton’s targets for health, safety,
environment and community and measures its performance
against those targets. The Report is published at the same 
time as the Annual Report and can be found at
http://sustainability.bhpbilliton.com/2005/report/.
For an overview of BHP Billiton’s approach to sustainable
development refer to page 18 of this Report.
Corporate Governance Statement continued
42 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 43
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
8.4 Nomination Committee report
The Nomination Committee met five times during the year .
The members of the Committee are Mr D R Argus (Chairman),
Dr J G Buchanan, Lord Renwick of Clifton and Dr J M Schubert.
Role and focus
The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the
Board is comprised of individuals who are best able to
discharge the responsibilities of a Director, having regard 
to the highest standards of governance. It does so by
focusing on:
• reviewing the skills represented on the Board and
identifying skills that might be required
• retaining the services of independent search firms and
identifying suitable candidates for the Board (refer to
sections 4.2 and 5.3 of this Statement)
• overseeing the review of the assessment of the
performance of individual Directors and making
recommendations to the Board on the endorsement of
retiring Directors seeking re-election (refer to section 5 
of this Statement), and
• communication to shareholders on the work of the
Committee on behalf of the Board.
During the year the Committee recommended the appointment
and election of Carlos Cordeiro. Since the end of the year the
Committee recommended the appointment and election of the
Hon Gail de Planque. Details of the skills and experience 
Mr Cordeiro and Dr de Planque bring to the Board are set out on
page 32. The Committee retained the services of Messrs Heidrick
and Struggles and Egon Zehnder to identify candidates.
9. Conformance with corporate governance standards
BHP Billiton’s compliance with the governance standards in each
of the jurisdictions in which it operates is reported in this
Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, 
the Directors’ Report and the financial statements.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed
companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which
are contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code and explain the
reasons for any non-compliance.
The Listing Rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require
Australian-listed companies to report on the extent to which
they meet the Best Practice Recommendations published by the
Australian Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Council as part
of its Principles of Good Corporate Governance and explain the
reasons for any non-compliance.
Both the Combined Code (including the revised version) and the
Best Practice Recommendations require the Board to consider the
application of the relevant corporate governance principles, while
recognising that departures from those principles are appropriate
in some circumstances. BHP Billiton has complied with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that
evaluations of the performance of Board Committees, while
conducted, have not been conducted on an annual basis. All
Committees have been evaluated during the 2005 calendar year
and annual evaluations will be conducted going forward. Board
evaluations have been and will continue to be conducted annually .
BHP Billiton has complied with the Best Practice
Recommendations throughout the financial period and has
continued to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
In June 2004, the Australian Parliament enacted the Corporate
Law Economic Reform Program (Audit Reform and Corporate
Disclosure) Act 2004 (CLERP9) that applies for financial years
beginning on or after 1 July 2004. BHP Billiton complies with
those requirements.
A checklist summarising BHP Billiton’s compliance with the 
UK Combined Code, the Best Practice Recommendations
published by the ASX Corporate Governance Council, and the
CLERP9 requirements has been posted to the website at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants of the
Securities and Exchange Commission in the US. Both companies
are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American
Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE).
BHP Billiton has reviewed the governance requirements currently
applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act (US) including the rules promulgated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the rules of the NYSE and is satisfied
that it complies with those requirements.
Under the NYSE listing rules companies that have American
Depositary Receipts listed on the NYSE are required to disclose
any significant ways in which their corporate governance practices
differ from the NYSE corporate governance rules. We have
compared our corporate governance practices to the NYSE
corporate governance rules and note the following differences: 
• Our Nomination Committee’s Charter does not include the
purpose of developing and recommending to the Board 
a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the
corporation. At BHP Billiton we believe that this task is
integral to the governance of the Group and is therefore best
dealt with by the Board as a whole. 
• Rule 1 0A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1 934 requires
NYSE listed companies to ensure that their audit committees
are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation,
retention and oversight of the work of the external auditors
unless the company’s governing law or documents or other
home country legal requirements require or permit
shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While BHP Billiton’s Risk and Audit Committee (‘RAC’) is
directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of external
auditors, the ultimate responsibility for appointment and
retention of external auditors rests with the Company’s
shareholders, in accordance with Australian and United
Kingdom law and BHP Billiton’s constitutional documents. 
The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board
on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders. 
While the Board of BHP Billiton is satisfied with its level of
compliance with the governance requirements in Australia, the
UK and the US, it recognises that practices and procedures can
always be improved, and that there is merit in continuously
reviewing its own standards against those in a variety of
jurisdictions. The Board has operated under a programme of
review that will continue throughout the year ahead.  Remuneration Report at a Glance
page
1 Remuneration Committee
1 . 1 Role 45
1 .2 Membership and meetings 45
1 .3 Advisors 45
2 Remuneration Policy 45
3 Remuneration Structure 45
3. 1 Fixed remuneration 45
3.2 At risk remuneration 46
3.2. 1 Group Incentive Scheme and Long Term 
Incentive Plan 46
3.3 Performance of BHP Billiton 47
4 Executive Directors 48
4. 1 Mr Charles Goodyear 48
4. 1 . 1 Summary of remuneration arrangements 48
4. 1 .2 Service contract 48
4. 1 .3 Remuneration 49
4. 1 .4 Share and Option plans 49
4. 1 .5 Retirement benefits 50
4.2 Mr Miklos (Mike) Salamon 50
4.2. 1 Summary of remuneration arrangements 50
4.2.2 Service contract 50
4.2.3 Remuneration 51
4.2.4 Share and Option plans 51
4.2.5 Retirement benefits 52
5 Specified Executives and Highest Paid Officers 
(other than Directors) 52
5. 1 Service contracts 52
5.2 Remuneration 53
5.3 Group Incentive Scheme 53
5.4 Share and Option plans 54
5.5 Retirement benefits 54
6 Non-executive Directors 55
6. 1 Remuneration policy 55
6.2 Remuneration paid 55
6.3 Retirement benefits 56
7 Aggregate Directors’ Remuneration 56
8 Appendices 56
8. 1 Summary of long-term incentive plans 57
8.2 Notes to the remuneration tables for the 
executive Directors and Specified Executives 58
Only the information contained in sections 2 to 8 of this
Report (other than section 3.3) has been subject to audit.
Glossary of Terms
Key abbreviations used throughout this Report are set out below.
Board The Boards of Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and
BHP Billiton Plc
CIP 2001 Co-Investment Plan 2001
Committee The Remuneration Committee of BHP Billiton
Limited and BHP Billiton Plc
Deferred A nil-priced option or a conditional right to 
Share acquire a Share issued under the rules of the GIS 
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and T ax
EPS Earnings Per Share – one of the Performance
Hurdles for long-term incentives
ESP 1999 Employee Share Plan 1 999 and 2000
and 2000
Group BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their
subsidiaries
GIS Group Incentive Scheme
KPI Key performance indicator used to measure the
performance of the Group, individual businesses
and executives in any one year
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
MTI 2001 Medium Term Incentive Plan 2001
Option A right to acquire a Share on payment of an
exercise price issued under the rules of the GIS 
Performance A specified target against which the Group’s 
Hurdle performance is measured to determine the extent
to which long-term incentives might vest
Performance A nil-priced option or a conditional right to 
Share acquire a Share, subject to Performance Hurdles
issued under the rules of the GIS or the LTIP 
PSP 2000 Performance Share Plan 2000 and 2001
and 2001
RSS 2001 Restricted Share Scheme 2001
Share Fully paid Ordinary Share in the capital of 
BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc 
Specified Those executives (other than executive Directors 
Executives and numbering at least five) who have the
greatest authority for managing the BHP Billiton
Group. The Specified Executives of the Group are:
Philip Aiken, Group President Energy; John Fast,
Chief Legal Counsel; Robert Kirkby, President
Carbon Steel Materials; Marius Kloppers, 
Chief Commercial Officer; and Christopher Lynch,
Chief Financial Officer
TSR T otal Shareholder Return – one of the Performance
Hurdles for long-term incentives. It is the change
in share price plus dividends reinvested
Remuneration Report
44 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 1. Remuneration Committee
1. 1 Role
The Remuneration Committee, operating under delegated
authority from the Board, focuses on:
• remuneration policy
• adoption of incentive plans
• determination of levels of reward to the CEO and approval 
of rewards to those reporting to the CEO
• guidance on evaluating the performance of the CEO, and
• communication to shareholders on the Committee’s work 
on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is committed to the principles of accountability,
transparency and to ensuring that remuneration arrangements
demonstrate a clear link between reward and performance. 
Its activities are governed by terms of reference, available 
on the BHP Billiton website at www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/
governance.
An independent assessment of the effectiveness of the
Committee has commenced and is due to be completed 
in the 2005 calendar year . The objectives of the review 
are to investigate and assess whether the Committee is:
• appropriately constituted and supported
• performing optimally
• operating as an integral contributor to the overall
performance of the Board
• capable of dealing with the complex issues surrounding
remuneration, and
• able to handle the level of complexity involved in setting
remuneration policy in a global environment.
A review of the Committee’s terms of reference will also take
place as part of this process.
1.2 Membership and meetings
Independent non-executive Directors Dr John Buchanan
(Chairman), Dr David Jenkins, Lord Renwick of Clifton and 
Dr John Schubert were members of the Committee throughout
the year .
The Committee met seven times during the year and attendance
at those meetings is set out in the Corporate Governance
Statement on page 36.
The Group Chairman, the CEO and the Group Vice President
Human Resources attended Committee meetings by invitation
and assisted the Committee in its deliberations during the year,
except where matters associated with their own remuneration
were considered.
1.3 Advisors
The Committee appointed Kepler Associates, an independent
consultant, to advise on executive remuneration matters during
the year. The Board appointed Oppeus Pty Limited to conduct 
an independent review of all Committees, including the
Remuneration Committee. The Committee draws on data from a
range of external sources including publications by remuneration
consultants such as Hay Group, T owers Perrin and Hewitt Bacon
& Woodrow. A full list of these consultants, the type of data
sourced from them and whether they provide services elsewhere
in the Group is available on the BHP Billiton website at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance. 
2. Remuneration Policy
The Committee recognises that the Group operates in a global
environment and that its performance depends on the quality of
its people.
The key principles of the Group’s remuneration policy are to:
• provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain
highly skilled executives willing to work around the world
• apply demanding key performance indicators (KPIs) including
financial and non-financial measures of performance
• link rewards to the creation of value to shareholders
• ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate
the deployment of human resources around the Group, and
• limit severance payments on termination to pre-established
contractual arrangements that do not commit the Group to
making unjustified payments in the event of non-performance.
3. Remuneration Structure
It is the Group’s policy that service contracts for senior
management, including the CEO, have no fixed term but be
capable of termination on a maximum of 12 months’ notice, 
and that the Group retains the right to terminate the contract
immediately, by making a payment equal to no more than 
12 months’ pay in lieu of notice.
Some executives (but not the CEO) have pre-existing service
contracts that contain notice periods that exceed 12 months. 
The Committee has determined that it will limit notice periods 
to 12 months in all future contracts for executives.
Remuneration is divided into two components: fixed and at risk.
BHP Billiton’s remuneration policy is to pay at the median level 
of remuneration for target performance and to provide the
opportunity for upper decile rewards for distinctive (upper
decile) performance. Remuneration levels are reviewed each year
to take account of cost of living changes, any change in the
scope of the role performed by the executive and any changes
required to meet the principles of the remuneration policy.
Details of the remuneration received by the executives for 
whom remuneration is reported are set out in sections 4 and 5 
of this Report.
3. 1 Fixed remuneration
Fixed remuneration is generally made up of base salary and
benefits. Base salaries are set by reference to the scope and
nature of the individual’s role, and their performance and
experience. Market data is used to benchmark salary levels 
on a global scale, adjusted for local conditions. Consideration 
is given to competitive global remuneration levels. In addition,
some executives receive benefits that might include retirement
benefits, health insurance, relocation costs, life assurance, car
allowances and tax advisory services.
Some retirement benefits are delivered under defined benefit
plans. The Committee considers that these types of plans can
place an unreasonable financial burden on the Group and has
therefore resolved that no new members will be admitted to the
remaining defined benefit plans.
45
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 3.2 At risk remuneration
At risk remuneration is delivered as short and long-term
incentives under the Group Incentive Scheme (GIS) and Long
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) to senior executives. The amount of 
at risk remuneration, if any, that is earned by an executive is
wholly dependent on that executive’ s and the Group’ s performance
against pre-determined KPIs and Performance Hurdles.
The GIS rewards executives for meeting or exceeding KPIs 
that are set each year and aligned to BHP Billiton’s strategic
framework. The LTIP is designed to drive sustainable
performance in the longer term. Both schemes reflect the
Group’s commitment to meeting pre-determined targets and to
align incentives to shareholder value creation. Participation in
the GIS and LTIP is approved by the Committee. Executives are
required to hold a minimum number of BHP Billiton Shares
throughout the period of their participation in the plans.
A summary of all incentive plans under which awards to
executive Directors are still to vest or be exercised appears in
section 8. 1 below. Entitlements held by Specified Executives
under incentive plans are summarised in section 5.4 below 
and detailed in note 31 to the financial statements.
3.2. 1 Group Incentive Scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan
The rules of the GIS and LTIP are available on the BHP Billiton
website at www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/annualreports/
plc/downloads/GISrules.pdf, www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/
annualreports/plc/downloads/LTIPrules.pdf, www.bhpbilliton.com/
aboutus/annualreports/ltd/downloads/GISrules.pdf and
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/annualreports/ltd/downloads/
LTIPrules.pdf.
At the beginning of the year, Performance Shares were granted
to participants under the LTIP . The Committee determines the
number of Shares granted to each participant but, in any 
one financial year, a participant cannot be granted Performance
Shares having an expected value that exceeds two times their
annual base salary. The value is determined using a Monte Carlo
or similar valuation model. The Performance Shares are subject
to a Performance Hurdle, based on T otal Shareholder Return
(TSR) during the performance period (1 July 2004 to 
30 June 2009), to be measured as at 30 June 2009.
The Performance Hurdle requires the Group’s TSR to exceed a
median TSR benchmark over the performance period which will
be the weighted average TSR of a group of peer companies
(shown below), weighted 75 per cent to mining companies and
25 per cent to oil and gas companies.
The amount by which the Group’s TSR exceeds the median 
will determine the number of Performance Shares that will 
vest. If the Group’s TSR exceeds the median by a specified
percentage then 1 00 per cent of Performance Shares will vest.
The Committee will decide each year what that percentage 
will be for the year . For the 2005 financial year that percentage
was 5.5 per cent per annum. This is a cumulative amount and
equates to exceeding the median over the five-year performance
period by 30 per cent. This would be regarded by the Committee,
and the Board, as outperformance. 
The Performance Shares will be treated as though they would
have earned dividends from the date they were granted. Once the
underlying shares are issued or transferred to a participant, the
participant will receive a payment in lieu of those dividends. 
The entitlement of participants to Performance Shares is
summarised below:
Remuneration Report continued
46 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Summary of the operation of the Group Incentive Scheme (GIS) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
STEP
1
KPIs are set for
each Executive
STEP
2
Performance
assessed 
against KPIs 
and bonus 
amount 
calculated
STEP
3
Half of bonus
paid in cash
STEP
4
Half of bonus
converted to
Deferred Shares 
or Options 
STEP
1
Grant of
Performance
Shares which 
are subject to
performance
hurdles
STEP
5
Deferred Shares
and Options 
must be held 
for 2 years 
before release
STEP
2
TSR performance 
is assessed 5 
years from grant 
and Performance
Shares vest 
according to level 
of performance
>
>
>>
>
FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY1 1
Group Incentive Scheme Long Term Incentive Plan
TSR of the Group
Percentage of Performance
Shares that will vest
Below or equal to the weighted
average TSR (median)
0
Exceeds median TSR by a
specified percentage per annum
on a cumulative basis
(outperformance)
100
Between median TSR
performance and
outperformance
Pro-rata between 0 and 100
depending on position of
performance between median
TSR performance and
outperformance The Committee retains the overall discretion to decide that the
Performance Shares should lapse, although it is intended that it
will only exercise this discretion where it forms the view that the
Group TSR does not properly reflect the financial performance of
the Group over the Performance Period.
The peer group of companies against which the Group’s TSR
performance is measured comprises:
• Alcan • Marathon Oil Company
• Alcoa • Newmont Mining
• Alumina • Noranda
• Anglo American • Norilsk
• BG Group • Phelps Dodge
• BP • Rio Tinto
• Companhia Vale do Rio Doce • Shell
• Conoco Phillips • T otal
• Exxon Mobil • Unocal
• Freeport-McMoRan • Woodside Petroleum
• Impala • Xstrata
• Inco
These Performance Hurdles were chosen to encourage
participants to focus on the long-term performance of the Group.
3.3 Performance of BHP Billiton
The KPIs for the year 1 July 2004 to 30 June 2005 were based 
on Group, individual business and personal measures. There 
are three levels of performance against each of the KPIs:
threshold (the minimum necessary to qualify for any reward);
target (where the performance requirements have been met);
and stretch (where performance is exceeded).
The Group KPIs measure performance in delivering against
specific health, safety and environment targets and achieving
specified levels of performance against financial targets.
The levels of performance achieved in relation to each of the
primary group measures were as follows:
The TSR performance of the Group relative to the markets in
which it operates, over the past five years, is illustrated by the
two graphs below. The first compares BHP Billiton’s TSR
performance to the ASX 1 00 and the FTSE 1 00. The second
illustrates performance against the LTIP comparator group, set
out above. The earnings performance of the Group over the last
five years is illustrated by the graph of attributable profit on
page 1 of this Annual Report.
47
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Group KPIs
Level of performance achieved 
as determined by the Committee
Health, safety and environment
(includes the measures CIFR,
HSEC standards, company 
HSEC targets and behavioural-
based systems)
Between threshold and target
(based on the average of the 
four measures)
Shareholder Value Added Stretch
Net Present Value Added Between threshold and target
June 00 June 01 June 02
Financial year end
TSR rebased to 01/07/2000
June 03 June 04 June 05
50
150
250
350
450
June 00 June 01 June 02
Financial year end
TSR rebased to 01/07/2000
June 03 June 04 June 05
50
150
250
350
450
Five-year TSR performance of 
BHP Billiton measured against the 
ASX 100 and FTSE 100 – rebased in US$
BHP Billiton Plc
BHP Billiton Limited
ASX 100
FTSE 100
Five-year TSR performance of 
BHP Billiton measured against the LTIP
comparator group – rebased in US$
BHP Billiton Plc
BHP Billiton Limited
Median of the comparator group For the period 1 July 2004 to 30 June 2005, the total return to
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders (as measured by the change 
in share price plus dividends paid) was 55 per cent. Over the
same period the return to BHP Billiton Plc shareholders was 
51 per cent.
The TSR performance for BHP Billiton Limited is inclusive of 
the Bonus Share awards and is adjusted for the demerger of
OneSteel Limited, and for both BHP Billiton Limited and 
BHP Billiton Plc is adjusted for the demerger of BHP Steel 
Limited (now known as BlueScope Steel Limited).
Market price of Shares
4. Executive Directors
During the year and at the date of this Report there were two
executive Directors in office, Mr Charles Goodyear and Mr Miklos
(Mike) Salamon. The following sections detail their remuneration
arrangements.
The tables that appear in sections 4. 1 .3, 4. 1 .4, 4.2.3 and 4.2.4
have been prepared in accordance with the law and Accounting
Standards in Australia and the UK. The tables contain the
amounts paid to the executive Directors during the year and a
value of the at risk component of their remuneration. The at risk
component is made up of Performance Shares, Deferred Shares
and/or Options and is an estimate only because the amount
cannot be finally determined until (i) shareholders have
approved the issue of the Shares or Options, and (ii) the
performance period has expired and the performance has been
assessed against the Performance Hurdles. Summaries of
remuneration for Messrs Goodyear and Salamon for the year
appear in sections 4. 1 . 1 and 4.2. 1 respectively.
4. 1 Mr Charles Goodyear
4. 1. 1 Summary of remuneration arrangements
Mr Goodyear’s fixed remuneration is made up of base salary,
retirement benefits and other benefits, and equals 45 per cent 
of total remuneration when calculated at the target level of
performance. The at risk remuneration, made up of short and 
long-term incentives, equals 55 per cent of total remuneration
when calculated at the target level of performance.
The Committee has assessed Mr Goodyear’s performance for 
the year and has concluded that it was above target (see section
3.3 of this Report for the assessment in relation to Group KPIs).
Accordingly, the value of at risk remuneration, and therefore 
the percentage of the total that is attributable to at risk
remuneration, will be greater than the target percentage.
Summary of fixed and at risk remuneration 
for the year ended 30 June 2005
4. 1.2 Service contract
Mr Goodyear has a single service contract with BHP Billiton
Limited and BHP Billiton Plc dated 21 August 2003. It does not
contain a fixed term and can be terminated by the Group on 
12 months’ notice or by Mr Goodyear on three months’ notice.
The Group has the right to immediately terminate the contract
by paying Mr Goodyear 12 months’ base salary and the
superannuation (or pension) contribution, in lieu of notice.
The rules of the GIS and LTIP cover any entitlements 
Mr Goodyear might have in relation to short and long-term
incentives, including entitlements that have not vested at the
date of termination. The rules of those schemes outline the
circumstances in which Mr Goodyear (and any other participant)
would be entitled to receive any Deferred Shares, Options or
Performance Shares that had been granted but which had not
vested at the date of termination. The rules of the GIS also
outline the circumstances in which Mr Goodyear would be
entitled to a cash bonus payment for the performance year in
which he leaves the Group. Those circumstances depend on the
reason for his departure.
The Committee has discretion in relation to the entitlements of
an employee on termination in some circumstances. This will
include situations where the employee and the Group reach a
mutual decision to part. T o provide the Group, its shareholders
and Mr Goodyear with as much certainty as possible in relation
to the exercise of that discretion, the Committee has determined
what Mr Goodyear’s entitlements might be if a mutual decision
to part was reached. The Committee has resolved that, providing
Mr Goodyear has served as CEO for a minimum of three years,
he would be entitled to:
• any Deferred Shares or Options that had been granted but
were not exercisable at the date of departure. The Committee
believes that as the performance measures for the grant of
these Deferred Shares or Options have already been met, save
for the requirement that they be held for two years from the
date of grant it is appropriate that they be awarded
Remuneration Report continued
48 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Limited
At 30 June 2005 £7.12 A$18.15
Highest price in 
the year ended 
30 June 2005
£7.77 
(28 February 2005)
A$19.29 
(7 March 2005)
Lowest price in 
the year ended 
30 June 2005
£4.75 
(23 July 2004)
A$12.48 
(5 July 2004)
Component
Amount 
(US$)
Further
information
Fixed remuneration
(Comprising base salary and
benefits (including retirement
benefits))
2 003 301 see section 4.1.3
At risk remuneration
Cash bonus 1240313 see section 4.1.3
Dividend Equivalent Payment
value
291 201 see section 4.1.3
Estimated fair value of the
Deferred Shares
1 060 302 see section 4.1.3
Notional value of the
Performance Shares
558 141 see section 4.1.4
Estimated total remuneration 
for financial year 2005
5 153 258 • a cash bonus for the year in which the parting takes place,
calculated according to Mr Goodyear’s performance measured
against his KPIs and pro-rated to reflect the actual period of
service, and
• a right to retain entitlements to Performance Shares that have
been granted but that are not yet exercisable, pending
satisfaction of Performance Hurdles. The number of
entitlements will be pro-rated to reflect Mr Goodyear’s period
of service from the date the awards were granted and will
only become exercisable if and when the Performance Hurdles
are met.
These entitlements would not arise if Mr Goodyear’s contract
was terminated for cause or if he resigned. Details of how the
GIS and LTIP would operate in those circumstances are set out 
in the rules, available on the website at www.bhpbilliton.com/
aboutus/annualreports/plc/downloads/GISrules.pdf,
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/annualreports/plc/downloads/
LTIPrules.pdf, www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/annualreports/
ltd/downloads/GISrules.pdf and www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/
annualreports/ltd/downloads/LTIPrules.pdf.
Where the Committee retains discretion in relation to the award
of any long or short-term incentives, the rules of the GIS require
the Committee to exercise that discretion in good faith and
acting reasonably.
Mr Goodyear would be entitled to any accrued entitlement that
he may have under the rules of the Retirement Savings Plan at
the date of termination as set out in section 4. 1 .5 below.
4. 1.3 Remuneration
Mr Goodyear’s target cash bonus amount, set by the Committee
at the beginning of the year, was 70 per cent of adjusted salary.
Group KPIs represented an 80 per cent weighting and personal
KPIs 20 per cent. The Committee has assessed the Group’s 
and Mr Goodyear’s performance for the year and awarded 
94.5 per cent of salary as a cash bonus. The Committee has set 
Mr Goodyear’s KPIs for the year ended 30 June 2006 and has
again set a target cash bonus amount of 70 per cent of salary.
Group KPIs for the year will represent a 70 per cent weighting.
Personal KPIs include business growth, project performance,
business excellence, corporate strategic issues and senior
executive succession planning.
49
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2005
4. 1.4 Share and Option plans
All Shares under award and Options issued form part of Mr Goodyear’s at risk remuneration. The extent to which Shares (save for
Deferred Shares and Options) will vest is wholly dependent on the extent to which the Performance Hurdles are met. No Options held
are vested but not exercisable, except where stated.
Summary of interests in incentive plans including the number of Shares and Options awarded in the financial year 
ended 30 June 2005
US dollars
Base salary
Other benefits
Retirement
benefits
Annual cash
bonus
Dividend
equivalent
payment value
Value of
Deferred Shares
Subtotal 
UK GAAP
Share-based
compensation
long-term
Adjustment for
Australian GAAP 
Total
Australian GAAP
FIXED FIXED FIXED AT RISK AT RISK AT RISK AT RISK AT RISK
2005 1 312 500 60 801 630 000 1240313 291 201 1 060 302 4 595 1 17 552 71 1 (212 304) 4 935 524
2004 1 250 000 321 071 600 000 1 070 125 – 934 444 4 175 640 332 087 (370 329) 4 137 398
The notes to this table appear in section 8.2 below.
Scheme
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under option
Exercise
price
(4)
(A$)
First exercise
date Expiry date At 1 July 2004 Granted
(3)
Exercised Lapsed At 30 June 2005
GIS 2004 Options – 180 613 – – 180 613 15.39 August 2006 August 2009
GIS 2003 Options 320 725 – – – 320 725 11 . 1 1 August 2005 August 2008
ESP 2000
(1)
722 785 – – – 722 785 7.60 3 April 2003 2 April 2010
ESP 1999
(1)
351 065 – – – 351 065 6.92 23 April 2002 22 April 2009 Summary of interests in incentive plans including the number of Shares and Options awarded in the financial year 
ended 30 June 2005 continued
Remuneration Report continued
50 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Scheme
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under award
Vesting date At 1 July 2004 Granted
(3)
Vested Lapsed At 30 June 2005
LTIP 2004 Performance – 500 000 – – 500 000 August 2009
GIS 2004 Deferred – 44 601 – – 44 601 August 2006
GIS 2003 Deferred 28 093 – – – 28 093 August 2005
GIS 2003 Performance 112 375 – – – 112 375 August 2006
GIS 2002 Performance 180 154 – – – 180 154 August 2005
PSP 2001
(2)
136 573 – 122 916 13 657 – 1 October 2004
Total 457 195 544 601 122 916 13 657 865 223
Notes:
(1)
All of the award is exercisable.
(2)
90 per cent of the Shares vested in October 2004, following the end of the performance period, and the BHP Billiton Limited market price was A$14.82. 
The remaining 1 0 per cent lapsed. Mr Goodyear exercised 53 600 of the vested Shares on 5 May 2005 when the market price was A$16.50 and 53 600 on 
6 May 2005 when the market price was A$16.52. The aggregate gain was A$884 400 and A$885 472 respectively. As at 30 June 2005, Mr Goodyear had 
not yet exercised the remaining 15 716 vested shares.
(3)
The market price of BHP Billiton Limited Shares on date of grant (3 December 2004) was A$15.28. The fair value per Option, Performance Share and Deferred
Share was A$3.80, A$6.85 and A$1 3.34 respectively. Fair value per Option, Performance Share and Deferred Share was estimated using a Black-Scholes model,
a Monte Carlo model and a Net Present Value model respectively. The fair value of Options granted was A$686 329.
(4)
Represents the exercise price payable on Options.
4. 1.5 Retirement benefits
Mr Goodyear’s remuneration includes a payment in lieu of a
contribution by the Group to a superannuation or pension 
fund fixed at an annual rate of 48 per cent of base salary. 
Mr Goodyear may elect to have this paid into a superannuation
or pension fund or instead, to defer receipt, subject to the rules
of a Retirement Savings Plan established for this purpose. For
the year ending 30 June 2005, Mr Goodyear elected to defer
receipt into a Retirement Savings Plan which is an unfunded
defined contribution plan. The Plan allows him to accumulate
these annual payments and to defer receipt until after he retires
from the Group. The Plan allows Mr Goodyear to establish
retirement savings arrangements that best meet his needs.
If Mr Goodyear dies while still employed, a benefit of four times
base salary will be payable to his estate. A spouse’s pension
equal to two-thirds of one-thirtieth of Mr Goodyear’s
pensionable salary at date of death, for each year of service
from 1 January 2003 to his normal retirement date (age 60), will
be payable for the duration of his spouse’s lifetime. Periods of
service where Mr Goodyear received his retirement benefit in 
the form of the cash gratuity will be disregarded for the purpose
of calculating any pension amount.
If Mr Goodyear leaves due to incapacity, the pension
arrangements are the same as for the Specified Executives 
(see section 5.5 below) save that his ill-health pension will be
one-thirtieth for each year of service from 1 January 2003 to 
his normal retirement date.
4.2 Mr Miklos (Mike) Salamon
4.2. 1 Summary of remuneration arrangements
Mr Salamon’s fixed remuneration is made up of base salary,
retirement benefits and other benefits and equals 50 per cent 
of total remuneration when calculated at the target level of
performance. The at risk remuneration, made up of short and
long-term incentives, equals 50 per cent of total remuneration
when calculated at the target level of performance.
The Committee has assessed Mr Salamon’s performance for the
year and has concluded that it was above target (see section 3.3
of this Report for the assessment in relation to the Group KPIs).
Accordingly, the value of at risk remuneration, and therefore 
the percentage of the total that is attributable to at risk
remuneration, will be greater than the target percentage.
Summary of fixed and at risk remuneration 
for the year ended 30 June 2005
4.2.2 Service contract
Mr Salamon has contracts of employment with BHP Billiton Plc
and BHP Billiton Services Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of BHP Billiton Plc, both dated 1 September 2003.
Mr Salamon’s employment agreements automatically terminate
on his 60th birthday. At any time prior to his 60th birthday each
service contract can be terminated by either the Group or Mr
Salamon providing 12 months’ notice. The Company may make a
Component
Amount 
(US$)
Further
information
Fixed remuneration
(Comprising base salary and
benefits (including retirement
benefits)) 2 178 992 see section 4.2.3
At risk remuneration
Cash bonus
Dividend Equivalent Payment
value
Estimated fair value of the
Deferred Shares
Notional value of the
Performance Shares
1207 599
150 956
1 044 71 1
543 419
see section 4.2.3
see section 4.2.3
see section 4.2.3
see section 4.2.4
Estimated total remuneration 
for financial year 2005 5 125 677 payment in lieu of notice of 12 months, equal to 150 per cent of
base salary. This payment reflects the market practice at the time
the terms were agreed.
The Committee has not considered the circumstances in which it
would exercise its discretion to allow Mr Salamon to maintain
any ongoing participation in relation to the long-term incentive
schemes in which he participates in the event of his departure.
Those entitlements, if any, will be governed by the rules of the
schemes at the date of departure.
4.2.3 Remuneration
Mr Salamon’s target cash bonus amount, set by the Committee
at the beginning of the year, was 70 per cent of adjusted salary.
Group KPIs represented 30 per cent of the total performance
measures. Forty per cent of the weighting applied to KPIs in
relation to the operating business and the remaining 30 per cent
was attributable to personal KPIs. The Committee has assessed
the Group’s and Mr Salamon’s performance for the year and
awarded 90.8 per cent of salary as a cash bonus. The Committee
has set Mr Salamon’s KPIs for the year ended 30 June 2006 and
has again set a target cash bonus amount of 70 per cent of
salary. Group KPIs for the year will represent 35 per cent of the
total performance measures. Thirty-five per cent of the
weighting will apply to KPIs in relation to the operating business.
The remaining 30 per cent is attributable to personal KPIs that
include successful integration of WMC Resources Ltd, NPV added
value, alignment of business planning with business excellence
principles, operating committee performance, operating
discipline, performance of key projects and alignment of
operating businesses’ strategy to corporate strategy.
51
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2005
4.2.4 Share and Option plans
All Shares under award form part of Mr Salamon’s at risk remuneration. The extent to which Shares (save for Deferred Shares) will vest
is wholly dependent on the extent to which the Performance Hurdles are met.
Summary of interests in incentive plans including the number of Shares awarded in the financial year ended 30 June 2005
US dollars
Base salary
Other benefits 
Annual cash
bonus
Dividend
equivalent
payment value
Value of
Deferred Shares 
Subtotal
UK GAAP
Retirement
benefits 
Share-based
compensation
long-term 
Adjustment for
Australian GAAP
Total 
Australian GAAP
FIXED FIXED AT RISK AT RISK AT RISK FIXED AT RISK AT RISK
2005 1 329 998 148 751 1 207 599 150 956 1 044 71 1 3 882 015 700 243 439 554 (282 732) 4 739 080
2004 1 197 666 42 581 852 089 – 765 602 2 857 938 655 123 398 360 (317 672) 3 593 749
The notes to this table appear in section 8.2 below.
Scheme
BHP Billiton Plc Ordinary Shares under award
Vesting date At 1 July 2004 Granted 
(3)
Vested Lapsed At 30 June 2005
LTIP 2004 Performance – 300 000 – – 300 000 August 2009
GIS 2004 Deferred – 80 151 – – 80 151 August 2006
GIS 2003 Deferred 89 056 – – – 89 056 August 2005
GIS 2003 Performance 89 056 – – – 89 056 August 2006
GIS 2002 Performance 193 706 – – – 193 706 August 2005
CIP 2001 95 295
(2)
– – – 95 295 1 October 2005
RSS 2001
(1)
198 163 – 178 347 19 816 – 8 October 2004
Total 665 276 380 151 178 347 19 816 847 264
Notes:
(1)
90 per cent of the Shares vested in October 2004, following the end of the performance period, and the BHP Billiton Plc market price was £6.21 . The remaining
1 0 per cent lapsed. The Shares were transferred to Mr Salamon on vesting. The aggregate gain was £1 1 07 535.
(2)
Includes 26 471 Committed Shares invested by Mr Salamon.
(3)
The market price of BHP Billiton Plc Shares on date of grant (3 December 2004) was £5.91 . The fair value per Performance Share and Deferred Share was 
£2.63 and £5.31 respectively. Fair value per Performance Share and Deferred Share was estimated using a Monte Carlo model and a Net Present Value model
respectively. 4.2.5 Retirement benefits
Defined Benefit Pension (US dollars)
Remuneration Report continued
52 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Amount by which the annual
pension entitlement has
increased during the year 
ended 30 June 2005
(1)
Total annual pension
entitlement as at 
30 June 2005 
Estimated capital value
(transfer value) of the
increase in annual
pension entitlement
(1)
Estimated capital value (transfer value) 
of total accrued pension
at 30 June 2005 at 30 June 2004
66 072 886 665 987 915 9392 019 7 870 626
Notes:
(1)
The increase in accrued pension is the difference between the accrued pension at the end of the previous year and the accrued pension at the end of the year
without any allowance for inflation. The increase in transfer value of total accrued pension is the difference between the transfer value at the end of the year
and the transfer value at the beginning of the year less the contributions made to the scheme by the Director also without any allowance for inflation.
The increase in accrued pension after making an allowance for inflation of 2.9 per cent (2004: 3 per cent) was US$42 275 (2004: US$58 026) and the transfer
value of that increase less the contributions made to the scheme by the Director was US$447 798 (2004: US$594 275).
Mr Salamon completed 20 years of service with the Group (and
its predecessor companies) on 1 April 2005 and consequently 
no further pension benefits will accrue other than to reflect
changes in his pensionable salary. He will be entitled to a
pension at normal retirement date (age 60), equal to two-thirds
of pensionable salary under non-contributory defined benefit
pension arrangements set up by BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton
Services Jersey Limited. Only base salary is pensionable. At the
date of this Report Mr Salamon was 50 years of age.
For service after 1 July 1 997 and until 1 April 2005, Mr Salamon
has had the right to determine whether his pension provision for
that year’s salary under each service contract with BHP Billiton
Plc and BHP Billiton Services Jersey Limited is made under a
defined benefit or defined contribution arrangement. He has
always chosen to take his benefits under a defined benefit
arrangement.
If Mr Salamon retires before age 60, his accrued defined benefit
pension entitlement will normally be reduced for early payment
at the rate of 4 per cent per annum. In terms of the rules of the
scheme all pensions in payment will be indexed in line with the
retail price index.
If Mr Salamon dies while he is still employed, a lump sum benefit
of four times base salary and a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of
the prospective pension will be payable to his estate.
In the event of death while in retirement, a surviving spouse’s
pension of two-thirds of the pension in payment, before the
effect of commutation, will be payable.
If Mr Salamon leaves due to incapacity, an ill-health pension of
two-thirds base salary will be payable. In the event of his death
during ill-health retirement, a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of
the ill-health pension will be payable for the duration of his
spouse’s lifetime.
5. Specified Executives and Highest Paid Officers 
(other than Directors)
The Specified Executives of the Group are those executives,
other than executive Directors and numbering at least five, who
have the greatest authority for managing the Group. They are
also the five highest paid executives in the Group. This section
contains information relating to the Group’s Specified Executives
whose full names and titles appear in the Glossary of Terms at
the beginning of this Report.
5. 1 Service contracts
As outlined in section 3, it is the Group’s policy that service
contracts for senior executives have no fixed term but be
capable of termination on 12 months’ notice and that the Group
retains the right to terminate the contract immediately, by
making a payment equal to no more than 12 months’ pay in lieu
of notice. Where contracts contain notice periods in excess of 
12 months, those contracts reflect market practice at the time
the terms were agreed. The service contracts typically outline the
components of remuneration paid to the executive but do not
prescribe how remuneration levels are to be modified from year
to year .
Summary of termination provisions in the service contracts with the Specified Executives
Name 
Employing 
company
Notice period 
– company
Notice period 
– employee Termination provisions
(1)
P Aiken
R Kirkby
M Kloppers
C Lynch
BHP Billiton Limited 
BHP Billiton Limited
BHP Billiton Plc
BHP Billiton Limited
12 months
12 months
12 months
12 months
6 months
6 months
6 months
6 months
On termination the Company may make a payment in lieu 
of notice equal to 12 months’ base salary plus the
superannuation and retirement benefit contributions for 
that period
J Fast BHP Billiton Limited 3 months 3 months On termination the Company may make a payment in lieu 
of notice equal to 3 months’ base salary plus a termination
payment of 21 months’ base salary
Notes
(1)
The Committee has not considered the circumstances in which it would exercise its discretion to allow the executives to maintain any ongoing participation in
relation to the long-term incentive schemes in which they participate in the event of their departures. Those entitlements, if any, will be governed by the rules
of the schemes at the date of departure. 5.2 Remuneration
As noted in section 3 above, senior executives’ total remuneration is divided into two components – fixed and at risk. The at risk
component is derived only in circumstances where the individual has met challenging KPIs and Performance Hurdles which contribute to
the Group’s overall profitability and performance.
Remuneration of the Specified Executives for the year ended 30 June 2005
5.3 Group Incentive Scheme
All Specified Executives exceeded their specified target bonus. 
Details of the level of participation by the Specified Executives in the GIS in the 2005 financial year are set out on page 54.
53
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
US dollars
Base salary
Other benefits
Annual cash
bonus
Dividend
equivalent
payment value
Value of
Deferred Shares
Subtotal
UK GAAP
Retirement
benefits 
Share-based
compensation –
long-term 
Adjustment for
Australian GAAP
Total 
Australian
GAAP
FIXED FIXED AT RISK AT RISK AT RISK FIXED AT RISK AT RISK
P Aiken
• 2005 1 012 656 920 606 731 330 110 279 625 190 3 400 061 365 569 328 088 (96 682) 3 997 036
• 2004 882 427 519 032 642 716 – 561 226 2 605 401 318 556 291 887 (217 196) 2 998 648
J Fast
• 2005 707 053 – 651 832 101 530 557 230 2 017 645 253 832 259 287 (103 939) 2 426 825
• 2004 638 944 – 591 726 – 516 701 1 747 371 229 381 235 198 (221 309) 1 990 641
R Kirkby
• 2005 828 823 1 296 781 497 108 201 668 076 2 387 893 303 349 281 608 (154 121) 2 818 729
• 2004 696 801 1 272 630 430 – 550 498 1 879 001 255 029 201 030 (236 536) 2 098 524
M Kloppers
• 2005 864 532 157 585 815 409 114 036 705 422 2 656 984 357 244 294 075 (182 713) 3 125 590
• 2004 719 262 158 398 647 228 – 581 534 2 106 422 320 817 21 1 639 (267 845) 2 371 033
C Lynch
• 2005 792 855 24 268 719 278 105 297 614 887 2 256 585 275 121 291 075 (1 15 137) 2 707 644
• 2004 716 480 27 272 613 680 – 535 871 1 893 303 248 619 234 895 (220 089) 2 156 728
The notes to this table appear in section 8.2 below.
Year ended 30 June 2005 Year commencing 1 July 2006
Total remuneration at risk
at the target level of performance
Group measures (weighting of 
total performance measures)
Group measures (weighting of 
total performance measures)
P Aiken 42% 25% 35%
J Fast 57%  45% 45% 
R Kirkby 56% 30% 35% 
M Kloppers 52% 45% 45%
C Lynch 56% 45% 42% 5.4 Share and Option plans
All of the Shares under award form part of the executives’ at risk remuneration. There are no Specified Executives with Options. 
The extent to which Shares under award (save for Deferred Shares under award) vest will be wholly dependent on the extent to which
the Performance Hurdles are met.
Summary of the Specified Executives’ interests in incentive plans including the number of Shares awarded in the 
financial year ended 30 June 2005
(1)
Remuneration Report continued
54 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
At 1 July 2004 Granted Exercised Vested Lapsed At 30 June 2005
P Aiken
(2)
• Shares under award 507 008 283 553 – 196 074 13 186 581 301
J Fast
(2)
• Shares under award 368 733 228 908 – 96 384 10 709 490 548
R Kirkby
(2)
• Shares under award
• Partly Paid Shares
331 380
362 588
282 450 
–
–
182 054
74 097
–
8 233
–
531 500
180 534
M Kloppers
(3)
• Shares under award 409 718 285 548 – 75 764 8 418 61 1 084
C Lynch
(2)
• Shares under award 410 980 280 908 – 160 887 10 956 520 045
Notes:
(1)
Detailed information on the Specified Executives’ interests in incentive plans is set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
(2)
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under award.
(3)
BHP Billiton Plc Ordinary Shares under award.
5.5 Retirement benefits
For service following 1 January 2003, retirement, death and
disability benefits were aligned, where possible, for the 
Specified Executives as follows:
Retirement benefits: a defined contribution rate was calculated
to target a pension accrual of 2.2 per cent of base salary for
each year of service from 1 January 2003 to age 60. Allowance
for a two-thirds spouse’s pension in retirement plus inflation
indexation in payment was also incorporated into the
calculations. T o deliver the retirement promise, the executive 
is given a choice of funding vehicles including the executive’s
current retirement arrangement, an unfunded Retirement
Savings Plan, an International Retirement Plan or a cash gratuity
in lieu. The aggregate cost to the Group of exercising these
funding choices will not exceed the calculated contribution rate
for each executive.
Death-in-service and ill-health benefits: a lump sum of four
times base salary and a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of 
2.2 per cent of basic salary at death for each year of service 
from 1 January 2003 to age 60 will be payable. In addition,
dependants benefits are payable. If the executive leaves due to
incapacity, an ill-health pension of 2.2 per cent for each year of
service from 1 January 2003 to age 60 will be payable for the
duration of the executive’s life. In both cases, periods of service
where the executive elects a cash gratuity are excluded.
In the event of death during ill-health retirement, a spouse’s
pension of two-thirds of the ill-health pension will be payable 
for the duration of the spouse’s lifetime. Additionally, a children’s 
pension equal to 20 per cent of the ill-health pension will be
payable for the first child or 33 per cent if there are two or 
more children, with the resultant pension amounts to be shared
equally between the children, until the first child ceases being in 
full-time education or the age of 23, whichever occurs first.
Benefits accrued by the executive in retirement arrangements
before 1 January 2003 will be payable in addition to those
described above.
These arrangements apply to each of the Specified Executives
except for Marius Kloppers who retained his previous pension
promise of one-thirtieth of base salary for each year of service. 6. Non-executive Directors
6. 1 Remuneration policy
The whole of the Board assumes responsibility for establishing
the remuneration policy for non-executive Directors. The
Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration for the
Chairman. The shareholders fix the aggregate sum that can be
applied to non-executive Director remuneration including the
remuneration of the Chairman. The aggregate sum available to
remunerate non-executive Directors is currently A$3 million.
The remuneration rates reflect the size and complexity of the
Group, the multi-jurisdictional environment arising from the 
Dual Listed Companies structure, the multiple stock exchange
listings, the extent of the geographic regions in which the 
Group operates and the enhanced responsibilities associated
with membership of Board Committees. They also reflect the
considerable travel burden imposed on members of the Board.
The Board is conscious that just as the Group must set
remuneration levels to attract and retain talented executives, 
so it must also ensure that remuneration rates for non-executive
Directors are set at a level that will attract the calibre of Director
necessary to effectively contribute to a high-performing Board.
Fees are denominated in US dollars and are reviewed annually.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of
the Group’s incentive arrangements.
A standard letter of engagement has been developed for 
non-executive Directors and is available on the website at
www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance. Dates of appointment
appear on pages 31 to 33 of this Annual Report.
Each non-executive Director is appointed subject to periodic 
re-election by the shareholders (see page 36 of this Annual
Report for an explanation of the re-appointment process). 
There are no provisions in any of the non-executive Director’s
appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early
termination of their directorship.
Remuneration for non-executive Directors is reviewed on an
annual basis. Following the review of remuneration for 2005 
the elements of remuneration, effective 1 September 2005, 
are as follows:
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Chairman’s remuneration
55
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
US dollars
At 1 September
2005
At 1 July
2004
Base fee 100 000 85 000
Plus additional fees for:
Senior Independent 
Director of BHP Billiton Plc 20 000 20 000
Committee Chairmanship:
• Audit
• Sustainability and
Remuneration
• Nomination
40 000
25 000
No additional fees
40 000
25 000
No additional fees
Committee membership:
• Audit
• Sustainability and
Remuneration
• Nomination
20 000
15 000
No additional fees
20 000
15 000
No additional fees 
Travel allowance:
• Greater than three hours 
but less than 12
• Greater than 12 hours
3 000
7 500
2 000
5 000
US dollars 
At 1 September
2005
At 1 July
2004
Fees 700 000 450 000
Subtotal UK GAAP Total Australian GAAP
US dollars
Fees 
Committee
Chair fees
Committee
membership
fees 
Travel
allowances
Other
benefits
2005 
2004 
Retirement
benefits
(3)
2005 
2004
Don Argus 450 000 – – 15 000 1 847 466 847 244 500 23 388 490 235 257 160
David Brink 85 000 25 000 20 000 29 000 3 924 162 924 100 1 19 – 162 924 100 1 19
John Buchanan 105 000 25 000 – 22 000 4 547 156 547 108 500 – 156 547 108 500
Michael Chaney 
(1)
85 000 – – 18 000 87 103 087 80 826 4 421 107 508 83 991
Carlos Cordeiro 
(2)
14 369 – – 7 000 – 21 369 – – 21 369 –
David Crawford 85 000 40 000 – 15 000 3 769 143 769 101 000 6 497 150 266 104 561
David Jenkins 85 000 – 35 000 22 000 – 142 000 1 10 000 – 142 000 1 10 000
Lord Renwick 85 000 – 15 000 7 000 – 107 000 73 000 – 107 000 73 000
John Schubert 85 000 – 15 000 15 000 1 651 116 651 80 500 5 199 121 850 83 665
Notes:
(1)
Fees payable to Michael Chaney were paid to his employer Wesfarmers Limited until 12 July 2005, when he retired from that company.
(2)
Appointed 3 February 2005. Mr Cordeiro vacated his office on 3 April and was re-appointed by the Board on 26 August. This unusual situation arose because 
Mr Cordeiro was not able to satisfy the minimum shareholding requirement of Directors as provided for in the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc and 
the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited because, like all other Directors and senior executives, he was in possession of unpublished, price sensitive information
relating to the acquisition by BHP Billiton of WMC Resources Ltd for the whole of the period that was available to him to comply. During the period for which 
Mr Cordeiro did not hold office as a Director he attended meetings by invitation. In addition to the fees disclosed in the table, Mr Cordeiro was paid US$27 542
during the period in which he was not a member of the Board.
(3)
BHP Billiton Limited contributions of 9 per cent of fees paid in accordance with Australian superannuation legislation.
6.2 Remuneration paid
Remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2005 6.3 Retirement benefits
The following table sets out the accrued retirement benefits
under the now closed Retirement Plan of BHP Billiton Limited,
together with any entitlements obtained by the compulsory
Group contributions to the BHP Billiton Superannuation Fund.
The Retirement Plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and
entitlements that had accumulated in respect of each of the
participants were frozen. These will be paid on retirement. An
earnings rate equal to the five-year Australian Government Bond
Rate is being applied to the frozen entitlements from that date.
US dollars
7 . Aggregate Directors’ Remuneration
Aggregate remuneration of executive and non-executive
Directors of BHP Billiton in accordance with UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles
This Report was approved by the Board on 8 September 2005
and signed on its behalf by:
John Buchanan
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
8 September 2005
Remuneration Report continued
56 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Name
Completed years 
of service at 
30 June 2005
Increase in lump 
sum entitlement 
during the year
(1)
Lump sum 
entitlement at
30 June 
2005
30 June 
2004
Don Argus 8 206 991 1 286 761 1 079 770
Michael Chaney 10 54 606 339 742 285 135
David Crawford 11 59 453 361 232 301 779
David Jenkins 5 31 080 21 9 675 188 595
John Schubert 5 29 685 1 73 426 143 741
(1)
On closure of the Retirement Plan, no further entitlements have
accrued. The increase reflects the accrual to the date of closure,
together with application of the earnings rate and foreign exchange
impact.
US dollars (million) 2005 2004
Emoluments 10 8
Termination payments 0 0
Awards vesting under long-term incentive plans 4 1
Gains on exercise of options 0 1
Total 14 10
Employee Share
Plan 2000 
(ESP 2000)
(1)
Performance Share
Plan 2001 (PSP
2001) & Restricted
Share Scheme 2001
(RSS 2001)
(1)
Medium Term
Incentive Plan 2001
(MTI 2001) & 
Co-Investment Plan
2001 (CIP 2001)
Group Incentive
Scheme (GIS) 
2002 Performance
Shares (Transition
Year)
Group Incentive
Scheme (GIS) 
2003 Performance
Shares 
Long Term
Incentive Plan
(LTIP) 2004
Performance
Shares
Performance
measurement 
From
To
3 April 2000
2 April 2003
1 October 2001
30 September 2004
1 October 2001
30 September 2005
(2)
1 July 2002
30 June 2005
1 July 2003
30 June 2006
1 July 2004
30 June 2009
Retesting available
(i.e. a further
opportunity to test
performance after 
the first performance 
period has ended)
Yes, monthly until 
2 April 2010
No No No No No
TSR performance
condition
BHP Billiton Limited
TSR compared to
ASX 100 and global
comparator group
BHP Billiton TSR
compared to global
comparator group
BHP Billiton TSR
compared to global
comparator group
BHP Billiton TSR
compared to global
comparator group
BHP Billiton TSR
compared to global
comparator group
BHP Billiton TSR
compared to global
comparator group
Inflationary
performance
condition
No Yes
(3)
Yes
(3)
Yes
(4)
Yes
(4)
No
Vesting schedule
(upper and lower
range)
< 41st percentile 
– 0%
> 60th percentile 
– 100% 
< 10th position 
– 0%
> 4th position 
– 100%
(5)
< 10th position 
– 0% 
> 4th position 
– 125%
(6)
< 50th percentile 
– 0%
85th–100th
percentile – 100%
< 50th percentile 
– 0%
85th–100th
percentile – 100%
< = median TSR 
– 0%
Exceeds median TSR
(outperformance) –
100%
Between median and
outperformance –
pro-rated between 
0% and 1 00%
8. Appendices
8. 1 Summary of long-term incentive plans
The long-term incentive plans in which the executive Directors have unvested or unexercised awards at the date of this Report are
summarised in the table below. 57
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Employee Share
Plan 2000 
(ESP 2000)
(1)
Performance Share
Plan 2001 (PSP
2001) & Restricted
Share Scheme 2001
(RSS 2001)
(1)
Medium Term
Incentive Plan 2001
(MTI 2001) & 
Co-Investment Plan
2001 (CIP 2001)
Group Incentive
Scheme (GIS) 
2002 Performance
Shares (Transition
Year)
Group Incentive
Scheme (GIS) 
2003 Performance
Shares 
Long Term
Incentive Plan
(LTIP) 2004
Performance
Shares
Plan status Legacy plan. 
Awards have 
met Performance
Hurdles and are
capable of being
exercised
Legacy plan. 
Awards have 
met Performance
Hurdles and are
capable of being
exercised
Legacy plan.
Performance period
not yet concluded
Performance period
concluded on 
30 June 2005 and
will vest in August
2005 
Performance period
not yet concluded
Performance period
not yet concluded
Expiry date if
exercisable
April 2010
(7)
September 201 1
(7)
April 2006
(7)
August 2008 August 2009 August 2014
Comparator Group:
(8)
ASX 100
Alcan
Alcoa
Alumina
Anglo American
Arcelor
Barrick Gold
BG Group
BP
Compania Vale 
do Rio Doce
Conoco Phillips
Corus Group
Exxon Mobil
Freeport-McMoRan
Impala
Inco
LTV
Marathon Oil
Newmont Mining
Noranda
Norilsk
Nucor
Phelps Dodge
Placer Dome
Rio Tinto
Shell
Total Fina Elf
Unocal
US Steel
Woodside Petroleum
Xstrata
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
8. 1 Summary of long-term incentive plans continued
Further details of all incentive plans, including the number of participants in those plans, are contained in note 23 to the financial
statements.
Notes:
(1)
Although the awards under this plan have vested, the executive Directors have not yet exercised their awards and still retain an interest in the plan.
(2)
The first performance period ended 30 September 2003. At that time, participants had the option to remain with the plan and enter a second performance
period or leave the plan. The second performance period is a further two years ending on 30 September 2005.
(3)
The TSR growth targets will be satisfied if the compound TSR growth for the Group during the performance period is at least equal to the greater of the
increase in the Australian Consumer Price Index or the increase in the UK Retail Price Index, plus 2 per cent per annum, over the performance period.
(4)
The EPS growth targets will be satisfied if the compound EPS growth for the Group during the performance period is at least equal to the greater of the increase
in the Australian Consumer Price Index and the increase in the UK Retail Price Index, plus 2 per cent per annum, over the performance period.
(5)
The percentage of performance rights that vest under the PSP 2001 will not be greater than the percentage of the Share award that vests under the RSS 2001
and vice versa.
(6)
The first performance period ended on 30 September 2003 when 60 per cent (out of a maximum of 80 per cent) Shares vested. At that time, participants had
the option to remain with the plan and enter a second performance period or leave the plan. In respect of the second performance period >4th position will
mean 125 per cent of those Shares vest. The percentage of performance rights that vest under the MTI 2001 will not be greater than the percentage of the
Share award that vests under the CIP 2001 and vice versa.
(7)
Expiry date will be earlier if employment ceases.
(8)
From publicly available data. Remuneration Report continued
58 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Dividend Equivalent Payment
Awards of 2004 GIS Deferred Shares and Options (under the amended
scheme), 2005 GIS Deferred Shares, Options and 2004 LTIP Performance
Shares are entitled to a payment in lieu of dividends. This Dividend
Equivalent Payment is equal to the amount that would have been earned
over the performance or retention period and will be made on transfer of
shares to the participant. 
Other benefits
Includes medical insurance, professional fees, payout of unused leave
entitlements, life assurance-related benefits, car allowance and
relocation allowance and expenses where applicable.
Retirement benefits
Mr Goodyear is entitled to receive 48 per cent of his salary in the form of
retirement benefits. He has elected to defer receipt and participate in the
Group’s Retirement Savings Plan.
The estimated benefit in respect of pensions includes contributions
payable in respect of defined benefit and defined contribution
arrangements and actual/notional contributions (for Mr Salamon and the
Specified Executives) that would have been required to secure the defined
benefit promises earned in the year . Details of the defined benefit pension
entitlements earned by Mr Salamon are set out on page 52. Mr Salamon’s
benefits are fully accrued by 1 April 2005 and therefore the 2005 cost
reflects only nine months’ accrual. A new funding valuation has been
carried out since the last Report and the 2005 monthly cost of accrual
reflects the increased contribution rate based on the revised assumptions
adopted.
Deferred Shares
This represents the estimated fair value of Deferred Shares earned in the
year . The fair value of Deferred Shares is estimated at grant date by
discounting the total value of the Shares that will be issued in the future
using the risk-free interest rate for the term of the vesting period. 
The actual Deferred Shares will be awarded to Messrs Goodyear and
Salamon subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general
meetings in 2005. Participants can elect to receive Options instead of
Deferred Shares or a combination of both. In the case of Deferred
Shares, the only vesting condition is for participants to remain in the
employment of the Group for two further years. Accordingly, the number
of Shares (if any) that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the
service period has been completed. The value of the Shares forms part of
the at risk remuneration appearing throughout the Report, which are
therefore estimates.
Share-based compensation long term
The amount in respect of long-term Share-based compensation
represents the estimated value of awards granted under the GIS and LTIP .
The estimated value has been calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation
methodology taking account of Performance Hurdles. Details of the
outstanding awards and awards vesting in the year are set out in the
tables on pages 49, 50, 51 and 54. The estimated value of the award
made in any year is allocated in equal amounts to each of the years
during the performance period.
Adjustment for Australian GAAP
In accordance with UK GAAP , 1 00 per cent of the estimated Dividend
Equivalent Payments receivable over the vesting period related to the
2004 and 2005 GIS Deferred Shares are included in the remuneration 
in the column headed ‘Dividend equivalent payment value’. Dividend
Equivalent Payments related to the 2004 LTIP performance shares will 
be recognised in remuneration when the cash payment is received.
Under Australian GAAP , total estimated Dividend Equivalent Payments
receivable are included over the vesting period. 
The column headed ‘Adjustment for Australian GAAP’ represents the
difference between the measurement methods. Hence the addition of
the columns headed ‘Value of Deferred Shares’, ‘Dividend equivalent
payment value’ and ‘Adjustment for Australian GAAP’ represents the
remuneration associated with Deferred Shares and Dividend Equivalent
payments under Australian GAAP .
2004 equity compensation
Amounts in respect of the estimated value of 2004 equity compensation
have been restated and have been calculated on a comparable basis to
the valuations performed at 30 June 2005. This restatement is largely
due to the application of AASB 1 046A which has resulted in the
estimated value of awards granted under long-term incentive schemes
now being calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology
which takes account of Performance Hurdles. 
8.2 Notes to the remuneration tables for the executive Directors and Specified Executives (Sections 4. 1.3, 4.2.3 and 5.2 above) 59
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Chip Goodyear
Chief Executive Officer
October 2004
To prosper and achieve real growth, we must:
• actively manage and build our portfolio of high-quality assets and services,
• continue the drive towards a high-performance organisation in which every individual 
accepts responsibility and is rewarded for results,
• earn the trust of employees, customers, suppliers, communities and shareholders by being 
forthright in our communications and consistently delivering on commitments.
We value:
• Safety and the Environment – An overriding commitment to health, safety, environmental
responsibility and sustainable development.
• Integrity – Including doing what we say we will do.
• High Performance – The excitement and fulfilment of achieving superior business results and
stretching our capabilities.
• Win-Win Relationships – Having relationships which focus on the creation of value for all
parties.
• The Courage to Lead Change – Accepting the responsibility to inspire and deliver positive
change in the face of adversity.
• Respect for Each Other – The embracing of diversity, enriched by openness, sharing, trust,
teamwork and involvement.
We are successful in creating value when:
• our shareholders are realising a superior return on their investment
• our customers and suppliers are benefiting from our business relationships
• the communities in which we operate value our citizenship
• every employee starts each day with a sense of purpose and ends each day with a sense of 
accomplishment.
BHP BILLITON CHARTER
WE ARE BHP BILLITON, A LEADING GLOBAL RESOURCES COMPANY.
Our purpose is to create long-term value through the discovery, development 
and conversion of natural resources, and the provision of innovative customer 
and market-focused solutions. The information presented by the Directors in this Report relates
to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
Principal activities, state of affairs and business review
A review of the operations of the Group during the financial
year, and the expected results of those operations in future
financial years, is set out in the Chairman’s Review, Chief
Executive Officer’s Report, the Company Overview, the Review of
Operations, the Customer Sector Group Highlights, Corporate
Governance Statement and other material in this Annual Report.
Information on the development of the Group and likely
developments in future years also appears in those sections of
this Report. The Directors believe that to include further
information on those matters in this Annual Report would be
likely to result in unreasonable prejudice to the Group.
The principal activities of the Group during the 2005 financial
year were minerals exploration, development, production and
processing (in particular, alumina, aluminium, copper, iron ore,
metallurgical coal, energy coal, nickel, manganese ores and
alloys, diamonds and titanium minerals), and oil and gas
exploration, development and production.
In August 2005 BHP Billiton Limited acquired control of 
1 00 per cent of the issued shares of WMC Resources Ltd. As a
result of this acquisition, the principal activities of the Group
now also include development, production and processing of
uranium and production of fertiliser . 
Significant changes in the state of affairs of the Group which
occurred during the 2005 financial year and significant post
balance date events were:
• On 3 June, BHP Billiton Limited obtained control of WMC
Resources Ltd and on 1 7 June after acquiring over 90 per cent
of the issued shares commenced action to compulsorily
acquire the remaining shares. On 2 August 2005 BHP Billiton
acquired 1 00 per cent of the issued shares in WMC Resources
Ltd at a total cost of US$7.2 billion. The acquisition is
regarded by BHP Billiton as a further step in its strategy of
developing, operating and maximising the performance of
large, long-life, low-cost assets. It builds on the existing nickel
and copper businesses of BHP Billiton, as well as introducing
uranium into the suite of energy products. The combined
business has operations, products and technologies which
provide a range of options for further growth. 
• BHP Billiton completed a US$2 billion capital management
programme during financial year 2005. As detailed below, 
US$1 .78 billion was returned to shareholders via an off-market
buy-back of BHP Billiton Limited shares at a discount to the
market rate. The remaining US$220 million (3.6 US cents
per share) was used to rebase the interim dividend declared 
in February 2005, increasing that dividend to 1 3.5 US cents 
per share. 
• In June 2005, BHP Billiton disposed of its economic interests 
in the majority of its South African chrome business to the
Kermas Group. T otal proceeds of the sale were US$421 million
(1 00 per cent). BHP Billiton owned a 60 per cent share in the
chrome business with the balance held by Anglo American Plc.
• On 24 August 2005, BHP Billiton permanently closed the hot
briquetted iron facilities at the Boodarie Iron plant in Western
Australia at a charge of US$266 million, primarily relating to
settlement of existing contractual arrangements, plant
decommissioning, redundancy and other associated costs. 
The Boodarie Iron plant had been placed on care and
maintenance in November 2004.
• In July 2005, BHP Billiton approved the development of the
Neptune oil and gas field in the Gulf of Mexico, in which it has
a 35 per cent interest. BHP Billiton’s share of the gross cost of
the development is estimated at approximately US$300
million. Neptune will be BHP Billiton’s first operated,
deepwater standalone facility in the Gulf of Mexico. The
Neptune facility will have a design capacity to produce up to
50 000 barrels of oil and 50 million cubic feet of gas per day
(1 00 per cent terms) and is expected to commence production
by the end of financial year 2007.
• In June 2005, BHP Billiton approved a fifth train expansion of
the liquefied natural gas (LNG) processing facilities at the
North West Shelf Project in Western Australia. The expansion
will provide an additional 4.2 million tonnes per annum
(‘mtpa’) (1 00 per cent terms) of processing capacity. 
BHP Billiton has a 16.7 per cent share in the North West Shelf
Project and its share of the costs of the expansion is estimated
at US$250 million. Construction on the fifth train will
commence later this year and first production is expected in
late 2008.
• In October 2004, BHP Billiton approved the Rapid Growth
Project 2, which will expand the capacity at BHP Billiton’s
Western Australian iron ore operations from 1 1 0 mtpa to 
1 18 mtpa (1 00 per cent terms). BHP Billiton’s 85 per cent share
of the capital expenditure is US$489 million and increased
production is expected in the second half of calendar year
2006. 
• BHP Billiton reached agreement with four Chinese steel mills
to enter into a joint venture and sales contract for the supply
of approximately 12 mtpa of iron ore over 25 years. The formal
Wheelara Joint Venture agreement was signed in September
2004. At this time, BHP Billiton also secured further long-term
sales commitments for its iron ore products with the Chinese
steel mills for a further 12 mtpa over the next ten years.
• In August 2005, BHP Billiton entered into the JFE Western 
4 Joint Venture with JFE Steel and BHP Billiton’s existing Yandi
joint venture partners, ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia
and Mitsui Iron Ore Corporation. The JFE Western 4 Joint
Venture involves a sub-lease over the Western 4 deposit
within BHP Billiton’s Yandi mine in Western Australia, and
secures long-term sales contracts of approximately 16 mtpa 
of iron ore over 1 1 years.
• In October 2004, BHP Billiton approved the development 
of a 1 00 per cent owned greenfield Spence copper project 
in Chile. Spence is expected to produce 200 000 tonnes of
copper cathode per annum, with first production scheduled
for late 2006. The estimated cost of the development is
US$990 million.
Directors’ Report 
60 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> • Eight major growth projects were commissioned across the
Group during the 2005 financial year . T otal capital expenditure
throughout the development phase of these projects was
approximately US$1 786 million.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of 
the 2005 financial year which has significantly affected or may
significantly affect the operations, the results of operations or
state of affairs of the Group in future years.
Share capital and buy-back programmes
As part of its capital management programme, BHP Billiton
completed an off-market buy-back of US$1 .78 billion of 
BHP Billiton Limited shares during the 2005 financial year . 
BHP Billiton Limited repurchased 180.72 million shares,
representing 2.9 per cent of the issued share capital of the 
BHP Billiton Group. These shares were acquired at a price of
A$12.57 per share, which represented a discount of 12 per cent
to the volume weighted average price of BHP Billiton Limited
shares over the five days up to and including the closing date of
the buy-back (being 1 9 November 2004). The shares purchased
were cancelled.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited has in place an on-market share
buy-back programme, under which up to 358 million shares of
BHP Billiton Limited can be purchased on-market and cancelled,
which represents less than 1 0 per cent of BHP Billiton Limited’s
issued share capital. 
At the annual general meetings held during 2004, shareholders
authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up
to 246 814 700 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately 
1 0 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc’s issued share capital at that time.
Shareholders will be asked at the 2005 annual general meetings
to renew this authority.
During the 2005 financial year, no shares were purchased by 
BHP Billiton Plc, and BHP Billiton Limited did not make any 
on-market share purchases.
The number of shares purchased under both programmes will
remain subject to prevailing market conditions and alternative
capital investment opportunities available to the Group.
Some executives of BHP Billiton are entitled to options as part of
their remuneration arrangements which can be satisfied either by
the acquisition of shares on-market or by the issue of new shares
that have been granted during, or since the end of, the financial
year . The tables on pages 49 to 54 of this Annual Report list those
entitlements.
Results and financial information
Information about the financial position of the Group is included
in the financial report of this Annual Report. The consolidated
profit and loss account set out on pages 78 and 79 show an
attributable profit of US$6398 million compared to US$3379
million in 2004.
Disclosure in relation to financial instruments is set out in the
Financial Review and note 29 to the financial statements.
Directors
Details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton
Plc are set out on pages 31 to 33. These details include the
period for which each Director held office up to the date of 
this Report, their qualifications, experience and particular
responsibilities, the directorships held in other listed companies
since 1 July 2002, and the period for which each directorship 
has been held.
Mr Carlos Cordeiro was appointed as a non-executive Director 
of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in February 2005. 
Mr Cordeiro vacated his office in April 2005 and was reappointed
a non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton
Plc on 26 August 2005. This situation arose because Mr Cordeiro
did not meet, within the two month time period required, the
minimum shareholding requirements for Directors under the
Articles of Association and Constitution of BHP Billiton.
Mr Cordeiro, like all other Directors, possessed unpublished 
price sensitive information in relation to the proposed
acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd for the whole period that was
available to him to comply with the minimum shareholding
qualification. Therefore, Mr Cordeiro did not purchase any shares
in BHP Billiton and he did not meet the minimum shareholding
qualification. 
Prior to the release of BHP Billiton’s results for financial year
2005, Mr Cordeiro was unable to purchase shares. Mr Cordeiro
purchased the required number of shares immediately after the
release of BHP Billiton’s results for financial year 2005.
Lord Renwick and Mr Michael Chaney both retire by rotation
and have indicated their intention not to seek re-election this
year . On 8 September 2005 the Directors agreed to appoint the
Hon. Gail de Planque a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and 
BHP Billiton Plc with such appointment to become effective on
1 9 October 2005.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees 
held during the year and each Director’s attendance at those
meetings is set out on page 36 of this Annual Report.
Remuneration and share interests
Remuneration
The policy for determining the nature and amount of
emoluments of Directors and senior executives of the Group, 
and the relationship between that policy and the Group’s
performance, appears in the Remuneration Report on pages 
45 to 48 and 55.
The tables on pages 49, 51, 53 and 55 set out the emoluments of
each Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, and
each of the five specified executives having the greatest
authority for managing the BHP Billiton Group (who are also the
five officers of the Group receiving the highest emoluments)
(‘Specified Executives’).
61
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Directors
The table on page 65 sets out the relevant interests in shares in
BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited of the Directors 
who held office at 30 June 2005, at the beginning and end of 
the financial year, and at the date of this Report. No rights or
options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc
are held by any of the non-executive Directors. The rights or
options held by executive Directors over shares in BHP Billiton
Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out in the tables on pages 
49 to 51 and page 65 of this Annual Report. 
The Group has not made available to any Director any interest in
a registered scheme.
The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement
plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on
retirement calculated by reference to years of service. This plan
was closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits accrued to that
date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on
retirement. Further information about this plan and its closure 
are set out on page 56 of this Report.
Specified Executives
The table on page 65 sets out the relevant interests held by 
the Specified Executives in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and
BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of the financial year,
and at the date of this Report. Interests held by the Specified
Executives under share and option plans are set out in note 31 
to the financial statements.
Secretaries
Details of the qualifications and experience of Karen Wood, the
Company Secretary, are set out on page 33. The following people
also act as the company secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited
or BHP Billiton Plc, and report to Karen Wood in this capacity:
Sam Butcher, BEc LLB (Hons) FCIS and Ross Mallett JD BBus FCIS
FCPA, Joint Deputy Company Secretaries BHP Billiton Limited;
Elizabeth Hobley, BA (Hons) ACIS, Deputy Company Secretary
BHP Billiton Plc; Ines Watson, ACIS, Assistant Company Secretary
BHP Billiton Plc; and Bill Smith, BComm LLB (Hons), Assistant
Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc. Each such individual has
experience in a company secretariat role or as a legal advisor to
the Group arising from time spent in such roles within BHP
Billiton or other large listed companies.
Indemnities and insurance
Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146
of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each
Company to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each
Director, secretary or executive officer of BHP Billiton Limited and
BHP Billiton Plc respectively against liability incurred in, or
arising out of, the conduct of the business of the Company or
the discharge of the duties of the Director, secretary or executive
officer . The Directors named on pages 31 to 33, executive officers
and the company secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP
Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals
who formerly held one of those positions. 
T o meet this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton
Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access and Insurance
(‘Deeds of Indemnity’) with each of their respective Directors.
Following changes to the law in the United Kingdom during the
2005 financial year in respect of directors’ indemnities, BHP
Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have reviewed and amended
the terms of the Deeds of Indemnity with their Directors. 
The terms of the BHP Billiton Plc Deeds of Indemnity have 
been broadened to reflect the changes in the law in the United
Kingdom. As a result of these amendments, the terms of the 
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Deeds of Indemnity are
now substantially the same as each other .
At the 2005 annual general meetings, shareholders will be asked
to consider and approve proposed amendments to the BHP
Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of
Association. These include proposed amendments to the
indemnity provisions contained in Article 146 of the BHP Billiton
Plc Articles of Association, which reflect the changes in the law
in the United Kingdom and the new Deeds of Indemnity. 
The Group has a policy that it will, as a general rule, support 
and hold harmless an employee who, while acting in good faith,
incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for the
Group. In addition, the Group has in place the following policies
that have been approved by the Board:
• where a person chairs a Customer Sector Group Risk and
Audit Committee and that person is not already indemnified
as an employee or a Director of BHP Billiton, a policy to
indemnify that Chairperson in the same manner as employees
of BHP Billiton are indemnified, and
• a policy to indemnify employees who work in certain high-risk
countries against the risk that their life insurance may be
invalid or the terms of cover varied, due to the high-risk
nature of the location in which they work. This policy is being
phased out on a case-by-case basis in favour of a policy that
does not involve employee indemnification.
From time to time the Group engages its External Auditor, 
KPMG, to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other
services in accordance with the Group’s policy on the Provision
of Other Services by the External Auditor . The terms of
engagement include an indemnity in favour of KPMG:
• against all losses, claims, costs, demands, actions, damages,
liabilities or any proceedings (‘liabilities’) incurred by KPMG in
respect of third party claims arising from a breach by the
Group under the engagement terms, and
• for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party as a
result of reliance on information provided by the Group which
is false, misleading or incomplete.
The Group has insured against amounts that it may be liable to
pay to Directors, company secretaries or certain employees
pursuant to Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited
and Article 146 of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc,
or that it otherwise agrees to pay by way of indemnity. The
insurance policy also insures Directors, company secretaries and
some Group employees against certain liabilities (including legal
costs) they may incur in carrying out their duties for the Group.
Directors’ Report continued
62 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> The Group has paid premiums for this ‘Directors and Officers’
insurance of approximately US$2.9 million during the year ended
30 June 2005. Some Directors, secretaries and employees
contribute to the premium for this insurance.
Employee policies and involvement
The Group’s policy is to encourage and maintain effective
communication and consultation between employees and
management. T o facilitate the Group’s global communications
policy, BHP Billiton has a dedicated internal communications
division, which manages the release of information to employees
across the world. In addition to the regular production and
communication of operational and global newsletters, bulletins
and staff news releases employees are also regularly invited to
briefings by senior management on important issues such as the
Group’s strategy and results and health, safety and
environmental matters.
BHP Billiton also provides information about issues of
importance to employees via its intranet and email facilities.
These are important tools for inviting employee feedback and
increasing awareness of corporate and financial performance.
In addition, all BHP Billiton employees can access the Group’s
Annual Reports and other key publications via the intranet.
All businesses have in place a range of newsletters and other
communications activities to ensure that information is shared
with employees and feedback is obtained. In addition, some
businesses have dedicated intranet sites accessible by the
employees working at that business. These intranet sites contain
information specific to the business. Staff briefings are
conducted regularly. Other consultative mechanisms are also in
place to address issues impacting employees, and in addition
grievance or disputes procedures apply in all businesses.
BHP Billiton aims to align the interests of employees with those
of shareholders. T o achieve this alignment nominated employees
are invited to participate in employee share schemes. In
addition, incentive and bonus schemes operate throughout the
Group. Employee share schemes are described in the
Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 48 and 56 to 57. 
The means by which the Group communicates with shareholders
is described in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 29
of this Annual Report.
BHP Billiton has published its commitment to equality in
employment in the Equality in Employment Policy and the Guide
to Business Conduct. The Group gives full and fair consideration
to applications for employment made by all people. Decisions
are based on aptitudes and abilities and not on attributes
unrelated to job performance (including disability). Should
employees become disabled during employment, they will be
considered for available work within their capabilities and,
where necessary, retraining. For the purpose of training, career
development and promotion, disabled employees are treated in
the same way as other employees although reasonable
modifications will be made to the physical work environment
and other arrangements made as appropriate to meet particular
needs arising from a disability.
Environmental performance
Particulars in relation to environmental performance are referred
to on page 65 and in the Sustainability Report available at
http://sustainability.bhpbilliton.com/2005/report/.
Dividends
Final dividends of 14.5 US cents per share will be paid on 
28 September 2005. Details of the dividends paid and the
dividend policy are set out on page 71 of this Annual Report.
No dividends or distributions were recommended or declared for
payment to shareholders but not paid during financial year 2005. 
As a result of a technical issue that arose in respect of the
payment of its final dividend for the 2004 financial year, 
BHP Billiton Plc convened an Extraordinary General Meeting 
on 1 3 June 2005. 
Under the United Kingdom Companies Act 1 985, distributions
made by a public company generally must not exceed the
amount of the distributable profits that are reported in the last
financial statements laid before the company in general meeting.
A change in the timing of dividend payments during financial
year 2004 resulted in the declaration in 2004 of three rather than
two dividends (as had originally been envisaged). Consequently,
the total amount of dividends declared during 2004 exceeded, by
US$38 million, the distributable profits reported in the 2003
financial statements (the most recent financial statements laid
before the Company at a general meeting).
The audited financial statements for the year ended 30 June
2004 indicated that the Company earned sufficient distributable
profits to cover all dividends during 2004. However, by exceeding
the distributable profits in the 2003 accounts the September
2004 dividend exceeded the amount which BHP Billiton Plc could
technically pay and therefore the payment by BHP Billiton Plc 
of the September 2004 dividend, prior to the annual general
meeting in November 2004, was a technical infringement of the
Act, despite there being sufficient profit at the time shown by
the latest available information.
As a result of the technical infringement of the Act, BHP Billiton
Plc may have had claims against present and past shareholders
who received the dividends and also against the Directors who
approved the payment of the September 2004 dividend. It was
not the intention of BHP Billiton Plc to make such claims and
consequently the Extraordinary General Meeting was convened
to: 
• sanction the appropriation of profits to the final dividend
payment in 2004
• waive any rights which BHP Billiton Plc may have had against
shareholders and Directors
• approve BHP Billiton Plc entering into deeds of release in
favour of such shareholders and Directors, and
• cancel the amount standing to the credit of BHP Billiton Plc’s
share premium account and credit the reserve created to the
distributable profit account. This would provide ‘headroom’
for BHP Billiton Plc to pay future dividends to shareholders. 
As at the date of this Report the share premium account had
not been cancelled.
63
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditor of 
BHP Billiton Plc will be proposed at the 2005 annual general
meetings in accordance with section 385 of the United Kingdom
Companies Act 1 985.
No person who was an officer of BHP Billiton during the financial
year was a director or partner of the Group’s External Auditor at
a time when the Group’s External Auditors conducted an audit of
the Group.
Each person who held the office of Director at the date the
Board resolved to approve this Directors’ Report makes the
following statements:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant information
of which the Group’s External Auditor has not been made
aware, and
• the Director has taken all steps necessary as a Director to
make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the External Auditor has been made aware of
that information.
Non-audit services
Details of the non-audit services undertaken by the Group’s
External Auditors, including the amounts paid for non-audit
services, are set out in note 7 of the financial statements. 
The Directors are satisfied that the provision of non-audit
services is compatible with the general standard of
independence for auditors, and that the immaterial nature of
non-audit services means that auditor independence was not
compromised. Further information about BHP Billiton’s policy in
relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor are
set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40 of
this Annual Report.
Value of land
Much of the Group’s interest in land consists of leases and other
rights which permit the working of such land and the erection of
buildings and equipment thereon for the purpose of extracting
and treating minerals. Such land is mainly carried in the accounts
at cost and it is not possible to estimate the market value as this
depends on product prices over the long term, which will vary
with market conditions.
Political and charitable donations
No political contributions or donations for political purposes
were made during the 2005 financial year . The Group made
charitable donations in the United Kingdom of US$1 050 280
(cash) (2004: US$555 242) and worldwide including in-kind
support and administrative cost totalling US$57 383 466 
(2004: US$46 51 7 924). 
Of this worldwide amount, US$1 468 600 was committed to
disaster relief following the tsunami in Asia in December 2004.
Exploration, research and development
Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research
and development necessary to support their activities.
Creditor payment policy
When BHP Billiton enters into a contract with a supplier,
payment terms will be agreed when the contract begins and the
supplier will be made aware of these terms. BHP Billiton does
not have a specific policy towards its suppliers and does not
follow any code or standard practice. However, BHP Billiton
settles terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing overall
terms of business and seeks to abide by the terms of the
contracts to which it is bound. As at 30 June 2005, BHP Billiton
Plc (the unconsolidated parent entity) had no trade creditors
outstanding and therefore had zero days purchases outstanding
in respect of costs, based on the total invoiced to suppliers
during the financial year .
Class Order
BHP Billiton Limited is a company of a kind referred to in
Australian Securities and Investments Commission Class Order
No 98/1 00, dated 1 0 July 1 998. Amounts in this Directors’ Report,
except estimates of future expenditure or where otherwise
indicated, have been rounded to the nearest million dollars in
accordance with that Class Order .
Proceedings on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited
No proceedings have been brought on behalf of BHP Billiton
Limited, nor any application made under section 237 of the
Australian Corporations Act 2001 .
Annual general meeting
The 2005 annual general meeting for BHP Billiton Plc will 
be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad
Sanctuary, Westminster, London on Thursday, 20 October 2005
commencing at 1 0.30 am. The 2005 annual general meeting 
for BHP Billiton Limited will be held at the Convention Centre,
Perth, Western Australia on Friday, 25 November 2005
commencing at 1 0.30 am. The notices convening the meetings
have been sent to shareholders separately with this Annual
Report, together with an explanation of the items of special
business to be considered at the meetings.
The Directors’ Report is made in accordance with a resolution 
of the Board.
D R Argus
Chairman 
C W Goodyear
Chief Executive Officer 
Dated: 8 September 2005
Directors’ Report continued
64 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Directors’ share holdings
Shares held by Directors in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton
Plc as at 30 June 2005 are set out in the table below:
65
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
BHP Billiton 
shares
(1)
As at date 
of Report
As at 
30 June 2005
As at 
30 June 2004
Don Argus
(2)
223 495 203 495 203 495
Charles Goodyear
(2)
954 254
2 000
746 007
2 000
638 807
(3)
2 000
(4)
David Brink 39 377 39 377 39 377
John Buchanan 10 000 4 000 1 000
Michael Chaney
(2)
12 338 12 338 12 338
Carlos Cordeiro
(5)
6 550 – –
David Crawford
(2)
29 127 29 127 29 127
David Jenkins 2 066
10 000
2 066
10 000
2 066
10 000
Lord Renwick 
of Clifton
2 066
12 385
2 066
12 385
2 066
12 385
Miklos Salamon 
(2)
1 248 861 1 082 324 977 282
John Schubert 23 675 23 675 23 675
(1)
Shares in BHP Billiton Limited shown in italics. All interests are beneficial.
(2)
Includes shares held in the name of spouse and/or nominee.
(3)
82 604 are held in the form of 41 302 American Depositary Shares.
(4)
Held in the form of 1 000 American Depositary Shares.
(5)
Held in the form of 3275 American Depositary Shares.
BHP Billiton 
shares
(1)
As at date 
of Report
As at 
30 June 2005
As at 
30 June 2004
Philip Aiken
(2)
544 907 475 092 356 422
John Fast
(2)(3)
3 459 3 459 175 459
Robert Kirkby
(2) 
640 740 640 740 634 589
Marius Kloppers 250 627 75 764 –
Chris Lynch
(2)
80 679 80 679 80 679
(1)
Shares in BHP Billiton Limited shown in italics. All interests are beneficial.
(2)
Includes shares held in the name of spouse and/or nominee.
(3)
Includes 929 shares held by nominee in the form of endowment warrants.
Specified Executives’ share holdings
Performance in relation to environmental regulation
The Group’s performance in relation to environmental regulation
is measured by:
• the number of prosecutions against, and the quantum of 
fines incurred by, the Group’s global operations during the
financial year, and
• the number of environmentally significant incidents (including
non-compliances) that occurred in the Group’s global
operations. 
Environmentally significant incidents
An environmentally significant incident is one with a severity
rating of 3 or above based on the Group’s internal severity rating
scale (tiered from 1 to 5 by increasing severity). The following
three significant incidents occurred during the reporting period:
Fines and prosecutions
The following fine was imposed during financial year 2005:
Further information about the Group’s performance in relation 
to environmental regulation can be found in the Sustainability
Report which can be viewed on the Group’s website at
http://sustainability.bhpbilliton.com/2005/report/.
BHP Billiton
business Description of incident
Severity
rating
Energy Coal –
Middelburg Mine
In September 2004, excess poor
quality water was decanted
from the E6 decant control dam
into the Spookspruit (river) on
the north section of the mine.
3
Energy Coal –
Optimum Mine
The Optimum Colliery Eikeboom
Section released poor quality
water into the Coetzerspruit
(river) from a control dam after
experiencing excessive rainfall. 
3
Energy Coal –
Optimum Mine
In June 2005 saline water was
found to be decanting from 
the Coastal Coal underground
section and the rehabilitated
Zevenfontein section into the
Zevenfonteinspuit (river).
3
BHP Billiton
business Description of fine or prosecution 
Carbon Steel
Materials – 
Appin Colliery
In August 2004, the NSW (Australia)
Environment Protection Authority issued a
Penalty Infringement Notice in relation to
dust that was emitted to atmosphere by a
street sweeper while it was operating at 
the Appin Colliery. The amount of the fine
was A$1500.
Directors and Specified Executives – vested Performance
and Deferred Shares and Options
The table below shows GIS Performance Shares, Deferred Shares
and Options held by Directors and Specified Executives that have
vested since the end of the financial year but have not been
exercised.
Performance
Shares
Deferred
Shares
Options
Charles Goodyear 180 154 28 093 320 725
Philip Aiken – – –
John Fast 1 15 921 54 782 –
Robert Kirkby 110 391 58 031 –
Marius Kloppers – – –
Chris Lynch 117 117 61 010 –
Miklos Salamon – – – Basis of presentation of financial information
BHP Billiton’s financial information is presented in accordance
with UK accounting standards and other UK financial reporting
requirements (UK GAAP). The reporting currency is US dollars,
the dominant currency in which the BHP Billiton Group operates. 
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that
the BHP Billiton Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational business for the foreseeable future and have
therefore continued to adopt the going-concern basis in
preparing the financial statements. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the same basis
and using the same accounting policies as were applied in
drawing up the financial statements contained in the accounts 
of BHP Billiton Plc for the year ended 30 June 2004. The
consolidated financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc include 
BHP Billiton Limited and its subsidiary companies using the
merger method of accounting in accordance with UK GAAP .
Results for the financial year ended 30 June 2005
Overview
The consistent execution of the BHP Billiton business strategy
has positioned the Group to take advantage of the current
strong market conditions and deliver another record result. 
The benefits of commodity diversification, focusing on large,
low-cost, long-life assets, capturing and sharing efficiencies
across our businesses globally and the identification of, and
continued investment in, value adding growth opportunities
throughout the cycle, are not only reflected in the current result
but enable us to capture our share of demand growth from the
rapidly developing regions of the world. 
Attributable profit (excluding exceptional items) of US$6.5 billion
is an increase of 85.5 per cent from the previous year with
available cash flow (after interest and tax) of US$8.7 billion 
up 70.4 per cent over last year .
In March 2005 the Group announced a cash offer for WMC
Resources Ltd (WMC), an Australian based resource company. 
As of 30 June 2005 BHP Billiton owned approximately 93 per cent
of WMC, with 1 00 per cent ownership achieved on 2 August.
BHP Billiton’s results for the 2005 financial year include the
contribution from WMC for the month of June 2005.
Financial Review
66 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Year ended 30 June 
2005
(a)
US$M 
2004
US$M Change
Turnover
(b)
31 804 24 943 27.5%
EBITDA
(b)(c)
Excluding exceptional items
Including exceptional items
11 446
11 278
7 506
6 943
52.5%
62.4%
EBIT
(b)(c)
Excluding exceptional items
Including exceptional items 
9 330
9 162
5 488
5 020
70.0%
82.5%
Attributable profit
Excluding exceptional items
Including exceptional items
6 512
6 398
3 510
3 379
85.5%
89.3%
Available cash flow
(d)
8 688 5 100 70.4%
Basic earnings per share (US cents)
(b)
Excluding exceptional items
Including exceptional items
106.4
104.5
56.4
54.3
88.7%
92.4%
Net operating assets
(b)
29 581 21 706 36.3%
EBITDA interest cover (times)
(b)(c)(e)
Excluding exceptional items 34.7 21 . 1 64.4%
Gearing (net debt/[net debt + net assets]) 35.7% 25.7% 35.9%
(a)
All the items relate to Continuing Operations including the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd for the period 3 June 2005 to 30 June 2005.
(b)
Including share of joint ventures.
(c)
EBIT is earnings before interest and tax. EBITDA is EBIT before depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$21 16 million (comprising Group depreciation,
impairments and amortisation of US$1 968 million and joint venture depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$148 million) for the year ended 
30 June 2005 and US$2018 million (comprising Group depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$1867 million and joint venture depreciation,
impairments and amortisation of US$151 million) for the year ended 30 June 2004. Exceptional items for the year ended 30 June 2004 include the reversal of
impairment losses of US$95 million. We believe that EBIT and EBITDA provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or
alternative to, attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity.
(d)
Available cash flow is operating cash flow including dividends from joint ventures and after net interest and tax.
(e)
For this purpose, net interest includes capitalised interest and excludes the effect of discounting on provisions and other liabilities, and exchange differences
arising from net debt.
Key Financial Information for the BHP Billiton Group This transaction provides the ability to build on the Group’s
existing nickel and copper businesses, as well as introducing
uranium to our suite of energy products. In addition to providing
immediate production to service global customers, the
acquisition provides significant growth opportunities. The
transaction is fully aligned with our strategy of developing,
operating and maximising the performance of large, long-life,
low-cost assets and provided a unique opportunity to acquire
operational tier 1 assets in a stable, developed economy well
positioned to service the growing demand for commodities 
in Asia.
Turnover
Turnover (including turnover from third party product) was
US$31 .8 billion, an increase of 27.5 per cent from US$24.9 billion
in the corresponding period. The increase was primarily due to
higher prices for all commodities with base metals, carbon 
steel materials, petroleum and energy coal prices contributing
significantly. Increased volumes also benefited the Group result.
Sales of third party product increased slightly above the
corresponding period to US$6.9 billion.
Earnings Before Interest and T ax (EBIT)
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, impairments and
amortisation (EBITDA) excluding exceptional items, increased 
by 52.5 per cent to US$1 1 .4 billion from US$7.5 billion in the
corresponding period. Earnings before interest and taxation
(EBIT), excluding exceptional items, were US$9.3 billion
compared with US$5.5 billion for the corresponding period, 
an increase of 70.0 per cent.
The following table details the approximate impact of major
factors affecting EBIT (excluding exceptional items) for the year
ended 30 June 2005 compared with the corresponding year .
US$M
EBIT excluding exceptional items 
for the year ended 30 June 2004 5 488
Change in volumes 1 10
Change in sales prices 5 665
New operations 140
Asset sales 5
Exchange rates (465)
Price-linked costs (565)
Costs (775)
Inflation on costs (235)
Ceased and sold operations (190)
Exploration (20)
Other items 1 72
EBIT excluding exceptional items 
for the year ended 30 June 2005 9 330
An explanation of the factors affecting EBIT is as follows:
• Higher sales volumes (measured at last year’s average
margins) increased EBIT by US$1 1 0 million. Increased sales
volumes of iron ore, copper, natural gas, aluminium, silver 
and lead contributed approximately US$350 million, and was
partially offset by US$265 million of unfavourable impacts
resulting from lower oil volumes, due to natural field decline
and planned shutdowns for maintenance activities, and lower
diamond sales. 
• Stronger commodity prices across the suite of products
increased EBIT by US$5665 million, with higher prices
achieved for iron ore, copper, metallurgical coal, petroleum
products, energy coal, aluminium, manganese alloy, nickel and
diamonds being the predominant contributors.
• New operations increased EBIT by US$140 million, primarily
due to first production from ROD (Algeria) which commenced
commercial production in October 2004, the first full year of
production from Ohanet (Algeria) which commenced
commercial production in October 2003, and the start of oil
production from Mad Dog (US) in January 2005. The
acquisition of WMC also resulted in a US$35 million
favourable impact on EBIT with the inclusion of profit for the
month of June.
• The current period’s EBIT included US$5 million of additional
profits on the sale of non-core assets. 
• Relative to the prior year, exchange rate movements had a
negative impact on EBIT of US$465 million. The continued
strength of the Australian dollar and rand against the 
US dollar had an overall unfavourable impact on operating
costs and translation of net monetary liabilities of 
US$320 million and US$30 million respectively. In addition, 
the prior period included gains on legacy Australian dollar 
to US dollar currency hedging of US$39 million which expired
during that year .
• Higher price-linked costs decreased EBIT by US$565 million,
primarily due to higher amounts of tax paid on petroleum
products in Australia, higher royalties and increased 
LME-linked costs.
• Increased costs of US$775 million were primarily due to higher
fuel, labour, raw material and other operating costs, an
increase in stripping and maintenance related activities and
development expenditure. The increase in costs was caused, 
in part, by the increased level of activity currently experienced
in the resources industry. Although the impact is of varying
degrees globally, these pressures are particularly acute in
Australia. A portion of the increase in costs was deliberately
incurred by the Group to maximise production to capture
current prices. Increased costs were partially offset by
continued operating cost savings from improvement initiatives
and efficiency gains.
• Inflationary pressures, mainly in Australia and South Africa,
had an unfavourable impact on EBIT of US$235 million.
• Ceased and sold operations had an unfavourable impact of
US$1 90 million and includes US$1 35 million relating to ceased
production at Boodarie Iron in Western Australia after it was
placed on care and maintenance during the year . The
unfavourable impact also included the loss of earnings from
the Laminaria and Corallina oil fields following their sale in
January 2005.
• Exploration expense was US$20 million higher than the
corresponding period.
• Other items increased EBIT by US$1 72 million and include 
the favourable impact of earnings from sales of third party
product, benefits of freight risk management activities, and
profit on the close out of cash settled derivative contracts for
WMC shares.
67
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Operating profit margin
The BHP Billiton Group differentiates sales of Group production
from sales of third party product due to the significant difference
in profit margin earned on these sales. The table below shows
the breakdown between Group production (which includes
marketing of equity production) and third party product.
2005
(a)
2004
(a)
US$M US$M
Group production
(b)
Turnover 24 859 18 283
Related operating costs 15 792 12 964
Operating profit 9 067 5 319
Margin
(c)
36.5% 29. 1%
Third party products
(b)
Turnover 6 945 6 660
Related operating costs 6 831 6 627
Operating profit 11 4 33
Margin
(c)
1.6% 0.5%
(a)
From Continuing Operations and excluding exceptional items.
(b)
Including share of joint ventures.
(c)
Operating profit divided by turnover .
BHP Billiton engages in third party product trading for two
reasons:
1 . in providing solutions for our customers, sometimes products
are provided that the Group does not produce e.g. a particular
grade of coal. T o do this, physical product is bought and sold
from third parties to meet customer needs, and manage risk
through both the physical and financial markets, and
2. the active presence in the commodity markets provides the
Group with physical market insight and commercial
knowledge. From time to time the Group actively engages 
in these markets in order to take commercial advantage of
business opportunities. These trading activities provide not
only a source of revenue, but also a further insight into
planning and in some cases gives rise to business
development opportunities.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items reduced profit after taxation (before minority
interests) by US$64 million and attributable profit by 
US$1 14 million, and incorporated the items outlined below.
Profit on disposal of various assets and interests totalled 
US$298 million (US$282 million after tax and before minority
interests) and included:
Profit 
Proceeds before tax Tax
US$M US$M US$M
Laminaria & Corallina oil fields 130 134 (10)
Chrome business 433 108 (6)
Interest in North West Shelf 59 56 –
Total 622 298 (16)
• The Group disposed of its interest in the Laminaria and
Corallina oil fields to Paladin Resources plc in January 2005.
• BHP Billiton disposed of its economic interest in the majority
of its South African chrome business to the Kermas Group in
June 2005. In addition, the Group sold its interest in the
Palmiet chrome business to Mogale Alloys in May 2005. 
After the minority share of profit after tax of US$50 million,
the Group’s share arising from the sale of the chrome
businesses was US$52 million.
• In December 2004 the sale of an equity participation in the
North West Shelf (NWS) Project’s gas reserves in Western
Australia to China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC)
was completed.
Following a decision to permanently close the Boodarie Iron
(Australia) operations a charge of US$266 million (US$80 million
tax benefit) relating to termination of the operation has been
recognised. The charge primarily relates to settlement of existing
contractual arrangements, plant decommissioning, site
rehabilitation, redundancy and other costs associated with the
closure.
As part of the Group’s regular review of decommissioning and
site restoration plans, the Group reassessed plans in respect of
certain closed operations. A total charge US$121 million 
(US$1 04 million after tax) was recorded and included:
• A charge of US$73 million (US$21 million tax benefit) in
relation to revision of the Group’s assessed rehabilitation
obligation at closed mines at Ingwe (South Africa),
predominantly resulting from revised water management
plans.
• A charge of US$48 million (US$4 million tax expense) in
relation to other closed mining operations.
The Group is required to recognise provisions and record a
charge of US$79 million (US$56 million after tax) against
earnings in respect of restructuring certain operations. This
included US$50 million (US$15 million tax benefit) in respect 
of restructuring associated with the acquisition of WMC in 
June 2005 primarily relating to redundancy and termination
costs, office closures and termination of previous contractual
arrangements, and US$29 million (US$8 million tax benefit) 
for other restructurings, primarily for redundancies at Ingwe
(South Africa).
The corresponding period included exceptional items as follows: 
• A charge of US$534 million (US$512 million after tax) in
relation to certain closed operations.
• A gain of US$66 million (US$48 million after tax) in relation to
a settlement with Dalmine SpA with respect to the failure of
an underwater pipeline.
• A tax benefit of US$95 million resulting from the restatement
of deferred tax balances following the election to consolidate
Australian subsidiaries under the Australian tax consolidation
regime.
• A tax benefit of US$238 million arising from prior period
taxation deductions and foreign tax credits available in the 
US and Canada.
Financial Review continued
68 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Petroleum
EBIT was US$1830 million, an increase of US$439 million or 
31 .6 per cent, compared with the corresponding year . The
increase was mainly due to higher average realised prices for all
petroleum products compared with the corresponding period,
including a higher average realised oil price per barrel of
US$47. 16 compared to US$32.24, and higher average realised
natural gas prices of US$2.98 per thousand standard cubic feet
compared with US$2.62 per thousand standard cubic feet. 
New production from North West Shelf LNG Train 4 (Australia),
ROD (Algeria) and Mad Dog (US), the first full year of production
from Ohanet (Algeria), and profits from the sale of third party
product compared with losses in the corresponding period also
had a favourable impact.
These factors were partly offset by the unfavourable effect of
higher price-linked costs, lower crude and condensate volumes
due to natural field decline at mature assets, higher downtime
for maintenance, and disposal of our interests in the Laminaria
and Corallina oil fields. The impact of a stronger Australian dollar
to US dollar exchange rate on the translation of net monetary
liabilities also had an unfavourable impact. 
Exploration expenditure charged to profit was US$202 million
(2004: US$181 million) reflecting a capitalisation rate of 
46.8 per cent (2004: 46.8 per cent). Gross expenditure on
exploration of US$380 million was US$40 million higher than 
the prior period, reflecting increased exploration activity in the
Gulf of Mexico and Australia.
Aluminium
EBIT was US$977 million, an increase of US$201 million or 
25.9 per cent, compared with the corresponding period. The
increase was mainly attributable to higher realised prices for
aluminium and alumina. The average LME aluminium price
increased to US$1804 per tonne, compared with US$1570 
per tonne in the corresponding period. Higher aluminium sales
volumes, mainly reflecting the first full year of production from
the expansion at Hillside (South Africa) following commissioning
in December 2003 and the benefits of various operational
excellence projects, also had a favourable impact.
These factors were partially offset by the unfavourable impact 
on operating costs of a stronger South African rand, Australian
dollar and Brazilian real against the US dollar and higher LME
price-linked and other production input costs. Increased pot
relining activity also had an unfavourable impact. In addition, 
a one-off charge of US$36 million was recorded for the agreed
repurchase of an aluminium supply contract. The benefits of this
repurchase will be realised through increased profit over the
next ten years.
Base Metals
EBIT was US$21 77 million, an increase of US$1 021 million or 
88.3 per cent, compared with the corresponding year . This
increase was mainly attributable to higher average LME prices
for copper of US$1 .43/lb compared to US$1 .06/lb in the previous
period, higher prices for molybdenum, silver, lead and zinc, and
higher copper sales volumes. Record silver and lead production
achieved at Cannington (Australia), record copper production at
Escondida (Chile), record copper and molybdenum at Antamina
and higher production at Tintaya (Peru), together with savings
from cost and volume related improvements projects, primarily
at Escondida and Antamina, also had a favourable impact. These
factors were partially offset by increased input and price-linked
costs and the unfavourable impact of the stronger Australian
dollar to US dollar exchange rate. 
Certain sales agreements of Base Metals provide for provisional
pricing based on the LME when shipped. Final settlement is
based on the average applicable price for a specified future
period. Base Metals records revenue upon transfer of title using
the forward rate in place for the relevant specified future period.
These revenues are adjusted to fair value through profit each
period until the date of the final pricing, using the lower of the
cash or forward curve price rather than period-end spot price
used previously. This is considered to appropriately measure the
fair value of the applicable sales agreements at period end.
Outstanding copper volumes subject to this adjustment at 
30 June 2005 amounted to 231 874 tonnes compared to 
1 97 864 tonnes in the corresponding year . These were revalued
at a weighted average rate of US$1 .54/lb compared to
US$1 .21/lb in the previous year . 
Carbon Steel Materials
EBIT was US$2821 million, an increase of US$1684 million or
148. 1 per cent, compared with the corresponding period. This
increase was mainly attributable to stronger commodity prices
for all products, record sales volumes from Western Australian
iron ore, Queensland Coal and manganese ore operations,
modified supply arrangements with BlueScope Steel Limited and
larger volumes of CIF shipments. 
69
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Customer Sector Group financial results
The table below provides a summary of the Customer Sector Group financial results for the year ended 30 June 2005, compared with
the corresponding year .
EBIT (excluding exceptionals) EBIT (including exceptionals)
2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Petroleum 1 830 1 391 2 020 1 457
Aluminium 977 776 977 776
Base Metals 2 177 1 156 2 147 674
Carbon Steel Materials 2 821 1 137 2 536 1 137
Diamonds and Specialty Products 41 7 41 0 41 1 41 0
Energy Coal 616 234 523 234
Stainless Steel Materials 758 57 1 861 561
Group and unallocated items (266) (187) (313) (229)
BHP Billiton Group 9 330 5 488 9 162 5 020 This was partially offset by the impact of Boodarie Iron not
operating at all during the year, and unit cost performance
across all operations being impacted by the stronger Australian
dollar and the South African rand relative to the US dollar .
Increased price-linked royalty costs and inflationary pressures 
on Australian and South African operations, compared with the
corresponding year, were also unfavourable impacts. In addition,
higher labour and contractor costs, increased stripping costs,
principally at Queensland Coal operations due to expansion
projects, and higher fuel costs for all operations had an
unfavourable impact during the year . Depreciation charges also
increased at Western Australian Iron Ore operations in respect of
the Area C and Products and Capacity Expansion projects. 
Diamonds and Specialty Products
EBIT was US$41 7 million, an increase of US$7 million or 
1 .7 per cent, compared with the corresponding period. 
Higher realised prices for diamonds (up 38 per cent from the
corresponding period) and titanium feedstock were offset by
lower diamond sales volumes (down 1 9 per cent from the prior
year), higher costs due to the processing of lower grade material
and the unfavourable impact of the stronger Canadian dollar to
US dollar exchange rate. In addition, the cessation of earnings
from Integris Metals (US) following its sale in January 2005 
also had an unfavourable impact. The prior period also included
profits realised on the sale of a non-core royalty interest 
(US$37 million), the impact of which was partly offset by the
profit realised on the sale of Integris (US$1 9 million) during the
current period. 
Energy Coal
EBIT was US$616 million, an increase of US$382 million or 
163.2 per cent, compared with the corresponding year . The
increase was mainly attributable to higher export prices,
resulting from continued strong demand in the Atlantic and
Pacific markets, as well as higher earnings from the trading of
third party product. In addition, US$37 million was charged to
profit in the previous period reflecting previously capitalised
exploration expenditure being written off as impaired. These
factors were partially offset by higher unit costs at Ingwe
reflecting the timing of major overhauls, increased consumable
usage and cost as well as increased utilisation of contractors.
The strengthening of the rand, Australian dollar and Colombian
peso against the US dollar as well as South African inflationary
pressures also had an unfavourable impact on operating costs.
Stainless Steel Materials
EBIT was US$758 million, an increase of US$187 million or 
32.7 per cent, compared with the corresponding period. The
increase was mainly due to higher realised prices for all products
with the average realised nickel price increasing 23.0 per cent
from US$5.49/lb to US$6.75/lb. The average realised price for
ferrochrome also increased over the corresponding period. 
The EBIT result includes earnings from the ferrochrome
operations for the 1 1 months to 1 June 2005 during which they
were owned by BHP Billiton. These operations were sold
effective 1 June 2005.
This was partially offset by higher price-linked ore supply costs
to the QNI Yabulu refinery and higher royalties at Cerro Matoso.
In addition, the strengthening of the Colombian peso and
Australian dollar against the US dollar, and higher fuel costs, 
had an unfavourable impact on operating costs. The current
period benefited from the profit on sale of the Acerinox share
investment (US$22 million) whilst the prior period result included
the profit from the sale of mineral rights in South Africa 
(US$30 million).
Group and unallocated items
Net corporate operating costs, excluding gains and losses 
from legacy Australian dollar to US dollar currency hedging and
other exchange impacts, were US$292 million, an increase of
US$34 million compared to US$258 million in the corresponding
period. This was primarily due to employee share award costs
which increased US$26 million over the corresponding period,
higher corporate project and regulatory compliance costs offset
by the profit on the close out of cash settled derivative contracts
for WMC shares. The prior period included gains on legacy
Australian dollar to US dollar currency hedging of US$39 million
which expired during that year .
Interest
Despite higher US dollar interest rates, net interest expense 
fell from US$502 million to US$421 million during the period.
This was principally driven by lower average debt levels and
increased interest income from higher average cash balances
and higher interest earning rates compared to the corresponding
period. This was partially offset by higher expense from
discounting of provisions and lower capitalisation of interest.
The corresponding period included exchange losses on net debt
of US$1 33 million, primarily related to the translation of rand
denominated debt.
T axation
The tax charge on earnings, excluding exceptional items, was
US$2215 million, representing an effective rate of 24.9 per cent.
Excluding the impacts of non tax-effected foreign currency
adjustments, translation of tax balances and other functional
currency translation adjustments, the effective rate was 
26.2 per cent. When compared to the UK and Australian
statutory tax rate (30 per cent), the underlying effective tax rate
benefited 3.9 per cent due to the recognition of US tax losses
(US$350 million). In addition, investment incentives and
development entitlements were recognised during the period
which were offset, to some extent, by non-deductible accounting
depreciation and amortisation and other items.
Financial position and cash flows
Balance sheet
T otal assets less current liabilities for the Group were 
US$32 954 million at 30 June 2005, an increase of 
US$7029 million from the 30 June 2004 position. The large
increase is attributable to the acquisition of WMC, as well as
retained profit for the financial year .
Equity shareholders’ funds for the BHP Billiton Group 
were US$1 7 153 million at 30 June 2005, an increase of 
US$31 15 million from the previous year . Net debt for the 
BHP Billiton Group increased by US$4743 million, or 
95.5 per cent, to US$9708 million at 30 June 2005. 
Gearing, which is the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net
assets, was 35.7 per cent at 30 June 2005, compared with 
25.7 per cent at 30 June 2004. The significant increase in net
debt relates to debt financing for the acquisition of WMC. 
In prior communication the Company had estimated that gearing
Financial Review continued
70 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> at 30 June 2005, following the WMC acquisition, would be 
42 per cent. The strong cash flows from the WMC and 
BHP Billiton businesses have resulted in a significantly lower
gearing level.
Return on capital for 30 June 2005 was 31 .5 per cent compared
to the corresponding period, which is in excess of the Group’s
objective of >15 per cent, and EBITDA interest coverage
increased from 21 . 1 times to 34.7 times at 30 June 2005.
Portfolio management
During the year, the ongoing review of the asset portfolio
continued to ensure alignment with our strategy of owning and
operating large, low-cost, long-life assets. As a result, the Group
acquired WMC, disposed of its economic interests in the majority
of its South African chrome business in June 2005 and sold our
interests in the Laminaria and Corallina oil fields (located in the
Timor Sea) in January 2005. Our equity interest in Integris Metals
(US) was sold for proceeds of US$202 million in January 2005.
We have also sold 50 per cent of our shareholding in Acerinox
S.A. for proceeds of US$56 million, and a 5.8 per cent equity
participation in the gas reserves associated with the North West
Shelf Project to CNOOC. Since July 2001, total proceeds on the
sale or divestment of assets totalled US$4.6 billion, including 
US$1 .8 billion for the capital reduction and loan repayments
resulting from the demerger of the BHP Steel business.
Capital management
In October 2004, Moody’s Investor Services (Moody’s) upgraded
BHP Billiton’s credit rating from A2 to A1, reflecting the Group’s
strengthened financial risk profile.
In March 2005, following the announcement of the takeover
offer for WMC, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s reviewed the
Group’s rating, with Standard & Poor’s maintaining the Group’s
A+ stable rating and Moody’s placing the outlook on
developing. In June 2005 Moody’s restored the Group’s outlook
to stable stating that the rating affirmation was prompted by the
successful acquisition of WMC at the price and on the terms
anticipated.
During the year, the Group completed both stages of its 
US$2 billion capital management programme. Stage one was
completed in November 2004 via a US$1 .78 billion off-market
share buy-back of 180.7 million BHP Billiton Limited shares or 
2.9 per cent of the issued capital of the BHP Billiton Group. 
The shares were purchased at A$12.57 per share, representing 
a 12 per cent discount to the volume weighted average price of
BHP Billiton shares over the five days up to and including the
buy-back closing date. The residual US$220 million was used 
to rebase the interim dividend declared in February 2005.
Cash flows
Available cash flow after interest and tax increased by 
70.4 per cent to US$8.7 billion. The key components of this
increase were increased cash generated from operating activities
(mainly due to higher profits), partly offset by increased taxation
payments.
Spending on capital, exploration and investment expenditures
totalled US$1 1 .0 billion for the period. Expenditure on growth
projects and investments amounted to US$1 0 467 million,
including US$6594 million for the acquisition of WMC, 
US$845 million on petroleum projects and US$1869 million 
on minerals projects. Sustaining and maintenance capital
expenditure was US$1 159 million. T otal expenditure on
exploration was US$533 million, including US$380 million on
petroleum activities and US$153 million on minerals activities. 
In addition, the current period includes US$1 .78 billion for the
repurchase of shares as part of the US$2 billion capital
management programme. 
Currency 
The Group has adopted the US dollar as its reporting currency
and, subject to some specific exceptions, its functional currency.
Currency fluctuations affect the profit and loss account in two
principal ways.
Sales are predominantly based on US dollar pricing (the principal
exceptions being Petroleum’s gas sales to Australian and UK
domestic customers and Energy Coal’s sales to South African
domestic customers). However, a proportion of operating costs
(particularly labour) arises in local currency of the operations,
most significantly the Australian dollar and South African rand,
but also the Brazilian real, the Chilean peso and Colombian
peso. Accordingly, changes in the exchange rates between these
currencies and the US dollar can have a significant impact on the
Group’s reported results.
Several subsidiaries hold certain monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in currencies other than their functional currency
(US dollars), in particular non-US dollar denominated tax
liabilities, provisions and, to a lesser extent, debt. Net debt is
primarily in US dollars, with South African rand net debt now
extinguished. Monetary assets and liabilities are converted into
US dollars at the closing rate. The resultant differences are
accounted for in the profit and loss account in accordance 
with UK GAAP .
The impact of restatement of non-US dollar debt, tax liabilities
and other monetary items is included in net interest expense,
income tax expense and EBIT , respectively. The impact on
attributable profit from the restatement of non-US dollar
monetary liabilities for the year ended 30 June 2005 is a loss 
of US$40 million compared to a US$278 million loss in the 
prior year .
Dividend
A final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2005 of 1 4.5 US cents
per share will be paid to shareholders on 28 September 2005. 
An interim dividend of 1 3.5 US cents per share was paid to
shareholders on 23 March 2005. That dividend included 
US$220 million (3.6 US cents per share) to complete the 
US$2 billion capital management programme announced in
August 2004. BHP Billiton intends to continue with its
progressive dividend policy.
The dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited will be fully franked 
for Australian taxation purposes. Dividends for the BHP Billiton
Group are determined and declared in US dollars. However, 
BHP Billiton Limited dividends are mainly paid in Australian
dollars and BHP Billiton Plc dividends are mainly paid in pounds
sterling to shareholders on the UK section of the register and
rand to shareholders on the South African section of the register . 
71
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 International Financial Reporting Standards
For reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, 
the Group must comply with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board. The Group’s DLC structure results in two parent
entities with their own statutory reporting obligations, one in
Australia and the other in the UK. This financial information has
been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards and
other UK financial reporting requirements (UK GAAP). There are
a number of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS identified 
to date as potentially having a significant effect on the Group’s
financial performance or financial position. The impacts of 
these adjustments are set out in note 35 of the financial
statements in this Annual Report. 
The regulatory bodies that promulgate UK GAAP and IFRS 
have significant ongoing projects that could affect the ultimate
differences between UK GAAP and IFRS and their impact on the
Group’s financial statements in the first IFRS compliant reports
for the year ended 30 June 2006 and in future years. Accordingly,
significant uncertainty remains as to the likely impact of IFRS on
the Group’s financial statements. 
Critical accounting policies
The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires 
BHP Billiton management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial
statements, and reported turnover and costs during the period.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and
judgments in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities,
turnover and costs. Management bases its estimates and
judgments on historical experience and on various other factors
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions and conditions.
We have identified the following critical accounting policies
under UK GAAP where management is required to make
estimates and assumptions and where actual results may differ
from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions
and may materially affect our financial results or financial
position reported in future periods.
Mineral and petroleum reserves
The reserves we report in this Annual Report are our estimates 
of the amount of product that we can economically and legally
extract from our properties. In order to calculate our reserves,
we must make estimates and assumptions about a range of
geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities,
grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs,
transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices (in
relation to mineral reserves – oil and gas reserves are based on
prices existing at the time of the estimates) and exchange rates. 
Estimating the quantity and/or grade of reserves requires us to
determine the size, shape, and depth of orebodies or fields by
analysing geological data such as drilling samples. This process
may require us to make complex and difficult geological
judgments and calculations in order to interpret the data.
Because the economic assumptions we use to estimate reserves
change from period to period, and because we generate
additional geological data as we undertake operations, our
estimates of economically recoverable reserves may change from
period to period. Changes in reported reserves may affect us in a
number of ways, including the following:
• our asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in
estimated future cash flows
• our depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged against
the profit and loss account may change where such charges
are determined by the units of production basis, or where the
useful economic lives of assets change
• our deferred overburden removal costs recorded in the
balance sheet or charged against the profit and loss account
may change due to changes in stripping ratios or where such
charges are determined by the units of production basis
• our decommissioning, site restoration and environmental
provisions may change where changes in our estimated
reserves affect our expectations in respect of the timing or
cost of these activities, or
• our provisions against deferred tax assets may change due 
to changes in the estimated certainty of realising the tax
benefits.
Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure
Certain exploration, evaluation and development expenditure 
is capitalised where we consider that it is likely that we will be
able to recover the expenditure by future exploitation or sale, 
or where the activities have not reached a stage which permits 
a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially
recoverable reserves. This process necessarily requires our
management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to
future events and circumstances, in particular, whether we can
establish an economically viable extraction operation. Any such
estimates and assumptions may change as new information
becomes available. If, after having capitalised expenditure 
under this policy we conclude that we are unlikely to recover 
the expenditure by future exploitation or sale, then the relevant
capitalised amount will be written off to the profit and loss
account. An amount of US$584 million has been carried forward
in net tangible fixed assets as capitalised exploration and
evaluation expenditure at 30 June 2005. This primarily relates to
capitalised Petroleum exploration and evaluation costs, mainly
for activities in the Gulf of Mexico.
T angible assets valuation
We review the carrying value of each income-generating unit at
least annually to evaluate whether the carrying amount is
recoverable. We may review assets more regularly if an event or
change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount 
of an asset may not be recoverable. We determine if an asset is
impaired by comparing the carrying value with the higher of net
realisable value and value in use. We generally determine value
in use by discounting expected future cash flows using a risk-
adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to the risks inherent
in the asset. We estimate future cash flows based on expected
production and sales volumes, commodity prices (considering
current and historical prices, price trends and related factors),
recoverable reserves, operating costs, reclamation costs and
capital costs. These estimates are subject to risk and uncertainty,
hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will
alter these projections, which may impact the recoverability of
these assets. In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying
value of these assets may be impaired and we would charge the
impairment against the profit and loss account.
Financial Review continued
72 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Defined benefit pension costs and other post-retirement
benefits
We operate or participate in a number of post-retirement
schemes (including pensions and medical benefits plans)
throughout the world. The funding of the schemes comply with
local regulations. The assets of the schemes, where applicable,
are generally held separately from ours and are administered by
trustee or management boards.
We use Statement of Standard Accounting Practice (SSAP) 
24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’ under UK GAAP to record our
assets, liabilities and costs in the balance sheet and profit and
loss account in respect of these schemes. This basis of
measurement takes into account the performance of scheme
assets, where applicable, and changes in the funded status of
each scheme, to the extent that deficits represent a legal or
constructive obligation to our employees and that surpluses are
recoverable by us, over the expected remaining service lives of
employees. We consequently recognise a liability or asset in the
balance sheet to the extent that the contributions payable either
lag or precede expense recognition. 
The process necessarily requires management to make certain
estimates and assumptions as to future returns on various
classes of assets, where applicable, future remuneration
changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes
in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and
expected remaining service lives of our employees. In making
these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice
provided by external advisors, such as actuaries. 
In addition, an alternative policy acceptable under UK GAAP
would be the application of FRS 1 7 ‘Retirement Benefits’. Under
FRS 1 7 , which is similar to IAS1 9 ‘Employee Benefits’ which we
adopted from 1 July 2005, all surpluses would be recognised to
the extent they are considered recoverable and all deficits would
be recognised in full. For disclosures under the transitionary
provisions of FRS 1 7 , which is not yet mandatory, you should
refer to note 27 ‘Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits’
of this Annual Report. If we had applied FRS 1 7 in preparing 
our financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2005, 
our shareholders’ funds would have been approximately 
US$550 million lower, mainly reflecting the impacts on our
schemes of movements in global equity markets, and our profit
after tax would have been approximately US$5 million higher .
Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental costs
Our activities are subject to various national, regional, and 
local laws and regulations governing the protection of the
environment. Furthermore, we have a policy of ensuring that
reclamation is planned and financed from the early stages of any
operation. Provision is made for the cost of reclamation of our
mining and processing facilities along with the decommissioning
of our oil platforms and infrastructure associated with petroleum
activities. Our estimation of the cost of future reclamation and
decommissioning activities is subject to uncertainties. These
uncertainties include the legal and regulatory framework, the
magnitude of possible contamination, and the timing and extent
of reclamation and decommissioning activities required. While
the provisions at 30 June 2005 represent our best estimate of
the future costs required, these uncertainties might result in
future actual expenditure differing from the amounts provided 
at this time. 
At 30 June 2005, we had provided US$3584 million for
reclamation and decommissioning costs in the provision for site
rehabilitation. Of this amount, US$1 1 09 million was provided for
closed sites. Adjustments to the provisions in relation to these
closed sites are recognised in the profit and loss account during
the period in which the adjustments are made. In addition to 
the uncertainties noted above, certain of these activities are
subject to legal disputes and depending on the ultimate
resolution of these issues the final liability for these matters
could vary. We review the amounts provided in relation to closed
sites periodically based upon the facts and circumstances
available at the time and our provisions are updated accordingly.
We believe that it is reasonably possible that, due to the nature
of closed site liabilities and the degree of uncertainty that
surrounds them, our liabilities in relation to closed sites could 
be in the order of 30 per cent greater or 20 per cent lower than
the US$1 1 09 million provided for at year end.
Deferred taxation
We recognise deferred tax assets in our balance sheet only
where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. 
A proportion of deferred tax assets recorded in the balance
sheet relate to current or prior period tax losses and capital
losses where management considers that it is more likely than
not that we will recover these losses in future periods through
the generation of sufficient future taxable profits. Our
assumptions in relation to the generation of sufficient future
taxable profits depend on our estimates of future cash flows,
which are estimated based on production and sales plans,
commodity prices, recoverable reserves, operating costs,
reclamation costs and planned capital costs. These estimates are
subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that
changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may
impact the recoverability of the assets recorded in our balance
sheet and those tax losses and timing differences not
recognised. In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying
value of these deferred tax assets may require provisioning and
we would charge the expense to the profit and loss account, and
conversely, some or all of the provisions against the tax losses
and timing differences excluded may be reversed and we would
credit the benefit to the profit and loss account. 
At 30 June 2005, our deferred tax assets included 
US$964 million in relation to current or prior period tax losses
and capital losses, and our deferred tax assets exclude 
US$609 million in relation to current or prior period tax losses
and capital losses and US$668 million in relation to timing
differences where management has concluded that it is more
likely than not that we will not generate sufficient future
relevant income to recover these losses and timing differences 
in future periods. 
Under UK GAAP deferred tax balances are not recognised for
unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on US dollar net
debt, including intra-group balances, in subsidiaries which
maintain local currency records for tax purposes. As at 
30 June 2005, the BHP Billiton Group has not recognised 
US$516 million of potential tax expense. This deferred tax
liability will be recognised from 1 July 2005 when the Group
adopts IAS12 ‘Income T axes’.
73
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction
with the statement of auditor’s responsibilities included in the
report of the auditors set out on the following page, is made
with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective
responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in relation to
the financial statements.
The Directors are required by the United Kingdom Companies
Act 1 985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year
that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of BHP
Billiton Plc and the BHP Billiton Group at the end of the period
and of the profit and loss for the period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the BHP Billiton
Group will continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 
the financial position of BHP Billiton Plc, and which enable the
Directors to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1 985. They have general responsibility for taking
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the BHP Billiton Group and to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  of the preparation of the financial statements
74 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> We have audited the financial statements on pages 77 to 184. 
We have also audited the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1 985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report. As described on 
page 74, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law
and accounting standards. Our responsibilities, as independent
auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the
Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and by our profession’s ethical guidance. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1 985. We also report to you if, in our opinion,
the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified
by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions with
the Group is not disclosed. 
We review whether the statement on page 43 reflects the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report
if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the
Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures. 
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report,
including the Corporate Governance Statement and the
unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. 
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the
financial statements, and of whether the accounting polices are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated 
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited. 
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 June 2005
and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended; and
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1 985.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor
London, 8 September 2005
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of BHP Billiton Plc
75
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 76 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Contents
page
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 78
Consolidated Statement of T otal Recognised 
Gains and Losses 80
Consolidated Balance Sheet 81
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 82
Dual Listed Companies Structure and Basis of 
Preparation of Financial Statements 84
Accounting Policies 85
Financial Statements
>
77 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
page
1 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
joint arrangements 90
2 Exceptional items 93
3 Acquired operations 95
4 Analysis by business segment 98
5 Analysis by geographical segment 100
6 Reconciliation of net operating assets 101
7 Net operating costs 101
8 Net interest and similar items payable 103
9 Employees 104
1 0 T axation 105
1 1 Dividends 11 0
12 Earnings per share 111
1 3 Intangible assets 11 2
14 T angible fixed assets 11 3
15 Fixed asset investments 11 4
16 Stocks 11 5
1 7 Debtors 11 5
18 Current asset investments 11 6
1 9 Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 11 6
page
20 Creditors – amounts falling due after more than 
one year 11 7
21 Provisions for liabilities and charges 11 8
22 Called up share capital and contributed equity 120
23 Employee share ownership plans 12 1
24 Reserves 128
25 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 128
26 Commitments 129
27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits 130
28 Analysis of movements in net debt 14 1
29 Financial instruments 14 1
30 Related parties 154
31 Specified executives 154
32 Contingent liabilities 15 7
33 BHP Billiton Plc (unconsolidated parent company) 158
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
disclosures 161
35 Impact of adopting International Financial 
Reporting Standards 17 8
Supplementary Information
page
Supplementary Oil and Gas Information 185
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves 
Information 194
Shareholder Information 21 4
Notes to Financial Statements Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30 June 2005
78 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
2005
Continuing
Operations T otal
excluding Continuing
acquisitions Operations
and excluding Exceptional
exceptional Acquisitions exceptional items
items (note 3) items (note 2) Total
Notes US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Turnover (including share of joint ventures 
and associates)
Group production 24 61 1 248 24 859 – 24 859
Third party products 4 6 945 – 6 945 – 6 945
4,5 31 556 248 31 804 – 31 804
less Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ 
turnover included above 4,5 (2 21 7) – (2 21 7) – (2 21 7)
Group turnover 5 29 339 248 29 587 – 29 587
Net operating costs
(a)
7 (20 992) (213) (21 205) (79) (21 284)
Group operating profit/(loss) 8 347 35 8 382 (79) 8 303
Share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates 4,5, 1 5 799 – 799 – 799
Operating profit/(loss) (including share of 
operating profit of joint ventures and associates) 9 146 35 9 181 (79) 9 102
Comprising:
Group production 9 032 35 9 067 (79) 8 988
Third party products 4 11 4 – 11 4 – 11 4
9 146 35 9 181 (79) 9 102
Income from other fixed asset investments 37 – 37 – 37
Profit on sale of fixed assets 11 2 – 11 2 56 1 68
Profit on sale of operations ––– 242 242
Loss on termination of operations 2 – – – (387) (387)
Loss on sale of Discontinued Operations 2 –––––
Profit/(loss) before net interest and similar items 
payable and taxation 4,5 9 295 35 9 330 (168) 9 162
Net interest and similar items payable
Group 8 (383) – (383)
Joint ventures and associates 4,8 (38) – (38)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 4,5 8 909 (168) 8 741
T axation 1 0 (2 215) 104 (2 1 1 1)
Profit/(loss) after taxation 6 694 (64) 6 630
Equity minority interests (182) (50) (232)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year (attributable profit) 6 512 (1 14) 6 398
Dividends to shareholders 1 1 (1 695) – (1 695)
Retained profit/(loss) for the financial year 24 4 81 7 (1 14) 4 703
Earnings per ordinary share (basic) (US cents) 12 106.4 (1.9) 104.5
Earnings per ordinary share (diluted) (US cents) 12 105.8 (1 .9) 103.9
Dividend per ordinary share (US cents) 1 1 28.0 79
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
2004 2003
Continuing Continuing
Operations Operations
excluding Exceptional excluding Exceptional
exceptional items exceptional items
Items (note 2) T otal Items (note 2) T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
18 283 – 18 283 14 124 – 14 124
6 660 – 6 660 3 382 – 3 382
24 943 – 24 943 1 7 506 – 1 7 506
(2 056) – (2 056) (1 898) – (1 898)
22 887 – 22 887 15 608 – 15 608
(1 7 960) 66 (1 7 894) (12 554) – (12 554)
4 927 66 4 993 3 054 – 3 054
425 – 425 358 – 358
5 352 66 5 418 3 412 – 3 412
5 31 9 66 5 385 3 361 – 3 361
33 – 33 5 1 – 5 1
5 352 66 5 418 3 412 – 3 412
35 – 35 16 – 16
95 –9546 –46
6 –67 –7
– (534) (534) – – –
–––– (19) (19)
5 488 (468) 5 020 3 481 (1 9) 3 462
(407) – (407) (444) – (444)
(95) – (95) (93) – (93)
4 986 (468) 4 518 2 944 (1 9) 2 925
(1 379) 337 (1 042) (984) – (984)
3 607 (1 31) 3 476 1 960 (1 9) 1 941
(97) – (97) (40) – (40)
3 51 0 (1 31) 3 379 1 920 (1 9) 1 901
(1 61 7) – (1 61 7) (900) – (900)
1 893 (1 31) 1 762 1 020 (1 9) 1 001
56.4 (2. 1) 54.3 30.9 (0.3) 30.6
56.2 (2. 1) 54. 1 30.9 (0.3) 30.6
26.0 1 4.5
(a)
Exceptional items include US$50 million of net operating costs relating to the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd. Refer note 2.
The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements. Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses for the year ended 30 June 2005
80 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Group Joint ventures and associates T otal
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Attributable profit for the financial year
(a)
5 834 3 156 1 737 564 223 164 6 398 3 379 1 901
Exchange gains on foreign currency 
net investments
(b)
7 48 67 – –– 7 48 67
Total recognised gains for the financial year 5 841 3 204 1 804 564 223 164 6 405 3 427 1 968
Prior year adjustment arising from the change 
in accounting policy in 2004 – 84 – – –– – 84 –
T otal recognised gains since last annual report 5 841 3 288 1 804 564 223 164 6 405 3 51 1 1 968
(a)
Included in joint ventures’ and associates’ attributable profit is a profit of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$25 million) relating to associated companies.
(b)
Exchange gains on foreign currency net investments include net exchange gains on designated foreign currency borrowings, which hedge overseas investments, 
of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$7 million) and associated tax expense of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$2 million).
The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements. Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2005
81
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
2005 2004
Notes US$M US$M
Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Goodwill 13 17 34
17 34
T angible assets 14 30 347 20 945
Investments
Joint ventures – share of gross assets 2 810 2 951
Joint ventures – share of gross liabilities (1 285) (1 582)
15 1 525 1 369
Loans to joint ventures and other investments 15 182 361
Total fixed assets 32 071 22 709
Current assets
Stocks 16 2 568 1 760
Debtors
Amounts due within one year 17 3 61 1 2 924
Amounts due after more than one year 1 7 2 068 1 482
5 679 4 406
Investments 18 21 2 16 7
Cash including money market deposits 28 1 418 1 818
Total current assets 9 877 8 151
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 1 9 (8 994) (4 935)
Net current assets 883 3 216
Total assets less current liabilities 32 954 25 925
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 20 (8 555) (5 987)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 21 (6 910) (5 558)
Net assets 17 489 14 380
Equity minority interests (336) (342)
Attributable net assets 17 153 14 038
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital – BHP Billiton Plc 22 1 234 1 234
Share premium account 24 51 8 51 8
Contributed equity – BHP Billiton Limited 22 1 61 1 1 851
Profit and loss account 24 13 798 10 461
Interest in shares of BHP Billiton 25 (8) (26)
Equity shareholders’ funds 25 17 153 14 038
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 September 2005 and signed on its behalf by: 
Don Argus Charles Goodyear
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 30 June 2005
82 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
2005 2004
(b)
2003
(b)
Notes US$M US$M US$M
Net cash inflow from Group operating activities
(a)
10 628 6 566 4 834
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 255 203 1 97
Interest paid (353) (347) (383)
Dividends paid on redeemable preference shares (25) (23) (28)
Interest received 79 78 36
Other dividends received 37 35 1 5
Dividends paid to equity minority interests (238) (75) (38)
Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance (500) (332) (398)
T axation paid (1 695) (1 337) (1 002)
Available cash flow 8 688 5 1 00 3 631
Purchases of tangible fixed assets (3 831) (2 589) (2 571)
Exploration expenditure (533) (454) (348)
Disposals of tangible fixed assets 155 15 7 99
Purchase of investments and funding of joint ventures (42) (35) (95)
Sale of investments and repayments by joint ventures
(c)
227 89 560
Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment (4 024) (2 832) (2 355)
Investment in subsidiaries (6 594) ––
Cash acquired from investment in subsidiaries 40 ––
Disposal or sale of subsidiaries and operations 563 53 358
Cash transferred on disposal or sale of subsidiaries and operations (90) (5) (86)
Disposal of joint ventures and associates 202 13 1 133
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from acquisitions and disposals (5 879) 17 9 405
Net cash flow before equity dividends paid, management of liquid resources and financing (1 215) 2 447 1 681
Equity dividends paid (1 404) (1 501) (830)
Net cash flow before management of liquid resources and financing (2 619) 946 851
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from management of liquid resources 28 998 (1 78) (665)
Finance lease obligations (22) (9) –
Debt due within one year – repayment of loans (1 933) (854) (2 718)
Debt due within one year – drawdowns 2 651 256 1 435
Debt due after more than one year – repayment of loans (42) (482) (1 438)
Debt due after more than one year – drawdowns 3 103 254 2 263
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from debt and finance leases 3 757 (835) (458)
Share repurchase scheme – BHP Billiton Plc – –(20)
Share repurchase scheme – BHP Billiton Limited (1 792) ––
Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts (47) (25) (6)
Issue of shares 66 76 1 72
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing 1 984 (784) (31 2)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the financial year 363 (16) (1 26) 83
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
2005 2004
(b)
2003
(b)
Notes US$M US$M US$M
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the financial year 363 (16) (1 26)
Net cash flow from debt and finance leases (3 757) 835 458
Net cash flow from management of liquid resources (998) 17 8 665
(Increase)/decrease in net debt arising from cash flows (4 392) 997 997
Money market deposits and loans acquired with subsidiaries (381) ––
Loans transferred on disposal of operations 48 ––
Other non-cash movements 28 – (31) 232
Increase in net debt from exchange adjustments 28 (18) (1 04) (1 46)
(Increase)/decrease in net debt (4 743) 862 1 083
Net debt at beginning of the financial year 28 (4 965) (5 827) (6 91 0)
Net debt at end of the financial year 28 (9 708) (4 965) (5 827)
(a) 
Net cash inflow from Group operating activities
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Group operating profit 8 303 4 993 3 054
Depreciation and amortisation 1 952 1 751 1 648
Impairment of assets 16 11 6 7 3
Employee share awards 11 6 96 70
Net exploration charge (excluding impairment of assets) 353 284 248
Increase in stocks (393) (356) (250)
Increase in debtors (631) (734) (286)
Increase in creditors 71 1 365 1 04
Increase in provisions 199 48 1 28
Other items 2 345
Net cash inflow from Group operating activities 10 628 6 566 4 834
(b)
Restated – refer note 28.
(c)
The impact on the BHP Billiton Group’s cash flows of the demerger of the BHP Steel business in July 2002 was a cash inflow of US$347 million. This represents 
US$294 million from the settlement by BHP Steel of intercompany loans, less US$22 million demerger transaction costs paid, which are both included in net cash
(outflow)/inflow from acquisitions and disposals, and US$75 million from the sale of the 6 per cent interest in BHP Steel which is included in the sale of investments 
and repayments by joint ventures.
The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements. Merger terms
On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Plc (previously known as Billiton Plc), 
a UK listed company, and BHP Billiton Limited (previously known as 
BHP Limited), an Australian listed company, entered into a Dual Listed
Companies (DLC) merger . This was effected by contractual arrangements
between the Companies and amendments to their constitutional
documents.
The effect of the DLC merger is that BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries
(the BHP Billiton Plc Group) and BHP Billiton Limited and its subsidiaries
(the BHP Billiton Limited Group) operate together as a single economic
entity (the BHP Billiton Group), with neither assuming a dominant role.
Under the arrangements:
• the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have a
common economic interest in both Groups;
• the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited take key
decisions, including the election of Directors, through a joint electoral
procedure under which the shareholders of the two Companies
effectively vote on a joint basis;
• BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have a common Board of
Directors, a unified management structure and joint objectives;
• dividends and capital distributions made by the two Companies are
equalised; and
• BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited each executed a deed poll
guarantee, guaranteeing (subject to certain exceptions) the contractual
obligations (whether actual or contingent, primary or secondary) of the
other incurred after 29 June 2001 together with specified obligations
existing at that date.
If either BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited proposes to pay a
dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must pay a
matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its
shareholders. If either Company is prohibited by law or is otherwise
unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such a
matching dividend, then BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited will, so far
as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with each other
as the Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as to enable both
Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable at the same time.
The DLC merger did not involve the change of legal ownership of any
assets of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited, any change of ownership
of any existing shares or securities of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton
Limited, the issue of any shares or securities or any payment by way of
consideration, save for the issue by each Company of one special voting
share to a trustee company which is the means by which the joint
electoral procedure is operated. In addition, to achieve a position where
the economic and voting interests of one share in BHP Billiton Plc and one
share in BHP Billiton Limited were identical, BHP Billiton Limited made a
bonus issue of ordinary shares to the holders of its ordinary shares.
Treatment of the DLC merger for accounting purposes
Under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), the DLC
merger is treated as a business combination because a single economic
entity has been formed, even though BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton
Limited remain separate legal entities. The consolidated financial
statements of BHP Billiton Plc therefore include those of BHP Billiton
Limited and its subsidiaries in accordance with the requirements of
s227(5) of the Companies Act 1 985.
The DLC merger is accounted for using the merger method of accounting
in accordance with UK accounting standards as this is its substance. 
The nature of the DLC merger has resulted in the inclusion of amounts
attributable to the shareholders of both BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton
Limited in capital and reserves on the balance sheet, and in attributable
profit. 
Dual Listed Companies Structure and Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements
84 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost
convention (except as discussed under tangible fixed assets below) and 
in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards, the Statement of
Recommended Practice (‘SORP’) ‘Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration,
Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities’ issued by the
UK Oil Industry Accounting Committee on 7 June 2001 and the United
Kingdom Companies Act 1 985. The financial statements of the BHP
Billiton Group include the combination of BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton
Limited and their respective subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities
controlled by either parent entity. Control generally exists where the
parent owns a majority of voting rights in the subsidiary. The financial
statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date control commences until the date control
ceases. Where the BHP Billiton Group’s interest is less than 1 00 per cent,
the share attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in minority
interests. In preparing the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group,
the effects of transactions between entities within the BHP Billiton Group
have been eliminated. 
A reconciliation of the major differences between the financial statements
prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and
those applicable under US GAAP is included in note 34.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities in
the BHP Billiton Group and are consistent with those applied in the prior
two years. The accounting policy for employee share awards was changed
in the prior year . The impact of the change on the 2003 profit and loss
account was immaterial and accordingly this was not restated.
Currency of presentation
All amounts are expressed in US dollars unless otherwise stated.
Acquisitions, disposals and goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values reflecting conditions at the
date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable separable assets 
and liabilities acquired. On the acquisition of a minority interest in a
subsidiary undertaking, attributable fair values are recognised in relation
to the relevant proportion of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the
subsidiary undertaking.
Mineral and petroleum reserves and resources, which can be reliably
valued, are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves and resources and mineral rights, for which
values cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised. Accordingly,
goodwill arising on acquisition may include amounts in respect of these
items.
Where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of
the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, the difference is treated 
as purchased goodwill and any excess of the fair value of the identifiable
assets and liabilities acquired over the fair value of the consideration
given is treated as negative goodwill. Goodwill arising on acquisitions
since 1 July 1 998 is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful
economic life. Currently, useful economic lives range between 1 7 and 
20 years. Goodwill and negative goodwill arising on acquisitions prior 
to 1 July 1 998 remain set off against the profit and loss account reserve.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired
business, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after
charging or crediting the amount of any related goodwill previously taken
directly to reserves and/or the unamortised balance of any goodwill
capitalised.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is an entity in which the BHP Billiton Group holds a long-
term interest and which is jointly controlled by the BHP Billiton Group 
and one or more other venturers. Decisions regarding the financial and
operating policies essential to the activities, economic performance and
financial position of that venture require the consent of each of the
venturers that together jointly control the entity. Joint management of
these ventures is not necessary to create joint control provided that in
practice each relevant venturer’s consent is required for strategic decisions.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity
method of accounting. Under the gross equity method, the cost of the
investment in the venture is adjusted by the BHP Billiton Group’s
proportionate share of the results of the venture less the amortisation 
of any attributable goodwill on acquisition.
Joint arrangements
The BHP Billiton Group has certain contractual arrangements with other
participants to engage in joint activities where all significant matters of
operating and financial policy are determined by the participants such
that the entity itself has no significant independence to pursue its own
commercial strategy. These contractual arrangements do not create an
entity, such as a joint venture, due to the fact that these policies are
those of the participants, not a separate entity carrying on a trade or
business of its own.
The financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group include its share of the
assets, liabilities and cash flows in such joint arrangements, measured in
accordance with the terms of each arrangement, which is usually pro-rata
to the BHP Billiton Group’s interest in the joint arrangement.
Foreign currencies
The BHP Billiton Group’s reporting and dominant functional currency is 
US dollars as this is the principal currency in which BHP Billiton Group
companies operate.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies (currencies other than 
the functional currency of the entity) are recorded using the exchange
rate ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the 
rate of exchange under the related forward currency contract. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated
using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains
or losses on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account, with
the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency
provisions for site restoration which are capitalised in tangible fixed assets.
Profit and loss accounts of subsidiaries, joint ventures and joint
arrangements which have functional currencies other than US dollars are
translated to US dollars at average rates for the relevant reporting period,
other than exceptional items which are translated at the rate at the date
of the transaction. Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates
prevailing at the relevant balance sheet date. Exchange variations
resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investment in
such subsidiaries and joint arrangements, together with differences
between their profit and loss accounts translated at average and closing
rates, are shown as a movement in reserves and in the consolidated
statement of total recognised gains and losses. Exchange differences
arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings used to finance such
investments, together with any related taxation effects, are also shown
as a movement in reserves and in the consolidated statement of total
recognised gains and losses.
Accounting Policies
85
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Turnover
Turnover from the sale of goods is recognised when persuasive evidence,
usually in the form of an executed sales agreement, of an arrangement
exists indicating there has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the
customer, no further work or processing is required by the BHP Billiton
Group, the quantity and quality of the goods have been determined with
reasonable accuracy, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility 
is reasonably assured. This is generally when title passes.
In the majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements specify
that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date the
commodity is delivered to the shipping agent. Revenue is recognised on
the bill of lading date. For certain sales (principally coal sales to adjoining
power stations and diamond sales), title passes and revenue is recognised
when the goods have been delivered.
In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for an
adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods by the
customer (for instance an assay for mineral content), recognition of the
sales revenue is based on the most recently determined estimate of
product specifications. 
Turnover is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable from
production.
The BHP Billiton Group differentiates sales of Group production from sales
of third party products due to the significant difference in profit margin
earned on these sales.
Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure
Development expenditure, including deferred overburden removal costs,
for both minerals and petroleum activities is capitalised.
In respect of minerals, exploration and evaluation expenditure is
predominantly charged to the profit and loss account as incurred. 
In limited circumstances such expenditure is capitalised when:
• it is expected that the expenditure will be recouped by future
exploitation or sale; and
• substantial exploration and evaluation activities have identified a
mineral resource with sufficient certainty that permits a reasonable
assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
In respect of petroleum, exploration and evaluation expenditure is
accounted for in accordance with the successful efforts method on an
area-of-interest basis where:
• significant exploration licence acquisition costs are capitalised and
amortised over the term of the licence, except for costs in new
unexplored areas which are expensed as incurred;
• administrative costs that are not directed to a specific area-of-interest
are expensed in the year in which they are incurred;
• all other exploration and evaluation expenditure is charged against 
the profit and loss account except where the expenditure relates to 
an area-of-interest and it is expected that the expenditure will be
recouped by future exploitation or sale, or, at balance sheet date
exploration and evaluation activities have not reached a stage which
permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially
recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure is capitalised as 
a tangible fixed asset;
• exploratory wells that find oil or gas in an area requiring major capital
expenditure before production can begin are continually evaluated to
assure that commercial quantities of reserves have been found or that
additional exploration work is underway or planned. T o the extent it is
considered that the relevant expenditure will not be recovered, it is
written off; and
• when proved reserves of oil or gas are determined and development 
is sanctioned and completed, the relevant expenditure, together with
related development expenditure, is amortised on a units of 
production basis.
Deferred overburden removal costs
Stripping ratios are a function of the quantity of ore mined compared
with the quantity of overburden, or waste, required to be removed to
mine the ore. Deferral of costs to the balance sheet is made, where
appropriate, when actual stripping ratios vary from average stripping
ratios. Deferral of costs to the balance sheet is not made where ore is
expected to be evenly distributed.
Costs, which have previously been deferred to the balance sheet
(deferred overburden removal costs), are included in the profit and loss
account on a units of production basis utilising average stripping ratios.
Changes in estimates of average stripping ratios are accounted for
prospectively from the date of the change.
As it is not possible to separately identify cash inflows relating to deferred
overburden removal costs, such assets are grouped with other assets of
an income generating unit for the purposes of undertaking impairment
assessments, where necessary, based on future cash flows for the income
generating unit as a whole.
Research and development expenditure
Expenditure for research is included in the profit and loss account as
incurred on the basis that continuing research is part of the overall cost 
of being in business. T o the extent that future benefits deriving from
development expenditure are expected beyond any reasonable doubt to
exceed such expenditure, these costs are capitalised and amortised over
the period of expected benefit.
Net interest cost
Net interest cost is generally expensed as incurred except where it relates
to the financing of construction or development of assets requiring a
substantial period of time to prepare for their intended future use.
Interest is capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its
intended use. The amount of interest capitalised (gross of tax) for the
period is determined by applying the interest rate applicable to
appropriate borrowings outstanding during the period to the average
amount of accumulated expenditure for the assets during the period.
T angible fixed assets
Valuation
Fixed assets are generally included in the financial statements at
historical cost. Prior to the adoption of FRS 15 ‘T angible Fixed Assets’,
certain fixed assets had been included in the financial statements at
revalued amounts. With effect from 1 July 1 998, such valuations were
frozen and effectively treated as the cost of the fixed asset and no further
revaluations were made.
Fixed assets are assessed to ensure carrying amounts do not exceed
estimated recoverable amounts. The assessment of capitalised
exploration and evaluation expenditure is described above. For other
fixed assets, the carrying amount of each income generating unit is
reviewed at least annually to evaluate whether the carrying amount is
recoverable. Assets are reviewed more regularly if an event or change in
circumstances indicates that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. If the asset is determined to be impaired, an impairment loss
will be recorded and the asset written down based on the amount by
which the asset carrying amount exceeds the higher of net realisable
value and value in use. Value in use is generally determined by
discounting expected future cash flows using a risk-adjusted pre-tax
discount rate appropriate to the risks inherent in the asset. Future cash
flows are estimated based on expected production and sales volumes,
commodity prices (considering current and historical prices, price trends
and related factors), recoverable reserves, operating costs, reclamation
costs and capital costs. These estimates are subject to risk and
uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will
alter these projections, which may impact the recoverability of these assets.
Accounting Policies continued
86 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Mineral rights
Mineral rights acquired by the BHP Billiton Group are accounted for at
cost with provisions made where impairments in value have occurred.
Exploitable mineral rights are capitalised and depreciated from
commencement of production over the production life of the asset. 
Mineral leases
The BHP Billiton Group’s mineral leases are of sufficient duration (or
convey a legal right to renew for sufficient duration) to enable all
reserves on the leased properties to be mined in accordance with 
current production schedules. 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
The carrying amount of tangible fixed assets (including the original
capital expenditure and any subsequent replacement expenditure) is
depreciated to its estimated residual value over the useful economic lives
of the specific assets concerned or the life of the mine or lease, if shorter .
The major categories of tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a units
of production and/or straight-line basis as follows:
• Buildings – 25 to 50 years straight-line
• Freehold land – not depreciated
• Plant, machinery and equipment – 4 to 30 years straight-line
• Mineral rights – based on the estimated life of
reserves on a units of production
basis
• Exploration, evaluation and – over the life of the proven and 
development expenditure of probable reserves on a units of 
minerals assets and other production basis
mining assets
• Petroleum interests – over the life of the proved
developed oil and gas reserves 
on a units of production basis
• Leasehold land and buildings – over the life of the lease up to 
a maximum of 50 years
• Vehicles – 3 to 5 years straight-line
• Capitalised leased assets – up to 50 years or life of lease,
whichever is shorter
• Computer systems – up to 8 years straight-line
Changes in estimates are accounted for over the estimated remaining
economic life or the remaining commercial reserves as applicable.
Other 
The cost of tangible fixed assets includes financing and other appropriate
direct and indirect costs incurred on major capital projects from the
commencement of construction until the start of commercial production.
Leases
Assets held under leases which result in the BHP Billiton Group receiving
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset (finance
leases) are capitalised as tangible fixed assets at the estimated present
value of underlying lease payments.
The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within creditors
due within or after more than one year . The interest element is allocated
to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each 
accounting period.
Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments are
generally charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis
over the lease term. Provision is made for future operating lease payments
in relation to surplus lease space when it is first determined that the 
space will be of no probable future benefit. Operating lease incentives 
are recognised as a liability when received and subsequently reduced by
allocating lease payments between rental expense and the liability.
Other investments
Fixed asset investments, other than joint ventures and associates, are
stated individually at cost less provisions for impairments.
Current asset investments are valued at the lower of cost and net
realisable value and dividends are credited to profit on a receivable basis.
Interest is included in the profit and loss account on an accrual basis. In
determining net realisable values, market values are used in the case of
listed investments and Directors’ estimates are used in the case of
unlisted investments.
Stocks
Stocks, including work in progress, are valued at the lower of cost and
net realisable value. Cost is determined primarily on the basis of average
costs. In some cases, the first-in-first-out method or actual cost is used.
For processed inventories, cost is derived on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing raw materials and cost of production,
including attributable mining and manufacturing overheads.
Deferred taxation
T ax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax and resource
rent tax. Deferred tax liabilities, the provision for resource rent tax and
deferred tax assets represent the tax effect of timing differences which
arise from the recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and
expense in periods different to those in which they are taxable or
deductible for corporation tax or resource rent tax purposes. Full
provision is made, except as follows:
• tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is provided only to the
extent that dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding
agreement to distribute past earnings exists;
• deferred tax is not recognised on the difference between carrying
amounts and fair values of non-monetary assets arising on acquisitions
or purchased fixed assets which have subsequently been revalued
unless there is a binding agreement to sell such an asset and the gain
or loss expected to arise has been recognised; and
• deferred tax assets are recognised only where it is more likely than not
that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are
expected to apply when the timing differences are expected to reverse. 
Provision for employee benefits
Provision is made in the accounts for all employee benefits, including 
on-costs. In relation to industry-based long service leave funds, the 
BHP Billiton Group’s share of debtors and creditors, including obligations
for funding shortfalls, has been recognised.
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits,
annual leave and accumulating sick leave expected to be settled within
12 months of the reporting date are recognised in other creditors or
provision for employee benefits in respect of employees’ services up to
the reporting date and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid
when the liabilities are settled. Liabilities for non-accumulating sick leave
are recognised when the leave is taken and measured at the rates paid 
or payable.
87
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 The liability for long service leave expected to be settled within 12 months
of the reporting date is recognised in the provision for employee benefits
and is measured in accordance with annual leave above. The liability for
long service leave expected to be settled more than 12 months from the
reporting date is recognised in the provision for employee benefits and
measured as the present value of expected future payments to be made
in respect of services provided by employees up to the reporting date.
Consideration is given to expected future wage and salary levels,
experience of employee departures and periods of service. Expected
future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date
on national government bonds with terms to maturity and currency that
match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
Employee share awards
The estimated cost of share awards made by the BHP Billiton Group is
charged to profit over the period from grant date to the date of expected
vesting (where there are no Performance Hurdles) or the performance
period, as appropriate. The accrued employee entitlement is recorded as
an equal credit to shareholders’ funds. The estimated cost of awards is
based on the market value of shares at the grant date (in the case of
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares, Group Incentive Scheme
Performance Shares, Performance Rights, the Bonus Equity Plan, the
Restricted Share Scheme and Co-Investment Plan) or the intrinsic value 
of options awarded (being the difference between the exercise price and
the market price at the date of granting the award), adjusted to reflect
the impact of performance conditions, where applicable. 
Where awards are satisfied by on-market purchases, the cost of acquiring
the shares is carried in shareholders’ funds as ‘Interest in shares of 
BHP Billiton’, and any difference between the cost of awards and the
consideration paid to purchase shares on-market is transferred to
retained earnings when the shares vest to the employees unconditionally.
In addition, the assets and liabilities of ESOP trusts utilised by the 
BHP Billiton Group to hold shares for employee remuneration schemes 
are consolidated.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits
The BHP Billiton Group operates or participates in a number of pension
(including superannuation) schemes throughout the world. The funding 
of the schemes complies with local regulations. The assets of the schemes
are generally held separately from those of the BHP Billiton Group and are
administered by trustees or management boards. For schemes of the
defined contribution type or those operated on an industry-wide basis,
where it is not possible to identify assets attributable to the participation
by the BHP Billiton Group’s employees, the pension charge is calculated
on the basis of contributions payable.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged to
the profit and loss account so as to allocate the cost systematically over
the employees’ service lives on the basis of independent actuarial advice.
This is consistent with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice (SSAP)
24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’. This basis of measurement takes into
account the performance of scheme assets and changes in the funded
status of each scheme, to the extent that deficits represent a legal or
constructive obligation of the Group to its employees and that surpluses
are recoverable by the Group over the expected remaining service lives 
of employees. A pension liability or asset is consequently recognised in
the balance sheet to the extent that the contributions payable either lag
or precede expense recognition. The liability or asset therefore represents
those funding deficits or surpluses together with changes in the funding
status of the schemes that will be recognised in the profit and loss
account in future periods.
Certain BHP Billiton Group companies provide post-retirement medical
benefits to qualifying employees. In some cases the benefits are provided
through medical care schemes to which the company, the employees, the
retirees and covered family members contribute. In some schemes there is
no funding of the benefits before retirement. For the unfunded schemes
and for funded schemes, where it is possible to identify assets that are
attributable to current and future retirees of the BHP Billiton Group
companies, the cost of providing the post-retirement benefits is charged
to the profit and loss account so as to allocate the cost systematically
over the employees’ service lives on the basis of independent actuarial
advice, in a manner similar to that applied for defined benefit pension
schemes. For other funded schemes the charge to the profit and loss
account is measured on the basis of premiums payable.
Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions 
BHP Billiton Group companies are generally required to restore mines, oil
and gas facilities and processing sites, either during or at the end of their
producing lives to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities and
consistent with the BHP Billiton Group’s environmental policies.
The expected cost of any approved decommissioning or restoration
programme, discounted to its net present value, is provided when the
related environmental disturbance occurs, based on the BHP Billiton
Group’s interpretation of environmental and regulatory requirements 
and its own environmental policies where these are more stringent and
this has created an obligation on the BHP Billiton Group. The cost is
capitalised where it gives rise to future benefits, whether the
rehabilitation activity is expected to occur over the life of the operation 
or at the time of closure. The capitalised cost is amortised over the life 
of the operation and the increase in the net present value of the provision
is included in net interest and similar items payable. Expected
decommissioning and restoration costs are based on the estimated
current cost of detailed plans prepared for each site. Where there is a
change in the expected decommissioning and restoration costs, an
adjustment is recorded against the carrying value of the provision and
any related asset, and the effect is then recognised in the profit and loss
account on a prospective basis over the remaining life of the operation. 
The provisions referred to above do not include any amounts related to
remediation costs associated with unforeseen circumstances. Such costs
are recognised where environmental contamination as a result of oil and
chemical spills, seepage or other unforeseen events gives rise to a loss
which is probable and reliably estimable.
The cost of other activities to prevent and control pollution and to
rehabilitate the environment that is not included in provisions is charged
to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Financial instruments
The BHP Billiton Group is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates and commodity prices and, in certain
circumstances, uses derivative financial instruments (including cash
settled commodity contracts) to hedge these risks.
When undertaking risk mitigation transactions, hedge accounting
principles are applied, whereby derivatives are matched to the specifically
identified commercial risks being hedged. These matching principles are
applied to both realised and unrealised transactions. Derivatives
undertaken as hedges of anticipated transactions are recognised when
such transactions are recognised. Upon recognition of the underlying
transaction, derivatives are valued at the appropriate market spot rate.
Accounting Policies continued
88 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> When an underlying transaction can no longer be identified, gains or
losses arising from a derivative that has been designated as a hedge of
that transaction will be taken to the profit and loss account whether or
not such derivative is terminated.
When a hedge is terminated, the deferred gain or loss that arose prior 
to termination is:
(a) deferred and included in the measurement of the anticipated
transaction when it occurs; or
(b) taken to the profit and loss account where the anticipated transaction
is no longer expected to occur .
The premiums paid on interest rate options and foreign currency put and
call options are included in debtors and are deferred and included in the
settlement of the underlying transaction.
Use of estimates
The preparation of the BHP Billiton Group’s financial statements requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
turnover and costs during the period. On an ongoing basis, management
evaluates its estimates and judgements in relation to assets, liabilities,
contingent liabilities, turnover and costs. Management bases its
estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various other
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Rounding of amounts
Amounts in the financial statements have, unless otherwise indicated,
been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
Comparatives
Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them on
the same basis as current period figures.
89
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Exchange rates
The following exchange rates against the US dollar have been applied in these financial statements.
Average Average Average As at As at
2005 2004 2003 30 June 2005 30 June 2004
Australian dollar
(a)
0.75 0.71 0.58 0.76 0.69
Brazilian real 2.73 2.94 3.31 2.36 3. 1 1
Canadian dollar 1.25 1.35 1.5 1 1.23 1.35
Chilean peso 595 634 7 1 8 579 637
Colombian peso 2 454 2 779 2 804 2 329 2 699
South African rand 6.21 6.89 9.03 6.67 6.27
Euro 0.79 0.84 0.96 0.83 0.83
UK pound sterling 0.54 0.58 0.63 0.55 0.56
(a)
Displayed as US$ to A$1 based on common convention. Notes to Financial Statements
90 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
1 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and joint arrangements
Subsidiary undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings (those which principally affect the profit or net assets) of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited, none of which
are held directly by BHP Billiton Plc, are as follows:
BHP Billiton Group’s
effective interest
Country of 2005 2004
Name incorporation Principal activity % %
BHP Billiton Diamonds Inc Canada Diamond mining 100 100
BHP Billiton Finance BV Netherlands Finance 100 100
BHP Billiton Finance Ltd Australia Finance 100 100
BHP Billiton Finance (USA) Ltd
(a)
Australia Finance 100 100
BHP Billiton Group Operations Pty Ltd Australia Administrative services 100 100
BHP Billiton Marine and General 
Insurances Pty Ltd Australia Insurance company 100 100
BHP Billiton Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing and trading 100 100
BHP Billiton Marketing Inc US Marketing and trading 100 100
BHP Billiton Metais SA Brazil Alumina refining and aluminium smelting 100 100
BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore mining, silver, lead and zinc mining 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum (Americas) Inc US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons production 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum (Bass Strait) Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons production 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum (Deepwater) Inc US Hydrocarbons exploration, development 
and production 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum (GOM) Inc US Hydrocarbons exploration 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum 
(North West Shelf) Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons production 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Ltd UK Hydrocarbons production 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum (International
Exploration) Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons development and production 100 100
BHP Billiton Petroleum (Victoria) Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons development 100 100
BHP Billiton SA Limited South Africa Holding and service company 100 100
BHP Billiton Tintaya SA Peru Copper mining 99.95 99.95
BHP Billiton (Trinidad – 2c) Ltd Canada Hydrocarbons development 100 100
BHP Billiton World Exploration Inc Canada Exploration 100 100
BHP Canadian Diamonds Company Canada Diamond mining 100 100
BHP Coal Pty Ltd Australia Holding company and coal mining 100 100
BHP Copper Inc US Holding company and copper mining 100 100
BHP Financial Services (UK) Ltd Guernsey Finance 100 100
BHP Minerals Exploration Inc US Holding company 100 100
BHP Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd Australia Holding company and coal mining 80 80
BHP Navajo Coal Company US Coal mining 100 100
BHP Operations Inc US Finance 100 100
BHP Petroleum (Pakistan) Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons production 100 100
BHP Queensland Coal Investments Pty Ltd Australia Holding company and coal mining 100 100
BHP Billiton Freight Pty Ltd Australia Transport services 100 100
Billiton Aluminium Australia Pty Ltd Australia Bauxite mining and alumina refining 100 100
Billiton Aluminium SA Limited South Africa Aluminium smelting 100 100
Billiton Coal Australia Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100
Billiton Marketing Holding BV Netherlands Marketing and trading 100 100
Broken Hill Proprietary (USA) Inc US Service company 100 100
Cerro Matoso SA Colombia Nickel mining and ferro-nickel smelting 99.8 99.8
Compania Minera Cerro Colorado Limitada Chile Copper mining 100 100
Compania Minera Riochilex SA Chile Copper exploration 100 100
Dendrobium Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100
Dia Met Minerals Ltd Canada Diamond mining 100 100
Endeavour Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 91
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
1 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and joint arrangements continued
Subsidiary undertakings continued
BHP Billiton Group’s
effective interest
Country of 2005 2004
Name incorporation Principal activity % %
Groote Eylandt Mining Co Pty Ltd Australia Manganese mining 60 60
Illawarra Coal Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100
Ingwe Collieries Limited South Africa Coal mining 100 100
QNI Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100 100
QNI Metals Pty Ltd Australia Nickel refining 100 100
QNI Resources Pty Ltd Australia Nickel refining 100 100
Rio Algom Ltd Canada Holding company 100 100
Samancor AG Switzerland Marketing 60 60
Samancor Holdings Limited South Africa Holding company 60 –
Samancor Limited South Africa Manganese mining 60 60
San Juan Coal Company US Coal mining 100 100
San Juan Transportation Company US Coal transportation 100 100
Southern Cross Fertiliser Pty Ltd 
(formerly WMC Fertilizers Pty Ltd) Australia Fertiliser production 100 –
T asmanian Electro Metallurgical Co Pty Ltd Australia Manganese alloys 60 60
WMC (Olympic Dam Corporation) Pty Ltd Australia Copper and uranium mining 100 –
WMC Finance Ltd Australia Finance 100 –
WMC Finance (USA) Ltd Australia Finance 100 –
WMC Resources Ltd Australia Nickel mining, smelting and refining 
and administrative services 100 –
WMC Resources Marketing Ltd Canada Marketing 100 –
(a)
BHP Billiton Finance (USA) Ltd is 1 00 per cent owned by BHP Billiton Limited. BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each fully and unconditionally guaranteed 
BHP Billiton Finance (USA) Ltd’s debt securities.
Joint ventures
The principal joint ventures of the BHP Billiton Group are as follows:
BHP Billiton Group’s
effective interest
Country of 2005 2004
Name incorporation Principal activity % %
Caesar Oil Pipeline Company LLC US Hydrocarbons transportation 25 25
Cerrejon Coal Corporation Colombia Coal mining 33 33
Cleopatra Gas Gathering Company LLC US Hydrocarbons transportation 22 22
Coal Marketing Company Ireland Coal marketing 33 33
Hi-Fert Pty Ltd Australia Distribution and marketing of fertiliser 33.3 –
Richards Bay Minerals
(a)
South Africa Mineral sands mining and processing 50 50
Minera Antamina SA Peru Copper and zinc mining 33.75 33.75
Integris Metals Inc
(b)
US Metals distribution – 50
Samarco Mineracao SA Brazil Iron ore mining 50 50
(a)
Richards Bay Minerals comprises two legal entities as follows:
BHP Billiton Group’s
effective interest
Country of 2005 2004
Name incorporation Principal activity % %
Tisand (Pty) Limited South Africa Mineral sands mining 51 51
Richards Bay Iron and Titanium (Pty) Limited South Africa Production of titanium dioxide slag, zircon and rutile 49.45 49.45
In accordance with the shareholder agreement between the BHP Billiton Group and Rio Tinto (which owns the shares of Tisand (Pty) Limited and Richards Bay Iron and
Titanium (Pty) Limited not owned by the BHP Billiton Group), Richards Bay Minerals functions as a single economic entity. The overall profit of Richards Bay Minerals is
shared equally between the venturers.
(b)
Effective January 2005, the BHP Billiton Group sold its interest in Integris Metals Inc. Refer note 15. Notes to Financial Statements continued
92 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
1 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and joint arrangements continued
Proportionally included joint arrangements
The principal joint arrangements in which the BHP Billiton Group has an interest and which are proportionally included in the financial statements 
are as follows:
BHP Billiton Group’s
effective interest
Country of 2005 2004
Name incorporation Principal activity % %
Atlantis US Hydrocarbons exploration 44 44
Bass Strait Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 50 50
Boris US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 50 50
Bruce UK Hydrocarbons exploration and production 16 16
Cascade US Hydrocarbons exploration 50 50
Chinook US Hydrocarbons exploration 40 40
Griffin Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 45 45
Gulf of Mexico US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 5–100 5–1 00
Keith UK Hydrocarbons exploration and production 31 .83 31 .83
Laminaria Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production – 25–33
Liverpool Bay UK Hydrocarbons exploration and production 46. 1 46. 1
Mad Dog US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 23.9 23.9
Minerva Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 90 90
Neptune US Hydrocarbons exploration 35 35
North West Shelf Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 8–1 7 8–1 7
Ohanet Algeria Hydrocarbons exploration and production 45 45
Puma US Hydrocarbons exploration 33.3 33.3
ROD Integrated Development Algeria Hydrocarbons exploration and production 45 36.04
Shenzi US Hydrocarbons exploration 44 44
Trinidad 2c – Angostura Trinidad & T obago Hydrocarbons production 45 45
T yphoon US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 50 50
Zamzama Pakistan Hydrocarbons exploration and production 38.5 38.5
Alumar Brazil – Alumina refining 36 36
– Aluminium smelting 46.3 46.3
Billiton Suriname Suriname Bauxite mining and alumina refining 45 45
Mozal Mozambique Aluminium smelting 47 . 1 47. 1
Valesul Aluminio Brazil Aluminium smelting 45.5 45.5
Worsley Australia Bauxite mining and alumina refining 86 86
Escondida Chile Copper mining 57 .5 57.5
Central Queensland Coal Associates Australia Coal mining 50 50
Gregory Australia Coal mining 50 50
Mt Goldsworthy Mining Associates Australia Iron ore mining 85 85
Mt Newman Australia Iron ore mining 85 85
Yandi Australia Iron ore mining 85 85
EKATI Canada Diamond mining 80 80
Douglas Colliery South Africa Coal mining 84 84
Middelburg Mine South Africa Coal mining 84 84
Richards Bay Coal Terminal South Africa Coal exporting 37 37 93
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
2 Exceptional items
Gross T ax Net
Year ended 30 June 2005 US$M US$M US$M
Exceptional items by category
Sale of equity interest in North West Shelf Project 56 – 56
Sale of Laminaria and Corallina 134 (1 0) 1 24
Disposal of Chrome operations 108 (6) 102
Restructuring provisions (79) 23 (56)
Termination of operations (266) 80 (186)
Closure plans (121) 1 7 (104)
Total by category (168) 104 (64)
Exceptional items by Customer Sector Group 
Petroleum 190 (1 0) 1 80
Base Metals (30) (4) (34)
Carbon Steel Materials (285) 80 (205)
Diamonds and Specialty Products (6) 1 (5)
Energy Coal (93) 27 (66)
Stainless Steel Materials 103 (5) 98
Group and unallocated items (47) 15 (32)
Total by Customer Sector Group (168) 104 (64)
Sale of equity interest in North West Shelf Project
During the year ended 30 June 2005, BHP Billiton sold an equity
participation in the North West Shelf (NWS) Project to China National
Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC). CNOOC purchased an interest in a
new joint venture that is being established within the NWS Project to
supply LNG to the Guangdong LNG Project in China. CNOOC will acquire
title to approximately 5.8 per cent of current NWS Project gas reserves
and rights to process its gas and associated LPG and condensate through
NWS venture offshore and onshore infrastructure. CNOOC paid each 
joint venture partner US$59 million resulting in a profit on sale of 
US$56 million (no tax effect).
Sale of Laminaria and Corallina
In January 2005, the Group disposed of its interest in the Laminaria and
Corallina oil fields to Paladin Resources plc. Proceeds on the sale were
US$1 30 million resulting in a profit before tax of US$1 34 million 
(US$1 0 million tax expense).
Disposal of Chrome operations
Effective 1 June 2005, BHP Billiton disposed of its economic interest in 
the majority of its South African chrome business to the Kermas Group.
The total proceeds on the sale were US$421 million, resulting in a profit
of US$93 million (US$1 million tax expense) after deducting cumulative
goodwill of US$67 million previously set off against reserves. In addition,
the Group sold its interest in the Palmiet chrome business to Mogale
Alloys in May 2005 for proceeds of US$12 million, resulting in a profit of
US$15 million (US$5 million tax expense). 
The BHP Billiton share of profit before tax on disposal of the Chrome
operations is US$56 million (US$4 million tax expense), whilst the
minority interest in the profit after tax of the disposal was US$50 million.
Restructuring provisions
The Group is required to record a charge against earnings in respect 
of restructuring certain operations. This totalled US$79 million 
(US$56 million after tax) and related to a charge of US$50 million 
(US$15 million tax benefit) in respect of restructuring associated with 
the acquisition of WMC in June 2005 primarily relating to redundancy 
and termination costs, office closures and termination of previous
contractual arrangements; and a charge of US$29 million (US$8 million
tax benefit) for other restructurings, primarily for redundancies at Ingwe
(South Africa).
Termination of operations
The Group decided to decommission the Boodarie Iron (Australia)
operations and a charge of US$266 million (US$80 million tax benefit)
relating to termination of the operation was recognised. The charge
primarily relates to settlement of existing contractual arrangements, 
plant decommissioning, site rehabilitation, redundancy and other costs
associated with the closure.
Closure plans
As part of the Group’s regular review of decommissioning and site
restoration plans, the Group reassessed plans in respect of certain closed
operations. A total charge of US$121 million (US$1 04 million after tax)
was recorded and included a charge of US$73 million (US$21 million tax
benefit) for closed mines at Ingwe (South Africa) in relation to revision of
the Group’s assessed rehabilitation obligation, predominantly resulting
from revised water management plans; and a charge of US$48 million
(US$4 million tax expense) in relation to other closed mining operations. Notes to Financial Statements continued
94 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Gross T ax Net
Year ended 30 June 2004 US$M US$M US$M
Exceptional items by category
Introduction of tax consolidation regime in Australia – 95 95
Litigation settlement 66 (1 8) 48
US and Canadian taxation deductions – 238 238
Closure plans (534) 22 (51 2)
Total by category (468) 337 (1 31)
Exceptional items by Customer Sector Group
Petroleum 66 (1 8) 48
Base Metals (482) 1 1 (471)
Stainless Steel Materials (1 0) 3 (7)
Group and unallocated items (42) 341 299
Total by Customer Sector Group (468) 337 (1 31)
Gross T ax Net
Year ended 30 June 2003 US$M US$M US$M
Exceptional items by category
Loss on sale of 6% interest in BHP Steel (1 9) – (1 9)
Total by category (1 9) – (1 9)
Exceptional items by Customer Sector Group
Discontinued Operations (1 9) – (1 9)
Total by Customer Sector Group (1 9) – (1 9)
2 Exceptional items continued
Introduction of tax consolidation regime in Australia
During the year ended 30 June 2004, BHP Billiton elected to consolidate
its Australian subsidiaries under the Australian tax consolidation regime,
as introduced by the Australian Federal Government. Under the
transitional rules, the Group has chosen to reset the tax cost base of
certain depreciable assets which will result in additional tax depreciation
over the lives of these assets. This resulted in the restatement of deferred
tax balances and an exceptional tax benefit of US$95 million being
recorded in accordance with UK GAAP . 
Litigation settlement
In December 2003, BHP Billiton announced that it was part of a
consortium that had reached a settlement with Dalmine SpA with respect
to a claim brought against Dalmine in April 1 998. The claim followed the
failure of an underwater pipeline installed in 1 994 in the Liverpool Bay
area of the UK continental shelf. As a result of the settlement, BHP
Billiton recorded an exceptional gain of US$66 million, before tax expense
of US$18 million.
US and Canadian taxation deductions
During the year ended 30 June 2004, the level of certainty regarding
potential benefits arising from prior period taxation deductions and
foreign tax credits available in the US and Canada increased to the extent
that some of the provisions against deferred tax assets established in
prior years were no longer necessary. This was a result of higher income
generation, changes in legislation and effective utilisation of tax credits
during the year, along with increasing confidence regarding the ability to
realise benefits in the future. Accordingly, the Group recorded an
exceptional tax benefit of US$238 million.
Closure plans
During the year ended 30 June 2004, the Group refined its plans in
relation to certain closed operations. In relation to the Group’s Southwest
Copper business in the US, this resulted in a charge of US$425 million
resulting from a re-estimation of short-term closure costs and the
inclusion of residual risks, longer-term water management and other
costs, and an increase in the residual value of certain assets. Additionally,
at other closed sites, a charge of US$1 09 million (before a tax benefit of
US$22 million) was recorded, mainly in relation to the Island Copper
mine, the Newcastle Steelworks and the Selbaie copper mine.
Accordingly, the Group recorded a net after-tax exceptional loss of
US$512 million.
Loss on sale of 6 per cent interest in BHP Steel
Effective July 2002, the BHP Steel business was demerged from the 
BHP Billiton Group. A 6 per cent interest in BHP Steel was retained by 
the Group upon demerger of the Group’s Steel business. This was sold in
July 2002 for US$75 million and the loss of US$1 9 million associated with
this sale was recognised in the year ended 30 June 2003 as an exceptional
item in relation to Discontinued Operations. On 3 June 2005 the BHP Billiton Group obtained control of WMC Resources
Ltd (WMC) with acceptances for 76.25 per cent of the equity shares. On
1 7 June the BHP Billiton Group had acquired more than 90 per cent of the
equity shares in WMC, which triggered the compulsory acquisition of all
remaining shareholdings. Payment for 1 00 per cent ownership was
completed on 2 August. WMC was acquired for a total cash consideration
of US$7 229 million made up of a price of A$7.85 per share plus
acquisition related costs. 
WMC was one of Australia’s leading resources companies. WMC’s major
assets are:
• the Olympic Dam copper/uranium/gold mine and related treatment
plants located in South Australia;
• an integrated nickel mining, refining and smelting business with
operations in Western Australia;
• the Queensland Fertilizer Operations (QFO) which consists of an
integrated phosphate mine and ammonium phosphate fertiliser
production facility; and
• the Corridor Sands mineral sands project in Mozambique.
Olympic Dam produces copper, uranium, gold and silver . It is the fourth
largest copper reserve, the fourth largest gold reserve and the largest
uranium reserve in the world, and is the largest underground mine in
Australia. Olympic Dam consists of an underground mine and a mineral
processing plant, smelter and refinery with associated supporting
infrastructure. Copper and uranium sales are the major revenue streams for
Olympic Dam. Gold and silver are also mined and sold. Uranium oxide
concentrate is sold under long-term contracts with major international
power companies.
The WMC nickel operations consist of ore treatment facilities at
Kambalda, mining and milling operations at Mt Keith and Leinster, a
nickel smelter in Kalgoorlie and a refinery in Kwinana. WMC purchases
nickel ore from a variety of mines for processing through the treatment
facility at Kambalda. Kambalda concentrate is transported to the nickel
smelter at Kalgoorlie. Mt Keith is a large open-cut mine where ore is
mined and the concentrate transported to Leinster for drying. Leinster
comprises both underground and open-cut mines as well as treatment
and drying facilities. Blended concentrate from Leinster and Mt Keith is
transported to the smelter . The smelter processes the concentrate received
and produces nickel matte, of which the majority is further processed at
the Kwinana refinery to produce high purity nickel briquettes, nickel
powder and other nickel intermediate products. The nickel concentrate,
matte and metal production is exported to Asia, Europe and North
America and is principally used in making stainless steels.
WMC’s fertiliser operations consist of QFO, which is an ammonium
phosphate manufacturing facility with distribution and marketing
operations, and a one-third investment in Hi-Fert, which distributes and
markets fertiliser products. QFO produces and markets di-ammonium
phosphate and mono-ammonium phosphate. The QFO includes a
sulphuric acid plant at Mt Isa, a mining operation and fertiliser plant at
Phosphate Hill and storage and port facilities at T ownsville. The finished
product is distributed in Australia by Incitec Pivot, Hi-Fert, Summitt and
Impact, and by Cargill internationally under a marketing agreement. 
Hi-Fert procures, markets and distributes all major fertilisers into eastern
Australia and is the second largest distributor to that region. Hi-Fert owns
patented coating technology that it uses to provide value-added products
including zinc- and sulphur-coated products.
WMC’s Corridor Sands mineral sands project is located in Mozambique and
is expected to culminate in an integrated mining, concentration and smelting
operation to produce titanium dioxide slag. Titanium dioxide feedstocks are
used to produce pigments, titanium metal and other specialist products.
BHP Billiton expects the acquisition of WMC to provide a number of
benefits. These include the following:
• WMC’s nickel business comprises an outstanding set of assets, in terms
of operating capability, country risk, scale and environmental standards,
which complement BHP Billiton’s existing nickel business. The combined
business will have a range of operations, products and technologies
that will provide a robust and flexible platform for further growth. 
• BHP Billiton now operates two of the world’s four largest copper
deposits. BHP Billiton’s track record in developing and operating
Escondida, the world’s largest copper mine, will allow the Group to
maximise the value of the large, long-life Olympic Dam resource base. 
• BHP Billiton is now a major producer of uranium with the largest
resource base in the world. Uranium is an important energy source in
an increasingly energy intensive world. Not only is this valuable on a
stand-alone basis, but it complements BHP Billiton’s existing energy
portfolio of oil, gas and coal.
• BHP Billiton can maximise synergies in the nickel and copper business,
marketing and other corporate functions. BHP Billiton will eliminate
duplicate functions by using the proven systems and processes that
were successfully used following the BHP Billiton merger in 2001 . 
Excluding exceptional items, for the period since acquisition to 30 June 2005,
turnover of US$248 million and operating profit of US$35 million are
included in the consolidated profit and loss account as continuing
operations – acquisitions. Including exceptional items of US$50 million for
restructuring provisions, the operating loss since acquisition is US$1 5 million.
95
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
3 Acquired operations
The following table details the fair value of the net assets acquired:
Adjustment for Provisional
accounting fair value Provisional
Book value policies adjustments fair value
US$M US$M US$M US$M
T angible fixed assets 4 428 – 2 708 7 136
Investments 36 – (9) 27
Stocks 520 (21) (15) 484
Debtors 51 3 – (1 83) 330
Cash including money market deposits 407 – 21 428
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year (419) – 48 (371)
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year (1 243) – 503 (740)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (268) (47) 250 (65)
Net assets acquired 3 974 (68) 3 323 7 229
T otal cost of acquisition satisfied by the following consideration:
Cash paid 6 594
Cash payable 635
7 229 Due to the complexity and timing of this acquisition, the fair values
currently established are provisional and are subject to review during the
year ending 30 June 2006.
The material provisional fair value adjustments principally relate to:
• T angible fixed assets reflecting the fair value of mineral assets,
together with revaluation for property, plant and equipment
representing replacement cost and estimated remaining useful lives.
• Investments have been revalued to reflect current market values.
• Inventories have been revalued primarily for low grade ore stock.
• Debtors and creditors have been revalued to reflect the expected
timing and amount of settlements. External fixed rate debt and
derivative financial instruments have been revalued to reflect current
market terms. Deferred gains and losses relating to commodity price
and foreign currency hedging arrangements have been de-recognised.
• Provisions include the recognition of accumulated unfunded pension
liabilities.
• Deferred tax asset and liability balances have been adjusted to take
into account revised fair values for book purposes and resetting of tax
bases as a result of the acquisition, where applicable.
A number of the revaluation adjustments have resulted in policy
alignment with BHP Billiton accounting policies. Additional accounting
policy changes arise on the application of UK GAAP and relate to:
• BHP Billiton policy in respect of decommissioning, site restoration 
and environmental rehabilitation provisions requires that the present
value of estimated future costs of rehabilitation of operating sites is
capitalised where it gives rise to future benefits, and amortised over
the life of the operation. Additional provisions have been raised in
accordance with this policy.
• Under BHP Billiton’s accounting policy, mined ore stocks held
underground are not recorded as inventory until the ore is brought
above ground. Accordingly, underground stocks held by WMC at the
date of acquisition have been adjusted to a value of nil.
At the date of acquisition, the application of BHP Billiton policy will result
in WMC adopting the US dollar as the functional currency for the majority
of its operations. The provisional fair values for non-monetary items in US
dollars included in the table above will represent the acquisition historical
rate for BHP Billiton. 
Since the acquisition, WMC’s cash flows have contributed US$ 16 million
to the Group’s net cash inflow from operating activities, US$nil for
taxation, US$50 million outflow for capital expenditure and financial
investment, US$5 million inflow for liquid resources and US$2 million
inflow for financing.
The net operating assets acquired have primarily been allocated to the
Base Metals, Stainless Steel Materials and Diamonds and Specialty
Products business segments.
The unaudited profit and loss account and statement of total recognised
gains and losses of WMC for the period 1 January 2005 to 3 June 2005
prepared in accordance with the accounting policies applicable to WMC
for the period prior to acquisition by BHP Billiton, were as follows:
Notes to Financial Statements continued
96 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
3 Acquired operations continued
Profit and loss account for the period 1 January 2005 to 3 June 2005
2005
US$M
Turnover 1 268
Operating profit 383
Profit before tax 394
T axation (108)
Profit after taxation 286
Equity minority interests –
Dividends to shareholders (182)
Retained profit for the financial period 104
Statement of total recognised gains and losses for the period 1 January 2005 to 3 June 2005
2005
US$M
Attributable profit for the financial period 286
Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency net assets 2
Total recognised gains for the financial period 288
The amounts included in the tables above are the Australian dollar values of WMC profit and loss amounts and recognised gain and loss amounts
converted to US dollars at an average rate for the period of A$1 = US$0.7739. Profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004
For the year ended 31 December 2004, WMC reported an audited post-
tax profit of A$1 327 million (US$977 million) prepared in accordance
with the accounting policies used by WMC for that financial year . 
Unaudited pro-forma financial information
The following tables summarise the unaudited pro-forma consolidated
results of operations of the BHP Billiton Group for the years ended 
30 June 2004 and 2005 assuming that the acquisition of WMC occurred
as of 1 July in each year . WMC’s statutory year end was 31 December . The
unaudited pro-forma financial information uses WMC data for the months
corresponding to BHP Billiton Group’s 30 June year end. This unaudited
pro-forma financial information does not necessarily represent what
would have occurred if the transaction had taken place on the dates
presented and should not be taken as representative of the BHP Billiton
Group’s future consolidated results of operations or financial position. 
The integration of WMC into the BHP Billiton Group was not completed 
at June 2005. Accordingly, this pro-forma financial information does 
not include all costs related to the integration. We also expect to realise
operating synergies. The pro-forma information does not reflect these
potential expenses and synergies.
97
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
3 Acquired operations continued
Pro-forma Pro-forma
adjustments consolidated
BHP Billiton for WMC entity
Year ended 30 June 2005 US$M US$M US$M
Group turnover 29 587 2 851 32 438
Profit/(loss) for the financial year (attributable profit) 6 398 263 6 661
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share (US cents) 1 04.5 0.0 1 04.5
Diluted earnings per share (US cents) 1 03.9 0.0 1 03.9
Basic earnings per ADS (US cents)
(a)
209.0 0. 1 209. 1
Diluted earnings per ADS (US cents)
(a)
207.8 0. 1 207.9
Pro-forma Pro-forma
adjustments consolidated
BHP Billiton for WMC entity
Year ended 30 June 2004 US$M US$M US$M
Group turnover 22 887 2 536 25 423
Profit/(loss) for the financial year (attributable profit) 3 379 25 3 404
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share (US cents) 54.3 0.0 54.3
Diluted earnings per share (US cents) 54. 1 0.0 54. 1
Basic earnings per ADS (US cents)
(a)
1 08.6 0.0 1 08.6
Diluted earnings per ADS (US cents)
(a)
1 08.2 0.0 1 08.2
(a)
For the periods presented, each American Depositary Share (ADS) represents two ordinary shares.
The pro-forma amounts represent the historical operating results of
WMC, reported in accordance with WMC’s accounting policies.
Adjustments have been made to depreciation and amortisation, interest
expense and income taxes to give effect to the acquisition at the dates
presented. Non-recurring items have been excluded from the WMC
reported pro-forma results of operations.
Australian dollar amounts have been converted to US dollars based on 
a convenience translation using an average rate of A$1 = US$0.7528 for
2005 and A$1 = US$0.71 33 for 2004.
The pro-forma adjustments are based on the US dollar purchase price and
subsequent allocation of purchase price as at 3 June 2005 and have not
been retranslated as at the pro-forma acquisition dates noted above.
Pro-forma adjustments have been made to depreciation and amortisation
to reflect the increased charge arising from the allocation of the purchase
price to property, plant and equipment and acquired mining rights and to
interest expense to reflect the additional borrowings required to fund the
acquisition. No pro-forma adjustment has been made to reflect the
earnings impact of recognising hedging and financial instruments at their
fair value as if the acquisition had occurred on the dates noted above.
The pro-forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the operating
results that would have occurred if the acquisition had been completed 
at the beginning of the applicable periods presented. The pro-forma
adjustments are based upon currently available information and
estimates and assumptions. In addition, the pro-forma amounts are not
necessarily indicative of operating results in future periods, in which the
Group might realise revenue enhancements and costs savings. Notes to Financial Statements continued
98 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
4 Analysis by business segment
Other 
Profit/(loss) Net Depreciation significant
before operating assets and non-cash Capital
T urnover taxation
(a)
(note 6) amortisation items
(b)
expenditure
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Group including joint ventures and associates
(a)
Year ended 30 June 2005
Petroleum 5 970 1 830 4 435 616 6 946
Aluminium 5 265 977 5 353 252 – 280
Base Metals
(c)
5 071 2 1 77 8 030 266 1 661
Carbon Steel Materials 7 606 2 821 3 698 300 – 1 065
Diamonds and Specialty Products 1 544 41 7 1 806 1 74 – 239
Energy Coal 3 390 616 2 087 1 79 9 169
Stainless Steel Materials
(d)
2 274 758 4 605 142 – 444
Group and unallocated items 798 (266) (433) 23 1 16 27
Inter-segment
(e)
(114) –––––
Exceptional items – (168) – – 439 –
Continuing Operations 31 804 9 162 29 581 1 952 571 3 831
Net interest (421) 168
BHP Billiton Group 31 804 8 741 29 581 1 952 739 3 831
Year ended 30 June 2004
Petroleum 5 558 1 391 4 074 587 1 1 927
Aluminium 4 432 776 5 309 234 – 272
Base Metals
(c)
3 422 1 156 3 272 255 – 215
Carbon Steel Materials 4 857 1 1 37 3 1 75 226 2 662
Diamonds and Specialty Products 1 71 0 41 0 1 568 123 29 188
Energy Coal 2 569 234 2 1 94 189 67 141
Stainless Steel Materials 1 749 571 1 823 1 01 4 151
Group and unallocated items 725 (187) 291 36 99 33
Inter-segment
(e)
(79) –––––
Exceptional items – (468) – – 468 –
Continuing Operations 24 943 5 020 21 706 1 751 680 2 589
Net interest (502) 239
BHP Billiton Group 24 943 4 518 21 706 1 751 91 9 2 589
Year ended 30 June 2003 
Petroleum 3 264 1 1 78 3 293 549 50 861
Aluminium 3 386 581 5 095 233 – 462
Base Metals
(c)
1 954 286 3 877 257 (2) 201
Carbon Steel Materials 3 714 1 045 2 622 1 92 7 479
Diamonds and Specialty Products 1 485 299 1 518 1 05 – 1 01
Energy Coal 2 089 1 98 2 1 93 1 77 2 300
Stainless Steel Materials 1 1 06 150 1 695 96 1 0 121
Group and unallocated items 549 (256) 418 39 76 46
Inter-segment
(e)
(41) –––––
Exceptional items – – ––––
Continuing Operations 1 7 506 3 481 20 71 1 1 648 143 2 571
Discontinued Operations – (1 9) ––––
Net interest (537) 237
BHP Billiton Group 1 7 506 2 925 20 71 1 1 648 380 2 571 99
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
4 Analysis by business segment continued
External turnover Profit/(loss) before taxation Net operating assets Net assets
(note 6)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Joint ventures and associates
(f)
Petroleum 3 –– – –– 11 2 97 11 2 98
Aluminium – –– – –– – – – –
Base Metals
(c)
583 389 432 308 104 6 1 675 71 9 390 21 2
Carbon Steel Materials 429 329 244 184 102 80 422 369 336 286
Diamonds and Specialty Products 778 1 041 1 005 11 2 106 1 7 0 345 601 139 250
Energy Coal 41 6 283 204 194 11 5 45 639 651 547 51 9
Stainless Steel Materials 8 613 1 –2 1 4 1 4
Group and unallocated items – 8– – (2) – – 25 – –
Continuing Operations 2 21 7 2 056 1 898 799 425 358 2 194 2 466 1 525 1 369
Net interest – – – (38) (95) (93) – – – –
BHP Billiton Group 2 21 7 2 056 1 898 761 330 265 2 194 2 466 1 525 1 369
External turnover Profit/(loss) before taxation
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Third party products included above
(g)
Petroleum 1 955 2 286 296 14 (22) 1
Aluminium 2 057 1 823 1 333 21 11 2 8
Base Metals 698 335 38 (1 1) (4) 5
Carbon Steel Materials 247 102 26 14 (9) (2)
Diamonds and Specialty Products 523 829 747 22 29 1 0
Energy Coal 672 554 41 3 54 21 7
Stainless Steel Materials 9 47 1 0 – 71
Group and unallocated items 784 684 51 9 – –1
6 945 6 660 3 382 11 4 33 5 1
(a)
Before minority interests. Depreciation and amortisation, other significant non-cash items and capital expenditure represent the Group excluding joint ventures and
associates.
(b)
Other significant non-cash items comprise impairment of assets, non-cash exceptional items, employee share awards, exchange differences on net debt and discounting
on provisions and other liabilities.
(c)
Includes turnover attributable to associates of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$94 million) and operating profit attributable to associates of US$nil 
(2004: US$nil; 2003: US$29 million).
(d)
The Chrome operations contributed external turnover and profit before taxation for the current year of US$842 million and US$1 02 million, respectively. 
(e)
It is the BHP Billiton Group’s policy that inter-segment sales are made on a commercial basis.
(f)
T otal turnover of joint ventures and associates does not include any inter-segment turnover .
(g)
Turnover from third party products includes sales of freight capacity. Notes to Financial Statements continued
100 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
5 Analysis by geographical segment
Group Joint ventures and associates T otal
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Analysis by geographical market
Turnover
Continuing Operations
Australia 2 637 1 857 1 769 5 17 6 2 642 1 874 1 775
Europe 9 825 8 515 5 1 36 633 426 446 10 458 8 941 5 582
Japan 3 620 2 675 2 269 11 9 132 1 2 4 3 739 2 807 2 393
South Korea 1 876 1 538 1 149 12 60 54 1 888 1 598 1 203
China 3 628 2 239 1 069 368 193 1 4 7 3 996 2 432 1 216
Other Asia 2 100 1 512 1 096 107 71 7 6 2 207 1 583 1 1 72
North America 2 092 1 765 1 452 750 1 01 7 937 2 842 2 782 2 389
Southern Africa 1 584 1 344 918 20 19 26 1 604 1 363 944
Rest of World 2 225 1 442 750 203 12 1 82 2 428 1 563 832
Total by geographical market 29 587 22 887 15 608 2 21 7 2 056 1 898 31 804 24 943 1 7 506
Analysis by geographical origin
Turnover
Continuing Operations
Australia 10 415 7 262 6 527 – 8– 10 415 7 270 6 527
Europe 7 822 6 71 9 2 792 34 31 6 7 856 6 750 2 798
North America 1 839 1 601 1 341 527 902 845 2 366 2 503 2 186
South America
(a)
4 374 3 260 1 970 1 349 870 7 5 7 5 723 4 1 30 2 727
Southern Africa 4 816 3 637 2 857 307 245 290 5 123 3 882 3 147
Rest of World 321 408 1 21 – –– 321 408 1 21
Total by geographical origin 29 587 22 887 15 608 2 21 7 2 056 1 898 31 804 24 943 1 7 506
Profit/(loss) before taxation
Continuing Operations
Australia 3 845 2 1 06 1 890 – (2) – 3 845 2 1 04 1 890
Europe 1 120 725 253 34 31 6 1 154 756 259
North America 341 (224) 1 80 22 36 8 363 (1 88) 1 88
South America
(a)
2 244 1 439 396 651 280 1 80 2 895 1 71 9 576
Southern Africa 636 457 394 93 80 164 729 537 558
Rest of World 17 7 92 1 0 (1) –– 17 6 92 1 0
Continuing Operations 8 363 4 595 3 123 799 425 358 9 162 5 020 3 481
Discontinued Operations
Australia – –(19) – –– – –(19)
Discontinued Operations
(b)
– –(19) – –– – –(19)
Net interest (383) (407) (444) (38) (95) (93) (421) (502) (537)
Total by geographical origin 7 980 4 188 2 660 761 330 265 8 741 4 518 2 925
Net operating assets (refer note 6)
Australia 14 645 7 409 6 939 28 25 (3) 14 673 7 434 6 936
Europe 920 951 676 17 14 2 937 965 678
North America 2 212 1 316 1 340 11 2 397 429 2 324 1 71 3 1 769
South America
(a)
5 060 4 456 4 503 1 696 1 71 0 1 661 6 756 6 166 6 164
Southern Africa 3 770 4 1 76 4 1 1 7 341 320 31 8 4 1 1 1 4 496 4 435
Rest of World 780 932 729 – –– 780 932 729
Total by geographical origin 27 387 19 240 18 304 2 194 2 466 2 407 29 581 21 706 20 71 1
(a)
Includes turnover attributable to associates of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$94 million), operating profit attributable to associates of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 
2003: US$29 million) and net operating assets attributable to associates of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$nil).
(b)
Relates to the demerger of the BHP Steel business in July 2002. 6 Reconciliation of net operating assets
Group Joint ventures and associates T otal
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Net operating assets (refer notes 4 and 5) 27 387 19 240 2 194 2 466 29 581 21 706
Cash including money market deposits 1 418 1 818 196 11 2 1 614 1 930
Debt (1 1 125) (6 783) (489) (763) (1 1 614) (7 546)
Corporation tax (849) (307) (49) (45) (898) (352)
Dividends payable (878) (592) (12) – (890) (592)
Deferred tax (74) (606) (231) (163) (305) (769)
T ax recoverable 1 3 – – 1 3
Loans to joint ventures 84 238 (84) (238) – –
Net assets 15 964 13 01 1 1 525 1 369 17 489 14 380
7 Net operating costs
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress (286) (1 84) (1 58)
Raw materials and consumables 3 953 3 1 16 2 450
External services (including transportation) 4 802 3 450 2 539
Third party commodity purchases 6 329 5 837 2 547
Staff costs (refer note 9) 2 652 2 1 77 1 746
Amortisation of goodwill and negative goodwill 2 32
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 1 950 1 748 1 646
Impairment charge 16 11 6 7 3
Other operating income (270) (231) (1 47)
Resource rent taxes 498 432 467
Operating lease charges 232 17 2 1 2 7
Government royalties paid or payable
(a)
629 421 352
Royalties other 87 36 66
Other operating charges 690 801 844
Group
(b)
21 284 17 894 12 554
Joint ventures and associates 1 418 1 631 1 540
Operating costs including joint ventures and associates
(c)
22 702 1 9 525 14 094
Operating lease charges include the following:
Land and buildings 52 42 47
Plant and equipment 17 7 128 7 5
Other 3 25
232 17 2 1 2 7
101
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 7 Net operating costs continued
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Audit fees payable by the BHP Billiton Group to:
Auditors of BHP Billiton Plc (including overseas firms)
(d)
KPMG 10. 1 7.8 3.4
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.6 0.5 4. 1
Other audit firms
(e)
– –1.0
10.7 8.3 8.5
Fees payable by the BHP Billiton Group to auditors for other services:
Auditors of BHP Billiton Plc (including overseas firms)
(d)(f)
Audit-related services
(g)
KPMG 1. 1 0.4 0.6
PricewaterhouseCoopers
(d)
– –1.6
Information systems design and implementation
(h)
KPMG – –0.7
T axation services
(h)
KPMG 1.5 1 .5 2.0
PricewaterhouseCoopers
(d)
– –1.3
Other services
(i)
KPMG 0. 1 0.3 0.6
PricewaterhouseCoopers
(d)
1.5 0.4 0. 1
4.2 2.6 6.9
14.9 10.9 1 5.4
(a)
Includes amounts paid or payable to Australian governments of US$446 million (2004: US$262 million; 2003: US$231 million) and to other governments of US$183 million
(2004: US$159 million; 2003: US$121 million).
(b)
Includes net operating costs attributable to acquired operations as follows:
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress (10) ––
Raw materials and consumables 98 ––
Staff costs 62 ––
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 51 ––
Other operating income (3) ––
Other operating charges 65 ––
263 ––
(c)
Includes research and development costs of US$33 million (2004: US$1 9 million; 2003: US$40 million).
(d)
During the year ended 30 June 2004, the BHP Billiton Group completed a review of its joint external audit arrangements and KPMG was selected to continue as sole
auditor . Audit fees for PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2005 arose as a result of the acquisition of WMC, where PricewaterhouseCoopers were auditors of WMC up to
30 June 2005.
(e)
Paid to auditors other than those that were Group auditors of the BHP Billiton Group or joint Group auditors of BHP Billiton in 2004 and 2003. 
(f)
The amounts paid to the UK firms and their associates amounted to US$0.6 million (2004: US$0.6 million; 2003: US$1 .9 million).
(g)
Mainly includes accounting advice and services associated with securities offerings. For the year ended 30 June 2005, audit fees of US$0.3 million (2004: US$0.3 million;
2003: US$0.2 million) relating to pension plans, which are not directly payable by the BHP Billiton Group, have been excluded from the above analysis.
(h)
Mainly includes tax compliance services and employee expatriate taxation services.
(i)
Mainly includes health and safety certifications and non-financial audits.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
102 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 8 Net interest and similar items payable
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
On bank loans and overdrafts 61 83 1 31
On all other loans 293 259 241
Finance lease interest 6 24
360 344 376
Dividends on redeemable preference shares 25 23 24
Discounting on provisions and other liabilities 17 5 111 9 7
less Amounts capitalised
(a)
(85) (97) (1 03)
475 381 394
Share of interest of joint ventures and associates 52 66 68
527 447 462
Discounting on assets (8) (5) –
Interest received/receivable (99) (73) (65)
420 369 397
Exchange differences on net debt
(b)
Group 15 104 1 1 5
Joint ventures and associates (14) 29 25
1 133 1 40
Net interest and similar items payable
(c)
421 502 537
(a)
Interest has been capitalised at the rate of interest applicable to the specific borrowings financing the assets under construction or, where financed through general
borrowings, at a capitalisation rate representing the average borrowing cost of the Group’s interest bearing liabilities. The capitalisation rate was 4.6 per cent 
(2004: 4.6 per cent; 2003: 5.2 per cent).
(b)
Net exchange losses/(gains) primarily represent the effect on borrowings of movements in the South African rand against the US dollar .
(c)
Disclosed in the consolidated profit and loss account as:
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Net interest and similar items payable
Group 383 407 444
Joint ventures and associates 38 95 93
Net interest and similar items payable 421 502 537
103
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 9 Employees
2005 2004 2003
Number Number Number
The average number of employees, which excludes joint ventures’ and associates’ 
employees and includes executive Directors, during the financial year was as follows:
Petroleum 1 998 1 901 1 872
Aluminium 5 563 5 590 5 362
Base Metals 3 656 3 414 3 31 9
Carbon Steel Materials 7 215 6 812 6 381
Diamonds and Specialty Products 1 254 1 203 1 208
Energy Coal 9 333 9 1 38 9 668
Stainless Steel Materials 5 534 5 318 5 282
Group and unallocated 1 915 1 694 1 709
36 468 35 070 34 801
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
The aggregate payroll expenses of those employees was as follows:
Wages, salaries and redundancies 2 315 1 901 1 501
Employee share awards 122 96 70
Social security costs 23 18 20
Pensions and post-retirement medical benefit costs (refer note 27) 192 162 1 55
2 652 2 1 77 1 746
Details of remuneration, pension entitlements and interests in share awards for each Director and in aggregate are detailed in sections 2 to 8 of the
Remuneration Report. This information, other than section 3.3, forms part of the financial statements.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
104 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 1 0 T axation
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Analysis of charge in the financial year
UK taxation
Corporation tax at 30%
(a)
Current
(b)
246 41 9 292
Deferred (3) 50 (1 24)
less Double taxation relief (55) (327) (1 32)
188 142 36
Australian taxation
Corporation tax at 30% 
Current 916 448 330
Deferred 89 (34) 1 50
1 005 41 4 480
South African taxation
Corporation tax at 30%
(d)
Current 220 42 1 27
Deferred (23) 11 7 7 4
19 7 1 59 201
Other overseas taxation
Current 876 71 5 1 92
Deferred (386) (504) (30)
490 21 1 1 62
Share of joint ventures’ tax charge
Current 129 61 56
Deferred 68 46 45
19 7 10 7 1 0 1
Share of associates’ current tax charge – ––
Withholding tax and secondary taxes on companies 34 94
2 1 1 1 1 042 984
Made up of:
Aggregate current tax
Group 2 237 1 306 81 3
Joint ventures and associates 129 61 56
2 366 1 367 869
Aggregate deferred tax
Group (323) (371) 70
Joint ventures and associates 68 46 45
(255) (325) 1 1 5
T axation
(c)
2 1 1 1 1 042 984
(a)
There is an additional 1 0 per cent tax applicable to petroleum operations in the UK.
(b)
Adjustments to prior year provisions for current tax amount to a loss of US$74 million (2004: US$14 million gain; 2003: US$1 05 million gain), of which US$nil 
(2004: US$5 million gain; 2003: US$8 million gain) relates to the UK.
(c)
T axation includes the tax effect of exceptional items of US$1 04 million (2004: US$337 million credit; 2003: US$nil). Refer note 2.
(d)
The tax rate in South Africa reduced to 29 per cent effective 1 April 2005.
105
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 1 0 T axation continued
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Factors affecting tax charge for the financial year
The tax charged is different to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%)
The differences are explained below:
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 8 741 4 518 2 925
T ax on profit at UK rate of 30% 2 622 1 355 878
Permanent differences
Investment and development allowance (157) (85) (9)
Amounts under/(over) provided in prior years 74 (1 4) (1 05)
Recognition of prior year tax losses and tax credits (391) (367) (1 88)
Non-deductible accounting depreciation and amortisation 51 49 76
Non-deductible dividends on redeemable preference shares 9 88
Non tax-effected operating losses 38 17 2 1 09
T ax rate differential (6) (51) (1 8)
Non tax-effected capital gains (60) (5) (2)
Foreign expenditure including exploration not presently deductible 7 54
South African secondary tax on companies 36 516
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) and other translation adjustments (1 16) 62 21 0
T ax rate changes (1 7) 9 (1)
Introduction of Australian tax consolidation regime – (95) –
Other 21 (6) 6
Total permanent differences (51 1) (31 3) 1 06
Deferred tax movements taken to the profit and loss account
Capital allowances for the financial year more than depreciation (278) (452) (299)
Future capital allowances upon introduction of Australian tax consolidation – 95 –
Exploration expenditure 33 (50) 53
Employee entitlements 49 49 58
Site rehabilitation 93 11 8 7 1
Resource rent tax 11 (7) (21)
Deferred income (1 1) (25) 27
Other provisions 46 (1 4) (1 2)
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses 16 (86) 1 93
Deferred charges (87) (71) (2)
Foreign tax 163 445 (92)
T ax-effected losses 232 281 39
Other (12) 42 (1 30)
Total timing differences 255 325 (1 1 5)
Current tax charge for the financial year 2 366 1 367 869
Add/(less) deferred tax movements taken to the profit and loss account (255) (325) 1 1 5
T ax on profit on ordinary activities 2 1 1 1 1 042 984
Notes to Financial Statements continued
106 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 1 0 T axation continued
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Provision for deferred tax
Future income tax benefit at year end comprises:
Accelerated capital allowances (1 32) (1 72)
Exploration expenditure 70 80
Employee entitlements 27 34
Site rehabilitation 25 42
Deferred income 21 23
Other provisions 37 39
Foreign exchange losses (1) 5
Deferred charges (1 31) (1 78)
Foreign tax credits 342 17 9
Profit in stocks elimination 42 18
T ax-effected losses 750 480
Other 60 52
T otal future income tax benefit 1 1 10 602
Provision for deferred tax at year end comprises:
Accelerated capital allowances 2 052 1 794
Exploration expenditure (51) (5)
Employee entitlements (159) (98)
Site rehabilitation (476) (329)
Resource rent tax (122) (1 1 1)
Deferred income (79) (89)
Other provisions (8) 55
Foreign exchange losses (203) (1 81)
Deferred charges 270 136
T ax-effected losses (214) (46)
Other 17 4 82
T otal provision for deferred tax 1 184 1 208
Net provision for deferred tax 74 606
Provision at start of the financial year 606 966
Acquisition of subsidiaries (1 70) –
Demerger or disposals of subsidiaries (53) –
Deferred tax benefits in profit and loss account for the financial year (323) (371)
Exchange differences and other movements 14 11
Net provision at end of the financial year 74 606
This provision is included within
Debtors (refer note 1 7) 1 1 10 602
Provisions for liabilities and charges (refer note 21) (1 184) (1 208)
(74) (606)
107
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Factors that may affect future tax charges
The BHP Billiton Group operates in many countries across the world, each
with separate taxation authorities which results in significant complexity.
At any point in time there are tax computations which have been
submitted but not agreed by those tax authorities and matters which 
are under discussion between Group companies and the tax authorities.
The Group provides for the amount of tax it expects to pay taking into
account those discussions and professional advice it has received. Whilst
conclusion of such matters may result in amendments to the original
computations, the Group does not believe that such adjustments will have
a material adverse effect on its financial position, though such adjustments
may be significant to any individual year’s profit and loss account.
Those countries where tax rates are higher than the UK tax rate of 
30 per cent include Canada (approximately 36 per cent), Colombia 
(37 per cent), Chile (effective rate of 35 per cent), South Africa (effective
rate of approximately 37 per cent) and the US (35 per cent). Furthermore,
petroleum operations in the UK are subject to an additional 1 0 per cent
tax above the ordinary UK tax rate of 30 per cent.
The BHP Billiton Group’s subsidiaries generally have tax balances
denominated in currencies other than US dollars. Where the subsidiary
has a US dollar functional currency, any adjustments on translation of
such balances will be taken to the tax charge for the period. The level 
of such adjustments in future years is dependent upon future movements
in exchange rates relative to the US dollar .
As at 30 June 2005, the BHP Billiton Group has not recognised a potential
tax expense of US$516 million (2004: US$255 million; 2003: US$240 million),
which mainly relates to the tax impact of unrealised foreign exchange
gains and losses on US dollar net debt held by subsidiaries which
maintain local currency records for tax purposes. Under UK GAAP , the tax
expense will be recognised when such gains and losses are realised for
tax purposes.
The BHP Billiton Group anticipates it will continue to incur foreign
expenditure including exploration, or incur losses, in jurisdictions in which,
under current accounting policies, the tax-effect of such expenditure or
losses may not be recognised. The BHP Billiton Group will continue to
incur non-deductible accounting depreciation and amortisation.
The BHP Billiton Group recognises net deferred tax assets relating to tax
losses and timing differences, to the extent that it can reasonably foresee
future profits against which to realise those assets. Following continued
progress in the BHP Billiton Group’s Gulf of Mexico (US) projects,
additional benefits of tax losses have been recognised in the current year
resulting in a reduction in the underlying effective tax rate of
approximately 4 per cent (2004: 2 per cent; 2003: 3 per cent) when
compared to the UK statutory tax rate. If and when the projects reach
appropriate milestones that provide greater certainty over projected
future profits, further benefits in respect of past losses and timing
differences may be recognised. 
In June 2005, the Australian T axation Office (ATO) issued assessments
against BHP Billiton subsidiary BHP Billiton Finance Ltd in respect of the
2000–2002 financial years. The assessments relate to the deductibility of
bad debts in respect of funding Australian subsidiary company operations.
The assessments are for primary tax of US$444 million and interest (net of
tax) and penalties of US$284 million.
In August 2005, the ATO advised it will be issuing further flow on
amended assessments for subsidiaries which received related loss
transfers from BHP Billiton Finance Ltd involving primary tax of
approximately US$1 18 million and interest (net of tax) and penalties 
of US$76 million. 
Objections are being lodged against all assessments. As at 30 June 2005
the total amount in dispute relating to loans to subsidiaries which
undertook the Beenup, Boodarie Iron and Hartley projects is
approximately US$963 million including accrued interest on unpaid
amounts (after tax). An amount of US$414 million has been paid pursuant
to ATO disputed assessments guidelines, of which US$368 million was
paid in July 2005. Upon any successful challenge of the assessments, 
any sums paid will be refundable with interest.
The Group has taken legal advice and remains confident of its position
and intends to vigorously defend the claims.
T ax losses and timing differences
At 30 June 2005, the BHP Billiton Group has ordinary tax losses and
capital losses of approximately US$1 937 million (2004: US$2 249 million),
and gross timing differences of US$1 903 million (2004: US$1 586 million)
which have not been tax effected. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only where management considers
that it is more likely than not that the benefit of the tax losses, capital
losses and timing differences will be realised in future periods through the
generation of sufficient future taxable profits. The assumptions in relation
to the generation of sufficient future taxable profits depend on the
estimates of future cash flows, which are estimated on production and
sales plans, commodity prices, recoverable reserves, operating costs,
reclamation costs and planned capital costs. These estimates are subject
to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in
circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the
recoverability of the assets recorded in the balance sheets and those 
tax losses and timing differences not recognised. In such circumstances,
some or all of the carrying value of these deferred tax assets may require
provisioning and be charged to the profit and loss account, and
conversely, some or all of the provisions against the tax losses and timing
differences may be reversed and be credited to the profit and loss account. 
Notes to Financial Statements continued
108 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
1 0 T axation continued
The deferred tax assets not recognised are:
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Carry forward income tax and capital losses 609 738
Timing differences not recognised 668 557
Deferred tax assets not recognised/valuation allowance 1 277 1 295 1 0 T axation continued
The BHP Billiton Group anticipates benefits from the recognition of losses and timing differences in future periods to the extent of income or gains in
relevant jurisdictions. The tax losses carried forward that have not been tax effected expire as summarised below:
Australian UK Other foreign T otal
losses losses losses losses
Year of expiry US$M US$M US$M US$M
Income tax losses
2006 –– 1 1
2007 – – 12 12
2008 – – 29 29
2009 – – 19 19
201 0 – – 31 31
201 1 – – 10 10
201 2 –– 5 5
201 4 – – 12 12
201 5 – – 32 32
201 8 –– 1 1
2020 –– 1 1
202 1 –– 3 3
2023 – – 15 15
2024 –– 216 216
2025 – – 84 84
Unlimited 1270 240 511
1270 711 982
Capital tax losses
Unlimited 937 3 1 5 955
938 273 726 1 937
109
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 1 1 Dividends
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
BHP Billiton Plc
(a)
Dividends declared
(b)
358 234 1 85
Dividends paid
Ordinary shares 333 406 1 73
Preference shares
(c)
– ––
691 640 358
BHP Billiton Limited
(a)
Dividends declared
(b)
520 358 280
Dividends paid 484 61 9 262
1 004 977 542
T otal dividends paid or payable 1 695 1 61 7 900
2005 2004 2003
US cents US cents US cents
Dividends per share
(a)
First interim dividend paid 13.5 8.0 7.0
Second interim dividend paid – 8.5 –
Final dividend declared
(b)
14.5 9.5 7.5
28.0 26.0 1 4.5
Dividends are stated net of amounts which are not payable outside the BHP Billiton Group under the terms of the share repurchase scheme (refer note
25) and ESOP trusts. BHP Billiton Limited dividends are all fully franked for the periods shown.
(a)
BHP Billiton Limited dividends per American Depositary Share (ADS) for 2005 were 56.0 US cents per share (2004: 52.0 US cents per share; 2003: 29.0 US cents per
share). BHP Billiton Plc dividends per ADS for 2005 were 56.0 US cents per share (2004: 52.0 US cents per share). BHP Billiton Plc ADSs listed on the New York Stock
Exchange on 25 June 2003. As the listing was subsequent to the record date for the final 2003 dividend, no dividends per BHP Billiton Plc ADS were applicable for the
2003 financial year . For the periods indicated each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
(b)
Subsequent to year end on 24 August 2005 BHP Billiton declared a final dividend of 14.5 US cents per share (2004: 9.5 US cents per share on 18 August 2004) which will
be paid on 28 September 2005 (2004: 22 September 2004). The final dividend for 2003 was declared prior to the 2003 year end. The final dividend has been provided for
at 30 June 2005. 
(c)
5.5 per cent dividend on 50 000 preference shares of £1 each (2004: 5.5 per cent; 2003: 5.5 per cent).
Notes to Financial Statements continued
110 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 1 2 Earnings per share
2005 2004 2003
Basic earnings per share (US cents)
Excluding exceptional items 106.4 56.4 30.9
Impact of exceptional items (1.9) (2. 1) (0.3)
Including exceptional items 104.5 54.3 30.6
Diluted earnings per share (US cents)
Excluding exceptional items 105.8 56.2 30.9
Impact of exceptional items (1.9) (2. 1) (0.3)
Including exceptional items 103.9 54. 1 30.6
Basic earnings per ADS (US cents)
(a)
Including exceptional items 209.0 1 08.6 61 .2
Diluted earnings per ADS (US cents)
(a)
Including exceptional items 207 .8 1 08.2 61 .2
Basic earnings (US$ million)
Excluding exceptional items 6 512 3 51 0 1 920
Including exceptional items 6 398 3 379 1 901
Diluted earnings (US$ million)
(b)
Excluding exceptional items 6 515 3 51 0 1 920
Including exceptional items 6 401 3 379 1 901
Weighted average number of shares (million) 
Basic earnings per share denominator 6 124 6 218 6 207
Diluted earnings per share denominator 6 158 6 246 6 222
(a)
For the periods reported, one American Depositary Share (ADS) represents two shares. 
(b)
Diluted earnings are calculated after adding back dividend equivalent payments of US$3 million (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$nil) that would not be made if potential ordinary
shares were converted to fully paid.
The Directors present earnings per share data based on earnings, excluding exceptional items, as, in their opinion, this provides a more meaningful
representation of the underlying performance of the BHP Billiton Group.
Exceptional items
Details of exceptional items are set out in note 2. The impact of exceptional items on basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
US cents US cents US cents 
per share per share per share
Sale of equity interest in North West Shelf Project 0.9 ––
Sale of Laminaria and Corallina 2.0 ––
Disposal of Chrome operations 0.8 ––
Restructuring provisions (0.9) ––
Termination of operations (3.0) ––
Closure plans (1.7) (8.2) –
Introduction of tax consolidation regime in Australia – 1.5 –
Litigation settlement – 0.8 –
US and Canadian taxation deductions – 3.8 –
Loss on sale of 6% interest in BHP Steel – – (0.3)
(1.9) (2. 1) (0.3)
111
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 1 2 Earnings per share continued
Under the terms of the DLC merger, the rights to dividends of a holder of an ordinary share in BHP Billiton Plc and a holder of an ordinary share in 
BHP Billiton Limited are identical. Consequently, earnings per share have been calculated on the basis of the aggregate number of ordinary shares
ranking for dividend. The weighted average number of shares used for the purposes of calculating basic earnings per share is calculated after deduction
of the shares held by the share repurchase scheme and the Group’s ESOP trusts.
The weighted average number of shares used for the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share is reconciled to the number used to calculate
basic earnings per share as follows:
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Basic earnings per share denominator 6 124 6 218 6 207
Potential ordinary shares 34 28 1 5
Diluted earnings per share denominator 6 158 6 246 6 222
1 3 Intangible assets
Goodwill
US$M
Cost
At the beginning of the financial year 55
Disposals (1 9)
At the end of the financial year 36
Amortisation
At the beginning of the financial year 21
Amortisation for the financial year 2
Disposals (4)
At the end of the financial year 19
Net book value at the end of the financial year 17
Net book value at the beginning of the financial year 34
Notes to Financial Statements continued
112 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 1 4 T angible fixed assets
Plant Other Assets Exploration
Land and and mineral under and
buildings equipment assets construction evaluation T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Cost or valuation
At the beginning of the financial year 2 625 24 889 7 003 2 881 504 37 902
Additions 63 723 376 3 306 182 4 650
Acquisition of operations and subsidiaries 220 1 925 4 827 154 1 1 7 137
Disposals (39) (236) (6) (6) (21) (308)
Disposals of operations and subsidiaries (60) (727) (39) (35) (23) (884)
Exchange variations 1 (6) 4 1 7 – 16
Transfers and other movements 78 2 370 287 (2 543) (69) 123
At the end of the financial year 2 888 28 938 12 452 3 774 584 48 636
Accumulated depreciation
At the beginning of the financial year 1 026 12 889 2 916 – 126 16 957
Depreciation charge 1 35 1 421 378 – 16 1 950
Impairments charge 1 4 4 – 7 16
Disposals (1 8) (202) (6) – (1 5) (241)
Disposals of operations and subsidiaries (24) (459) (26) – (20) (529)
Exchange variations 1 (5) – – – (4)
Transfers and other movements 16 128 5 – (9) 140
At the end of the financial year 1 137 13 776 3 271 – 105 18 289
Net book value at the end of the financial year 1 751 15 162 9 181 3 774 479 30 347
Net book value at the beginning of the financial year 1 599 12 000 4 087 2 881 378 20 945
Included within the net book value of other mineral assets is US$965 million (2004: US$687 million) of deferred overburden removal costs.
Included in the additions for exploration and evaluation is US$182 million (2004: US$1 70 million) of capitalised exploration expenditure.
Included in the amounts above for plant and equipment are assets held under finance leases with a net book value of US$51 million (2004: US$76 million).
Depreciation charged on these assets during the year ended 30 June 2005 totalled US$4 million (2004: US$9 million).
Included in tangible fixed assets at 30 June 2005 is capitalised interest with a net book value of US$364 million (2004: US$401 million).
The net book value of land and buildings comprises freehold land of US$1 751 million (2004: US$1 595 million) and long leasehold of US$nil
(2004: US$4 million).
113
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 15 Fixed asset investments
Other 
Investment in Loans to fixed asset
joint ventures joint ventures
(a)
investments
(b)
T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M
At the beginning of the financial year 1 369 238 123 1 730
Group share of profits less losses 564 – – 564
Additions 49 – 15 64
Disposals (187) (154) (38) (379)
Disposal of operations and subsidiaries – – (2) (2)
Dividends received (255) – – (255)
Other movements (15) – – (15)
At the end of the financial year 1 525 84 98 1 707
In aggregate BHP Billiton Group Share
2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Net assets of joint ventures comprise:
Fixed assets 5 363 5 598 1 946 2 096
Current assets 2 169 1 954 864 855
Liabilities due within one year (1 1 76) (1 238) (491) (576)
Liabilities due after more than one year (2 095) (2 622) (794) (1 006)
Net assets of joint ventures 4 261 3 692 1 525 1 369
In aggregate BHP Billiton Group Share
(c)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Profits less losses of joint ventures and 
associates comprise:
T urnover 5 423 4 754 4 516 2 21 7 2 056 1 898
Net operating costs (3 329) (3 683) (3 666) (1 418) (1 631) (1 540)
Operating profit 2 094 1 071 850 799 425 358
Profit after net interest and taxation 1 459 583 400 564 223 164
Capital commitments 40 55 98
(a)
Loans to joint ventures include US$84 million (2004: US$225 million) that are in the form of cash on deposit, with the banks having an equivalent amount on loan to the
joint venture.
(b)
The BHP Billiton Group has subscribed for shares in a number of listed companies in connection with option arrangements on exploration projects. The consideration 
has been allocated to the option and has generally been expensed in accordance with the BHP Billiton Group’s accounting policy on exploration. These investments
therefore have a book value of US$nil at 30 June 2005 (2004: US$nil) in the table above and a market value of US$22 million (2004: US$1 9 million). Other listed
investments have a book value of US$40 million (2004: US$68 million) and a market value of US$63 million (2004: US$1 15 million).
(c)
Effective January 2005, the BHP Billiton Group sold its interest in Integris Metals Inc for US$202 million. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the profit less losses of joint ventures
and associates included the results of the Group’s 50 per cent interest in Integris Metals Inc up to the date of sale. Effective April 2003, the BHP Billiton Group sold its
interest in Minera Alumbrera Limited for US$187 million. In 2003, the profit less losses of joint ventures and associates included the results relating to the Group’s 
50 per cent interest in Minera Alumbrera Limited. 
Notes to Financial Statements continued
114 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 16 Stocks
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Raw materials and consumables 627 460
Work in progress 771 409
Finished goods 1 1 70 891
2 568 1 760
1 7 Debtors
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Amounts due within one year
Trade debtors 2 527 2 018
less Provision for doubtful debts (4) (4)
2 523 2 014
T ax recoverable 1 3
Employee Share Plan loans
(a)
2 1
Other debtors
(b)
930 731
less Provision for doubtful debts (3) (1)
927 730
Prepayments and accrued income 158 17 6
3 61 1 2 924
Amounts due after more than one year
Deferred tax 1 1 10 602
Employee Share Plan loans
(a)
58 62
Other debtors
(b)
476 447
Pension assets (refer note 27) 31 0 282
Other prepayments and accrued income 11 4 89
2 068 1 482
5 679 4 406
(a)
Under the terms of a legacy share plan, the BHP Billiton Limited Employee Share Plan, shares have been issued to employees for subscription at market price less a
discount not exceeding 1 0 per cent. Interest free employee loans are available to fund the purchase of such shares for a period of up to 20 years repayable by application
of dividends or an equivalent amount. Refer note 23.
(b)
Other debtors include receivables from joint venture arrangement cash calls, indirect taxes and other long-term financing and reimbursement arrangements.
115
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 1 8 Current asset investments
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Unlisted investments 
Environmental trust funds
(a)
16 7 153
Insurance investments
(b)
13 14
Short term deposits 32 –
21 2 16 7
(a)
Investments held by the Ingwe, Selbaie and Rio Algom Environmental Trust Funds. The future realisation of these investments is intended to fund environmental
obligations relating to the eventual closure of Ingwe’s, Selbaie’s and Rio Algom’s mines. Consequently these investments, whilst under BHP Billiton Group control, are not
available for the general purposes of the BHP Billiton Group. All income from these investments is reinvested or spent to meet these obligations. The BHP Billiton Group
retains responsibility for these environmental obligations until such time as the former mine sites have been rehabilitated in accordance with the relevant environmental
legislation. These obligations are therefore included under provisions for liabilities and charges (refer note 21).
(b)
Investments relating to the BHP Billiton Group’s self-insurance arrangements. These investments are held for the benefit of the BHP Billiton Group but are not available
for the general purposes of the BHP Billiton Group.
1 9 Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Bank overdrafts 15 133
Unsecured bank loans (current portion of long-term loans) 17 3 252
T otal current portion of unsecured bank loans and overdrafts 188 385
Notes and debentures 597 306
Secured debt (limited recourse) (refer note 20) 51 51
Unsecured debt (non-recourse) 148 264
Secured debt (non-recourse) – 97
Commercial paper
(a)
1 602 –
Redeemable preference shares
(b)
450 –
Finance leases 3 9
Other unsecured borrowings 63 21 8
T otal current portion of debentures and other borrowings 2 914 945
T otal borrowings falling due within one year 3 102 1 330
Trade creditors 2 155 1 688
Corporation taxes 842 297
Social security 1 1
Other taxes 159 132
Other creditors and accruals 1 737 739
Deferred income 120 156
Dividends payable 878 592
8 994 4 935
(a)
In accordance with FRS 4 ‘Capital Instruments’, all commercial paper is classified as short-term borrowings although it is backed by medium-term facilities. Under 
US GAAP , this amount is grouped with non-current borrowings at 30 June 2005. 
(b)
Redeemable preference shares include the following:
BHP Operations Inc: Preferred stock
Auction market preferred stock
600 (2004: 600) shares issued at US$250 000 each, fully paid preferred stock; cumulative, non-participating, dividend reset on a regular basis reflecting prevailing 
US market rates; not entitled to any earnings growth or capital appreciation of the issuer . Redeemable at the option of the issuer on any dividend payment date or, 
if redeemed in full, on any business day. Guaranteed by other BHP Billiton Group companies. 
Cumulative preferred stock series ‘A’ 
3 000 (2004: 3 000) shares issued at US$1 00 000 each, fixed at 6.76 per cent per annum, fully paid and not entitled to any earnings growth or capital appreciation 
of the issuer . Subject to mandatory redemption on 27 February 2006. Dividends are cumulative and are calculated on the basis of a year of twelve 30 day months.
Guaranteed by other BHP Billiton Group companies.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
116 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 20 Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Unsecured bank loans 3 000 55
T otal non-current portion of bank loans 3 000 55
Notes and debentures 3 793 3 653
Secured debt (limited recourse)
(a)
384 435
Unsecured debt (non-recourse) 559 545
Redeemable preference shares
(b)
– 450
Finance leases 53 67
Other unsecured borrowings 235 248
T otal non-current portion of debentures and other borrowings 5 024 5 398
T otal borrowings falling due after more than one year 8 024 5 453
Trade creditors 4 1
Other creditors 158 17 5
Corporation taxes 7 10
Deferred income 362 348
8 555 5 987
(a)
The limited recourse secured debt relates to the Mozal joint arrangement. The debt is secured by a charge over the assets of this joint arrangement and the lender has
recourse to only those assets in the event of default.
(b)
Refer note 1 9.
Debt falling due after five years is analysed as follows:
2005 2004
Repayable Currency Interest rate % US$M US$M
US$ Bond issue 2012 – 2026 US$ 7. 1% fixed 1 073 1 073
Global Bond 201 3 US$ LIBOR+0.47% 850 850
Global Bond (WMC)
(a)
201 3 US$ 5. 1 3% fixed 51 1 –
Global Bond (WMC) 2033 US$ 6.25% fixed 222 –
Escondida 2016 US$ 8.0% fixed 24 27
Escondida 201 0 – 201 3 US$ LIBOR+0.37% 92 134
Manganese shareholder loan 2030 US$ LIBOR+2.25% 82 82
Richards Bay Coal Terminal loan 2015 ZAR interest free 28 34
Eskom loan 2016 ZAR 1 3.0% fixed 30 44
Mozal – Senior loans 2012 – 2014 US$ 6–7% fixed 66 94
Mozal – Senior loans 2012 US$ LIBOR+2.4% 67 80
Mozal – Subordinated loan 2012 US$ 7.96% fixed 23 34
Other various various various 12 37
3 080 2 489
(a)
The fixed interest rate exposure has been swapped to a fixed exposure until November 2005 followed by a floating interest rate exposure for the remainder of the bond.
Refer note 29.
117
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 21 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Post-
Restoration retirement
Employee Resource and benefits
(d)
Deferred
entitlements)
(a)
Restructuring)
(b)
rent tax rehabilitation)
(c)
(note 27) tax Other T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
At 1 July 2004 622 1 1 275 2 783 335 1 208 324 5 558
Amounts capitalised ––– 537––– 537
Acquisition of subsidiaries 60 4 – 141 15 (1 70) 30 80
Disposals of operations and subsidiaries (7) – (10) (61) (19) (53) – (150)
Charge/(credit) for the year:
Underlying 360 283 1 1 163 55 1 77 1 79 1 228
Discounting ––– 168––– 168
Exchange variation 48 – 23 – (7) – 1 1 75
Released during the year –––––– (5) (5)
Exchange variation taken to reserves 1–– 6– 14 1 22
Utilisation (244) (5) – (159) (46) – (150) (604)
Transfers and other movements –3 –6 (1) 8 (15) 1
At 30 June 2005 840 296 299 3 584 332 1 184 375 6 910
At 1 July 2003 547 57 241 2 025 31 7 1 41 3 298 4 898
Amounts capitalised – – – 1 03––– 103
Disposals of subsidiaries – – – (57) – – – (57)
Charge/(credit) for the year:
Underlying 370 2 24 691 40 (21 7) 1 37 1 047
Discounting 2 – – 1 00––– 102
Exchange variation 1 9 – 6 – 22 – 7 54
Released during the year – (31) –––– (28) (59)
Exchange variation taken to reserves – – 4 12 – 12 – 28
Utilisation (31 1) (1 5) (1) (82) (48) – (1 04) (561)
Transfers and other movements (5) (2) 1 (9) 4 – 14 3
At 30 June 2004 622 1 1 275 2 783 335 1 208 324 5 558
(a)
The provision for employee entitlements includes applicable amounts for annual leave and associated on-costs. It is anticipated expenditure of approximately 
US$480 million will be incurred in the year ending 30 June 2006.
(b)
T otal provision for restructuring costs is made up of:
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Redundancies 80 10
Business terminations (including losses on long-term contracts) 21 6 1
296 11
Notes to Financial Statements continued
118 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
(c)
The BHP Billiton Group’s activities are subject to various national, regional, and
local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Furthermore, the Group has a policy of ensuring that reclamation is planned and
financed from the early stages of any operation. Provision is made for the
reclamation of the BHP Billiton Group’s mining and processing facilities along
with the decommissioning of oil platforms and infrastructure associated with
petroleum activities. The estimation of the cost of future reclamation and
decommissioning activities is subject to potentially significant uncertainties.
These uncertainties include the legal and regulatory framework, the magnitude
of possible contamination, and the timing and extent of reclamation and
decommissioning activities required. Accordingly, whilst the provisions at 
30 June 2005 represent the best estimate of the future costs required, these
uncertainties are likely to result in future actual expenditure differing from the
amounts provided at this time.
These reclamation and decommissioning expenditures are mostly expected to be
paid over the next 30 years. The provisions for reclamation and decommissioning
are derived by discounting the expected expenditures to their net present value.
The estimated total site rehabilitation cost (undiscounted and in today’s dollars)
to be incurred in the future arising from operations to date, and including
amounts already provided for, is US$6 284 million (2004: US$5 402 million). 
At 30 June 2005, US$2 475 million (2004: US$1 702 million) was provided for
reclamation and decommissioning costs relating to operating sites in the
provision for site rehabilitation. In addition, the Group has certain obligations
associated with maintaining and/or remediating closed sites. At 30 June 2005,
US$1 1 09 million (2004: $1 081 million) was provided for closed sites. The
amounts provided in relation to closed sites are reviewed at least annually based
upon the facts and circumstances available at the time and the provisions are
updated accordingly. Adjustments to the provisions in relation to these closed
sites are recognised in profit and loss during the period in which the adjustments
are made, with US$121 million included as an exceptional item in the current
year (2004: US$534 million; 2003: US$nil). In addition to the uncertainties
associated with the closure activity noted above, uncertainty remains over the
extent and costs of the required short-term closure activities, the extent, cost
and timing of post-closure monitoring and, in some cases, longer-term water
management. Also, certain of the closure activities are subject to legal dispute
and depending on the ultimate resolution of these matters the final liability
could vary. The Group believes that it is reasonably possible that, due to the
nature of the closed site liabilities and the degree of uncertainty which surrounds
them, these liabilities could be in the order of 30 per cent (2004: 35 per cent)
greater or in the order of 20 per cent lower than the US$1 1 09 million provided at year end. The main closed site to which this total amount relates is Southwest
Copper in the US and this is described in further detail below, together with a
brief description of other closed sites.
Southwest Copper, Arizona, US
The Southwest Copper operations comprised several mining and smelting
operations and associated facilities, much of which had been operating for many
years prior to the BHP Billiton Group acquiring the operation in 1 996. In 1 999 the
facilities were effectively placed on a care and maintenance basis, pending
evaluation of various alternative strategies to realise maximum value from the
respective assets. The BHP Billiton Group announced the closure of the San Manuel
mining facilities and the San Manuel plant facilities in 2002 and 2003 respectively . 
A comprehensive review of closure plans conducted in the prior year indicated
(a) higher short-term closure costs due to changes in the nature of closure work
required in relation to certain facilities, particularly tailings dams and waste and
leach dumps; (b) a need for costs, such as water management and
environmental monitoring, to continue for a longer period; and, (c) an increase
in the residual value of certain assets. The closure provisions for Southwest
Copper, including amounts in relation to Pinal Creek litigation, total 
US$731 million at 30 June 2005 (2004: US$771 million).
In relation to Pinal Creek, BHP Copper Inc (‘BHP Copper’) is involved in litigation
concerning groundwater contamination resulting from historic mining operations
near the Pinal Creek/Miami Wash area located in the State of Arizona.
In 1 994, Roy Wilkes and Diane Dunn initiated a toxic tort class action lawsuit 
in the Federal District Court for the District of Arizona. In September 2000, the
Court approved a settlement reached between the parties for a non-material
amount, and the terms of the settlement are now being implemented as a
monitoring programme. 
A State consent decree (‘the Decree’) was approved by the Federal District Court
for the District of Arizona in August 1 998. The Decree authorises and requires
groundwater remediation and facility-specific source control activities, and the
members of the Pinal Creek Group (which consists of BHP Copper, Phelps Dodge
Miami Inc and Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co) are jointly liable for
performing the non-facility specific source control activities. Such activities are
currently ongoing. As of 30 June 2005, the BHP Billiton Group has provided
US$1 1 0 million (2004: US$1 02 million) for its anticipated share of the planned
remediation work, based on a range reasonably foreseeable up to US$1 38 million
(2004: US$1 38 million), and the Group has paid out US$50 million up to 
30 June 2005. These amounts are based on the provisional equal allocation of
costs among the three members of the Pinal Creek Group. BHP Copper is seeking
a judicial restatement of the allocation formula to reduce its share, based upon
its belief, supported by relevant external legal and technical advice, that its
property has contributed a smaller share of the contamination than the other
parties’ properties. BHP Copper is contingently liable for the whole of these
costs in the event that the other parties are unable to pay. 
BHP Copper and the other members of the Pinal Creek Group filed a contribution
action in November 1 991 in the Federal District Court for the District of Arizona
against former owners and operators of the properties alleged to have caused
the contamination. The claim is for an undetermined amount but under current
state and federal laws applicable to the case, BHP Copper should recover a
significant percentage of the total remediation costs from the Defendants, based
upon their operations’ proportionate contributions to the total contamination in
the Pinal Creek drainage basin. Such action seeks recovery from these historical
owners and operators for remediation and source control costs. BHP Copper’s
predecessors in interest have asserted a counterclaim in this action seeking
indemnity from BHP Copper based upon their interpretation of the historical
transaction documents relating to the succession in interest of the parties. 
BHP Copper has also filed suit against a number of insurance carriers seeking 
to recover under various insurance policies for remediation, response, source
control, and other costs noted above incurred by BHP Copper . The reasonable
assessment of recovery in the various insurances cases has a range from 
US$4 million to approximately US$15 million, depending on many factors.
Neither insurance recoveries nor other claims or offsets have been recognised 
in the financial statements and will not be recognised until such offsets are
considered virtually certain of realisation.
Other closed sites
The closure provisions for other closed sites total US$378 million at 30 June 2005
(2004: US$31 0 million). The key sites covered by this amount are described
briefly below. 
• Newcastle Steelworks – the Group closed its Newcastle Steelworks in 1 999 and
retains responsibility for certain sediment in the Hunter River adjacent to the
former steelworks site, together with certain other site remediation activities in
the Newcastle area. 
• Island Copper – the Group ceased operations at its Island Copper mine in
December 1 995 and has responsibility for various site reclamation activities,
including the long-term treatment of the pit lake and water management. 
• Selbaie copper mine – the Group closed its Selbaie copper mine in January
2004 and has responsibility for site reclamation and remediation activities. 
• Rio Algom – the Group has responsibility for long-term remediation costs 
for various closed mines and processing facilities in Canada and the US
operated by Rio Algom Ltd prior to its acquisition by the former Billiton Plc 
in October 2000. 
• Ingwe Collieries – the Group has responsibility for site reclamation and
remediation activities, including the long-term management of water leaving
mining properties, for closed mines within the Ingwe operations.
• Roane – the Group ceased operations at Roane chrome in 1 982. A review of
the closure plans during the year identified a need for additional remediation
costs.
Closure provisions for other closed sites have been increased in the current
period mainly due to refinements of closure plans at the Selbaie copper mine,
Ingwe Collieries, Roane chrome and several other smaller sites. These increases
resulted from a number of causes, including (a) a reassessment during the
period of water management issues; and, (b) a comprehensive risk valuation
completed during the period in relation to sites which closed during the last 
two years where closure activities have now commenced.
(d)
The provision for post-retirement benefits includes pension liabilities of 
US$80 million (2004: US$62 million) and post-retirement medical benefit
liabilities of US$252 million (2004: US$273 million). Refer note 27.
119
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
2 1 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued 22 Called up share capital and contributed equity
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
BHP Billiton Plc 
Authorised share capital
3 000 000 000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each (2004: 3 000 000 000; 2003: 3 000 000 000) 1 500 1 500 1 500
50 000 (2004: 50 000; 2003: 50 000) 5.5% preference shares of £1 each
(a)
– ––
1 Special Voting Share (2004: 1; 2003: 1) of US$0.50
(b)
– ––
1 Equalisation Share (2004: 1; 2003: 1) of US$0.50
(c)
– ––
1 500 1 500 1 500
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital
2 468 147 002 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each (2004: 2 468 147 002; 2003: 2 468 147 002) 1 234 1 234 1 234
50 000 (2004: 50 000; 2003: 50 000) 5.5% preference shares of £1 each
(a)
– ––
1 Special Voting Share (2004: 1; 2003: 1) of US$0.50
(b)
– ––
1 234 1 234 1 234
Number of shares
2005 2004 2003
Movements in called up fully paid ordinary shares
(d)
Opening number of shares 2 468 147 002 2 468 147 002 2 31 9 147 885
Bonus shares issued
(e)
– – 148 999 1 1 7
Closing number of shares 2 468 147 002 2 468 147 002 2 468 147 002
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
BHP Billiton Limited
Paid up contributed equity
(f)
3 587 977 615 ordinary shares fully paid (2004: 3 759 487 555; 2003: 3 747 687 775) 1 61 1 1 851 1 785
1 95 000 ordinary shares paid to A$1 .36 (2004: 405 000; 2003: 1 095 000)
(g)
– ––
1 Special Voting Share (2004: 1; 2003: 1)
(b)
– ––
1 61 1 1 851 1 785
Number of shares
2005 2004 2003
Movements in fully paid ordinary shares 
Opening number of shares 3 759 487 555 3 747 687 775 3 724 893 687
Shares issued on exercise of Employee Share Plan awards
(h)
8 859 470 1 0 764 732 20 165 784
Shares issued on exercise of Performance Rights
(h)
– –918 120
Partly paid shares converted to fully paid
(g)
347 018 1 035 048 1 71 0 184
Shares bought back and cancelled
(i)
(180 716 428) ––
Closing number of shares
(j)
3 587 977 615 3 759 487 555 3 747 687 775
(a)
Preference shares have the right to repayment of the amount paid up on the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority to the holders of any other class of
shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return of capital or winding up. The holders of preference shares have limited voting rights if payment of the preference dividends are 
six months or more in arrears or a resolution is passed changing the rights of the preference shareholders. Since the merger these shares have been beneficially held 
by JPMorgan plc.
(b)
BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited each issued one Special Voting Share to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited on 
Joint Electorate Actions.
(c)
An Equalisation Share has been authorised to be issued to enable a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc to the BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required
under the terms of the DLC merger . The Directors have the ability to issue the Equalisation Share if required under those terms. The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited
allows the Directors of that Company to issue a similar Equalisation Share.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
120 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 23 Employee share ownership plans
Summary of BHP Billiton Group employee share ownership plans
The following table is a summary of the awards made under the employee share ownership plans of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited. 
The subsequent tables and associated footnotes provide more information in relation to that contained in the summary table.
The details of the plans, including comparatives, are presented including, where applicable, a bonus element to which the participant became entitled
as a result of the DLC merger on 29 June 2001 and the BHP Steel Limited demerger on 1 July 2002.
Number of 
Number of awards awards issued 
outstanding at during year ended
30 June 2005 30 June 2005
BHP Billiton Plc employee share awards
Long Term Incentive Plan (Performance Shares) 2 31 7 300 2 354 800
Group Incentive Scheme (Deferred Shares) 2 493 101 1 308 709
Group Incentive Scheme (Options) 1 184 506 378 384
Group Incentive Scheme (Performance Shares) 4 819 393 358 128
Restricted Share Scheme 132 978 –
Co-Investment Plan 522 306 –
BHP Billiton Limited employee share awards
Long Term Incentive Plan (Performance Shares) 4 764 108 4 854 485
Group Incentive Scheme (Deferred Shares) 5 107 264 2 536 991
Group Incentive Scheme (Options) 2 067 040 780 181
Group Incentive Scheme (Performance Shares) 9 860 582 637 676
Employee Share Plan (shares) 16 61 1 045 –
Employee Share Plan (options) 14 571 693 –
Executive Share Scheme (partly paid shares) 274 918 –
Performance Share Plan (LTI) 1 439 869 –
Performance Share Plan (MTI) 189 800 –
Bonus Equity Share Plan (shares) 47 662 –
121
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
22 Called up share capital and contributed equity continued
(d)
During the year ended 30 June 2005, BHP Billiton Plc did not repurchase any shares under the authorisation granted by its shareholders. The shareholders authorised the
Company to enter into contracts to purchase up to 247 million of BHP Billiton Plc shares until the end of the annual general meeting in 2005.
(e)
Upon the demerger of BHP Steel in July 2002, bonus shares of BHP Billiton Plc were issued to BHP Billiton Plc shareholders to reflect the value distributed to shareholders
of BHP Billiton Limited as a result of the demerger (the bonus issue was one BHP Billiton Plc share for approximately each 15.6 BHP Billiton Plc shares held).
(f)
Under the Australian Corporations Act 2001, BHP Billiton Limited’s share capital has no par value. T otal capital subscribed by shareholders less capital returned to
shareholders is included in shareholders’ funds as contributed equity. 
(g)
21 0 000 (2004: 690 000; 2003: 1 21 0 000) shares paid to A$1 .36 and nil (2004: 240 000; 2003: 80 000) shares paid to A$1 .40 were converted to fully paid during 2005.
There were no partly paid shares issued during the year (2004: nil; 2003: nil). Including bonus shares, 347 018 (2004: 1 035 048; 2003: 1 71 0 184) shares were issued on
conversion of these partly paid shares. 70 000 (2004: 1 90 000; 2003: 282 000) partly paid shares are entitled to 79 928 (2004: 216 936; 2003: 321 984) bonus shares on
becoming fully paid. As a consequence of the BHP Steel demerger, an interim call of A$0.69 per share was made on partly paid shares and the capital reduction amount
was applied to meet this call. 
(h)
The number of shares issued on exercise of options and Performance Rights after 7 July 2001 includes bonus shares. 
(i)
On 23 November 2004, the BHP Billiton Group completed an off-market share buy-back of 180 716 428 BHP Billiton Limited shares. In accordance with the structure of
the buy-back, US$296 million was allocated to the contributed equity of BHP Billiton Limited. The final price for the buy-back was A$12.57 per share, representing a
discount of 12 per cent to the volume weighted average price of BHP Billiton Limited shares over the five days up to and including the closing date of the buy-back.
During the years ended 30 June 2003 and 30 June 2004, BHP Billiton Limited did not repurchase any shares in accordance with its announced share buy-back programme.
The buy-back programme allows for the purchase of up to 186 million BHP Billiton Limited shares (adjusted for the bonus issue), less the number of BHP Billiton Plc shares
purchased on-market by Nelson Investment Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
(j)
During the period 1 July 2005 to 8 September 2005, no Executive Share Scheme partly paid shares were paid up in full, 1 373 575 fully paid ordinary shares (including
attached bonus shares) were issued on the exercise of Employee Share Plan Options, no fully paid ordinary shares (including attached bonus shares) were issued on the
exercise of Performance Share Plan Performance Rights and no fully paid ordinary shares were issued on the exercise of Group Incentive Scheme awards. 23 Employee share ownership plans continued
The following tables relate to awards issued under each of these schemes:
Restricted Share Scheme awards 
(a)
Co-Investment Plan awards 
(a)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since the DLC merger
(b)
5 657 555 5 657 555 5 657 555 1 023 425 1 023 425 1 023 425
During the financial year
Number of awards remaining at the beginning of the financial year 4 076 894 4 608 382 5 351 690 539 984 837 450 1 000 399
Number of awards issued – –– – ––
Number of awards exercised (3 492 699) (167 230) (426 604) (14 707) (1 02 656) (45 415)
Number of awards lapsed (451 21 7) (364 258) (316 704) (2 971) (1 94 81 0) (1 1 7 534)
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 132 978 4 076 894 4 608 382 522 306 539 984 837 450
Exercisable 132 978 –– – ––
Not exercisable – 4 076 894 4 608 382 522 306 539 984 837 450
Number of employees participating in awards issued – –– – ––
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– –– – ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – –– – ––
Number of employees exercising awards 161 10 22 6 27 1 0
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) 40 12 – ––
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Long Term Incentive Plan Performance
Shares (BHP Billiton Plc)
(a)
Shares (BHP Billiton Limited)
(a)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since commencement of the Plan 2 354 800 –– 4 854 485 ––
During the financial year
Number of awards at the beginning of the financial year – –– – ––
Number of awards issued 2 354 800 –– 4 854 485 ––
Number of awards exercised – –– – ––
Number of awards lapsed (37 500) –– (90 377) ––
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 2 31 7 300 –– 4 764 108 ––
Exercisable – –– – ––
Not exercisable 2 31 7 300 –– 4 764 108 ––
Number of employees participating in awards issued 159 –– 293 ––
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– –– – ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – –– – ––
Number of employees exercising awards – –– – ––
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) – –– – ––
Notes to Financial Statements continued
122 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 23 Employee share ownership plans continued
Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Group Incentive Scheme Deferred
Shares (BHP Billiton Plc)
(a)
Shares (BHP Billiton Limited)
(a)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since commencement of the Plan 2 706 527 1 397 818 – 5 538 713 3 001 722 –
During the financial year
Number of awards at the beginning of the financial year 1 310 131 –– 2 884 289 ––
Number of awards issued 1 308 709 1 397 818 – 2 536 991 3 001 722 –
Number of awards exercised (79 665) (1 1 61 0) – (256 1 1 1) (30 884) –
Number of awards lapsed (46 074) (76 077) – (57 905) (86 549) –
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 2 493 101 1 31 0 1 31 – 5 107 264 2 884 289 –
Exercisable – –– – ––
Not exercisable 2 493 101 1 31 0 1 31 – 5 107 264 2 884 289 –
Number of employees participating in awards issued 180 200 – 384 391 –
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– –– – ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – –– – ––
Number of employees exercising awards 14 2– 20 6–
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) 1 –– 3 ––
Group Incentive Scheme Options Group Incentive Scheme Options
(BHP Billiton Plc)
(a)
(BHP Billiton Limited)
(a)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since commencement of the Plan 1 296 438 918 054 – 2 1 18 995 1 338 814 –
During the financial year
Number of awards at the beginning of the financial year 855 044 –– 1 309 448 ––
Number of awards issued 378 384 918 054 – 780 181 1 338 814 –
Number of awards exercised (14 353) (21 241) – – ––
Number of awards lapsed (34 569) (41 769) – (22 589) (29 366) –
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 1 184 506 855 044 – 2 067 040 1 309 448 –
Exercisable – –– – ––
Not exercisable 1 184 506 855 044 – 2 067 040 1 309 448 –
Number of employees participating in awards issued 75 81 – 70 104 –
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– –– – ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – –– – ––
Number of employees exercising awards 2 –– – ––
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) – –– – ––
123
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 23 Employee share ownership plans continued
Group Incentive Scheme Performance Group Incentive Scheme Performance
Shares (BHP Billiton Plc)
(a)
Shares (BHP Billiton Limited)
(a)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since commencement of the Plan 5 974 344 5 616 216 3 966 768 11 501 457 1 0 863 781 7 51 0 243
During the financial year
Number of awards at the beginning of the financial year 4 833 951 3 634 251 – 10 136 908 7 31 3 516 –
Number of awards issued 358 128 1 649 448 3 966 768 637 676 3 353 538 7 51 0 243
Number of awards exercised (281 123) (84 041) – (668 853) (157 429) –
Number of awards lapsed (91 563) (365 707) (332 51 7) (245 149) (372 71 7) (1 96 727)
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 4 819 393 4 833 951 3 634 251 9 860 582 1 0 1 36 908 7 31 3 516
Exercisable – –– – ––
Not exercisable 4 819 393 4 833 951 3 634 251 9 860 582 1 0 1 36 908 7 31 3 516
Number of employees participating in awards issued 195 21 8 221 105 409 424
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– –– – ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – –– – ––
Number of employees exercising awards 15 6– 19 12 –
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) 2 1– 7 1–
Employee Share Plan Options
(a)
Weighted Average Exercise Price (A$)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since commencement of the Plan 1 78 032 575 1 78 032 575 1 78 032 575
During the financial year
Number of awards at the beginning of the financial year 24 309 476 37 571 802 60 994 303 7 .94 7.81 8.29
Number of awards issued – – 67 500 – – 8.95
Number of awards exercised (8 550 570) (1 0 764 732) (20 165 784) 8.08 7.48 7.25
Number of awards lapsed (1 187 213) (2 497 594) (3 324 21 7) 8.28 8.04 7.53
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 14 571 693 24 309 476 37 571 802 7.83 7.94 7.81
Exercisable 14 571 693 1 3 679 357 15 899 927 7.83 7.66 7.03
Not exercisable – 1 0 630 1 1 9 21 671 875 – 8.30 8.38
Number of employees participating in awards issued – –1
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – ––
Number of employees exercising awards 1 225 1 683 9 857
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) 100 88 1 21
Proceeds from exercise of options (US$ million) 53 57 83
Notes to Financial Statements continued
124 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 23 Employee share ownership plans continued
Employee Share Plan Shares
(a)
Executive Share Scheme 
partly paid shares 
(a)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since commencement of the Plan 373 745 102 373 745 1 02 373 745 1 02 50 529 280 50 529 280 50 529 280
During the financial year
Number of awards at the beginning of the financial year 18 660 656 20 508 095 45 827 460 621 936 1 656 984 3 367 168
Number of awards issued – –– – ––
Number of awards exercised (2 049 61 1) (1 847 439) (25 31 9 365) (347 018) (1 035 048) (1 71 0 184)
Number of awards lapsed – –– – ––
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 16 61 1 045 18 660 656 20 508 095 274 918 621 936 1 656 984
Exercisable 16 61 1 045 18 660 656 20 508 095 274 918 621 936 1 656 984
Not exercisable – –– – ––
Number of employees participating in awards issued – –– – ––
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– –– – ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – –– – ––
Number of employees exercising awards – –– 2 411
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) – –– 4 97
Employee share plan loans outstanding (US$ million) 60 63 7 1 – ––
Proceeds from conversion of partly paid shares (US$ million) – –– 3 910
Performance Share Plan Bonus Equity Share Plan Shares
(a)
Performance Rights 
(a)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Number of awards issued since commencement of the Plan 12 679 547 12 679 547 12 679 547 1 016 845 1 016 845 1 016 845
During the financial year
Number of awards remaining at the beginning of the financial year 5 244 027 8 163 616 1 0 293 469 818 746 856 345 1 016 845
Number of awards issued – –– – ––
Number of awards exercised (3 218 307) (2 712 371) (1 901 694) (748 345) (34 573) (1 35 945)
Number of awards lapsed (396 051) (207 218) (228 159) (22 739) (3 026) (24 555)
Number of awards remaining at the end of the financial year 1 629 669 5 244 027 8 163 616 47 662 818 746 856 345
Exercisable 1 629 669 716 120 – 47 662 ––
Not exercisable – 4 527 907 8 163 616 – 818 746 856 345
Number of employees participating in awards issued – –– – ––
Market value of awards issued (US$ million)
(c)
– –– – ––
Proceeds from awards issued (US$ million) – –– – ––
Number of employees exercising awards 72 17 2 22 83 926
Market value of shares on exercise of awards (US$ million) 36 21 8 11 –1
125
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 23 Employee share ownership plans continued
Awards outstanding at:
Date of
Number Number of Number Number Balance Directors’ Exercise Exercise period/
Month of issue issued recipients exercised lapsed date Report price release date
Restricted Share Scheme
(d)
November 2001(Share awards) 292 577 1 98 574 1 94 003––– Nov 2004
October 2001 (Share awards) 4 446 532 147 3 436 002 1 01 0 530––– Oct 2004
October 2001 (Options) 918 446 32 608 525 1 76 943 1 32 978 1 32 978 – Oct 2004 – Sept 2008
132 978 132 978
Co-Investment Plan
(d)
November 2001 1 00 945 1 23 1 31 77 814––– Nov 2000 – Oct 201 1
October 2001 922 480 83 146 1 72 254 002 522 306 516 51 7 – Oct 2003 – Sept 201 1
522 306 516 51 7
Long Term Incentive Plan 
Performance Shares 
(BHP Billiton Plc)
December 2004 2 354 800 159 – 37 500 2 31 7 300 2 31 7 300 – Aug 2009 – Aug 2014
2 31 7 300 2 31 7 300
Group Incentive Scheme
(BHP Billiton Plc)
Deferred Shares
December 2004 1 308 709 200 12 958 27 493 1 268 258 1 268 258 – Aug 2006 – Aug 2009
November 2003 1 397 818 1 94 78 31 7 94 658 1 224 843 523 493 – Aug 2005 – Aug 2008
Options
December 2004 378 384 45 – 1 9 981 358 403 358 403 £6. 1 1 Aug 2006 – Aug 2009
November 2003 918 054 78 35 594 56 357 826 1 03 556 346 £4.43 Aug 2005 – Aug 2008
Performance Shares
December 2004 358 128 42 1 1 036 23 250 323 842 323 842 – Aug 2007 – Aug 201 0
November 2003 1 649 448 21 0 98 747 1 09 992 1 440 709 1 440 709 – Aug 2006 – Aug 2009
November 2002 3 966 768 209 255 381 656 545 3 054 842 1 435 045 – Aug 2005 – Aug 2008
8 497 000 5 906 096
Performance Share Plan 
Performance Rights
(d)
November 2001 (LTI) 5 1 14 298 1 1 0 3 161 027 81 3 381 1 1 39 890 1 054 494 – Oct 2004 – Sept 201 1
October 2001 (LTI) 1 73 879 2 1 18 670 1 7 389 37 820 – – Oct 2004 – Sept 201 1
October 2001(MTI) 238 940 6 22 596 26 544 189 800 189 800 – Oct 2003 – Mar 2006
December 2000 (LTI) 415 51 0 1 1 348 674 – 66 836 66 836 – July 2003 – Dec 201 0
November 2000 (LTI) 4 441 620 1 04 4 040 01 9 206 278 1 95 323 122 268 – July 2003 – Oct 201 0
1 629 669 1 433 398
Notes to Financial Statements continued
126 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 23 Employee share ownership plans continued
Awards outstanding at:
Date of
Number Number of Number Number Balance Directors’ Exercise Exercise period/
Month of issue issued recipients exercised lapsed date Report price release date
Long Term Incentive Plan 
(BHP Billiton Limited)
December 2004 4 854 485 293 – 90 377 4 764 1 08 4 744 1 08 – Aug 2009 – Aug 2014
4 764 108 4 744 108
Group Incentive Scheme 
(BHP Billiton Limited)
Deferred Shares
December 2004 2 536 991 384 52 007 40 279 2 444 705 2 425 1 38 – Aug 2006 – Aug 2009
November 2003 3 001 722 391 234 988 1 04 1 75 2 662 559 1 629 032 – Aug 2005 – Aug 2008
Options
December 2004 780 181 70 – – 780 181 776 322 A$15.39 Aug 2006 – Aug 2009
November 2003 1 338 814 1 04 – 51 955 1 286 859 1 227 846 A$1 1 . 1 1 Aug 2005 – Aug 2008
Performance Shares
December 2004 637 676 1 05 28 1 99 18 895 590 582 571 812 – Aug 2007 – Aug 201 0
November 2003 3 353 538 409 216 416 1 71 167 2 965 955 2 953 122 – Aug 2006 – Aug 2009
November 2002 7 51 0 243 425 581 667 624 531 6 304 045 3 764 581 – Aug 2005 – Aug 2008
1 7 034 886 13 347 853
Employee Share Plan Options
September 2002 67 500 1 60 750 6 750 – – A$8.95 Oct 2004 – Sept 201 1
November 2001 6 870 500 1 1 3 2 988 31 1 1 374 339 2 507 850 2 123 21 0 A$8.30 Oct 2004 – Sept 201 1
November 2001 7 207 000 153 3 751 675 1 280 988 2 1 74 337 1 930 777 A$8.29 Oct 2004 – Sept 201 1
December 2000 3 444 587 67 1 666 726 485 625 1 292 236 1 067 140 A$8.72 July 2003 – Dec 201 0
December 2000 2 316 01 0 59 1 21 3 701 299 605 802 704 724 334 A$8.71 July 2003 – Dec 201 0
November 2000 1 71 9 1 96 44 677 150 539 452 502 594 502 594 A$8.28 July 2003 – Oct 201 0
November 2000 7 764 776 1 97 5 575 927 871 935 1 316 914 1 1 93 008 A$8.27 July 2003 – Oct 201 0
April 2000 61 953 3 20 651 – 41 302 20 651 A$7.60 April 2003 – April 201 0
April 2000 937 555 5 51 628 1 38 361 747 566 747 566 A$7.60 April 2003 – April 201 0
December 1 999 41 3 020 1 41 3 020 – – – A$8.61 April 2002 – April 2009
December 1 999 309 765 1 309 765 – – – A$7.50 April 2002 – April 2009
October 1 999 1 05 320 3 14 456 30 976 59 888 8 260 A$7.57 April 2002 – April 2009
July 1 999 206 51 0 1 206 51 0 – – – A$7.60 April 2002 – April 2009
April 1 999 44 474 820 45 595 1 9 294 392 21 348 634 3 831 794 3 607 730 A$6.92 April 2002 – April 2009
April 1 999 16 901 398 944 9 270 853 6 336 037 1 294 508 1 249 076 A$6.92 April 2002 – April 2009
14 571 693 13 1 74 346
Bonus Equity Share Plan Shares
November 2001 1 016 845 1 1 7 918 863 50 320 47 662 47 662 – Nov 2004 – Oct 2006
47 662 47 662
(a)
The terms and conditions for all BHP Billiton Group employee ownership plans are detailed in section 8. 1 of the Remuneration Report, except as follows:
The Bonus Equity Share Plan provided eligible employees with the opportunity to take a portion of their incentive plan award in ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
Eligibility was determined by the Board. Participants who elected to take their incentive plan award in shares under the Plan also received an uplift of 25 per cent so 
that for each A$1 of award taken as shares, A$1 .25 worth of shares were provided. The shares were purchased on-market. The shares awarded under this Plan are held 
in trust and may not be transferred or disposed of for at least a three-year period. The shares are allocated on the following terms:
(i) while the shares are held in trust, the participants are entitled to receive dividends on those shares, entitled to participate in bonus issues, may participate in rights
issues, etc. and may direct the trustee on how to vote those shares at a general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited; and
(ii) if employment ceases while the shares are in trust, the shares awarded as part of the 25 per cent uplift (or a portion of that uplift) may or may not be forfeited
(depending upon the circumstances of the employment relationship ending).
The Employee Share Plan option issues for 2002 and 2001 were made on substantially the same terms and conditions as the 2000 issue, the conditions of which are
detailed in section 8. 1 of the Remuneration Report.
(b)
All awards issued under the Restricted Share Scheme (RSS) and Co-Investment Plan (CIP) and prior to June 2001 vested as a consequence of the DLC merger . Data as
presented reflects awards granted after completion of the DLC merger only.
(c)
Options, Performance Rights and awards issued under the Long Term Incentive Plan, Group Incentive Scheme, Bonus Equity Share Plan, RSS and CIP are not transferable
or listed and as such do not have a market value. 
(d)
Shares issued on exercise of Performance Rights and awards under the RSS and CIP include shares purchased on-market.
127
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 23 Employee share ownership plans continued
(e)
In respect of employee share awards, the BHP Billiton Group utilises the following trusts: 
The Billiton Employee Share Ownership Trust is a discretionary trust for the benefit of all employees of BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries. The trustee is an independent
company, resident in Jersey. The trust uses funds provided by BHP Billiton Plc and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate to acquire ordinary shares to enable awards to be
made or satisfied under the Long Term Incentive Plan, Group Incentive Scheme, RSS and CIP . The ordinary shares may be acquired by purchase in the market or by
subscription at not less than nominal value. The BHP Performance Share Plan Trust (PSP Trust) is a discretionary trust established to distribute shares under selected 
BHP Billiton Limited employee share plan schemes. The trustee of the trust is BHP Billiton Employee Plan Pty Ltd, an Australian company. The trust uses funds provided 
by BHP Billiton Limited and/or its subsidiaries to acquire shares on-market to satisfy exercises made under the Group Incentive Scheme, Long Term Incentive Plan and
Performance Share Plan. The BHP Bonus Equity Plan Trust (BEP Trust) is a discretionary trust established for the purpose of holding shares 
in BHP Billiton Limited to satisfy exercises made under the BHP Billiton Limited Bonus Equity Share Plan. The trustee is BHP Billiton Employee Plan Pty Ltd.
24 Reserves
Share Profit Share Profit
premium and loss premium and loss
account account account account
2005 2005 2004 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
At the beginning of the financial year 518 10 461 518 8 580
Retained profit for the year –4 703 –1 762
BHP Billiton Limited Share repurchase scheme – (1 481) ––
Transfer of goodwill on disposal of operations –67 ––
Employee share awards –41 –71
Exchange variations –7 –48
At the end of the financial year
(a)
518 13 798 518 1 0 461
(a)
Cumulative goodwill set off against reserves on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1 998 amounts to US$694 million (2004: US$761 million).
25 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Attributable profit for the financial year 6 398 3 379 1 901
Other recognised gains 7 48 67
T otal recognised gains for the financial year 6 405 3 427 1 968
Dividends (1 695) (1 61 7) (900)
Issue of ordinary shares for cash 56 66 98
Accrued employee entitlement to share awards 109 96 70
Cash settlement of share awards (3) ––
Purchases of shares by ESOP trusts
(a)
(47) (25) (6)
Transfer of goodwill on disposal of operations 67 ––
Share repurchase scheme
(b)
BHP Billiton Plc – –(20)
Share repurchase scheme (refer note 22)
BHP Billiton Limited
(c)
(1 777) ––
Capital reduction on BHP Steel demerger – – (1 489)
Net movement in shareholders’ funds 3 1 15 1 947 (279)
Shareholders’ funds at the beginning of the financial year 14 038 12 091 12 370
Shareholders’ funds at the end of the financial year 1 7 153 14 038 12 091
(a)
At 30 June 2005, 1 477 784 shares (2004: 4 948 281; 2003: 347 498) were held in trust with a market value at that date of US$1 9 million (2004: US$43 million; 
2003: US$2 million). BHP Billiton Plc does not hold an interest in any shares of itself.
(b)
BHP Billiton Plc entered into an arrangement under which it contingently agreed to purchase its own shares from a special purpose vehicle (Nelson Investment Limited)
established for that purpose. No shares were purchased during the year ended 30 June 2005 (2004: nil ordinary shares; 2003: 3 890 000 ordinary shares). The aggregate
purchase price of US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$20 million), was funded by the BHP Billiton Group. The cost of purchasing these shares was deducted from shareholders’ funds.
On 23 June 2004, 3 890 000 ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Plc, which were held by Nelson Investment Limited, were transferred to the Billiton Employee Share Ownership T rust.
(c)
On 23 November 2004, the BHP Billiton Group completed an off-market share buy-back of 180 716 428 BHP Billiton Limited shares. As a result of the buy-back,
shareholders’ funds decreased by US$1 777 million (including US$5 million of transaction costs). In accordance with the structure of the buy-back, US$296 million 
was allocated to the contributed equity of BHP Billiton Limited and US$1 481 million was allocated to the profit and loss account. The final price for the buy-back was 
A$12.57 per share, representing a discount of 12 per cent to the volume weighted average price of BHP Billiton Limited shares over the five days up to and including 
the closing date of the buy-back.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
128 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 26 Commitments
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Capital expenditure commitments not provided for in the accounts
Due not later than one year 2 308 1 321
Due later than one year and not later than five years 11 0 255
T otal capital expenditure commitments 2 418 1 576
Lease expenditure commitments
Finance leases
(a)
Due not later than one year 7 10
Due later than one year and not later than five years 30 42
Due later than five years 70 54
T otal commitments under finance leases 107 106
deduct Future financing charges 51 30
Finance lease liability 56 76
Operating leases
(b)
Due not later than one year
(c)
250 199
Due later than one year and not later than five years 562 393
Due later than five years 21 2 231
T otal commitments under operating leases 1 024 823
Other commitments
Due not later than one year
Supply of goods and services 658 639
Royalties 7 33
Exploration expenditure 199 46
Chartering costs 103 156
967 87 4
Due later than one year and not later than five years
Supply of goods and services 1 622 1 304
Royalties 18 19
Exploration expenditure 49 13
Chartering costs 11 0 87
1 799 1 423
Due later than five years
Supply of goods and services 1 136 954
Royalties 37 42
Exploration expenditure 32 –
Chartering costs 34 45
1 239 1 041
T otal other commitments 4 005 3 338
(a)
Finance leases are predominantly related to leases of the dry bulk carrier Iron Yandi, power lines, mobile equipment and vehicles. Refer notes 1 9 and 20.
(b)
Operating leases are entered into as a means of acquiring access to property, plant and equipment. Rental payments are generally fixed, but with inflation escalation
clauses on which contingent rentals are determined. Certain leases contain extension and renewal options. Amounts represent minimum lease payments.
129
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 26 Commitments continued
(c)
The BHP Billiton Group has commitments under operating leases to make payments totalling US$250 million (2004: US$1 99 million) in the next year as follows:
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Land and buildings
Leases which expire:
Within one year 6 5
Between two and five years 12 14
Over five years 25 51
43 70
Other operating leases
Leases which expire:
Within one year 25 29
Between two and five years 128 61
Over five years 54 39
207 129
27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits 
Pension schemes
The BHP Billiton Group operates or participates in a number of pension schemes throughout the world. The more significant schemes relate to
businesses in Australia, South Africa, the US, Canada and Europe.
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
The pension charge for the year is as follows:
Defined contribution schemes 67 53 41
Industry-wide schemes 32 26 23
Defined benefit schemes
(a)
Regular cost 46 40 46
Variation cost 37 41 39
Interest cost (1 7) (1 7) (20)
165 143 1 29
(a)
Excludes net exchange gains on net monetary pension assets of US$26 million (2004: US$8 million; 2003: US$39 million).
T o the extent that there is a difference between pension cost and contributions paid, an asset and/or liability arises. The accumulated difference
recorded in the balance sheet at 30 June 2005 gives rise to an asset of US$312 million (2004: US$282 million) and a liability of US$80 million 
(2004: US$62 million).
The assets of the defined contribution schemes and the industry-wide schemes are held separately in independently administered funds. The charge 
in respect of these schemes is calculated on the basis of contributions due in the financial year .
The remaining pension schemes are defined benefit schemes. Some of the defined benefit schemes have their assets held separately in independently
administered funds and others are unfunded. The pension costs and funding for these schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of
professionally qualified actuaries based on the most recent actuarial valuations available.
For accounting purposes, the actuarial valuations have determined pension costs for most schemes using the projected unit method. There are
exceptions for some schemes that are closed to new members where the attained age method was used. The assumptions used varied by scheme. 
For the purposes of calculating the pension charge, surpluses or deficiencies are recognised through the variation cost component in future accounting
periods as a constant percentage of estimated future payroll over the remaining service life of the employees.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
130 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Actuarial valuations used for accounting purposes
The actuarial valuations used for accounting purposes reflected an aggregate market value at 1 July 2004 of US$1 1 96 million. The funding levels of
these schemes ranged from 51 per cent to 1 1 7 per cent and the overall funding level was 92 per cent.
Formal actuarial valuations
Set out below are details for the three largest schemes of the actuarial assumptions and results of the most recent formal valuations for funding
purposes. The actuarial assumptions and results differ from those used for accounting purposes.
Pension Plan
BHP Billiton for Hourly Employees BHP USA Retirement
Superannuation Fund
(a)
of BHP Copper Inc Income Plan
Country Australia US US
Date of valuation 30 June 2003
(b)
1 January 2004 1 January 2004
Investment return 7.0% 8.0% 8.0%
Salary growth 3.5% n/a 4.5%
Pension increases n/a n/a 3.0%
Asset valuation method Market 5-year smoothing 5-year smoothing
Market value of fund (US$ million) 886 155 1 04
Actuarial value of fund (US$ million) 886 186 125
Funding level 98% 1 06% 1 1 3%
(a)
US$678 million of the market value and actuarial value of the fund is attributable to the defined contribution section of the fund which is fully funded.
(b)
Formal actuarial valuations are only carried out every three years for the BHP Billiton Superannuation Fund. The next valuation is due as at 30 June 2006.
Post-retirement medical benefits
The BHP Billiton Group provides medical benefits, which are not pre-funded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, the US, Canada
and Suriname. The post-retirement benefit charge, net of employees’ and retirees’ contributions paid, in respect of these benefits was US$27 million
(2004: US$1 9 million) excluding an exchange gain of US$9 million (2004: US$20 million loss).
The charge has been calculated in accordance with UK applicable accounting standards. Where there is a surplus or deficit between the accrued liability
and the provision recorded, the resulting amount is spread forward over future working lifetimes through the variation cost component. The main
actuarial assumptions used in the most recent actuarial valuations of these benefits are as follows:
South Africa US Canada Suriname 
%%%%
Ultimate health care inflation rate 7.25 5.00 5.00 3.50
Discount rate 1 0.00 6.25 6.00 5.50
FRS 1 7 ‘Retirement Benefits’
Whilst the SSAP 24 disclosure and measurement principles have been applied in accounting for pensions and post-retirement medical benefits in these
financial statements, additional disclosures are provided under FRS 1 7 ‘Retirement Benefits’. The aim of FRS 1 7 is to move from a long-term approach
under SSAP 24 to a market-based approach in valuing the assets and liabilities arising from an employer’s retirement benefit obligations and any related
funding. This will impact both the amount and disclosure of the retirement benefits charge in the profit and loss account (for the operating costs and
financing costs) and the statement of total recognised gains and losses (STRGL). The net retirement benefit and a liability will be recognised in full on
the balance sheet with a consequential impact on shareholders’ funds.
Currently, FRS 1 7 only has to be applied to disclosures. 
The BHP Billiton Group does not apply the provisions of FRS 1 7 for the purposes of measuring pension charge and pension balances in these financial
statements. In the absence of the transition to IFRS, FRS 1 7 would be first effective in such a manner for the 30 June 2006 financial year .
131
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Pension schemes – FRS 1 7 disclosures
The BHP Billiton Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes in Australia, Canada, the US, Europe, South Africa and South America. Full
actuarial valuations are prepared by local actuaries for all funds as at a date close to 30 June 2005 and rolled forward to 30 June 2005. For a minority 
of plans it has been necessary to roll forward liabilities calculated using earlier valuations. The major assumptions used by the actuaries are as follows:
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America
%%%%%%
Year ended 30 June 2005
Salary increases 4 to 5 3.5 to 4.5 4.5 2.9 to 5.05 5 to 6 4 to 6.08
Pension increases n/a 0 0 to 3 1.9 to 2.8 3.2 to 4 2.5 to 4
Discount rate 5.2 5.2 5. 1 3.9 to 5 7 .75 to 8 5.25 to 10.24
Inflation 2.5 2.5 to 2.7 3 1.9 to 2.8 4 3 to 4
Year ended 30 June 2004
Salary increases 4 to 5 3.5 to 4.5 4.5 3 to 5 7 to 8 3.5 to 6.08
Pension increases n/a 0 0 to 3 2 to 3 3.5 to 5.8 2 to 4
Discount rate 5.5 to 5.8 6 to 6.5 6.25 to 6.5 5.3 to 5.75 8 to 8.6 5.5 to 1 0.24
Inflation 2.5 2.5 3 2 to 3 6 2.5 to 4
Year ended 30 June 2003
Salary increases 4 to 4.5 3.5 to 4.5 4.5 3 to 4.5 7 to 8 3.5 to 5.57
Pension increases n/a 0 0 to 3 2 to 2.5 3.5 to 5.25 1 .5 to 3.5
Discount rate 4.75 to 5 6 to 6.5 6 5 7.5 to 8.7 5.5 to 9.71
Inflation 3 2.5 to 3 3 2 to 2.5 6 2.5 to 3.5
The fair market value of the assets and the surplus/(deficit) of the defined benefit schemes were:
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Bonds 100 70 77 86 23 85 44 1
Equities 243 50 237 1 04 1 15 2 751
Property 33 ––– 3– 36
Cash and net current assets 11634 19 1 44
Insured annuities –9 – 20 98 – 127
Other 11 – – 2141 37
T otal assets 398 135 31 7 235 262 89 1 436
Actuarial liabilities (418) (130) (530) (351) (189) (89) (1 707)
Unrecognised surplus – (27) – (3) (73) (3) (106)
Deficit (20) (22) (21 3) (1 19) – (3) (377)
Related deferred tax asset 73 – 34 – 1 45
Net pension liability (1 3) (19) (21 3) (85) – (2) (332)
Notes to Financial Statements continued
132 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2004
Bonds 90 59 74 77 29 59 388
Equities 1 53 35 21 8 94 95 1 596
Property 22––– 11 – 33
Cash and net current assets 1 5 6 1 3 6 1 32
Insured annuities – 8 – 1 9 87 – 1 14
Other – – –6219
T otal assets 266 1 07 298 209 230 62 1 1 72
Actuarial liabilities (303) (96) (449) (280) (21 1) (54) (1 393)
Unrecognised surplus – (22) – – (34) (1 0) (66)
Deficit (37) (1 1) (1 51) (71) (1 5) (2) (287)
Related deferred tax asset 1 1 3 16 15 4 – 49
Net pension liability (26) (8) (1 35) (56) (1 1) (2) (238)
Year ended 30 June 2003
Bonds 68 60 58 64 23 46 31 9
Equities 1 47 28 1 87 64 69 1 496
Property 19––––– 19
Cash and net current assets – 1 3 5 23 1 7 – 58
Insured annuities – – – 20 – – 20
T otal assets 234 1 01 250 1 71 1 09 47 912
Actuarial liabilities (286) (96) (439) (247) (83) (40) (1 1 91)
Unrecognised surplus – (1 9) – – (28) (1 0) (57)
Deficit (52) (1 4) (1 89) (76) (2) (3) (336)
Related deferred tax asset 16 4 1 7 12 – – 49
Net pension liability (36) (1 0) (1 72) (64) (2) (3) (287)
133
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
The expected rates of return on these asset categories were:
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America
%%%%%%
Year ended 30 June 2005
Bonds 4.6 to 5.4 5.3 to 5.75 4.5 to 6.5 3.6 to 4.8 6.27 to 7 6 to 12. 1
Equities 8.4 to 9.9 8 to 8.6 8 to 9 7 . 1 to 8 9 to 9.25 15.5 to 16.96
Property 6.9 to 7 .6 n/a n/a n/a 9.25 n/a
Cash and net current assets 4.2 2.5 to 3 3 to 3.5 3.8 to 5 4.3 to 5.57 6
Insured annuities n/a 2 n/a 5 6.75 to 8 n/a
Other 6.8 to 9.9 n/a n/a 4.35 to 5.3 5.57 to 9.25 12
T otal assets 7 .36 to 8. 14 2 to 7 .48 5.52 to 8.39 4.8 to 7 . 16 7 .4 to 8.41 6.25 to 12.43
Year ended 30 June 2004
Bonds 6 5.2 to 6 5 to 7 4.5 to 5.25 8 to 1 0.5 6 to 1 0.24
Equities 8 8 to 8.3 8.4 to 9 8 to 8.3 12 9 to 1 0.24
Property 7 n/a n/a n/a 1 2 n/a
Cash and net current assets 5 2.7 to 4 3.5 to 4 3.7 to 5.7 6 to 9 6 to 1 0.24
Insured annuities n/a 3.75 n/a 5.7 9. 1 to 1 0.5 n/a
Other n/a n/a n/a 4.75 to 5.7 7.8 to 12 9
T otal assets 7.5 to 7.53 3.75 to 7.23 6 to 8.5 5.51 to 7.52 1 0.3 to 1 1 .01 6 to 1 0.24
Year ended 30 June 2003
Bonds 5 to 6 5.5 to 6.5 7 4.3 to 4.6 7.5 to 9.04 6 to 9.71
Equities 8 to 9 7.25 to 9 9 7.25 to 8.25 12 9.71
Property 7 to 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Cash and net current assets 5 1 to 3.75 3.5 3.75 to 4.25 7 to 7.75 9.71
Insured annuities n/a n/a n/a 5 n/a n/a
T otal assets 7.5 3.75 to 7.5 8.5 4.8 to 7.2 9.9 to 1 0.55 6 to 9.71
Analysis of the operating costs: 
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Current service cost 25 51212 3 1 58
Past service cost ––– (4) – – (4)
Curtailment losses/(gains) – – (2) 2 (3) – (3)
T otal operating charge 25 51010 – 1 51
Year ended 30 June 2004
Current service cost 26 3 12 1 1 4 1 57
Past service cost – – 2 – – 1 3 15
Previously unrecognised surplus 
deducted from past service costs ––––– (10) (10)
T otal operating charge 26 3 14 1 1 4 4 62
Notes to Financial Statements continued
134 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Analysis of the financing credits/(costs):
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Expected return on pension scheme assets 22 6 25 1 4 20 5 92
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (18) (7) (28) (16) (1 7) (4) (90)
Net return/(cost) 4 (1) (3) (2) 3 1 2
Year ended 30 June 2004
Expected return on pension scheme assets 1 9 5 22 1 1 18 3 78
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (14) (6) (27) (1 3) (14) (2) (76)
Net return/(cost) 5 (1) (5) (2) 4 1 2
Analysis of gains and losses that would be recognised in STRGL: 
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Actual return less expected return on 
pension scheme assets 33 1 1 7 1 3 40 10 1 1 4
Experience gains/(losses) arising on 
the scheme liabilities (2) (4) – (2) 6 (5) (7)
Changes in assumptions underlying 
the present value of scheme liabilities (8) (14) (74) (60) 7 (15) (164)
Gain/(loss) pursuant to unrecognised 
surpluses – (3) – (3) (44) 8 (42)
T otal actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in STRGL 23 (10) (67) (52) 9 (2) (99)
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Asset gain/(loss) as a percentage of 
scheme assets 8.3% 8. 1% 2.2% 5.5% 15.3% 1 1.2% 7 .9%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme 
liabilities as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities (0.5%) (3. 1%) 0.0% (0.6%) 3.2% (5.6%) (0.4%)
T otal actuarial gain/(loss) recognised 
in STRGL as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities 5.5% (7 .7%) (12.6%) (14.8%) 4.8% (2.2%) (5.8%)
Year ended 30 June 2004
Actual return less expected return on 
pension scheme assets 21 5 24 (4) 9 14 69
Experience gains/(losses) arising on 
the scheme liabilities (22) – – (6) 4 (1) (25)
Changes in assumptions underlying 
the present value of scheme liabilities 18 1 23 12 (27) – 27
Loss pursuant to unrecognised surpluses – (3) – – – (1 0) (1 3)
T otal actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in STRGL 1 7 3 47 2 (1 4) 3 58
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Asset gain/(loss) as a percentage of
scheme assets 7.9% 4.7% 8. 1% (1 .9%) 3.9% 22.6% 5.9%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme 
liabilities as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities (7.3%) 0% 0% (2. 1%) 1 .9% (1 .9%) (1 .8%)
T otal actuarial gain/(loss) recognised 
in STRGL as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities 5.6% 3. 1% 1 0.5% 0.7% (6.6%) 5.6% 4.2%
135
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2003
Actual return less expected return 
on pension scheme assets (24) (1) (24) (1 1) (1 1) 1 0 (61)
Experience gains/(losses) arising 
on the scheme liabilities 1 7 (2) 6 (7) (1) (9) 4
Changes in assumptions underlying 
the present value of scheme liabilities (16) (4) (47) (26) 1 (3) (95)
Other gains/(losses) – 2––– (13) (11)
Gain pursuant to legislative change 
with regard to South African surpluses –––– 9– 9
T otal actuarial loss recognised in STRGL (23) (5) (65) (44) (2) (15) (154)
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Asset gain/(loss) as a percentage of 
scheme assets (1 0.3%) (1 .0%) (9.6%) (6.4%) (1 0. 1%) 21 .3% (6.7%)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme 
liabilities as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities 5.9% (2. 1%) 1 .4% (2.8%) (1 .2%) (22.5%) 0.3%
T otal actuarial gain/(loss) recognised 
in STRGL as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities (8.0%) (5.2%) (14.8 %) (1 7.8%) (2.4%) (37.5%) (12.9%)
Year ended 30 June 2002
Actual return less expected return 
on pension scheme assets (82) (3) (78) (18) (1) 31 (151)
Experience gains/(losses) arising 
on the scheme liabilities 33 – – 8 (7) (18) 16
Changes in assumptions underlying 
the present value of scheme liabilities – – (23) (15) (2) – (40)
Other gains/(losses) – (1) 6––– 5
Loss pursuant to legislative change 
with regard to South African surpluses –––– (29) – (29)
T otal actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in STRGL (49) (4) (95) (25) (39) 1 3 (1 99)
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Asset gain/(loss) as a percentage of 
scheme assets (14.9%) (3.3%) (27. 1%) (12.3%) (1 . 1%) 70.5% (12.5%)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme 
liabilities as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities 5.2% 0% 0% 4.5% (1 1 .3%) (58. 1%) 1 .2%
T otal actuarial gain/(loss) recognised 
in STRGL as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities (7.7%) (4.9%) (23.8%) (14.0%) (62.9%) 41 .9% (14.3%)
The Pension Funds Second Amendment Act, 2001 in South Africa requires surpluses in pension funds to be used in a manner specified under Regulations
to the Act to improve current and former members’ benefits prior to the employer obtaining any benefit from the surpluses. Consequently, no surplus is
recognised for the South African schemes with an actuarial loss recognised in the STRGL.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
136 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Analysis of the movement in surplus/(deficit): 
Australia Canada US Europe South Africa South America T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2004 (37) (1 1) (151) (71) (15) (2) (287)
Movement during the year:
Adjustment for changes in the Group
structure and joint venture arrangements (4) ––––– (4)
Current service cost (25) (5) (12) (12) (3) (1) (58)
Contributions 22 7 1 8 1 4 3 2 66
Past service cost ––– 4–– 4
Other finance income/(costs) 4 (1) (3) (2) 3 1 2
Actuarial gains/(losses) 23 (10) (67) (52) 9 (2) (99)
Curtailment gains/(losses) – – 2 (2) 3 – 3
Exchange gains/(losses) (3) (2) – 2 – (1) (4)
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2005 (20) (22) (21 3) (1 19) – (3) (377)
Year ended 30 June 2004
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2003 (52) (14) (189) (76) (2) (3) (336)
Movement during the year:
Adjustment for changes in the Group 
structure and joint venture arrangements (2) (2) (9) – – – (1 3)
Current service cost (26) (3) (12) (1 1) (4) (1) (57)
Contributions 23 7 1 9 22 4 – 75
Past service cost – – (2) – – (3) (5)
Other finance income/(costs) 5 (1) (5) (2) 4 1 2
Actuarial gains/(losses) 1 7 3 47 2 (14) 3 58
Exchange gains/(losses) (2) (1) – (6) (3) 1 (1 1)
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2004 (37) (1 1) (151) (71) (15) (2) (287)
Post-retirement medical benefits – FRS 1 7 disclosures
The BHP Billiton Group also operates a number of post-retirement medical benefit arrangements in South Africa, the US, Canada and Suriname. Full
actuarial valuations were carried out as at 30 June 2005, many of them by local actuaries. For a minority of plans it has been necessary to roll forward
liabilities calculated using earlier data. The major assumptions used by the actuaries are as follows:
South Africa US Canada Suriname UK 
%%%%%
Year ended 30 June 2005
Ultimate health care inflation rate 6% 5% 5% 5% n/a
Discount rate 8.25% 5. 1% 5.2% 5.25% n/a
Year ended 30 June 2004
Ultimate health care inflation rate 7.25 5 5 3.5 5.7
Discount rate 1 0 6.25 6 5.5 2.5
Year ended 30 June 2003
Ultimate health care inflation rate 7 5.5 5 3.5 n/a
Discount rate 9.75 6.25 6 5.5 n/a
137
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
The actuarial liabilities of the post-retirement medical schemes were:
South Africa US Canada Suriname UK T otal 
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Present value of scheme liabilities (143) (147) (26) (19) – (335)
Past service credit (18) –––– (18)
Deficit (161) (147) (26) (19) – (353)
Related deferred tax asset 48 16 – 6 – 70
Net post-retirement medical liability (1 1 3) (1 31) (26) (1 3) – (283)
Year ended 30 June 2004
Present value of scheme liabilities (161) (124) (25) (1 0) (1) (321)
Past service credit (27) –––– (27)
Deficit (1 88) (1 24) (25) (1 0) (1) (348)
Related deferred tax asset 56 5 – 3 – 64
Net post-retirement medical liability (1 32) (1 1 9) (25) (7) (1) (284)
Year ended 30 June 2003
Present value of scheme liabilities (1 33) (1 37) (26) (1 9) – (315)
Past service credit (20) –––– (20)
Deficit (1 53) (1 37) (26) (1 9) – (335)
Related deferred tax asset 34 22 – 6 – 62
Net post-retirement medical liability (1 1 9) (1 15) (26) (1 3) – (273)
Analysis of the operating costs/(credits):
South Africa US Canada Suriname UK T otal 
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Current service cost 4 3 ––– 7
Past service cost (7) –––– (7)
Curtailment gains (22) –––– (22)
T otal operating charge (25) 3 – – – (22)
Year ended 30 June 2004
Current service cost 3 3––– 6
Past service cost 16 1––– 17
T otal operating charge 1 9 4––– 23
Analysis of the financing costs:
South Africa US Canada Suriname UK T otal 
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Interest on post-retirement medical liabilities (16) (8) (1) (1) – (26)
Net cost (16) (8) (1) (1) – (26)
Year ended 30 June 2004
Interest on post-retirement medical liabilities (14) (8) (1) (1) – (24)
Net cost (14) (8) (1) (1) – (24)
Notes to Financial Statements continued
138 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Analysis of gains and losses that would be recognised in STRGL:
South Africa US Canada Suriname UK T otal 
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 5111 –8
Changes in assumptions underlying the 
present value of scheme liabilities (8) (21) – (6) – (35)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in STRGL (3) (20) 1 (5) – (27)
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Experience gains on scheme liabilities 
as a percentage of the present value of 
scheme liabilities 3.5% 0.7% 3.8% 5.3% 0% 2.4%
T otal gain recognised in STRGL as a percentage 
of the present value of scheme liabilities (2. 1%) (1 3.6%) 3.8% (26.3%) 0% (8. 1%)
Year ended 30 June 2004
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 23 10––– 33
Changes in assumptions underlying the 
present value of scheme liabilities (1) 3––– 2
Actuarial gain recognised in STRGL 22 13––– 35
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Experience gains on scheme liabilities 
as a percentage of the present value 
of scheme liabilities 14.3% 8. 1% 0% 0% 0% 1 0.3%
T otal gain recognised in STRGL as a percentage 
of the present value of scheme liabilities 1 3.7% 1 0.5% 0% 0% 0% 1 0.9%
Year ended 30 June 2003
Experience gains/(losses) arising on 
scheme liabilities (27) 15 1 – – (1 1)
Changes in assumptions underlying the 
present value of scheme liabilities (9) (16) (7) – – (32)
Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL (36) (1) (6) – – (43)
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme 
liabilities as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities (20.3%) 1 0.9% 3.8% 0% 0% (3.5%)
T otal loss recognised in STRGL as a percentage 
of the present value of scheme liabilities (27. 1%) (0.7%) (23. 1%) 0% 0% (1 3.7%)
Year ended 30 June 2002
Experience gains/(losses) arising on 
scheme liabilities 8 (6) – – – 2
Changes in assumptions underlying the 
present value of scheme liabilities (1 0) – – (1) – (1 1)
Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL (2) (6) – (1) – (9)
Difference between expected and 
actual outcomes:
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme 
liabilities as a percentage of the present 
value of scheme liabilities 14.8% (4.7%) 0% 0% 0% 0.9%
T otal loss recognised in STRGL as a percentage 
of the present value of scheme liabilities (3.7%) (4.7%) 0% (5.3%) 0% (4. 1%)
139
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits continued
Analysis of the movement in surplus/(deficit):
South Africa US Canada Suriname UK T otal 
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Year ended 30 June 2005
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2004 (188) (124) (25) (10) (1) (348)
Movement during the year:
Adjustment for changes in the Group structure 
and joint venture arrangements – – – (3) 1 (2)
Current service cost (4) (3) – – – (7)
Contributions 982 – – 19
Past service costs 7–––– 7
Other finance costs (16) (8) (1) (1) – (26)
Actuarial gains/(losses) (3) (20) 1 (5) – (27)
Curtailment gains 22 –––– 22
Exchange gains/(losses) 12 – (3) – – 9
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2005 (161) (147) (26) (19) – (353)
Year ended 30 June 2004
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2003 (153) (1 37) (26) (1 9) – (335)
Movement during the year:
Adjustment for changes in the Group structure 
and joint venture arrangements – 2 – 9 (1) 1 0
Current service cost (3) (3) – – – (6)
Contributions 6 1 0 2 1 – 1 9
Past service costs (16) (1) – – – (1 7)
Other finance costs (14) (8) (1) (1) – (24)
Actuarial gains 22 13––– 35
Exchange losses (30) –––– (30)
Deficit in schemes at 30 June 2004 (188) (124) (25) (1 0) (1) (348)
Joint ventures – FRS 1 7 disclosures
If the measurement principles of FRS 1 7 had been applied to the pension schemes and post-retirement medical benefit schemes of the Group’s joint
ventures at 30 June 2005, a deficit of US$nil (2004: US$49 million) would have been recognised in the Group balance sheet and actuarial gains of 
US$nil (2004: US$12 million) would have been taken to the Group STRGL. The relevant joint ventures have been sold during the financial year .
Notes to Financial Statements continued
140 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 28 Analysis of movements in net debt
Other 
At 1 July Acquisitions non-cash Exchange At 30 June
2004
(a)
& disposals Cash flow movements movements 2005
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Cash at bank and in hand 674 (50) 284 – 8 916
Overdrafts (1 33) – 1 29 – (1 1) (15)
541 (50) 41 3 – (3) 901
Redeemable preference shares (450) –––– (450)
Finance lease obligations (76) – 22 – (2) (56)
Other debt due within one year (1 188) 1 9 (718) (729) (18) (2 634)
Other debt due after more than one year (4 936) (708) (3 061) 729 5 (7 971)
(6 650) (689) (3 757) – (15) (1 1 1 1 1)
Liquid resources
(b)
1 144 356 (998) – – 502
Net debt (4 965) (383) (4 342) – (18) (9 708)
The balance sheet movement in cash including 
money market deposits is as follows:
Cash at bank and in hand 674 (50) 284 – 8 916
Money market deposits
(b)
1 144 356 (998) – – 502
1 818 306 (714) – 8 1 418
(a)
Amounts owing to joint venture participants of US$1 96 million at 30 June 2004 (2003: US$55 million) were reclassified from sundry creditors to other debt due within 
one year, to better reflect the funding nature of these amounts.
(b)
Liquid resources represent money market deposits with financial institutions that have a maturity of up to three months.
141
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
BHP Billiton Group financial risk strategy
The BHP Billiton Group manages its exposure to key financial risks,
including interest rates, currency movements and commodity prices, 
in accordance with the Group’s Portfolio Risk Management Strategy. 
The objective of the strategy is to support the delivery of the BHP Billiton
Group’s financial targets while protecting its future financial security 
and flexibility.
The strategy entails managing risk at the portfolio level through the
adoption of a ‘self-insurance’ model, by taking advantage of the natural
diversification provided through the scale, diversity and flexibility of the
portfolio as the principal means for managing risk.
There are two components to the Portfolio Risk Management strategy:
Risk mitigation – where risk is managed at the portfolio level within
an approved Cash Flow at Risk (‘CFaR’) framework to support the
achievement of the BHP Billiton Group’s broader strategic objectives.
The CFaR framework is a means to quantify the variability of the 
BHP Billiton Group’s cash flows after taking into account diversification
effects. (CFaR is the worst expected loss relative to projected business
plan cash flows over a one-year horizon under normal market
conditions at a confidence level of 95 per cent.)
Where CFaR is within the Board-approved limits, hedging activities of
operational currency exposures are not undertaken. However, the
Group generally hedges the non-US dollar currency exposure of major
capital expenditure projects and non-US dollar marketing contracts.
There could also be circumstances, for example, such as following a
major acquisition, when it becomes appropriate to mitigate risk in
order to support the BHP Billiton Group’s strategic objectives. In such
circumstances, the BHP Billiton Group may execute hedge transactions
or utilise other techniques to return risk to within approved
parameters. 
Strategic financial transactions – where opportunistic transactions
are entered into to capture value from perceived market over/under
valuations. These transactions occur on an infrequent basis and are
treated separately to the risk mitigation transactions, with all gains 
and losses included in the profit and loss account at the end of each
reporting period. These transactions are strictly controlled under a
separate stop-loss and Value at Risk limit framework. There have been
no strategic financial transactions undertaken to date.
Primary responsibility for identification and control of financial risks rests
with the Financial Risk Management Committee (FRMC) under authority
delegated by the Office of the Chief Executive.
The FRMC receives reports on, amongst other matters: financing
requirements both for existing operations and new capital projects;
assessments of risks and rewards implicit in requests for financing; and
market forecasts for interest rates, currency movements and commodity
prices, including analysis of sensitivities. In addition, the FRMC receives
reports on the various financial risk exposures of the BHP Billiton Group.
On the basis of this information, the FRMC determines the degree to
which it is appropriate to use financial instruments, commodity contracts,
other hedging instruments or other techniques to mitigate the identified
risks. The main risks for which such instruments may be appropriate are
interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price
risk, each of which is described below. In addition, where risks could be
mitigated by insurance the FRMC decides whether such insurance is
appropriate and cost-effective. FRMC decisions can be implemented
directly by Group management or can be delegated from time to time to
be implemented by the management of the Customer Sector Groups.
29 Financial instruments BHP Billiton Group risk exposures and responses
The main financial risks relating to interest rates and foreign currency 
are summarised in the tables below. The individual risks along with the
responses of the BHP Billiton Group are also set out below.
Interest rate risk
The BHP Billiton Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding
borrowings and investments. Interest rate risk is managed as part of the
Portfolio Risk Management strategy and within the overall CFaR limit.
When required under this strategy, the BHP Billiton Group uses interest
rate swaps, including cross currency interest rate swaps, to convert a
fixed rate exposure to a floating rate exposure or vice versa. All interest
swaps have been designated as hedging instruments.
The interest rate risk tables present interest rate risk and effective
weighted average interest rates for classes of financial assets and
liabilities.
The combined interest rate and foreign currency risk tables also present
interest rate risk as well as weighted average fixed interest rates and
weighted average maturities. These tables present the information for
each principal currency in which financial assets and liabilities are
denominated.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
142 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
29 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
Weighted Fixed interest maturing in:
average Floating Non-
interest interest 1 year 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than interest 
rate
(a)
rate or less years years 5 years
(c)
bearing T otal
2005 Note US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Financial assets
Cash 28 2.3% 1 210 208–––– 1 418
Debtors 9.7% – 8 – 2 5 3 789 3 804
Other financial assets 15,18 7.7% 294 2––– 98 394
1 504 218 – 2 5 3 887 5 616
Financial liabilities
Creditors –––––– 3 983 3 983
Bank overdrafts (unsecured) 1 9 3.5% 15––––– 15
Bank loans 1 9,20 3.6% 3 1 73––––– 3 1 73
Commercial paper 1 9 3.2% 1 602––––– 1 602
Notes and debentures 1 9,20 5. 1% 2 264 316 1 – 1 809 – 4 390
Non-recourse finance 1 9,20 4.0% 649 23 23 12 – – 707
Secured debt (limited recourse) 1 9,20 6. 1% 1 75 28 28 1 15 89 – 435
Redeemable preference shares 20 5.4% 150 300–––– 450
Lease liabilities 1 9,20 7.9% 33––– 23– 56
Other borrowings 1 9,20 6.2% 1 34 7 9 27 63 58 298
Employee benefits
(b)
21 5.1% 80–––– 760 840
8 275 674 61 154 1 984 4 801 15 949
Interest rate swaps
(c)
(2 263) 281 – 1 132 850 29 Financial instruments continued
Weighted Fixed interest maturing in:
average Floating Non-
interest interest 1 year 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than interest 
rate
(a)
rate or less years years 5 years
(c)
bearing T otal
2004 Note US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Financial assets
Cash 28 1 . 1% 1 747 71–––– 1 818
Debtors 8.6% – – 1 7 15 8 3 081 3 121
Other financial assets 15,18 9.0% 380 4 – – 6 1 38 528
2 127 75 1 7 15 14 3 21 9 5 467
Financial liabilities
Creditors –––––– 2 51 9 2 51 9
Bank overdrafts (unsecured) 1 9 1 .9% 1 33––––– 133
Bank loans 1 9,20 7.4% 238 64 – 5 – – 307
Commercial paper 19––––––––
Notes and debentures 1 9,20 3.8% 2 394 1 76 316 – 1 073 – 3 959
Non-recourse finance 1 9,20 2.5% 825 23 – 58 – – 906
Secured debt (limited recourse) 1 9,20 6. 1% 1 93 28 32 98 1 35 – 486
Redeemable preference shares 20 5.2% 150 – 300––– 450
Lease liabilities 1 9,20 1 1 .6% 34 2 – 1 0 30 – 76
Other borrowings 1 9,20 6. 1% 268 7 7 23 80 81 466
Employee benefits
(b)
21 5.9% 72–––– 550 622
4 307 300 655 1 94 1 318 3 150 9 924
Interest rate swaps
(c)
(2 263) – 281 1 1 32 850
(a)
Weighted average interest rates take into account the effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
(b)
Employee benefits to be settled in cash. 
(c)
Included in the floating rate debt of US$8 275 million (2004: US$4 307 million) is fixed rate debt of US$2 263 million (2004: US$2 263 million) that has been swapped to
floating rates. US$500 million of fixed rate debt presented above as maturing in greater than five years will be exposed to a floating rate of interest from November 2005
until maturity. Refer to note 20 and the interest rate and cross currency swap table below.
143
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 29 Financial instruments continued
Combined interest rate and foreign currency risk
Weighted
Weighted average period
Weighted average to maturity for
average period for non-interest 
Floating Fixed Non-interest interest which rate bearing 
rate
(a)
rate bearing T otal rate (%) is fixed balances
2005 US$M US$M US$M US$M Fixed rate Years Years
Financial assets
US dollar 753 215 2 826 3 794 2.81 1 1
South African rand 3612 214 577 8.7011
Australian dollars 84 5 486 575 2.30 1 3
Canadian dollars 41 – 4 45 – – 3
Other 265 3 357 625 2.30 1 2
1 504 225 3 887 5 616 2.85 1 2
Financial liabilities
(b)
US dollar 8 1 12 2 780 1 409 12 301 6.70 8 1
South African rand 12 81 403 496 1 3.49 12 2
Australian dollars 1373 2 368 2 508 8.0081
Canadian dollars –– 119 119 –– 1
Other 14 9 502 525 7 .20 1 1 1
8 275 2 873 4 801 15 949 6.89 8 1
Weighted
Weighted average period
Weighted average to maturity for
average period for non-interest 
Floating Fixed Non-interest interest which rate bearing 
rate
(a)
rate bearing T otal rate (%) is fixed balances
2004 US$M US$M US$M US$M Fixed rate Years Years
Financial assets
US dollar 1 503 62 2 035 3 600 4.24 2 2
South African rand 185 1 0 258 453 3.22 1 1
Australian dollars 1 15 29 358 502 5.36 2 3
Canadian dollars 32 – 1 0 42 – – 1
Other 292 20 558 870 1 .08 1 2
2 127 121 3 21 9 5 467 3.90 2 2
Financial liabilities
(b)
US dollar 3 897 2 278 1 242 7 41 7 7.20 8 1
South African rand 84 158 452 694 1 0.56 9 1
Australian dollars 285 14 1 044 1 343 8.73 5 2
Canadian dollars – – 90 90 – – 1
Other 41 1 7 322 380 6.73 9 1
4 307 2 467 3 150 9 924 7.42 8 1
(a)
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at various rates set with reference to the prevailing LIBOR or equivalent for that time period and country.
(b)
Financial liabilities are presented after the effect of cross currency and interest rate swaps.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
144 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Currency risk
The US dollar is the functional currency of most operations within the 
BHP Billiton Group and so most currency exposure relates to transactions
and balances in currencies other than the US dollar . The BHP Billiton
Group has potential currency exposures in respect of items denominated
in currencies other than the functional currency of an operation
comprising:
• transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency
expenditure and revenues; 
• translational exposure in respect of investments in overseas
operations; and 
• translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency 
monetary items.
The potential currency exposures are discussed below. 
Transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency
expenditure and revenues
Operating expenditure and capital expenditure is incurred by some
operations in currencies other than their functional currency. T o a lesser
extent, sales revenue is earned in currencies other than the functional
currency of operations, and certain exchange control restrictions may
require that funds be maintained in currencies other than the functional
currency of the operation. These risks are managed as part of the
Portfolio Risk Management strategy and within the overall CFaR limit.
When required under this strategy, foreign exchange hedging contracts
are entered into in foreign exchange markets. Operating and capital costs
are hedged using forward exchange and currency option contracts. 
The Group generally hedges the non-US dollar currency exposure of 
major capital expenditure projects. Forward contracts taken out under
this policy are separately disclosed below as ‘Relating to capital
expenditure hedging’.
In addition, the Group enters into hedges to manage short-term foreign
currency cash flows and non-US dollar exposures in Marketing contracts.
Forward contracts taken out under this policy are separately disclosed
below as ‘Relating to operating hedging’.
The following table provides information about the principal currency
hedge contracts. 
145
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
29 Financial instruments continued
Details of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps used to hedge interest rate and foreign currency risks are as follows:
Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average Interest rate swap Cross currency
exchange rate interest rate payable interest rate receivable amount
(a)
swap amount
(a)
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
% % % % US$M US$M US$M US$M
Interest rate swaps
US dollar swaps
Pay floating
(b)
/receive fixed
Later than five years n/a n/a 2.68 1 .80 4.80 4.80 850 850 n/a n/a
Pay floating
(b)
/receive fixed
(c)
Later than five years n/a n/a 3.96 – 5. 1 3 – 500 – n/a n/a
Pay fixed/receive floating
(b)(c)
Not later than one year n/a n/a 1.7 4 – 3.96 – (500) – n/a n/a
Cross currency swaps
Australian dollar to US dollar swaps
Pay floating
(b)
/receive floating
(b)
Not later than one year – 0.521 7 – 1.6 1 – 5.68 – – – 130
Pay floating
(b)
/receive fixed
Not later than one year 0.5620 – 4.96 – 7.50 – 281 – 281 –
Later than one year but not later 
than two years – 0.5620 – 2.09 – 7.50 – 281 – 281
Later than two years but not later 
than five years 0.521 7 0.521 7 3.57 1 .96 6.25 6.25 391 391 391 391
Later than five years – – – – – – – – – –
Euro to US dollar swaps
Pay floating
(b)
/receive fixed
Later than two years but not later 
than five years 0.9881 0.9881 2.83 1 .43 3.88 3.88 74 1 74 1 74 1 741
2 263 2 263 1 413 1 543
(a)
Amount represents US$ equivalent of principal payable under the swap contract. 
(b)
Floating interest rate in future periods will be based on LIBOR for US dollar and Euro swaps and BBSW for Australian dollar swaps applicable at the time of the interest
rate reset.
(c)
The pay fixed/receive floating leg of the swap matures in November 2005. The pay floating/receive fixed leg of the swap matures in May 201 3. Therefore US$500 million
of fixed rate debt at 30 June 2005 will be exposed to a floating interest rate from November 2005 until maturity in 201 3. Refer note 20.  29 Financial instruments continued
Forward exchange contracts
Weighted average 
exchange rate Contract amounts
2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M
Relating to capital expenditure hedging
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Australian dollars
Not later than one year 0.7251 0.7069 753 361
Later than one year but not later than two years 0.6993 0.6928 123 334
Later than two years but not later than three years 0.7215 0.6803 4 68
Later than three years but not later than four years – 0.671 5 – 1
T otal 0.7214 0.6983 880 764
Forward contracts – sell Australian dollars/buy US dollars
Not later than one year 0.7649 – 77 –
Later than one year but not later than two years 0.7507 – 14 –
Later than two years but not later than three years 0.7408 – 4 –
T otal 0.7618 – 95 –
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Euros
Not later than one year 0.7773 – 21 –
Later than one year but not later than two years 0.7553 – 2 –
T otal 0.7754 – 23 –
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Canadian dollars
Not later than one year 1.282 1 – 30 –
T otal 1.282 1 – 30 –
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Chilean pesos
Not later than one year 586.6 – 11 7 –
Later than one year but not later than two years 588.5 – 15 –
T otal 586.8 – 132 –
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Japanese yen
Not later than one year 103.5 7 – 5 –
T otal 103.5 7 – 5 –
Forward contracts – sell other currencies/buy US dollars
Not later than one year n/a – 10 –
T otal n/a – 10 –
Relating to operating hedging
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Australian dollars
Not later than one year – 0.71 01 – 7
T otal – 0.71 01 – 7
Forward contracts – sell Australian dollars/buy US dollars
Not later than one year – 0.6882 – 58
T otal – 0.6882 – 58
Notes to Financial Statements continued
146 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 29 Financial instruments continued
Weighted average 
exchange rate Contract amounts
2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M
Forward contracts – sell Euros/buy US dollars
Not later than one year 0.8089 0.831 3 142 136
Later than one year but not later than two years 0.7850 0.8383 32 57
T otal 0.8045 0.8334 17 4 193
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Euros
Not later than one year 0.7644 0.9309 5 3
Later than one year but not later than two years 0.7509 0.9439 10 2
Later than two years but not later than three years – 0.9357 – 22
T otal 0.7553 0.9358 15 27
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy UK pounds sterling
Not later than one year 0.5492 – 46 –
T otal 0.5492 – 46 –
Forward contracts – sell UK pounds sterling/buy US dollars
Not later than one year 0.5427 0.5571 52 161
Later than one year but not later than two years 0.5538 0.5726 40 17
T otal 0.5475 0.5586 92 17 8
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy South African rand
Not later than one year 6.7442 7.3677 52 23
Later than one year but not later than two years 7.9920 7.7686 6 12
Later than two years but not later than three years 8. 1950 8. 1 950 – 1
T otal 6.8832 7.51 37 58 36
Forward contracts – sell South African rand/buy US dollars
Not later than one year – 6.9940 – 45
T otal – 6.9940 – 45
Forward contracts – sell South African rand/buy Euros
Not later than one year 6.6762 – 1 –
T otal 6.6762 – 1 –
Relating to WMC acquisition
Forward contracts – sell US dollars/buy Australian dollars
Not later than one year 0.7737 – 484 –
T otal 0.7737 – 484 –
147
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Liquidity risk
In September 2004 the Group’s US$2.5 billion multi-currency revolving
credit facility was cancelled and replaced with a new US$2.0 billion 
multi-currency revolving credit facility maturing in September 2009. 
In March 2005, this facility (which can be used for general corporate
purposes) was increased to US$3.0 billion. In addition to the above a new
US$5.5 billion acquisition finance facility was established in March 2005
in order to assist with the financing of the WMC acquisition. This facility
(which could only be used for the acquisition) has a US$3.0 billion 
18-month tranche and a US$2.5 billion five-year tranche.
In October 2004, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the BHP Billiton
Group’s long-term credit rating from A2 to A1 (the short-term credit
rating is P-1). As a result of the announcement of the takeover of WMC in
March 2005, Moody’s changed the Group’s outlook to developing from
stable. On the successful acquisition of control of WMC in June 2005,
Moody’s changed the Group’s outlook from developing back to stable.
Standard & Poor’s made no change to the Group’s outlook or rating which
remained at A+ (the short-term credit rating is A-1). The BHP Billiton
Group’s strong credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed
credit facilities ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet
its daily cash requirements. 
The BHP Billiton Group’s policy on counterparty credit exposures ensures
that only counterparties of a high credit standing are used for the
investment of any excess cash. 
The BHP Billiton Group’s liquidity risk for derivatives arises from the
possibility that a market for derivatives might not exist in some
circumstances. T o counter this risk the BHP Billiton Group only uses
derivatives in highly liquid markets. The maturity profile of the Group’s
financial liabilities is as follows:
Notes to Financial Statements continued
148 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
29 Financial instruments continued
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities)
US$ A$ C$ SA rand Other T otal
2005 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Functional currency of Group operation
US dollars – (3 372) (437) (722) (552) (5 083)
Australian dollars 16 –––– 16
Canadian dollars 24 –––– 24
UK pounds sterling 14 ––– (4) 10
Other ––––––
54 (3 372) (437) (722) (556) (5 033)
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities)
US$ A$ C$ SA rand Other T otal
2004 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Functional currency of Group operation
US dollars – (1 240) (477) (932) (1 98) (2 847)
Australian dollars 29–––– 29
Canadian dollars 43–––– 43
UK pounds sterling (23) –––– (23)
Other ––––––
49 (1 240) (477) (932) (1 98) (2 798)
Substantial portions of the non-functional currency liabilities of US dollar functional currency operations relate to provisions for deferred taxation,
creditors and employee benefits.
Translational exposure in respect of investments in overseas
operations
The functional currency of most BHP Billiton Group operations is US dollars.
There are certain operations that have Australian dollars and UK pounds
sterling as a functional currency . Foreign currency gains or losses arising on
translation of the net assets of these operations are shown as a movement
in reserves and in the Statement of T otal Recognised Gains and Losses.
Where market conditions make it beneficial, the Group will borrow in
currencies which would create translational exposure and will swap the
liability into an appropriate currency.
Translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency
monetary items
Monetary items denominated in currencies other than the functional
currency of an operation are periodically restated to US dollar equivalents,
and the associated gain or loss is taken to the profit and loss account,
with the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign
currency provisions for restoration and rehabilitation at continuing
operations, which are capitalised in tangible fixed assets. The foreign
currency risk is managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management
strategy and within the overall CFaR limit.
The combined interest rate and foreign currency risk table presented
under the heading interest rate risk in this note shows the foreign
currency risk in relation to financial assets and liabilities. However, this
table includes financial assets and liabilities in US dollars and other
currencies that represent the functional currency of the operations. In
addition, the financial assets and liabilities primarily relate to contractual
rights and obligations, and so exclude significant monetary items such as
provisions for deferred taxation and some employee benefits.
The table below shows the foreign currency risk based on all monetary
assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency of
the BHP Billiton operations. The amounts shown are after taking into
account the effect of any forward foreign currency contracts entered 
into to manage these risks and excluding provisions for restoration and
rehabilitation where foreign exchange gains and losses are capitalised. 149
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
29 Financial instruments continued
Bank loans, Obligations Subsidiary
debentures and under preference Other
other loans finance leases shares liabilities T otal
2005 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Due for payment
In one year or less or on demand 2 649 3 450 4 350 7 452
In more than one year but not more than two years 3 159 7 – 1 13 3 279
In more than two years but not more than five years 1 732 1 1 – – 1 743
In more than five years 3 080 35 – 360 3 475
10 620 56 450 4 823 15 949
Bank loans, Obligations Subsidiary
debentures and under preference Other
other loans finance leases shares liabilities T otal
2004 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Due for payment
In one year or less or on demand 1 321 9 – 2 747 4 077
In more than one year but not more than two years 908 2 300 1 14 1 324
In more than two years but not more than five years 1 539 1 0 150 – 1 699
In more than five years 2 489 55 – 280 2 824
6 257 76 450 3 141 9 924
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Loans falling due after more than five years are repayable as follows:
By instalments 302 453
Not by instalments 2 778 2 036
3 080 2 489
At 30 June 2005 borrowings of US$54 million (2004: US$157 million) due within one year and US$437 million (2004: US$502 million) due after more
than one year respectively were secured by assets of the BHP Billiton Group.
The maturity profile of the BHP Billiton Group’s undrawn committed facilities is as follows:
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Expiring in one year or less – 1 250
Expiring in more than two years
(a)
5 500 1 250
5 500 2 500
(a)
This represents the US$2.5 billion five-year tranche of the acquisition finance facility and the US$3 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility used to support the 
A$2 billion Australian commercial paper programme and a US$3 billion commercial paper programme. There was US$1 .6 billion commercial paper outstanding under 
the US commercial paper programme at 30 June 2005 (2004: US$nil). 
None of the BHP Billiton Group’s general borrowing facilities are subject to financial covenants. Certain specific financing facilities in relation to specific
businesses are the subject of financial covenants which vary from facility to facility but which would be considered normal for such facilities.
Commodity price risk 
The BHP Billiton Group is exposed to movements in the prices of the
products it produces and sources from third parties which are generally
sold as commodities on the world market. 
Commodity price risk is managed pursuant to the Portfolio Risk
Management strategy and within the overall CFaR limit. Strategic price
hedges are taken out from time to time.
The following table provides information about the BHP Billiton Group’s
material cash settled commodity contracts, which have not been
recognised in the accounts. 
Contract amounts are used to calculate the volume and average price 
to be exchanged under the contracts. 29 Financial instruments continued
Average price Notional amount 
Volume Units of fixed contract Term to of fixed contract
(a)
2005 2004 2005 2004 maturity 2005 2004
US$ US$ (months) US$M US$M
Aluminium
Forwards – buy fixed/ 555 507 000 tonnes 1 734 1 578 0–12 962 800
sell floating
(b)
68 52 000 tonnes 1 606 1 494 1 3–24 11 0 78
6 23 000 tonnes 1 625 1 425 25–48 9 33
Forwards – sell fixed/ 561 622 000 tonnes 1 750 1 597 0–12 981 993
buy floating
(b)
46 32 000 tonnes 1 614 1 449 1 3–24 74 46
4 14 000 tonnes 1 631 1 428 25–48 7 20
Copper
Forwards – buy fixed/ 230 91 000 tonnes 2 803 2 560 0–12 647 233
sell floating
(b)
36 26 000 tonnes 2 568 2 249 1 3–24 93 58
3 5 000 tonnes 2 236 2 070 25–48 7 10
Forwards – sell fixed/ 21 8 96 000 tonnes 2 837 2 538 0–12 61 8 244
buy floating
(b)
16 1 9 000 tonnes 2 622 2 228 1 3–24 41 42
3 5 000 tonnes 2 268 2 018 25–48 7 10
Zinc
Forwards – buy fixed/ 40 23 000 tonnes 1 237 1 086 0–12 49 25
sell floating
(b)
8 12 000 tonnes 1 229 1 1 1 0 1 3–24 9 13
– 4 000 tonnes – 1 060 25–48 – 4
Forwards – sell fixed/ 37 18 000 tonnes 1 229 1 075 0–12 45 19
buy floating
(b)
6 12 000 tonnes 1 135 1 066 1 3–24 6 13
– 4 000 tonnes – 1 083 25–48 – 4
Lead
Forwards – buy fixed/
sell floating
(b)
45 28 000 tonnes 947 843 0–1 2 46 24
Forwards – sell fixed/
buy floating
(b)
26 1 9 000 tonnes 971 71 5 0–1 2 26 14
Silver
Forwards – buy fixed/
sell floating
(b)
6 450 5 075 000 ounces 7.36 5.90 0–1 2 47 30
2 000 – 000 ounces 7.4 7 – 1 3–24 15 –
Forwards – sell fixed/
buy floating
(b)
3 450 600 000 ounces 7.4 7 5.86 0–1 2 25 4
Petroleum
Forwards – buy fixed/ – 5 81 9 000 barrels – 31 . 1 9 0–1 2 – 182
sell floating
(b)
– 797 000 barrels – 29.80 1 3–24 – 24
– 500 000 barrels – 26.08 25–48 – 13
Forwards – sell fixed/ – 5 631 000 barrels – 33.09 0–1 2 – 186
buy floating
(b)
– 1 222 000 barrels – 30. 1 3 1 3–24 – 37
– 527 000 barrels – 26.43 25–48 – 14
Energy Coal
Forwards – buy fixed/ 15 790 20 070 000 tonnes 60.93 49.92 0–1 2 962 1 002
sell floating
(b)
2 565 4 740 000 tonnes 60.38 55.50 1 3–24 155 263
300 600 000 tonnes 58.67 62. 1 9 25–48 18 37
Forwards – sell fixed/ 14 381 20 765 000 tonnes 61 .04 50.24 0–1 2 878 1 043
buy floating
(b)
2 535 5 385 000 tonnes 59.88 53.70 1 3–24 152 289
180 1 020 000 tonnes 56.93 54.67 25–48 10 56
Gas
Forwards (buy) 89 625 272 483 000 therms 0.48 0.42 0–1 2 43 11 4
9 200 27 500 000 therms 0.31 0.33 1 3–24 3 9
Forwards (sell) 86 300 271 1 36 000 therms 0.49 0.42 0–1 2 42 11 4
9 200 27 500 000 therms 0.36 0.34 1 3–24 3 9
Notes to Financial Statements continued
150 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 29 Financial instruments continued
Average price Notional amount 
Volume Units of fixed contract Term to of fixed contract
(a)
2005 2004 2005 2004 maturity 2005 2004
US$ US$ (months) US$M US$M
Electricity
Forwards (buy) 8 002 29 157 000 MwH 47 .25 37.66 0–1 2 378 1 098
2 044 6 1 05 000 MwH 51 .53 39.71 1 3–24 105 242
143 450 000 MwH 56.79 44.04 25–48 8 20
Forwards (sell) 7 933 29 293 000 MwH 47 .34 37.91 0–1 2 376 1 1 1 1
2 020 6 1 00 000 MwH 54.36 40.45 1 3–24 11 0 247
220 472 000 MwH 66.40 45.79 25–48 15 22
Freight Transport 
and Logistics 
Time Charter
Forwards – buy fixed/ 6 045 2 635 days 27 375 18 347 0–12 165 48
sell floating
(b)
1 837 733 days 20 970 23 462 1 3–24 39 17
184 1 84 days 12 500 1 1 250 25–48 3 2
Forwards – sell fixed/ 5 855 2 769 days 26 059 20 627 0–12 153 56
buy floating
(b)
1 837 733 days 24 100 26 380 1 3–24 44 19
184 1 84 days 14 000 9 400 25–48 3 2
Voyage Charter
Forwards – buy fixed/ 2 275 2 025 000 tonnes 15.30 1 0.95 0–1 2 35 22
sell floating
(b)
1 400 – 000 tonnes 13.62 – 1 3–24 19 –
Forwards – sell fixed/ 2 225 1 950 000 tonnes 15.83 1 1 .83 0–1 2 35 23
buy floating
(b)
3 050 – 000 tonnes 12.97 – 1 3–24 40 –
(a)
The notional amount represents the face value of each transaction and accordingly expresses the volume of these transactions, but is not a measure of exposure.
(b)
Floating commodity prices in future periods will be based on the benchmarks applicable at the time of the price reset.
151
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Credit risk
Credit risk in relation to business trading activities arises from the possibility
that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations to the BHP Billiton
Group within the normal terms of trade. T o manage this risk the BHP Billiton
Group periodically assesses the financial viability of counterparties.
Credit risk for derivatives represents the risk of counterparties defaulting
on their contractual derivative obligations and is managed by the
application of credit approvals, limits and monitoring procedures.
The extent of the BHP Billiton Group’s combined trade and derivative
credit risk exposure is represented by the aggregate of amounts
receivable, reduced by the effect of netting arrangements with financial
institution counterparties.
These risks are categorised under the following headings:
Counterparties 
The BHP Billiton Group conducts transactions with the following major
types of counterparties:
• Receivables counterparties
Sales to BHP Billiton Group customers are made either on open terms
or subject to independent payment guarantees. The BHP Billiton
Group has no significant concentration of credit risk with any single
customer or group of customers.
• Payment guarantee counterparties
These counterparties are comprised of prime financial institutions.
Under payment guarantee arrangements, the BHP Billiton Group 
has no significant concentration of credit risk with any single
counterparty or group of counterparties. 
• Hedge counterparties
Counterparties to derivatives consist of a large number of prime
financial institutions and physical participants in the relevant
markets. The BHP Billiton Group has no significant concentration of
credit risk with any single counterparty or group of counterparties. 
The BHP Billiton Group generally does not require collateral in relation 
to the settlement of financial instruments. 
Geographic
The BHP Billiton Group trades in all major geographic regions and where
appropriate export finance insurance and other risk mitigation facilities
are utilised to ensure settlement. Countries in which the BHP Billiton
Group has a significant credit exposure are South Africa, Australia, the
US, Japan and China. Other countries where a large credit risk exposure
exists include South Korea, T aiwan, the UK, the rest of Europe, South East
Asia, New Zealand and South America.
Terms of trade are continually monitored by the BHP Billiton Group.
Selective receivables are covered for both commercial and sovereign 
risks by payment guarantee arrangements with various banks and the
Australian Export Finance and Insurance Corporation.
Industry
The BHP Billiton Group is not materially exposed to any individual
industry or customer . 29 Financial instruments continued
Hedging of financial risks
Changes in the fair value of instruments used as hedges are not recognised in profit and loss until the hedged position matures. Cumulative
unrecognised gains and losses on the instruments used for hedging foreign currency transaction exposures and commodity price risks and the
movements therein are as follows:
Net gains/ Net gains/
Gains Losses (losses) Gains Losses (losses)
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Opening balance unrecognised gains/(losses) 1 7 (94) (77) 104 (1 7) 8 7
(Gains)/losses arising in previous years recognised in the year (7) 65 58 (94) 16 (78)
Gains/(losses) arising in prior years and not recognised 10 (29) (19) 1 0 (1) 9
Gains/(losses) arising in the year and not recognised 372 (307) 65 7 (93) (86)
Closing balance unrecognised gains/(losses)
(a)
382 (336) 46 1 7 (94) (77)
of which:
Gains/(losses) expected to be recognised within one year 341 (288) 53 7(65) (58)
Gains/(losses) expected to be recognised after one year 41 (48) (7) 1 0 (29) (1 9)
382 (336) 46 1 7 (94) (77)
(a)
Full recognition will not appear in the profit and loss account as US$42 million profit (2004: US$26 million loss) will be capitalised into fixed assets.
Cumulative unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used to manage interest rate risk and the movements therein are as follows:
Forward CCIRS Interest Finance Forward CCIRS Interest Finance
currency interest rate lease currency interest rate lease
swaps component swaps swap swaps component swaps swap
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Opening balance unrecognised gains – 22 (60) 1 11 36 4 1 2
(Gains)/losses arising in previous years 
recognised in the year – 42 30 (1) (7) – – (1)
Gains arising in prior years and 
not recognised – 64 (30) – 436 41 1
Gains/(losses) arising in the year and 
not recognised –9 29 – (4) (1 4) (1 01) –
Closing balance unrecognised 
gains/(losses) –73 (1) – – 22 (60) 1
of which:
Gains/(losses) expected to be 
recognised within one year – (2) 3 – – (42) (30) –
Gains/(losses) expected to be 
recognised after one year –75 (4) – –64 (30) 1
–73 (1) – – 22 (60) 1
Notes to Financial Statements continued
152 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 29 Financial instruments continued
Fair value of financial instruments
The following table presents the book values and fair values of the BHP Billiton Group’s financial instruments. Fair value is the amount at which a
financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidated sale.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by
discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates. The estimated fair values have been determined using market information
and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the BHP Billiton Group could realise in the normal
course of business.
The fair value of the BHP Billiton Group’s financial instruments is as follows:
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
2005 2005 2004 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Primary and derivative financial instruments held or issued to finance 
the BHP Billiton Group’s operations
Short-term borrowings (3 202) (3 202) (1 330) (1 330)
Long-term borrowings (8 371) (8 630) (5 876) (6 1 1 3)
Cross currency contracts
Principal 447 423 399 399
Interest rate 40 1 1 3 43 65
Other liabilities to be settled in cash (4 891) (4 891) (3 214) (3 214)
Finance lease swap –– 24 25
Interest rate swaps 28 27 30 (30)
Cash and money market deposits 1 418 1 418 1 818 1 818
Loans to joint ventures and associates 84 84 238 238
Current asset investments 21 2 21 2 16 7 16 7
Fixed asset investments 98 163 123 202
Investment in exploration companies (refer note 15) –21 –19
Other assets to be settled in cash 3 804 3 804 3 121 3 121
Derivative financial instruments held to hedge the BHP Billiton Group’s 
foreign currency transaction exposures and commodity price risks
Forward commodity contracts –6 –(47)
Forward foreign currency contracts –40 –(30)
(10 333) (10 412) (4 457) (4 71 0)
For the purposes of the disclosures in the table above, the book value of the foreign currency assets and liabilities is shown excluding the effect of
foreign currency hedges, and borrowings are presented excluding the effect of the principal portion of cross currency interest rate swaps and the impact
of finance lease swaps.
153
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 BHP Billiton Group companies have trading relationships with a number
of joint ventures of the BHP Billiton Group. In some cases there are
contractual arrangements in place under which the BHP Billiton Group
companies source supplies from such undertakings, or such undertakings
source supplies from the BHP Billiton Group companies. In the year ended
30 June 2005, sales made by BHP Billiton Group entities to such joint
ventures amounted to US$60 million (2004: US$12 million).
Amounts owing between the BHP Billiton Group and joint ventures are
disclosed in note 15. 
It is Group policy that all transactions with joint ventures are conducted
in the normal course of business and under normal commercial terms 
and conditions.
The details of executive Directors’ remuneration and interests in long-
term incentive plans, including the number of Shares and Options
awarded during the year ended 30 June 2005, are included in the
Remuneration Report. Details in relation to Directors’ share interests 
are included in the Directors’ Report.
Transactions with Director-related entities
A number of Directors or former Directors of BHP Billiton hold or have
held positions in other companies, where it is considered they control or
significantly influence the financial or operating policies of those entities.
One of those entities, Wesfarmers (Group) Limited, is considered to be a
Director-related entity of M A Chaney. This company provided products
and services totalling US$23.8 million (2004: US$18.7 million) to the
Group in the financial year, in accordance with normal commercial terms
and conditions. At 30 June 2005 the Group owed US$0.3 million to 
this company.
Other Director transactions with BHP Billiton Group entities
Other transactions include:
• minor purchases of products and stores; and
• insurance with BHP Billiton Group insurance companies.
All these transactions (which were trivial in amount) were conducted on
conditions no more beneficial than those available to other employees.
Following the termination of his employment on 1 July 2002, Mr P Anderson
entered into a consultancy arrangement with the BHP Billiton Group
under which he agreed to act as a consultant to the Group for two years
commencing at the time he ceased to be a Director . Mr P Anderson
received a total fee in 2005 of US$36 667 (2004: US$71 334) under this
arrangement.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
154 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
30 Related parties
31 Specified executives
The information in this section relates to those executives (recognised as defined under Australian Accounting Standards, other than executive Directors,
and numbering at least five) who have the greatest authority for managing the BHP Billiton Group (‘specified executives’) during the current year .
Remuneration
The details of remuneration of specified executives are included in the Remuneration Report.
Share and Option plans
The following tables set out details of the specified executives’ interests in long-term incentive plans including the number of Shares and Options
awarded in the financial year ended 30 June 2005, all of which were granted as remuneration. The details of the specified executives’ interests in the
plans, including comparatives, are presented as ordinary shares under award. This includes where applicable a bonus element to which the participant
became entitled as a result of the DLC merger on 29 June 2001 and the BHP Steel Limited demerger on 1 July 2002. No options held by specified
executives are vested but not exercisable, except where stated. There are no amounts outstanding on the exercise of options unless otherwise stated.
Group Incentive Scheme 2004 Deferred Shares
Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted
(a) 
Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
P S Aiken
(b)
– 58 553–– 58 553 August 2006
J C Fast
(b)
– 53 908 – – 53 908 August 2006
R W Kirkby
(b)
– 57 450 – – 57 450 August 2006
Dr M J Kloppers
(c)
– 60 548 – – 60 548 August 2006
C J Lynch
(b)
– 55 908 – – 55 908 August 2006
T otal – 286 367 – – 286 367
(a)
The market price of BHP Billiton Limited shares and BHP Billiton Plc shares on date of grant (3 December 2004) was A$15.28 and £5.91 respectively. The fair value per
Deferred Share was estimated at A$1 3.34 and £5.31 respectively. 
(b)
Granted BHP Billiton Limited awards.
(c)
Granted BHP Billiton Plc awards. 31 Specified executives continued
Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 Performance Shares
Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted
(a) 
Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
P S Aiken
(b)
– 225 000–– 225 000 August 2009
J C Fast
(b)
– 1 75 000–– 1 75 000 August 2009
R W Kirkby
(b)
– 225 000–– 225 000 August 2009
Dr M J Kloppers
(c)
– 225 000–– 225 000 August 2009
C J Lynch
(b)
– 225 000–– 225 000 August 2009
T otal – 1 075 000 – – 1 075 000
(a)
The market price of BHP Billiton Limited shares and BHP Billiton Plc shares on date of grant (3 December 2004) was A$15.28 and £5.91 respectively. The fair value per
performance share was estimated at A$6.85 and £2.63 respectively. 
(b)
Granted BHP Billiton Limited awards.
(c)
Granted BHP Billiton Plc awards.
Group Incentive Scheme 2003 Deferred Shares
Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
P S Aiken 69 815––– 69 815 August 2005
J C Fast 54 782––– 54 782 August 2005
R W Kirkby 58 031––– 58 031 August 2005
Dr M J Kloppers 55 378––– 55 378 August 2005
C J Lynch 61 010––– 61 010 August 2005
T otal 299 016––– 299 016
Group Incentive Scheme 2003 Performance Shares
Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
P S Aiken 69 815––– 69 815 August 2006
J C Fast 54 782––– 54 782 August 2006
R W Kirkby 58 031––– 58 031 August 2006
Dr M J Kloppers 55 378––– 55 378 August 2006
C J Lynch 61 010––– 61 010 August 2006
T otal 299 016––– 299 016
Group Incentive Scheme 2002 Performance Shares
Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
P S Aiken 158 1 18––– 158 1 18 August 2005
J C Fast 1 15 921––– 115 921 August 2005
R W Kirkby 1 1 0 391––– 110 391 August 2005
Dr M J Kloppers 1 1 9 485––– 119 485 August 2005
C J Lynch 1 1 7 1 17––– 11 7 11 7 August 2005
T otal 621 032––– 621 032
155
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 31 Specified executives continued
Performance Share Plan 2001
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted Vested Lapsed
(a)
2005 Vesting date
P S Aiken 1 31 856 – 1 18 670
(b)
13 186 – 1 October 2004
J C Fast 1 07 093 – 96 384
(b)
10 709 – 1 October 2004
R W Kirkby 82 330 – 74 097
(c)
8 233 – 1 October 2004
C J Lynch 1 09 559 – 98 603
(d)
10 956 – 1 October 2004
T otal 430 838 – 387 754 43 084 –
(a)
90 per cent of the shares vested on 1 October 2004, following the end of the performance period, and the BHP Billiton Limited market price was A$14.28. The remaining
1 0 per cent lapsed. 
(b)
The market price on the date of exercise (7 October 2004) was A$14.94. The aggregate gain was A$1 772 930.
(c)
The market price on the date of exercise (6 October 2004) was A$14.70. The aggregate gain was A$1 089 226.
(d)
Mr Fast and Mr Lynch have not yet exercised the 96 384 and 98 603 shares which vested on 1 October 2004.
Restricted Share Scheme (RSS) 2001
BHP Billiton Plc Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted Vested Lapsed
(b)
2005 Vesting date
Dr M J Kloppers 84 182 – 75 764
(a)
8 418 – 8 October 2004
(a) 
The shares were transferred to Dr Kloppers on vesting. The market price on the date of transfer (8 October 2004) was £6.21 . The aggregate gain was £470 494.
(b) 
90 per cent of the shares vested on 1 October 2004, following the end of the performance period, and the BHP Billiton Plc market price was £5.95. The remaining 
1 0 per cent lapsed.
Performance Share Plan 2000
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted Vested
(a)
Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
C J Lynch 43 592 – 43 592 – – 1 July 2004
(a)
1 00 per cent of the shares vested on 1 July 2004 following the end of the performance period, and the market price was A$12.51 . As at 30 June 2005, Mr Lynch had not
yet exercised the 43 592 vested shares.
Performance Share Plan (Medium Term Incentive) 2001
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004
(a)
Granted Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
(b)
J C Fast 36 155––– 36 155 1 October 2005
R W Kirkby 22 597––– 22 597 1 October 2005
T otal 58 752––– 58 752
(a)
Includes 1 0 042 and 6 277 committed rights invested by J C Fast and R W Kirkby respectively.
(a)
The first performance period ceased on 30 September 2003. J C Fast and R W Kirkby did not elect to leave the MTI at the end of the first performance period and will
remain in the plan until October 2005. 
Co-Investment Plan (CIP) 2001
BHP Billiton Plc Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004
(a)
Granted Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
(b)
Dr M J Kloppers 95 295––– 95 295 1 October 2005
(a)
Includes 26 471 committed shares invested by M J Kloppers.
(b)
The first performance period ceased on 30 September 2003. M J Kloppers did not elect to leave the CIP at the end of the first performance period and will remain in the
plan until October 2005. 
Notes to Financial Statements continued
156 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 31 Specified executives continued
Bonus Equity Share Plan 2001
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June 
Name 2004 Granted Vested
(a)
Lapsed 2005 Release date
P S Aiken 77 404 – 77 404
(b)
– – November 2004
C J Lynch 18 692 – 18 692
(c)
– – November 2004
T otal 96 096 – 96 096 – –
(a)
In November 2001, shares were allocated to BHP Billiton Limited employees under the Bonus Equity Plan (BEP). The shares were held by the BHP employee Trust (Trustee)
on behalf of the participants. The minimum restriction period was three years, ending on 12 November 2004. P S Aiken and C J Lynch instructed the Trustee to transfer the
shares to them on 24 November 2004 and 23 December 2004 respectively.
(b)
The market price on date of transfer (24 November 2004) was A$14.98. The aggregate gain was A$1 159 512.
(c)
The market price on date of transfer (23 December 2004) was A$15.42. The aggregate gain was A$288 231 .
Partly paid shares
BHP Billiton Limited Ordinary Shares under award
At 1 July At 30 June First Expiry
R W Kirkby 2004
(a) 
Granted Exercised Lapsed 2005 Unpaid amount
(d)
exercise date date
ESS 1 997 74 964 – 74 964
(b)
– – A$6.83 n/a 1 October 201 7
ESS 1 996 1 07 090 – 1 07 090
(c)
– – A$6.94 n/a 2 October 2016
ESS 1 995 72 279––– 72 279 A$8.17 n/a4 October 201 5
ESS 1 994 1 08 255––– 108 255 A$8.43 n/a 4 October 201 4
T otal 362 588 – 182 054 – 180 534
(a)
Includes accrued bonus shares to be issued upon conversion of partly paid shares. 
(b)
The market price on the date of exercise (8 October 2004) was A$14.82. The aggregate gain was A$598 962.
(c)
The market price on the date of exercise (8 October 2004) was A$14.82. The aggregate gain was A$843 869.
(d)
Represents the final call payable upon conversion of partly paid shares held at 30 June 2005, adjusted for bonus issues. 
No options have been granted since the end of the financial year .
Further information on options and rights, including grant dates and exercise dates regarding options granted to executives under the employee share
ownership plan, is set out in note 23.
32 Contingent liabilities
2005 2004
US$M
(c)
US$M
(c)
Contingent liabilities at balance date, not otherwise provided for in these accounts 
are categorised as arising from:
Joint ventures (unsecured)
Other
(a)
104 93
104 93
Subsidiary undertakings (unsecured, including guarantees)
Performance guarantees
(b)
1 1
Other
(a)
155 144
156 145
T otal contingent liabilities 260 238
(a)
Other contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably estimable but the liability is not probable
and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these accounts. The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are
individually significant. Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at present and
for which no amounts have been included in the table above. Details of the principal legal claims are set out in note 21 .
(b)
The BHP Billiton Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance in the normal course 
of business.
(c)
For US GAAP reporting purposes, the Group is also required to include as contingent liabilities amounts where (1) provisions have been made in the accounts but further
amounts are reasonably possible and (2) additional amounts to the guarantees included above where the probability of a transfer of economic benefits is considered to
be remote. Not included in the table above are Group performance guarantees of US$30 million (2004: US$30 million) and US$333 million (2004: US$388 million) in other
for which provisions have been included in the Group accounts.
157
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 33 BHP Billiton Plc (unconsolidated parent company)
BHP Billiton Plc (the parent company) is exempt from presenting its own profit and loss account in accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1 985.
BHP Billiton Plc is required to present its unconsolidated balance sheet and certain notes to the balance sheet on a stand-alone basis as at 30 June 2005
and 2004 as follows:
BHP Billiton Plc (unconsolidated parent company) balance sheet
BHP Billiton Plc
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Fixed assets
Investments
Subsidiaries
(a)
3 131 3 1 31
3 131 3 1 31
Current assets
Debtors – amounts due within one year
(b)
41 6 382
Cash including money market deposits 426 1
842 383
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
(c)
(1 233) (1 142)
Net current liabilities (391) (759)
Total assets less current liabilities 2 740 2 372
Provisions for liabilities and charges
(d)
(1 7) (1 2)
Net assets 2 723 2 360
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital – BHP Billiton Plc (refer note 22) 1 234 1 234
Share premium account
(e)
51 8 51 8
Profit and loss account
(e)
971 608
Equity shareholders’ funds
(f)
2 723 2 360
The BHP Billiton Plc unconsolidated parent company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 September 2005 and signed 
on its behalf by:
Don Argus Charles Goodyear
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
Notes to Financial Statements continued
158 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 33 BHP Billiton Plc (unconsolidated parent company) continued
Notes to the BHP Billiton Plc (unconsolidated parent company) balance sheet
(a)
At 30 June 2005 the Company held an investment of US$3 1 31 million (2004: US$3 1 31 million) in BHP Billiton Group Ltd.
(b)
Debtors – amounts due within one year
BHP Billiton Plc
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 41 6 381
Other debtors – 1
41 6 382
(c) 
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
BHP Billiton Plc
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Bank overdraft 10 224
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 865 681
Accruals and deferred income – 3
Dividends payable 358 234
1 233 1 142
The audit fee payable in respect of the audit of the BHP Billiton Plc company financial statements was a nominal amount (refer note 7 for fees for the Group as a whole).
This has been included within amounts owed to Group undertakings.
(d) 
Provisions for liabilities and charges
BHP Billiton Plc
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Employee entitlements 15 11
Restructuring 1 –
Post-retirement medical benefits 1 1
17 12
The movement in employee entitlements of US$4 million represents US$5 million charged to the profit and loss account for bonuses and pension costs and US$1 million
in payments made during the year .
159
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 33 BHP Billiton Plc (unconsolidated parent company) continued
(e) 
Reserves
BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc
Share Profit Share Profit
premium & loss premium & loss
account account account account
2005 2005 2004 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
At beginning of the financial year 51 8 608 51 8 626
Retained profit/(loss) for the financial year –351 –(49)
Employee share awards –12 –31
At end of the financial year 51 8 97 1 51 8 608
(f)
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
BHP Billiton Plc
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Profit for the financial year 1 042 591
T otal recognised gains for the financial year 1 042 591
Dividends (691) (640)
Accrued employee entitlement to share awards 31 33
Cash settlement of share awards (3) –
Purchase of shares by ESOP trust (16) (2)
Net movement in shareholders’ funds 363 (1 8)
Shareholders’ funds at beginning of the financial year 2 360 2 378
Shareholders’ funds at end of the financial year 2 723 2 360
Parent company guarantees
BHP Billiton Plc has guaranteed certain financing facilities available to subsidiaries. At 30 June 2005 such facilities totalled US$936 million 
(2004: US$936 million) of which US$741 million (2004: US$741 million) was drawn. 
Under the terms of a deed poll guarantee, BHP Billiton Plc has also guaranteed certain current and future liabilities of BHP Billiton Limited. 
At 30 June 2005, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$8 844 million (2004: US$3 405 million).
BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and 
interest on the notes, including certain additional amounts which may be payable in respect of the notes issued by BHP Billiton Finance (USA) Ltd on 
1 7 April 2003. BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have guaranteed the payment of such amount when such amounts become due and payable,
whether on an interest payment date, at the stated maturity of the notes, by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise. 
At 30 June 2005, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$850 million (2004: US$850 million).
Notes to Financial Statements continued
160 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures
The financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group are prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The financial
information and reconciliations presented in this note sets forth certain financial information that would have been presented if US GAAP had been
applied instead of UK GAAP .
Reconciliation to US GAAP
The following is a summary of the estimated adjustments to net income for the years ended 30 June 2005, 2004 and 2003 that would be required 
if US GAAP had been applied instead of UK GAAP . 
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Reconciliation of net income
Attributable profit as reported under UK GAAP 6 398 3 379 1 901
add/(deduct) 
Estimated adjustment required to accord with US GAAP:
Fair value adjustment on acquisition of BHP Billiton Plc Group – depreciation, 
amortisation, impairments and other asset movements (A) (282) (702) (1 81)
Employee compensation costs (B) 60 53 31
Write-down of assets (C) – –8
Depreciation – write-downs (C) (5) (6) (2)
Depreciation – revaluations (D) 4 55
Depreciation – reserves (E) (9) (9) (3)
Fair value accounting for derivatives (F) 302 (281) (23)
Synthetic debt (G) – (1 1) (20)
Fair value adjustment on acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd (H) (20) ––
Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure (I) (38) (64) 9
Start-up costs (J) 5 (1 2) 3
Pension plans (K) (24) (4) (24)
Other post-retirement benefits (L) 1 (6) 5
Mozal expansion rights (M) – 33 6
Employee Share Plan loans (N) (7) (3) (8)
Goodwill (O) (2) (1) 2
Profit on asset sales (P) 2 12
BHP Steel demerger (Q) – –17
Restructuring and employee provisions (R) – –(11)
T axation effect of above adjustments (S) 287 194 1 1 8
Other taxation adjustments (T) (284) 150 (254)
T otal adjustment (1 0) (663) (320)
Net income of BHP Billiton Group under US GAAP 6 388 2 716 1 581
161
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
The following is a summarised income statement prepared in accordance with US GAAP . 
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Consolidated income statement
Sales revenue 29 587 22 887 15 608
deduct
Cost of sales 19 496 16 465 1 0 925
Depreciation and amortisation 2 082 1 860 1 778
Loss on termination of operations
(a)
387 534 –
Goodwill impairment – 491 –
General and administrative expenses 192 48 1 25
Operating income 7430 3 489 2 780
add
Other income 579 385 223
Interest income 107 78 65
deduct
Interest expense 302 27 4 302
Net foreign exchange loss/(gain) (126) 538 505
Income before tax, minority interests and equity in net earnings of affiliated companies 7 940 3 140 2 261
deduct
T axation expense 1 836 505 774
add
Share of profits of affiliated companies 51 7 17 8 1 25
deduct
Minority interests 233 97 36
Net income from Continuing Operations 6 388 2 716 1 576
Discontinued Operations
Net profit/(loss) on disposal of operations – –5
Net income/(loss) from Discontinued Operations – –5
Net income 6 388 2 716 1 581
(a)
Refer note 2. Under UK GAAP , material items that result from events or transactions that fall within ordinary activities and need to be disclosed by virtue of their size 
or incidence are disclosed as exceptional items. Under US GAAP there is no concept of exceptional items. 
2005 2004 2003
US$ US$ US$
Earnings per share – US GAAP
(a)
Basic – Continuing Operations
(b)
1.04 0.44 0.25
Diluted – Continuing Operations
(c)
1.04 0.43 0.25
Basic – net income
(b)
1.04 0.44 0.25
Diluted – net income
(c)
1.04 0.43 0.25
(a)
For the periods indicated, each American Depositary Share (ADS) represents two ordinary shares. Therefore the earnings per ADS under US GAAP is a multiple of two
from the above earnings per share disclosures.
(b)
Based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue for the period. Refer note 12.
(c)
Based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue for the period, adjusted to reflect the impact of the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares
to ordinary shares. Refer note 12. 
Notes to Financial Statements continued
162 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
The following reconciliation of comprehensive income reports changes in shareholders’ equity excluding those resulting from investments by
shareholders and distributions to shareholders. 
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Reconciliation of comprehensive income
T otal changes in equity other than those resulting from transactions with owners under UK GAAP 6 405 3 427 1 968
Adjustments to reflect comprehensive income in accordance with US GAAP , net of income tax:
T otal adjustment to net income per above reconciliation (1 0) (663) (320)
Net transfer to earnings on maturity of cash flow hedging instruments – 50 221
Minimum pension liability (K) (80) 81 (1 95)
Change in fair value of listed investments (U) 7 91
Comprehensive income under US GAAP 6322 2 904 1 675
T ax benefit/(expense) of other comprehensive income items for the year:
Movements in exchange fluctuation account – – (2)
Net transfer to earnings on maturity of cash flow hedging instruments – (22) (95)
Minimum pension liability 8 (1 1) 33
Accumulated other comprehensive income comprises:
Exchange fluctuation account 41 7 41 0 362
Qualifying cash flow hedging instruments – –(50)
Minimum pension liability (194) (1 1 4) (1 95)
Other items 22 15 6
T otal accumulated other comprehensive income 245 31 1 1 23
163
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
The following is a summary of the estimated adjustments to shareholders’ equity as at 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2004 that would be required 
if US GAAP had been applied instead of UK GAAP . 
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity under UK GAAP 17 153 14 038
add/(deduct)
Estimated adjustment required to accord with US GAAP:
Fair value adjustments on acquisition of BHP Billiton Plc Group
Investments (A) 923 962
Property, plant and equipment and undeveloped properties (A) 2264 2 505
Long-term contracts (A) 35 36
Goodwill (A) 2566 2 633
Long-term debt (A) 4 5
Write-down of assets (C) 42 47
Property, plant and equipment revaluations (D) (49) (53)
Reserves (E) (36) (27)
Fair value accounting for derivatives (F) 259 (43)
Synthetic debt (G) – –
Fair value adjustment on acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd (H) 132 –
Exploration, evaluation and development expenditures (I) (219) (1 81)
Start-up costs (J) (59) (64)
Pension plans (K) (385) (273)
Other post-retirement benefits (L) (15) (16)
Employee Share Plan loans (N) (60) (64)
Goodwill (O) (1) 1
Profit on asset sales (P) (15) (1 7)
Change in fair value of listed investments (U) 27 20
Dividends (V) 878 592
T axation effect of fair value adjustment on acquisition of BHP Billiton Plc Group (A) (952) (1 31 9)
T axation effect of all other above adjustments (S) 53 11 0
T axation effect of fair value adjustment on acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd (H) (167) –
Other taxation adjustments (T) (374) (90)
T otal adjustment 4 851 4 764
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 22 004 18 802
Notes to Financial Statements continued
164 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
The following are the changes in the balance sheet as at 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2004 that would be required if US GAAP had been applied instead of
UK GAAP .
The column headed ‘Unadjusted’ represents a US GAAP format presentation of the assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity which have been
measured in accordance with UK GAAP . The column headed ‘Adjustments’ represents the allocation of those measurement differences (presented in 
the ‘Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity’), which are required to derive a balance sheet in accordance with US GAAP . Certain items in the comparative
periods have been reclassified to conform to current period disclosures.
Unadjusted Adjustments US GAAP Unadjusted Adjustments US GAAP
30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Balance sheet
Assets
Current assets
Cash 1 418 – 1 418 1 818 – 1 818
Restricted cash –8585 –238 238
Receivables 3 450 (2) 3 448 2 748 (1) 2 747
Other financial assets 21 2 54 266 16 7 – 16 7
Inventories 2 465 – 2 465 1 715 – 1 715
Other assets 160 – 160 17 6 – 17 6
Total current assets 7 705 137 7 842 6 624 237 6 861
Non-current assets
Receivables 61 9 (1 43) 476 748 (300) 448
Investments accounted for using the equity method 1 525 908 2 433 1 369 955 2 324
Other financial assets 97 1 09 206 123 20 1 43
Inventories 103 77 1 80 45 – 45
Property, plant and equipment 30 347 2 084 32 431 20 945 2 352 23 297
Intangible assets –4949 –5454
Goodwill 17 2 593 2 610 34 2 614 2 648
Deferred tax assets 1 1 10 32 1 142 602 1 1 61 3
Other assets 424 ( 146) 278 37 1 (1 29) 242
Total non-current assets 34 242 5 563 39 805 24 237 5 577 29 814
Total assets 41 947 5 700 47 647 30 861 5 814 36 675
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities
Payables 4 051 – 4 051 2 560 77 2 637
Interest bearing liabilities 1 500 – 1 500 1 330 – 1 330
T ax liabilities 842 18 860 297 (1 2) 285
Other provisions 2 104 2 2 106 1 402 2 1 404
Total current liabilities 8 497 20 8 51 7 5 589 67 5 656
Non-current liabilities
Payables 162 – 162 17 7 63 2 40
Interest bearing liabilities 9 626 (4) 9 622 5 453 (1) 5 452
T ax liabilities 1 192 1 440 2 632 1 218 1 323 2 541
Other provisions 4 981 (61 7) 4 364 4 044 (41 3) 3 631
Total non-current liabilities 15 961 819 16 780 10 892 972 1 1 864
Total liabilities 24 458 839 25 297 16 481 1 039 1 7 520
Equity minority interests 336 10 346 342 1 1 353
Shareholders’ equity
Paid in capital 3 363 5 1 74 8 537 3 603 5 164 8 767
Other equity items 41 7 (1 9) 398 41 0 (1) 409
Retained profits 13 381 (304) 13 077 1 0 051 (399) 9 652
Interest in shares of BHP Billiton (8) – (8) (26) – (26)
Total shareholders’ equity 1 7 153 4 851 22 004 14 038 4 764 18 802 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 41 947 5 700 47 647 30 861 5 814 36 675
165
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
The BHP Billiton Group Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standard FRS 1 ‘Cash flow
statements’, the objectives and principles of which are similar to those set out in US accounting standard SFAS 95 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. 
The principal differences between the standards relate to the classification of items within the cash flow statement as well as the definition of cash 
and cash equivalents. 
The statement below shows the adjustments to be made to reconcile the UK GAAP Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to a presentation of cash
flows under US GAAP for the years ended 30 June 2005, 2004 and 2003. Certain items in the comparative periods have been reclassified to conform to
current period disclosures.
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Reconciliation of cash flows
Net cash inflow from operating activities in accordance with UK GAAP 10 628 6 566 4 834
Reclassified to financing activities (22) (9) (1)
Dividends received 292 238 2 1 2
Returns on investments and servicing of finance (299) (292) (375)
T ax paid (1 695) (1 337) (1 002)
Exploration and other capital expenditure (859) (641) (399)
Net cash provided by operating activities in accordance with US GAAP 8 045 4 525 3 269
Capital expenditures (3 350) (2 245) (2 421)
Acquisitions and disposals (5 879) 17 9 405
Net sale of investments 185 54 465
Net cash used in investing activities in accordance with US GAAP (9 044) (2 012) (1 551)
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 19 51 166
Share repurchase scheme (1 792) –(20)
Increase/(decrease) in interest bearing liabilities 4 006 (727) (946)
Equity dividends paid (1 642) (1 576) (868)
Other – –1
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities in accordance with US GAAP 591 (2 252) (1 667)
Exchange translation effects 8 52
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in accordance with US GAAP (400) 266 53
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year 1 818 1 552 1 499
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year 1 418 1 818 1 552
At year end cash and cash equivalents is made up of: 
Cash at bank and in hand 916 67 4 58 7
Money market deposits
(a)
502 1 144 965
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year 1 418 1 818 1 552
(a)
Money market deposits with financial institutions have a maturity up to, but not more than three months. 
Notes to Financial Statements continued
166 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Basis of presentation under US GAAP 
DLC merger
On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Plc (formerly Billiton Plc) consummated the
Dual Listed Companies (DLC) merger with BHP Billiton Limited (formerly
BHP Limited). A description of the DLC merger structure is provided in
‘Dual Listed Companies Structure and Basis of Preparation of Financial
Statements’. In accounting for this transaction, the most significant
difference between UK GAAP and US GAAP is that, under UK GAAP , the
DLC merger has been accounted for as a merger (pooling of interests) 
in accordance with UK accounting standard FRS 6 ‘Acquisitions and
Mergers’, whereas under US GAAP , the DLC merger is accounted for 
as a purchase business combination with the BHP Billiton Limited Group
acquiring the BHP Billiton Plc Group. The BHP Billiton Limited Group has
been identified as the acquirer because of the majority ownership interest
of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders in the DLC structure. In a merger, 
the assets, liabilities and equity of the BHP Billiton Plc Group and of the
BHP Billiton Limited Group are combined at their respective book values
as determined under UK GAAP . Under US GAAP , the reconciliation of
shareholders’ equity includes the purchase adjustments required under 
US GAAP to recognise the BHP Billiton Plc Group assets and liabilities at
their fair values and to record goodwill. 
Restricted cash 
The Group has cash on deposit with financial institutions that is classified
as restricted under US GAAP as it is part of arrangements involving loans
from those institutions to certain joint ventures within the Group. Under
UK GAAP these balances are treated as loans to joint ventures and
associates. 
Joint ventures and joint arrangements
Under US GAAP , all investments classified as joint ventures, as detailed
under the heading ‘Joint ventures’ in note 1 ‘Principal subsidiaries, joint
ventures and joint arrangements’, are accounted for under the equity
method of accounting in accordance with APB 18 ‘The Equity Method of
Accounting for Investments in Common Stock’. All joint arrangements, as
detailed under the heading ‘Proportionally included joint arrangements’ in
note 1, are also proportionally accounted for in accordance with Emerging
Issues T ask Force Opinion (EITF) 00-1 ‘Investor Balance Sheet and Income
Statement Display under the Equity Method for Investments in Certain
Partnerships and Other Ventures’.
The BHP Billiton Group’s investment in the Richards Bay Minerals (RBM)
joint venture is comprised of two legal entities, Tisand (Pty) Limited and
Richards Bay Iron and Titanium (Pty) Limited. Although the BHP Billiton
Group owns 51 per cent of Tisand (Pty) Limited, it has not been
consolidated under US GAAP in accordance with EITF 96-16 ‘Investor’s
Accounting for an Investee When the Investor Has a Majority of the
Voting Interest but the Minority Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain
Approval or Veto Rights’. The substantive participating rights of the
minority interests holder in Tisand (Pty) Limited are embodied in the
shareholder agreement between the BHP Billiton Group and Rio Tinto, 
the co-venturer . The shareholder agreement ensures that the RBM joint
venture functions as a single economic entity. The overall profit of the
RBM joint venture is also shared equally between the venturers. The
shareholder agreement also states that the parties agree that they shall,
as their first priority, seek the best interests of the project as an
autonomous commercial operation rather than seek to service the
individual interests of any of the other parties.
The BHP Billiton Group holds a 57.5 per cent ownership interest in Minera
Escondida, a joint arrangement in which three other participants hold
ownership interests of 30 per cent, 1 0 per cent and 2.5 per cent,
respectively. The rights of the participants are governed by a Participants’
Agreement and a Management Agreement. A manager provides
management and support services to the project and the compensation
of the manager is set forth in the Management Agreement. The
Management Agreement establishes an Owners’ Council, consisting of
members appointed by each participant to represent their interest in
Escondida. Each member on the Owners’ Council holds voting rights
equal to the ownership interest of the participant they represent,
although certain matters require the affirmative vote of members of the
Owners’ Council having in aggregate, voting rights equal to or greater
than 75 per cent of the total ownership interest. Such matters generally
include capital expenditure in excess of prescribed limits, sales of copper
concentrate to a single customer, capacity expansions, the termination of
construction, mining or production of copper concentrates, and
indebtedness. The Agreement also stipulates that certain matters shall
require the affirmative vote of all members of the Owners’ Council having
an ownership interest of 1 0 per cent or more. Those matters generally
relate, within prescribed limits, to changes in the project, changes in the
construction budget, the sale or transfer of any Escondida concessions,
asset dispositions, agreements between Escondida and a participant, 
and share or other equity interest issuances in Escondida. In accordance
with EITF 96-16 and EITF 00-1, the BHP Billiton Group has proportionally
consolidated this investment.
Foreign exchange gains and losses
Under UK GAAP , foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the
restatement of non-US dollar tax balances are included as part of income
tax expense. In addition, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from
the restatement of non-US dollar interest bearing liabilities are included
in net interest expense and other foreign exchange gains and losses form
part of other operating costs. Under US GAAP , all net foreign exchange
gains and losses are shown in aggregate as a separate line item in the
consolidated income statement. In 2005, the net exchange loss includes
losses of US$60 million (2004: loss of US$85 million; 2003: loss of 
US$255 million) on tax balances and US$15 million (2004: loss of 
US$1 04 million; 2003: loss of US$1 15 million) on interest bearing liabilities.
Cash flows
Under US GAAP , dividends from joint ventures and associates, cash flows
from returns on investments and servicing of finance, and tax paid are
included in operating activities. In addition, capital expenditure and
acquisitions and disposals are included as investing activities. Proceeds
from the issuance of shares, increases and decreases in debt, and
dividends paid, are included as financing activities. Under UK GAAP , 
cash is defined as cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less
overdrafts repayable on demand. Under US GAAP , cash is defined as cash
in hand and deposits but also includes cash equivalents, which are short-
term investments with original maturities of less than three months.
US GAAP adjustments
(A) Acquisition of BHP Billiton Plc
On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc established 
a DLC merger . Under US GAAP , the DLC merger is accounted for as a
purchase business combination with the BHP Billiton Limited Group
acquiring the BHP Billiton Plc Group. The BHP Billiton Limited Group has
been identified as the acquirer because of the majority ownership interest
of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders in the DLC structure. 
Under US GAAP purchase accounting, the cost of the acquisition is
allocated to the fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed. As a result of the fair value exercise, increases in the values of
the BHP Billiton Plc Group’s inventory, investments, long-term contracts
and long-term debt were recognised and fair market values attributed 
to its other tangible assets mainly property, plant and equipment and
undeveloped properties, together with appropriate deferred taxation
effects. The difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value
of the assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Plc Group has been
recorded as goodwill. Fair value adjustments to the recorded amount 
of inventory and long-term contracts are expensed in the period the
inventory is utilised and the long-term contracts are delivered into.
167
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued Additional amortisation and depreciation are recorded in respect of 
the fair value adjustments of intangible and tangible assets and until 
30 June 2002, the resulting goodwill over the periods of their respective
useful economic lives. With effect from 1 July 2002, goodwill is no longer
amortised and is tested for impairment annually at 31 March. 
The current period adjustment includes the additional book value of
assets for US GAAP purposes included in the disposal of Chrome
operations. The adjustment for the year ended 30 June 2004 includes
goodwill impairments of US$491 million.
The adjustments to the assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Plc Group
to reflect the fair values and allocation of the excess purchase
consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired, based on
management’s best estimates of fair value, are summarised in the
shareholders’ equity reconciliation.
(B) Employee compensation costs
Under UK GAAP , the expected cost of employee share awards is measured
as the difference between the award exercise price and the market price
of ordinary shares at the grant date, and is amortised over the vesting
period. Under US GAAP , the Group adopts the fair value recognition
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123,
‘Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation’ (SFAS 123). 
Fair value is determined using Monte Carlo option pricing technique,
Black-Scholes option pricing technique and net present value technique. 
Refer to ‘Employee compensation costs’ below for significant assumptions
used in applying these fair value models to calculate the employee
compensation expense under SFAS 123. The variations in deemed 
vesting periods under UK GAAP and US GAAP have resulted in further
differences.
(C) Write-down of assets
Under UK GAAP , the BHP Billiton Group determines the recoverable
amount of property, plant and equipment on a discounted basis when
assessing impairments. The discount rate is a risk-adjusted market rate,
which is applied both to determine impairment and to calculate the 
write-down. Under US GAAP , where an asset is reviewed for impairment,
an impairment test is required utilising undiscounted cash flows. If the
asset’s carrying value exceeds the sum of undiscounted future cash flows,
the asset is considered impaired and it is written down to its fair value
(based on discounted cash flows). These differences result in lower
charges to the profit and loss account and higher asset values for the
write-downs calculated under US GAAP . In subsequent financial periods,
the difference in asset carrying values is reduced through the inclusion 
of additional depreciation charges in the profit and loss account under 
US GAAP .
(D) Depreciation – revaluations
Revaluations of property, plant and equipment and investments under 
UK GAAP have resulted in upward adjustments to the historical cost
values reflected in a revaluation reserve, which is part of total equity. 
In the case of property, plant and equipment, the depreciation charged
against income increases as a direct result of such a revaluation. Since 
US GAAP does not permit property, plant and equipment to be valued at
above historical cost, the depreciation charge has been restated to reflect
depreciation based on historical cost.
(E) Depreciation – reserves
The BHP Billiton Group prepares mineral reserve statements based on the
Australasian Code for reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves,
September 1 999 (the JORC Code). The Supplementary Ore Reserves
information contained in the Annual Report differs in certain respects
from that reported to the SEC, which is prepared with reference to the
SEC’s Industry Guide 7. This adjustment reflects the impact on
depreciation of the difference in reserves measurement basis.
(F) Fair value accounting for derivatives
Under UK GAAP , when undertaking risk mitigation transactions, hedge
accounting principles are applied, whereby derivatives are matched to 
the specifically identified commercial risks being hedged. These matching
principles are applied to both matured and unmatured transactions.
Derivatives undertaken as hedges of anticipated transactions are
recognised when such transactions are recognised. Upon recognition 
of the underlying transaction, derivatives are valued at the appropriate
market spot rate. 
When an underlying transaction can no longer be identified, gains or
losses arising from a derivative that has been designated as a hedge of a
transaction will be included in the profit and loss account whether or not
the derivative is terminated. When a hedge is terminated, the deferred
gain or loss that arose prior to termination is:
(a) included in the measurement of the anticipated transaction when 
it occurs; or
(b) included in the profit and loss account where the anticipated
transaction is no longer expected to occur .
The premiums paid on interest rate options and foreign currency put and
call options are included in other assets and are deferred and included in
the settlement of the underlying transaction. When undertaking strategic
or opportunistic financial transactions, all gains and losses are included 
in the profit and loss account at the end of each reporting period. The
premiums paid on strategic financial transactions are included in the
profit and loss account at the inception of the contract.
For the purpose of deriving US GAAP information, Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 1 33 ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities’ (SFAS 1 33) requires that each derivative instrument be
recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at
its fair value. 
Hedge accounting is not applied for US GAAP purposes. Amounts
recorded in other comprehensive income as a result of de-designation in
a prior period of existing derivative instruments were transferred to the
income statement in 2004.
(G) Synthetic debt
In a prior period an operating subsidiary, whose functional currency is the
US dollar, obtained financing in various foreign currencies. The operating
subsidiary entered into forward exchange contracts to fix the exchange
rate between the South African rand and the various foreign currencies.
For UK GAAP , the arrangement was treated as a synthetic South African
rand debt, which at each period end was retranslated into US dollars at
the spot rate with the exchange gain or loss that is recognised being
included in the profit and loss account. 
Under US GAAP , synthetic debt accounting is not permitted. As a result,
the foreign currency loan amounts and forward exchange contracts were
accounted for separately. Foreign currency loans were initially recorded at
the exchange rate in effect on the date of the borrowing, with gains and
losses arising from currency movements taken to the profit and loss
account. The forward exchange contracts were marked to market
annually with the resulting gain or loss also taken to the profit and loss
account. 
During the period ended 30 June 2005, the foreign currencies financing
were fully repaid, and UK GAAP synthetic debt accounting has ceased.
Accordingly, this will no longer be an US GAAP adjustment.
(H) Fair value on acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd
The differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP fair values attributable
to the acquisition of WMC are based on management’s best estimates of
fair value and are discussed below:
Notes to Financial Statements continued
168 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued (i) Under UK GAAP , acquired inventories are held at cost. Under 
US GAAP , inventories are adjusted to reflect fair value.
(ii) Under UK GAAP , deferred tax is not recognised on fair value
adjustments where a difference arises between the tax base and the
carrying amount. Such differences are treated as permanent items
when the asset is depreciated. Under US GAAP , the balance sheet
liability method of tax-effect accounting is applied, rather than the
income statement liability method. This method recognises deferred
tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences between the
accounting and tax values of balance sheet items, and accordingly
additional deferred tax has been recorded with the corresponding
debit to goodwill.
(iii) Under UK GAAP , the provision for restructuring is accounted for as
expense in the period subsequent to acquisition. Under US GAAP , the
restructuring provision assumed in a purchase business combination
should be included in the allocation of the acquisition cost.
(I) Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure
The BHP Billiton Group follows the ‘successful efforts’ method under 
UK GAAP in accounting for petroleum exploration, evaluation and
development expenditures. This method differs from the ‘successful
efforts’ method followed by some US companies and adopted in this
reconciliation to US GAAP , in that it permits certain exploration costs in
defined areas of interest to be capitalised. Such expenditure capitalised
by the BHP Billiton Group is amortised in subsequent years. In respect of
minerals properties, the BHP Billiton Group capitalises exploration and
evaluation expenditure where it is expected that the expenditure will be
recouped by future exploitation or sale and exploration and evaluation
activities have identified a mineral resource with sufficient certainty,
which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially
recoverable reserves. Under US GAAP , a final feasibility study indicating
the existence of commercially recoverable reserves at new exploratory
‘greenfield’ properties serves as the trigger point for capitalisation. US
GAAP permits expenditure to be capitalised for the purposes of extending
or further delineating existing reserves. In subsequent financial periods,
amortisation or write-offs of expenditure previously capitalised under 
UK GAAP , which would have been expensed for US GAAP purposes, will
be added back when determining the profit result according to US GAAP .
(J) Start-up costs
Under UK GAAP the BHP Billiton Group capitalises as part of property,
plant and equipment, costs associated with start-up activities at new
plants or operations which are incurred prior to commissioning date.
These capitalised costs are depreciated in subsequent years. Under US
GAAP , costs of start-up activities are expensed as incurred.
(K) Pension plans
Under UK GAAP , the net periodic pension cost assessed on an actuarial
basis is charged to profit and loss so as to allocate the costs systematically
over the employees’ service lives. 
Consequently, the BHP Billiton Group recognises periodic pension cost
based on actuarial advice in a manner generally consistent with US GAAP .
However, differences in the actuarial method used to value employee
benefit obligations and the timing of recognition of expense components
results in different periodic costs and pension assets or liabilities. 
Further, under US GAAP , where the accumulated benefit obligation of the
pension plan exceeds the fair value of plan assets, an intangible asset
(not exceeding the value of the unrecognised prior service cost) and
additional pension liability is recognised. If the additional pension liability
exceeds the unrecognised prior service cost, the excess (adjusted for the
effect of income tax) is recorded as part of other comprehensive income.
(L) Other post-retirement benefits
Under UK GAAP , post-retirement benefits other than pensions have been
accounted for in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Standard
Accounting Practice 24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’ (SSAP 24), which
are generally consistent with the provisions of US GAAP including
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 1 06 ‘Employers’
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions’ (SFAS 1 06)
except for certain scenarios such as in accounting for plan amendments. 
Under UK GAAP , amendments to post-retirement benefits provided are
taken into account from the date upon which plan amendments are
announced. Under US GAAP , plan amendments are only taken into account
from the date upon which the plan amendments become effective. 
(M) Mozal expansion rights
In the 2001 year BHP Billiton announced an agreement to sell-down a
portion of its preferential rights in the Mozal Phase II project to two of 
its project partners. Under UK GAAP , the consideration was recognised 
as revenue. A portion of the consideration was paid in cash and another
portion was delivered to the BHP Billiton Group via a marketing
arrangement. Under US GAAP , the consideration paid in cash was
recognised as profit from asset sales when received. During the year
ended 30 June 2004, the final instalment of the cash consideration was
received and accordingly this is no longer a US GAAP adjustment.
(N) Employee Share Plan loans
Under the Employee Share Plan, loans made to employees for the
purchase of shares in BHP Billiton Limited have been recorded as
receivables. Under US GAAP , the amount outstanding as an obligation to
the BHP Billiton Limited Group, which has financed equity, is required to
be eliminated from total shareholders’ equity. In addition, any foreign
exchange gains or losses on the outstanding loan balances are required
to be eliminated from net income.
(O) Goodwill 
Under UK GAAP , the BHP Billiton Group amortises goodwill over a period
not exceeding 20 years. Under US GAAP , Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142 ‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’
(SFAS 142), which became effective from 1 July 2002, replaces the
requirement to amortise goodwill with annual impairment testing. 
The current period adjustment reflects the net goodwill amortisation
charge under UK GAAP , which is reversed for US GAAP , and the carrying
value of goodwill included in the disposal of Chrome operations.
(P) Profit on asset sales
Under US GAAP , profits arising from the sale of assets cannot be
recognised in the period in which the sale occurs where the vendor 
has a significant continuing association with the purchaser . In such
circumstances, any profit arising from a sale is recognised over the life 
of the continuing arrangements. 
(Q) BHP Steel demerger
Under UK GAAP , the BHP Steel demerger was recorded as two
components in the year ended 30 June 2003: a distribution to BHP Billiton
Limited shareholders of 94 per cent of BHP Steel shares (accounted for as
a capital reduction) and a sale of 6 per cent of BHP Steel shares
(accounted for as a sale of assets). 
169
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued Under US GAAP , the BHP Steel demerger was classified as a non pro-rata
distribution to shareholders and was accounted for as a 1 00 per cent sale
of assets. The implied consideration for the sale of the additional 94 per
cent of BHP Steel shares was based on the market price of BHP Steel
shares used in determining the bonus issue of BHP Billiton Plc shares to
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders.
The remaining 6 per cent was measured at the respective sale price. The
shortfall between the implied consideration and the book value of the
BHP Steel net assets to be demerged was recognised in the result for the
period ended 30 June 2002 for US GAAP . This loss on sale of the 6 per
cent holding was included in the year ended 30 June 2003 for UK GAAP .
(R) Restructuring and employee provisions
These accounts include provisions for redundancies associated with
organisational restructuring that can be recognised where positions 
have been identified as being surplus to requirements, provided the
circumstances are such that a constructive liability exists. Under US GAAP ,
a provision for redundancies involving voluntary severance offers is
restricted to employees who have accepted these offers. The adjustment
is reversed over subsequent periods as the offers are accepted. 
(S) T ax effect of adjustments
Adjustments to the UK GAAP net income and shareholders’ equity are
disclosed on a before tax basis. This adjustment reflects the impact of
those adjustments on income taxes. For the year ended 30 June 2004,
goodwill impairments of US$491 million have no tax effect. Other
significant differences between the UK nominal rate of taxation of 
30 per cent, the effective tax rate under UK GAAP of 24 per cent and the
effective rate for US GAAP of 23 per cent are described in ‘Other taxation
adjustments’ below and in note 1 0. 
The BHP Billiton Group elected to consolidate its Australian subsidiaries
under the Australian tax consolidation regime during the year ended 
30 June 2004. The capital gains tax base valuation for the BHP Billiton Plc
Australian Consolidated T ax Group was established for the purpose of its
first consolidated tax return lodged in February 2005. The determination
of the revised tax base has required the reversal, in the current period, of
the deferred tax liabilities recorded on the acquisition of BHP Billiton Plc
by BHP Billiton Limited (for US GAAP purposes) for assets with no tax
depreciable base. The tax benefits related to the change in tax base have
been recognised in full, net of a valuation allowance to reduce deferred
tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realised.
(T) Other taxation adjustments
For UK GAAP , potential tax expense of US$261 million has not been
recognised in the year ended 30 June 2005, mainly relating to the tax
impact of unrealised foreign exchange gains or losses on US dollar net
debt held by subsidiaries, which retain local currency records for tax
purposes. For US GAAP , a tax expense is recognised reflecting the
existence of the foreign exchange gains or losses in the accounts of the
respective entity. The cumulative effect of this adjustment at 30 June 2005
is a credit to tax liabilities of US$516 million (2004: US$255 million). 
Under the transitional rules for Australian tax consolidation regime,
during the year ended 30 June 2004, the Group chose to reset the tax
cost base of certain depreciable assets which will result in additional 
tax depreciation over the lives of the assets. Under UK GAAP , part of the
tax benefit resulting from the reset of the tax cost base is recorded in
future years as a permanent difference to taxation expense. Under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 1 09 ‘Accounting for
Income T axes’ (SFAS 1 09), the tax benefit resulting from the change in the
tax legislation is recognised in full as a change to deferred tax balances
and tax expense.
UK GAAP requires tax liabilities and assets to be measured at the
amounts expected to apply using the tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. US GAAP
requires the measurement of tax liabilities and assets using the tax rates
based on enacted tax law. The effect of a change in the South African
corporate tax rate of US$24 million was recognised in June 2005 for UK
GAAP on the basis that the legislation was substantively enacted. The
effect of the tax rate change will be recognised for US GAAP purposes 
in the period that the legislation is enacted. 
Under UK GAAP tax payable on the future remittance of past earnings 
is provided only to the extent that dividends have been accrued as
receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings exists.
Under US GAAP , tax arising on repatriation of unremitted earnings that 
is expected within the foreseeable future has been provided.
(U) Change in fair value of listed investments
As part of its exploration strategy, the BHP Billiton Group makes use of
junior exploration companies (junior) to leverage its exploration spend.
This generally involves the Group receiving shares in the junior and an
option to enter into a joint venture over specific properties the junior 
is exploring in exchange for the Group contributing cash, exploration
properties or other interests to the junior . Usually there is an agreement
for the cash to be spent only on exploration of the specified properties.
Under UK GAAP , cash contributions (which usually take the form of
subscription for shares in the junior) are expensed as exploration costs
and no gain is recorded when properties are contributed to the joint
venture. The US GAAP treatment is similar to UK GAAP except that
investments in juniors with publicly traded shares are carried at their fair
value, as available for sale securities, with unrealised changes in value
recorded in other comprehensive income until realised or an other-than-
temporary impairment occurs. 
(V) Dividends
Under UK GAAP , dividends that are declared after balance date but
before the issuance of the financial statements are treated as a post-
balance date event requiring adjustment in the financial statements.
Under US GAAP , a provision for dividends cannot be recorded until the
following year . In the year ended 30 June 2004, the BHP Billiton Group
changed its timing on dividend declarations which resulted in a dividend
provision being recorded under UK GAAP , which is reversed for US GAAP . 
Notes to Financial Statements continued
170 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued Employee compensation costs
Fair valuation of awards as presented below represents the value of awards issued under employee share ownership plans of BHP Billiton Plc and 
BHP Billiton Limited. The values relate to the awards granted during the financial year and are measured at grant date.
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Share (BHP Billiton Plc) 5.23
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Share (BHP Billiton Limited) 5.39
Group Incentive Scheme Option (BHP Billiton Plc) 2.77 2.41 1 .61
Group Incentive Scheme Option (BHP Billiton Limited) 2.93 2.53 1 .57
Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Share (BHP Billiton Plc) 11 .09 1 0.08 6.44
Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Share (BHP Billiton Limited) 11 . 7 1 1 0.23 6.28
Group Incentive Scheme Performance Share (BHP Billiton Plc) 2.02 2.01
Group Incentive Scheme Performance Share (BHP Billiton Limited) 2.04 1 .93
Group Incentive Scheme Transition Performance Share (BHP Billiton Plc) 1 .95
Group Incentive Scheme Transition Performance Share (BHP Billiton Limited) 1 .91
Employee Share Plan Option 1.22
The fair values of awards granted were estimated using Monte Carlo option pricing technique, Black-Scholes option pricing technique and net present
value technique. Significant assumptions used in applying these formulas and techniques used for each scheme were as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Share (BHP Billiton Plc)
(a)
Risk-free interest rate 4.87%
Estimated life of awards 5 years
(d)
Estimated volatility of share price 22.5%
Dividend yield 1.5 1%
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Share (BHP Billiton Limited)
(a)
Risk-free interest rate 5.6%
Estimated life of awards 5 years
(d)
Estimated volatility of share price 22.5%
Dividend yield 1.5 1%
Group Incentive Scheme Option (BHP Billiton Plc)
(b)
Risk-free interest rate 4.9% 3.6% 5.0%
Estimated life of awards 3 years 3 years 3 years
Group Incentive Scheme Option (BHP Billiton Limited)
(b)
Risk-free interest rate 5.4% 4.6% 5.8%
Estimated life of awards 3 years 3 years 3 years
Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Share (BHP Billiton Plc)
(b)
Risk-free interest rate 4.9% 3.6% 5.0%
Estimated life of awards 3 years 3 years 3 years
Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Share (BHP Billiton Limited)
(b)
Risk-free interest rate 5.4% 4.6% 5.8%
Estimated life of awards 3 years 3 years 3 years
171
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
2005 2004 2003
Group Incentive Scheme Performance Shares and Group Incentive Scheme 
Transition Performance Shares (BHP Billiton Plc)
(a)
Risk-free interest rate 3.88% 5.33%
Estimated life of awards – Performance Share 7. 1 years
(d)
7. 1 years
(d)
Transition Performance Share 2002 6.2 years
(d)
Estimated volatility of share price 25.0% 20.0%
Dividend yield 2.81% 2.5%
Group Incentive Scheme Performance Shares (BHP Billiton Limited)
(a)
Risk-free interest rate 4.8% 6.05%
Estimated life of awards – Performance Share 7. 1 years
(d)
7. 1 years
(d)
Transition Performance Share 2002 6.2 years
(d)
Estimated volatility of share price 25.0% 20.0%
Dividend yield 2.5% 2.3%
Employee Share Plan Options
(c)
Risk-free interest rate 4.8%
Estimated life of options 5 years
(d)
Estimated volatility of share price 20.0%
Dividend yield 2.2%
(a)
Fair Value estimated using Monte Carlo option pricing technique.
(b)
Fair Value estimated by discounting the expected value of the awards to their net present value. 
(c)
Fair Value estimated using Black-Scholes option pricing technique.
(d)
Subject to performance conditions.
Goodwill and other intangible assets
In accordance with SFAS 142, the BHP Billiton Group no longer amortises goodwill and instead has adopted a policy whereby goodwill is tested for
impairment on an annual basis by each reporting unit, or on a more regular basis should circumstances dictate. Any impairment is determined based 
on the fair value of the reporting unit by discounting the operations’ expected future cash flows using a risk-adjusted discount rate.
As required by SFAS 142, the balance of goodwill by Customer Sector Group (CSG) is:
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Aluminium 1 254 1 254
Base Metals 547 547
Carbon Steel Materials 285 285
Diamonds and Specialty Products 151 15 1
Energy Coal 68 68
Stainless Steel Materials
(a)
259 343
Unallocated
(b)
46 –
2 610 2 648
(a)
Goodwill of US$84 million is included in the sale of the Chrome operations. 
(b)
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of WMC will be allocated to the various CSGs. This allocation will be completed in the next financial year . 
The following table summarises other intangible assets of the BHP Billiton Group at as 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2004. 
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Pension asset 14 18
Other intangible assets
Long-term customer contracts at gross book value 40 40
deduct amounts amortised
(a)(b)
5 4
49 54
(a)
Gross amortisation expense for other intangible assets for the year ended 30 June 2005 was US$1 million.
(b)
Estimated gross amortisation expense for other intangible assets for the next five financial years is US$1 .3 million per annum. 
Notes to Financial Statements continued
172 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
Pensions and post-retirement medical benefit plans
The BHP Billiton Group’s pension and post-retirement medical benefit plans are discussed in note 27. The disclosures below include the additional
information required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 1 32 (revised 2003) ‘Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits’ (SFAS 1 32R). The pension and medical costs of the BHP Billiton Group’s significant defined benefit plans have been restated in
the following tables in accordance with US GAAP . 
The measurement date used to determine pension and medical benefit measurements as at 30 June 2005 for the Group’s pension plans and medical
schemes is 30 June 2005 for all plans.
Pension schemes Post-retirement medical benefits
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M
Net periodic cost
Service costs 58 56 43 7 66
Interest costs 90 76 64 26 24 2 1
Expected return on plan assets (99) (81) (71) – ––
Amortisation of prior service cost – 33 1 (1) –
Amortisation of net transition asset – (2) (3) – ––
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 4 –12 (27) ––
Recognised net actuarial loss 14 20 9 2 3–
Net periodic cost under US GAAP 67 72 5 7 9 32 27
Pension schemes Post-retirement medical benefits
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
% %% % %%
The major weighted average assumptions 
(weighted by the net periodic cost) used 
in computing the above costs were:
Rates of future medical inflation
(a)
n/a n/a n/a 7.6 7.8 7.9
Rates of future pay increases 4. 1 3.8 3.8 n/a n/a n/a
Discount rate 5.9 5.3 5.3 8.4 8. 1 8.0
Expected long-term rates of return on 
plan assets 
(b)
7.3 7.0 7.3 n/a n/a n/a
(a)
The rate of future medical inflation rate reflects the fact that the benefits of certain groups of participants are capped.
(b)
BHP Billiton determines the expected rate of return on assets for each plan in consultation with its actuaries. The overall expected rate of return on assets is the weighted
average of the expected rate of return on each asset class and reflects the actual assets held at the reporting date. For quoted corporate or government bonds the
expected return reflects the redemption yields available on those investments. For other asset classes, the expected rate of return is based on assumptions about the
expected long-term rate of return on that asset class. 
173
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Notes to Financial Statements continued
174 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
Pension schemes Post-retirement medical benefits
2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Change in benefit obligation
Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 1 394 1 1 91 321 31 5
Amendments (4) 16 – 12
Service costs 58 56 7 6
Interest costs 90 76 26 24
Plan participants’ contributions 11 10 – –
Actuarial (gain)/loss 17 0 (2) 27 (34)
Benefits paid (98) (1 06) (19) (1 9)
Adjustment due to inclusion of insured pensioners 12 65 – –
Adjustments for changes in the Group structure and joint venture arrangements 74 26 2 (1 0)
Termination benefits and curtailment costs (26) – (22) –
Exchange variations 26 62 (7) 27
Benefit obligation at the end of the year 1 707 1 394 335 321
Projected benefit obligation at the end of the year for pension plans with 
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 935 750 
Accumulated benefit obligation at the end of the year for pension plans 
with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 870 696
Accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans 1 537 1 21 7
Pension schemes Post-retirement medical benefits
2005 2004 2005 2004
% % % %
The major weighted average assumptions (weighted by the benefit obligation) 
used in computing the above benefit obligation were:
Rates of future medical inflation n/a n/a 7.5 7.6
Rates of future pay increases 3.5 3.7 n/a n/a
Discount rate 5.4 6.4 6.5 8. 1
Post-retirement medical benefits
1% decrease 1% decrease
US$M US$M
The impact of a 1 per cent variation in the rate of future medical inflation on the 2005 results would be:
Effect on total service and interest cost (3) 4
Effect on accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation (30) 36 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
Pension schemes Post-retirement medical benefits
2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year 1 1 72 91 2 – –
Actual return on plan assets 205 146 – –
Employer contribution 66 75 19 19
Plan participants’ contributions 11 10 – –
Benefits paid (98) (1 06) (19) (1 9)
Termination benefits and settlement/curtailment costs (23) – – –
Adjustment due to inclusion of insured pensioners 12 65 – –
Adjustments for changes in the Group structure and joint venture arrangements 72 13 – –
Exchange variations 19 57 – –
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 1 436 1 1 72 – –
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year for plans with accumulated 
benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 584 51 5 – –
Plan assets for pension schemes consist primarily of bonds and equities. Refer note 27 for further details.
Pension schemes Post-retirement medical benefits
2005 2004 2005 2004
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Funded status
Funded status (271) (222) (335) (321)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 331 282 61 37
Unrecognised prior service cost 30 33 6 1
Unrecognised net transition asset (3) (3) – –
Net amount recognised 87 90 (268) (283)
Pension schemes
2005 2004
US$M US$M
Analysis of net amount recognised
Prepaid benefit obligation 145 130
(Accumulated) benefit obligation (295) (1 93)
Intangible asset 14 18
Accumulated other comprehensive income 223 135
Net amount recognised 87 90
Increase/(decrease) in minimum liability included in other comprehensive income 88 (93)
175
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued
Pension schemes
Weighted average target asset 
allocation by asset category Weighted average asset 
for future periods allocation by asset category
2005 2005 2004
%% % 
Equities 56 52 51
Bonds 33 31 33
Property 33 3
Cash and net current assets 43 3
Insured annuities 29 10
Other 22 –
T otal 100 1 00 100
The BHP Billiton Group expects to contribute US$77 million to its pension plans and US$21 million to its post-retirement medical plans in the year ending
30 June 2006.
Pension Post-retirement
schemes medical benefits
US$M US$M
Expected future benefit payments for the year ending:
30 June 2006 89 21
30 June 2007 86 22
30 June 2008 94 23
30 June 2009 97 23
30 June 201 0 103 24
Estimated benefit payments for the five year period from 30 June 201 0 to 30 June 2015 609 1 32
Given the nature of some of the pension schemes, year-on-year variations on benefit payments can be significant.
Notes to Financial Statements continued
176 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> Impact of new accounting standards
In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151 ‘Inventory
Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4’ (SFAS 151). SFAS 151
requires abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling 
costs and wasted materials (spoilage) to be excluded from the costs of
inventory and expensed as incurred. As such, the allocation of fixed
production overheads to inventory is to be based on normal capacity 
of the production facilities. SFAS 151 is applicable for inventory costs
incurred during the financial year beginning after 15 June 2005. The Group
does not presently expect the adoption of SFAS 151 to have a material
impact on its financial position or results of operations.
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153 ‘Exchange of
Nonmonetary Assets – An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29’ (SFAS
153). SFAS 153 eliminates the exception from fair value measurement 
for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it
with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance.
The standard specifies that an exchange of nonmonetary assets has
commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected
to change significantly as a result of the exchange. SFAS 153 is effective
for nonmonetary exchanges occurring in the financial year beginning after
15 June 2005. The Group does not presently expect the adoption of SFAS
153 to have a material impact on its financial position or results of
operations.
In December 2004, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004)
‘Share-Based Payment’ (SFAS 123R), which requires all share-based
payments to employees to be measured based on their fair value at 
grant date. The cost is to be recognised over the period during which an
employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awards or the
requisite service period. SFAS 123R is applicable for the financial year
beginning after 15 June 2005. The Group is currently assessing the impact
of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
In December 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 1 09-2 ‘Accounting
and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision
within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004’ (FSP 1 09-2). The American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Creation Act) provides a special one-
time provision allowing earnings of certain non-US companies to be
repatriated to a US parent company at a reduced tax rate. FSP 1 09-2 was
effective upon issuance. It permits additional time to reassess current
plans regarding the permanent reinvestment of unremitted earnings in
certain non-US subsidiaries. The income tax effects associated with any
repatriation of unremitted earnings as a result of the Jobs Creation Act 
are estimated to be US$2 million.
In March 2005, the Emerging Issues T ask Force of the FASB reached a
consensus in Issue No. 04-6 ‘Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred
During Production in the Mining Industry’ (EITF 04-6) that stripping costs
incurred during the production phase of a mine are variable production
costs. As such, stripping costs incurred during the production phase are
treated differently to stripping costs incurred during the development
phase, and should be included in the cost of the inventory produced
during the period that the stripping costs are incurred. This consensus 
is applicable for the financial year beginning after 15 December 2005. 
The Group is currently assessing the impact of adopting EITF 04-6 on its
financial statements.
In March 2005, FASB Interpretation No. 47 ‘Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No.
143’ (FIN 47) was issued. FIN 47 states that a conditional asset retirement
obligation represents an unconditional obligation to perform an asset
retirement activity where the timing or method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control
of the entity. The interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to
recognise a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
obligation, if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Uncertainty about the timing or method of settlement of a conditional
asset retirement obligation is factored into the measurement of the
liability when sufficient information exists. SFAS 143 acknowledges that 
in some cases, sufficient information may not be available to reasonably
estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. FIN 47 also
clarifies the conditions when an entity would have sufficient information
to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation.
FIN 47 is effective for periods ending after 15 December 2005. The Group
is currently assessing the impact of adopting FIN 47 on its financial
statements.
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 ‘Accounting Changes and
Error Corrections’ (SFAS 154) which replaced APB No. 20 ‘Accounting
Changes’ and SFAS No. 3 ‘Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim
Financial Statements’. The standard changes the requirements in
accounting and disclosure for a change in accounting principle. Under
SFAS 154, voluntary changes in accounting principles are to be reported
using retrospective application unless it is impracticable to do so. The
standard is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors
made in the period beginning after 15 December 2005.
177
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
34 US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles disclosures continued For reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, the BHP
Billiton Group must comply with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board. The BHP Billiton Group’s DLC structure results in two parent
entities with their own statutory reporting obligations, one in the UK 
and the other in Australia. While the UK and Australia are transitioning 
to IFRS-based financial reporting regimes in the same timeframe, the 
DLC structure creates unique IFRS implementation issues, including:
(i) in the UK, listed groups are required to comply with IFRS as endorsed
by the European Commission (EC); there is a risk that IFRS as
endorsed by the EC at 30 June 2006 may not be consistent with IFRS
applicable in Australia;
(ii) the Australian Accounting Standards Board has approved IFRS-based
standards, some of which mandate particular policies that are
optional (and not applied uniformly by other entities) in the UK; and
(iii) continued development and interpretation of IFRS prior to 
30 June 2006 that could affect the ultimate difference between
current reporting frameworks and IFRS applicable in each jurisdiction.
Accordingly, significant uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of
IFRS on the BHP Billiton Group’s financial statements. 
Management of IFRS implementation
The Group has established a formal project, monitored by a steering
committee, to manage the transition to IFRS reporting. Regular updates are
also provided to the Board Risk and Audit Committee. The implementation
and review phases of the project are in progress and include substantial
training programmes across the Group’s finance staff, execution of changes
to information systems and business processes and completing formal
authorisation processes to approve recommended accounting policy
changes. The project will culminate in the collection of financial
information necessary to prepare IFRS-compliant financial statements,
embedding of IFRS principles in business processes, elimination of any
unnecessary data collection processes and Board approval of the
transitional IFRS financial impact. Implementation also involves delivery 
of further training to staff as revised systems begin to take effect. 
Development and interpretation of IFRS
The regulatory bodies that promulgate IFRS and its country-specific
implementations have significant ongoing projects that could affect the
ultimate differences between UK GAAP and IFRS and their impact on the
BHP Billiton Group’s financial statements. Significant judgement and
interpretation have been required in estimating the IFRS impacts
presented below. T wo particular matters that may ultimately affect the
BHP Billiton Group’s IFRS impacts relate to income tax accounting:
• The scope of application of income tax accounting required by IAS 12
‘Income T axes’ remains unclear . The BHP Billiton Group is subject to a
wide variety of government imposed production taxes, royalties and
other imposts, in addition to regular income tax on profits. Under UK
GAAP , income tax expense and the corresponding income tax assets
and liabilities relate only to regular income taxes on profits. All other
forms of taxation, such as petroleum resource taxes, production
royalties and other secondary taxes are accounted for as operating
costs or reductions in revenue as appropriate. The amounts of such
taxes are determined using accounting policies appropriate to the
nature of each arrangement. The BHP Billiton Group has sought
guidance from the International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee (IFRIC) on this matter, in light of a variety of diverse
interpretations applied by other entities. No guidance has been
forthcoming at this time. The IFRS impacts presented below do not
take account of any changes in the measurement or presentation of
such taxes, royalties and similar arrangements that might ultimately 
be required.
• IAS 12 requires deferred tax liabilities to be measured based on the
difference between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the
financial statements (their ‘book base’) and their equivalent carrying
amounts viewed from a taxation perspective (their ‘tax base’).
Different interpretations have been made as to those items eligible for
inclusion in the tax base. In particular, there are divergent views as to
whether the tax-deductible amount of an asset such as mineral rights,
which is only available for capital gains tax purposes, is relevant in
measuring the tax base of the asset that is not expected to generate
capital gains income. BHP Billiton has excluded such amounts in the
calculation of tax base and has consequently recognised deferred tax
liabilities for assets that are not depreciable for tax purposes and not
expected to generate revenue on their ultimate disposal. This area is
one of many under consideration by the International Accounting
Standards Board but its resolution remains unclear .
Elections made on implementing IFRS
The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in ‘IFRS 1 First Time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’. That standard
in general requires accounting policies to be applied retrospectively in
order to determine an opening balance sheet as at the BHP Billiton
Group’s IFRS transition date of 1 July 2004, and allows certain exemptions
on the transition to IFRS which the BHP Billiton Group has elected to
apply. Those elections considered significant to the BHP Billiton Group
include decisions to:
• not restate previous mergers or acquisitions and the accounting thereof;
• measure property, plant and equipment at deemed cost, being the
value of property, plant and equipment immediately prior to the date
of transition, with no adjustment made to fair value;
• not apply the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ to equity
instruments granted before 7 November 2002;
• recognise the cumulative effect of actuarial gains and losses on
employee benefits to retained earnings as at the transition date; and
• transfer all foreign currency translation differences, currently held in
reserves, to retained earnings at the transition date.
In addition, BHP Billiton has applied the exemption available under IFRS 1
whereby IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and
IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ shall apply
from 1 July 2005 and not for the year ended 30 June 2005. Accordingly,
transitional adjustments in respect of IAS 32 and IAS 39 will be recorded
against retained profits and reserves, as applicable, at 1 July 2005. The
IFRS impacts presented in this note do not include any amounts
attributable to IAS 32 and IAS 39.
IAS 32 is not expected to change the classification of financial instruments
issued by the BHP Billiton Group. IAS 39 will result in certain financial
assets being measured at fair value. Changes in fair value will be
recognised through profit and loss or directly in equity depending on their
classification. Investments in non-traded securities will be classified as
available for sale and changes in fair value recognised directly in equity
until the underlying asset is derecognised. Investments in traded securities
will be classified as held for trading and changes in fair value recognised
in the income statement. Loans, receivables and financial liability
measurement and classification will remain substantially unchanged.
Under IAS 39, foreign exchange contracts held for hedging purposes 
will be accounted for as cash flow hedges. Interest rate swaps held for
hedging purposes will be accounted for as cash flow or fair value hedges.
Cash flow hedging causes the effective portion of hedge gains and losses
to be recognised directly in equity until the hedged item occurs, at which
time the hedge gain or loss is included in the measurement of the hedged
item. Fair value interest rate hedging will result in the recognition on
Notes to Financial Statements continued
178 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
35 Impact of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards balance sheet of changes in fair value of applicable borrowings and the
corresponding hedge. The application of hedge accounting for foreign
exchange and interest rate contracts will impact future reported financial
performance under IFRS to the extent that ineffectiveness arises,
however, the expected extent of ineffectiveness is not significant.
The Group’s commodity based transactions executed through derivative
contracts will not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39. All such
contracts will be measured at fair value and changes in fair value
recognised directly in income. Certain other derivative instruments
embedded within host contracts will also be measured at fair value with
changes in fair value recognised directly in income. 
The impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on the financial performance and
financial position of the BHP Billiton Group in 2006 and subsequent
financial years cannot be estimated as it depends on the quantity and
type of financial instruments held and future movements in market prices.
BHP Billiton has also elected to adopt early IFRS 6 ‘Exploration For And
Evaluation Of Mineral Resources’. This enables existing accounting
policies as described in the Accounting Policies section of the financial
statements to apply under IFRS and for the provisions of IFRS 6 to be
effective from 1 July 2004.
Key differences in accounting policies
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK
accounting standards and other UK financial reporting requirements 
(UK GAAP). The differences between UK GAAP and IFRS identified to 
date as potentially having a significant effect on the Group’s financial
performance and financial position are summarised below. The summary
should not be taken as an exhaustive list of all the differences between
UK GAAP and IFRS. 
This note only provides a summary of key implications of the conversion
to IFRS as currently issued, as well as their estimated impact on net
equity, profit before tax and income tax expense. The estimated overall
effect of IFRS is also presented by way of a consolidated income
statement, consolidated balance sheet and consolidated cash flow
statement in IFRS format. Further disclosures and explanations will be
included in the Group’s IFRS financial reports for the half year ending 
31 December 2005 and the year ending 30 June 2006.
Deferred tax (IAS 12 ‘Income T axes’)
On transition to IFRS the balance sheet liability method of tax-effect
accounting is adopted, rather than the income statement liability
method applied under UK GAAP . This balance sheet method recognises
deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences between
the accounting and tax values of balance sheet items, rather than
accounting and tax values of items recognised in the profit and loss
account. This approach gives rise to a wider range of deferred tax
assets and liabilities and an increase in the volatility of deferred tax
balances brought about by foreign exchange rate movements. Income
tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it
relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it will be
recognised in equity. The following temporary differences will not give
rise to deferred tax balances: 
• goodwill;
• differences that exist on the initial recognition of assets and
liabilities that are not acquired in a business combination or that
affect neither accounting or taxable profit on initial recognition; and 
• differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that
they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner 
of realisation of the asset or settlement of the liability using tax rates
enacted or substantively enacted at reporting date. A deferred tax asset
will be recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future
taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Equity based compensation (IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’)
The cost of employee compensation provided in the form of equity-
based compensation (including shares and options) is measured based
on the fair value of those instruments rather than their intrinsic value
as recognised under UK GAAP , and accrued over the period of
employee service. Under IFRS, the fair value of options granted must
be recognised as an employee benefit expense with a corresponding
increase in equity. The fair value will be measured at grant date taking
into account market performance conditions only, and spread over the
vesting period during which the employees become unconditionally
entitled to the options. The fair value of options granted will be
measured, taking into account the terms and conditions attached to
the options. The amount recognised as an expense in the income
statement will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of options 
that vest except where forfeiture is due to market related conditions.
This changes the total amount of compensation cost and the pattern 
of cost recognition.
Post-retirement and medical benefits (IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’)
Under IFRS, defined benefit pension plan and medical benefit plan
arrangements result in the recognition of net assets or liabilities
directly based on the underlying obligations and assets of those plans.
The recognised net asset or liability is subject to changes in value that
are more volatile than changes in assets and liabilities currently
recognised under UK GAAP . The net obligation in respect of defined
benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the
amount of future benefits employees have earned in return for their
past service. That benefit is discounted to determine its present value
and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted in deriving the net
asset or liability. When the employee entitlements under a plan are
improved, the proportion of the increased benefit relating to past
service is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the
average period until the benefits become vested. T o the extent that the
benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the
income statement. Actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to
transition date are recognised directly in retained earnings and reduce
the volatility that would otherwise have been recorded through the
income statement. Under IAS 1 9, the principles under which regular
charges are recognised in the income statement for post-retirement
and medical plans are substantially different to those of existing 
UK GAAP , but are similar to the principles of FRS 1 7.
Joint ventures (IAS 31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’)
Under IFRS as implemented in Australia, all joint ventures that are
constituted as a legal entity (referred to under IFRS as ‘jointly
controlled entities’) are accounted for using the equity method. 
Under UK GAAP , the BHP Billiton Group’s interests in the Escondida,
Mozal and Valesul joint ventures are accounted for by proportional
consolidation. As each of these joint ventures operates through an
incorporated entity, IFRS classifies them as jointly controlled entities
and the Australian version of IFRS mandates the use of the equity
method of accounting, notwithstanding that in substance none of the
entities operate as independent business entities. Other joint ventures
accounted for under UK GAAP using the gross equity method of
accounting must also be accounted for under IFRS using the single-line
equity method of accounting. The change to single-line equity
accounting for jointly controlled entities does not impact net profit or
net equity, however, as demonstrated in the tables below, the amounts
of profit before tax and income tax expense are significantly affected.
In addition cash flows attributable to joint ventures that were
previously proportionally consolidated are no longer included.
179
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
35 Impact of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards continued The following table presents a summary of the estimated impact of IFRS on net equity as at 30 June 2005 and 30 June 2004.
Reconciliation of net equity
As at As at
30 June 2005 30 June 2004
US$M US$M
Net equity as previously reported under UK GAAP 17 489 14 380
IAS 1 9 Post-retirement pension obligations – pre-tax (650) (526)
IAS 1 9 Post-retirement pension obligations – deferred tax effect 158 135
IAS 1 9 Post-retirement medical benefits – pre-tax (1 1 1) (76)
IAS 1 9 Post-retirement medical benefits – deferred tax effect 30 21
IAS 12 Deferred income tax accounting (800) (752)
IFRS 3 Reinstatement of goodwill 354 388
IAS 1 0 Reversal of dividend payable 878 592
IFRS 2 Equity based compensation payments to employees – tax effect 16 2
IFRS 3 Business combinations – WMC acquisition (54) –
Net equity in accordance with IFRS 17 310 14 164
Overall net decrease in equity under IFRS (1 79) (216)
Notes to Financial Statements continued
180 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Goodwill and business combinations (IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’)
Under UK GAAP goodwill existing prior to 1 998 has been classified 
as a reduction of retained earnings. In order to maintain consistency 
in the IFRS treatment of goodwill in the DLC structure, such goodwill 
is reclassified on transition as an asset in the balance sheet. The
reclassification of goodwill is required in order to maintain the
accounting for past business combinations consistent with the 
previous basis of accounting applied by the BHP Billiton Group under
Australian GAAP . IFRS also prohibits the amortisation of goodwill which
is mandated under UK GAAP . In place of amortisation, impairment
assessments of goodwill must be performed. 
Business combinations undertaken after the date of transition to IFRS
(1 July 2004) must be accounted for in accordance with IFRS. The
acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd was effective 3 June 2005.
Differences in accounting for the acquisition exist between UK GAAP
and IFRS with respect to the measurement of fair value of inventory
and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities on book base and tax
base temporary differences. 
Dividend payable (IAS 10 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’)
IFRS does not permit the recognition of dividends payable as a liability
until the dividend has been formally declared by the Directors. Under
UK GAAP , dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the balance
sheet at balance date, despite the fact they are declared subsequent 
to balance date. 
Presentational differences
The transition to IFRS also requires a number of presentational changes
and reclassifications in the profit and loss account, balance sheet and
cash flow. The major reclassifications are:
• items on the balance sheet are presented in order of liquidity with
items being classified as current or non-current; and
• cash flows are classified as relating to operating, investing or
financing activities.
The presentation style of the primary IFRS financial statements is
substantially different to that required under UK GAAP . A consolidated
income statement, balance sheet and statement of cash flows prepared
under IFRS are included below.
35 Impact of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards continued 181
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
35 Impact of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards continued
The following tables present a summary of the estimated impact of IFRS on profit before tax and income tax expense for the year ended 30 June 2005.
Reconciliation of profit before tax
Year ended
30 June 2005
US$M
Net profit before tax as previously reported under UK GAAP 8 741
IAS 1 9 Post-retirement medical and pension obligations (8)
IAS 12 Deferred tax effects within jointly controlled entities (6)
IFRS 3 Reversal of amortisation of goodwill 2
IFRS 2 Equity based compensation payments to employees 56
Adjustment to goodwill included in the net book value of the disposed Chrome operations 31
IFRS 3 Business combinations – WMC acquisition (54)
IAS 31 Reclassification of joint venture tax expense to profit before tax – joint ventures (1 97)
IAS 31 Reclassification of joint venture tax expense to profit before tax – jointly controlled entities (230)
IAS 12 Deferred tax on the disposed Chrome operations 3
Other adjustments (1)
Net profit before tax in accordance with IFRS 8 337
Overall net decrease in profit before tax under IFRS (404)
Reconciliation of income tax expense
Year ended
30 June 2005
US$M
Income tax expense previously reported under UK GAAP 2 1 1 1
IAS 12 Withholding and repatriation taxes 10
IAS 12 Additional foreign exchange variations 89
IAS 12 Non-tax depreciable items now tax-effected (56)
IAS 12 T ax base resets under Australian tax consolidations (1 7)
IFRS 2 Equity based compensation payments to employees 12
IAS 31 Reclassification of joint venture tax expense to profit before tax – joint ventures (1 97)
IAS 31 Reclassification of joint venture tax expense to profit before tax – jointly controlled entities (230)
IAS 1 9 Post-retirement medical and pension benefits – tax impact (3)
Other 17
Income tax expense in accordance with IFRS 1 736
Overall net decrease in income tax expense under IFRS (375) Notes to Financial Statements continued
182 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
35 Impact of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards continued
The following tables present the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement of the BHP Billiton
Group for the year ended 30 June 2005, prepared in accordance with IFRS and applying the estimated UK GAAP to IFRS adjustments. 
Consolidated Income Statement
Year ended
30 June 2005
US$M
Revenue (including share of joint ventures)
Group production 24 450
Third party products 6 670
31 120
Less: Share of joint ventures external revenue included above (4 428)
Group revenue 26 692
Other income 757
Expenses excluding finance costs (20 568)
Income from jointly controlled entities 1 787
Profit from operations 8 668
Comprising:
Group production 8 554
Third party products 11 4
8 668
Net finance costs (331)
Profit before taxation 8 337
T axation (1 736)
Profit after taxation 6601
Profit attributable to minority interests (232)
Profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group 6 369
Earnings per ordinary share (basic) (US cents) 104.0
Earnings per ordinary share (diluted) (US cents) 103.5
Dividend per ordinary share (US cents) 28.0 35 Impact of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards continued
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at As at
30 June 2005 30 June 2004
US$M US$M
Assets
Current assets
Cash 1 222 1 642
Trade and other receivables 3 216 2 585
Other financial assets 45 14
Inventories 2 399 1 590
Other 150 163
Total current assets 7 032 5 994
Non-current assets
Trade and other receivables 849 994
Other financial assets 255 267
Inventories 71 15
Investments in jointly controlled entities 3 264 2 593
Property, plant and equipment 27 444 18 276
Intangible assets 2 015 483
Deferred tax assets 1 906 1 160
Other 96 65
Total non-current assets 35 900 23 853
Total assets 42 932 29 847
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 3 996 2 481
Interest bearing liabilities 1 298 1 01 3
Current tax payable 783 230
Provisions 1 088 642
Deferred income 120 156
Total current liabilities 7 285 4 522
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 156 17 1
Interest bearing liabilities 8 649 4 437
Deferred tax liabilities 4 192 2 456
Provisions 4978 3 749
Deferred income 362 348
Total non-current liabilities 18 337 11 161
Total liabilities 25 622 15 683
Net assets 17 310 14 164
Equity
Share capital – BHP Billiton Limited 1 61 1 1 851
Share capital – BHP Billiton Plc 1 234 1 234
Share premium account 51 8 51 8
Reserves 154 94
Retained earnings 13 452 10 120
Total equity attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group 16 969 13 81 7
Minority interests 341 347
Total equity 17 310 14 164
183
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Notes to Financial Statements continued
184 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
35 Impact of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards continued
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Year ended
30 June 2005
US$M
Operating activities 
Receipts from customers 28 425
Payments to suppliers and employees (19 352)
Cash generated from operations 9 073
Dividends received 1 002
Interest received 90
Interest paid (315)
Income tax paid (1 476)
Net operating cash flows 8 374
Investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (3 450)
Exploration expenditure (including amounts capitalised) (531)
Purchases of investments and funding of jointly controlled entities (42)
Purchases of, or increased investment in, controlled entities and joint venture interests, net of their cash (6 198)
Cash outflows from investing activities (10 221)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 153
Proceeds from sale or redemption of investments 227
Proceeds from sale or partial sale of subsidiaries, operations and jointly controlled entities net of their cash 675
Net investing cash flows (9 166)
Financing activities
Proceeds from ordinary share issues 66
Proceeds from interest bearing liabilities 5 668
Repayment of interest bearing liabilities (1 735)
Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts (47)
Share repurchase scheme – BHP Billiton Limited (1 792)
Dividends paid (1 404)
Dividends paid to minority interests (238)
Repayment of finance leases (22)
Net financing cash flows 496
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (296)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1 509
Effect of foreign currency exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (6)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 1 207 Reserves and production
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil,
natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data
demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years
from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions,
i.e. prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Proved developed
oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered
through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require the
application of judgement and are subject to future revision. Accordingly,
financial and accounting measures (such as the standardised measure of
discounted cash flows, depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges,
the assessment of impairments and the assessment of valuation
allowances against deferred tax assets) that are based on reserve
estimates are also subject to change.
Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available seismic, well 
and reservoir information, including production and pressure trends for
producing reservoirs and, in some cases, to similar data from other
producing reservoirs in the immediate area. Proved reserves estimates are
attributed to future development projects only where there is a significant
commitment to project funding and execution and for which applicable
governmental and regulatory approvals have been secured or are
reasonably certain to be secured. Furthermore, estimates of proved
reserves only include volumes for which access to market is assured with
reasonable certainty. All proved reserve estimates are subject to revision,
either upward or downward, based on new information, such as from
development drilling and production activities or from changes in
economic factors, including product prices, contract terms or development
plans. In certain deepwater Gulf of Mexico fields, proved reserves have
been determined before production flow tests are conducted, in part
because of the significant safety, cost and environmental implications 
of conducting those tests. In these fields other industry-accepted
technologies have been used that are considered to provide reasonably
certain estimates of productivity. Historically, actual production levels
have validated the BHP Billiton Group’s proved reserves estimated by
these methods.
The table below details estimated oil, condensate, LPG and gas reserves
at 30 June 2005, 30 June 2004 and 30 June 2003 with a reconciliation 
of the changes in each year . Reserves have been calculated using the
economic interest method and represent net interest volumes after
deduction of applicable royalty, fuel and flare volumes. Reserves include
quantities of oil, condensate and LPG which will be produced under
several production and risk-sharing arrangements that involve the 
BHP Billiton Group in upstream risks and rewards without transfer of
ownership of the products. At 30 June 2005, approximately 12 per cent
(2004: 1 7 per cent; 2003: 1 9 per cent) of proved developed and
undeveloped oil, condensate and LPG reserves and nil per cent (2004: nil;
2003: nil) of natural gas reserves are attributable to those arrangements.
Reserves also include volumes calculated by probabilistic aggregation of
certain fields that share common infrastructure. These aggregation
procedures result in enterprise-wide proved reserves volumes, which 
may not be realised upon divestment on an individual property basis.
Supplementary Oil and Gas Information 
185
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
(millions of barrels) Australia/Asia Americas UK/Middle East T otal
Proved developed and undeveloped oil, condensate and LPG reserves
(a)
Reserves at 30 June 2002 329.0 160.7 1 08.9 598.6
Improved recovery – – 0. 1 0. 1
Revisions of previous estimates 52.2 (12.2) 12.2 52.2
Extensions and discoveries 0.5 1 0. 1 3.9 14.5
Purchase/sales of reserves ––––
Production
(b)
(55. 1) (6.6) (1 1 .7) (73.4)
T otal changes (2.4) (8.7) 4.5 (6.6)
Reserves at 30 June 2003 326.6 1 52.0 1 1 3.4 592.0
Improved recovery ––––
Revisions of previous estimates 20.2 (2.6) (9.5) 8. 1
Extensions and discoveries 0.4 1 1 .0 1 . 1 12.5
Purchase/sales of reserves – (4.0) – (4.0)
Production
(b)
(46.3) (7.6) (1 4. 1) (68.0)
T otal changes (25.7) (3.2) (22.5) (51 .4)
Reserves at 30 June 2004 300.9 1 48.8 90.9 540.6
Improved recovery ––––
Revisions of previous estimates 24.5 (1 .7) (1 .3) 21 .5
Extensions and discoveries 7.2 43.5 – 50.7
Purchase/sales of reserves (9.2) – – (9.2)
Production
(b)
(38.7) (7.6) (1 4.7) (61 .0)
T otal changes (16.2) 34.2 (16.0) 2.0
Reserves at 30 June 2005
(c)
284.7 183.0 74.9 542.6
Proved developed oil, condensate and LPG reserves
(a)
Reserves at 30 June 2002 233. 1 15.9 30.2 279.2
Reserves at 30 June 2003 227.8 9.9 24.5 262.2
Reserves at 30 June 2004 201 .9 5.4 54.8 262. 1
Reserves at 30 June 2005 180.5 18.3 74.5 273.3
(a)
In Bass Strait, the North West Shelf, Ohanet and the North Sea, LPG is extracted separately from crude oil and natural gas.
(b)
Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
(c)
T otal proved oil, condensate and LPG reserves include 1 1 .3 million barrels derived from probabilistic aggregation procedures. Supplementary Oil and Gas Information continued
186 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
(billions of cubic feet) Australia/Asia
(a)
Americas UK/Middle East T otal
Proved developed and undeveloped natural gas reserves
Reserves at 30 June 2002 4 500.8 154.0 489.2 5 144.0
Improved recovery – – 16.7 16.7
Revisions of previous estimates 404. 1 4.9 (7.0) 402.0
Extensions and discoveries 188.9 1 0.2 – 1 99. 1
Purchases/sales of reserves ––––
Production
(b)
(1 89.2) (21 .8) (79.9) (290.9)
T otal changes 403.8 (6.7) (70.2) 326.9
Reserves at 30 June 2003 4 904.6 147.3 41 9.0 5 470.9
Improved recovery ––––
Revisions of previous estimates 1 14.6 2.2 (1 0.0) 1 06.8
Extensions and discoveries 51 .6 4.6 – 56.2
Purchases/sales of reserves – (32.8) – (32.8)
Production
(b)
(222.9) (20.5) (77.0) (320.4)
T otal changes (56.7) (46.5) (87.0) (1 90.2)
Reserves at 30 June 2004 4 847.9 1 00.8 332.0 5 280.7
Improved recovery ––––
Revisions of previous estimates 237.3 3. 1 (29.9) 21 0.5
Extensions and discoveries 1 77.0 27.6 – 204.6
Purchases/sales of reserves (165.8) – – (165.8)
Production
(b)
(275.7) (1 4.6) (57.6) (347.9)
T otal changes (27.2) 16. 1 (87.5) (98.6)
Reserves at 30 June 2005
(c)
4 820.7 1 16.9 244.5 5 182. 1
Proved developed natural gas reserves
Reserves at 30 June 2002 2 455. 1 79.9 481 .9 3 016.9
Reserves at 30 June 2003 2 560.4 64.8 397. 1 3 022.3
Reserves at 30 June 2004 2 539.7 20. 1 31 0.0 2 869.8
Reserves at 30 June 2005 2 621.4 15. 1 239.3 2 875.8
(a)
Production for Australia includes gas sold as LNG and as liquefied ethane.
(b)
Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
(c)
T otal proved natural gas reserves include 1 90.6 billion cubic feet derived from probabilistic aggregation procedures. Capitalised costs incurred relating to oil and gas exploration and production activities
The following table shows the aggregate capitalised costs relating to oil and gas exploration and production activities and related accumulated
depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairments.
Australia/Asia Americas UK/Middle East T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Capitalised cost
2005
Unproved properties 77 447 9 533
Proved properties 4 588 2 404 3 376 10 368
T otal costs
(a)(b)
4 665 2 851 3 385 10 901
less Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairments
(a)(b)(c)
(2 415) (761) (2 072) (5 248)
Net capitalised costs 2 250 2 090 1 313 5 653
2004
Unproved properties 48 392 6 446
Proved properties 4 655 1 693 3 283 9 631
T otal costs
(a)(b)
4 703 2 085 3 289 1 0 077
less Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairments
(a)(b)(c)
(2 509) (609) (1 807) (4 925)
Net capitalised costs 2 1 94 1 476 1 482 5 152
2003
Unproved properties 31 255 6 292
Proved properties 4 312 1 229 2 961 8 502
T otal costs
(a)(b)
4 343 1 484 2 967 8 794
less Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairments
(a)(b)(c)
(2 373) (582) (1 428) (4 383)
Net capitalised costs 1 970 902 1 539 4 41 1
(a)
Includes US$286 million (2004: US$286 million; 2003: US$286 million) attributable to prior year revaluations of fixed assets above historical costs and related
accumulated amortisation thereof of US$237 million (2004: US$232 million; 2003: US$228 million).
(b)
Includes US$142 million (2004: US$1 32 million; 2003: US$127 million) attributable to capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditures, which would be
expensed under US GAAP and related accumulated amortisation thereof of US$91 million (2004: US$89 million; 2003: US$88 million).
(c)
Includes US$8 million (2004: US$8 million; 2003: US$8 million) of exploration costs previously capitalised now written off as impaired, which would not have been written
off under US GAAP .
187
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Supplementary Oil and Gas Information continued
188 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Costs incurred relating to oil and gas exploration and production activities
The following table shows costs incurred relating to oil and gas exploration and production activities (whether charged to expense or capitalised).
Amounts shown include interest capitalised.
Property acquisition costs represent costs incurred to purchase or lease oil and gas properties. Exploration costs include costs of geological and
geophysical activities and drilling of exploratory wells. Development costs were all incurred to develop booked proved undeveloped reserves.
Australia/Asia Americas UK/Middle East T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M
2005
Acquisitions of unproved property –2 –2
Exploration
(a)
67 292 1 9 378
Development 238 669 78 985
T otal costs
(b)
305 963 97 1 365
2004
Acquisitions of unproved property – 27 – 27
Exploration
(a)
57 242 1 4 3 1 3
Development 353 426 1 37 916
T otal costs
(b)
41 0 695 151 1 256
2003
Acquisitions of unproved property – 18 – 18
Exploration
(a)
41 1 55 28 224
Development 304 31 5 236 855
T otal costs
(b)
345 488 264 1 097
(a)
Represents gross exploration expenditure.
(b)
T otal costs include US$1 165 million (2004: US$1 080 million; 2003: US$943 million) capitalised during the year . Results of operations from oil and gas producing activities 
The following information is similar to the disclosures in note 4 to the financial statements ‘Analysis by business segment’ but differs in several respects
as to the level of detail and geographic presentation. Amounts shown in the following table exclude interest income and borrowing costs, and general
corporate administrative costs. Petroleum general and administrative costs relating to oil and gas activities are included.
Income taxes were determined by applying the applicable statutory rates to pre-tax income with adjustments for permanent differences and tax credits.
Certain allocations of tax provisions among geographic areas were necessary and are based on management’s assessment of the principal factors giving
rise to the tax obligation.
Revenues are reflected net of royalties but before deduction of production taxes. Revenues include sales to affiliates but amounts are not significant.
Australia/Asia Americas UK/Middle East T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M
2005
Oil and gas revenue 2 693 441 838 3 972
Production costs (328) (58) (109) (495)
Exploration expenses
(a)
(38) (149) (15) (202)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
(a)
(21 3) (150) (237) (600)
Production taxes (627) (33) (22) (682)
1 487 51 455 1 993
Income taxes (460) (21) (181) (662)
Results of oil and gas producing activities
(b)
1 027 30 274 1 331
2004
Oil and gas revenue 2 1 71 350 706 3 227
Production costs (240) (46) (1 14) (400)
Exploration expenses
(a)
(36) (1 31) (1 4) (1 81)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
(a)
(1 88) (1 43) (244) (575)
Production taxes (524) (26) (4) (554)
1 183 4 330 1 51 7
Income taxes (330) (6) (1 21) (457)
Results of oil and gas producing activities
(b)
853 (2) 209 1 060
2003
Oil and gas revenue 2 1 31 289 541 2 961
Production costs (297) (50) (86) (433)
Exploration expenses
(a)
(25) (1 01) (28) (1 54)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
(a)
(1 93) (1 38) (21 9) (550)
Production taxes (523) (15) (5) (543)
1 093 (15) 203 1 281
Income taxes (342) 9 (75) (408)
Results of oil and gas producing activities
(b)
751 (6) 1 28 873
(a)
Exploration expenses exclude capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditures of US$1 1 million (2004: US$5 million; 2003: US$2 million) which would
have been expensed under US GAAP . In a related manner, depreciation is higher in 2005 by US$1 million (2004: US$1 million; 2003: US$1 million) than that determined
under US GAAP . In addition, exploration expenses include US$nil (2004: US$nil; 2003: US$8 million) of expenditure previously capitalised now written off which would 
not have been written off under US GAAP . 
(b)
Amounts shown exclude general corporate overheads and, accordingly, do not represent all of the operations attributable to the Petroleum segment presented in note 3
to the financial statements. There are no equity minority interests.
189
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Supplementary Oil and Gas Information continued
190 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows relating
to proved oil and gas reserves (‘Standardised measure’)
The purpose of this disclosure is to provide data with respect to the
estimated future net cash flows from future production of proved
developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural
gas liquids and natural gas.
The Standardised measure is based on the BHP Billiton Group’s estimated
proved reserves, (as presented in the section ‘Reserves’) and this data
should be read in conjunction with that disclosure, which is hereby
incorporated by reference into this section. The Standardised measure 
is prepared on a basis which presumes that year end economic and
operating conditions will continue over the periods in which year end
proved reserves would be produced. The effects of future inflation, future
changes in exchange rates and expected future changes in technology,
taxes and operating practices have not been included.
The Standardised measure is prepared by projecting the estimated future
annual production of proved reserves owned at period end and pricing
that future production at prices in effect at year end to derive future cash
inflows. Future price increases may be considered only to the extent that
they are provided by fixed contractual arrangements in effect at year end
and are not dependent upon future inflation or exchange rate changes.
Future cash inflows are then reduced by future costs of producing and
developing the year end proved reserves based on costs in effect at year
end without regard to future inflation or changes in technology or
operating practices. Future development costs include the costs of drilling
and equipping development wells and construction of platforms and
production facilities to gain access to proved reserves owned at year end.
They also include future costs, net of residual salvage value, associated
with the abandonment of wells, dismantling of production platforms and
restoration of drilling sites. Future cash inflows are further reduced by
future income taxes based on tax rates in effect at year end and after
considering the future deductions and credits applicable to proved
properties owned at year end. The resultant annual future net cash flows
(after deductions of operating costs including resource rent taxes,
development costs and income taxes) are discounted at 1 0 per cent per
annum to derive the Standardised measure.
There are many important variables, assumptions and imprecisions
inherent in developing the Standardised measure, the most important of
which are the level of proved reserves and the rate of production thereof.
The Standardised measure is not an estimate of the fair market value of
the BHP Billiton Group’s oil and gas reserves. An estimate of fair value
would also take into account, among other things, the expected recovery
of reserves in excess of proved reserves, anticipated future changes in
prices, costs and exchange rates, anticipated future changes in secondary
tax and income tax rates and alternative discount factors representing
the time value of money and adjustments for risks inherent in producing
oil and gas. 
Australia/Asia Americas UK/Middle East T otal
US$M US$M US$M US$M
Standardised measure
2005
Future cash inflows 29 356 10 107 4 749 44 212
Future production costs (10 402) (1 242) (1 146) (12 790)
Future development costs
(a)(b)
(3 467) (1 633) (326) (5 426)
Future income taxes (4 583) (1 962) (1 101) (7 646)
Future net cash flows 10 904 5 270 2 1 76 18 350
Discount at 1 0% per annum (4 989) (1 956) (473) (7 418)
Standardised measure 5 915 3 314 1 703 10 932
2004
Future cash inflows 24 463 5 747 3 973 34 183
Future production costs (8 298) (818) (984) (1 0 1 00)
Future development costs
(a)(b)
(2 874) (1 302) (307) (4 483)
Future income taxes (3 888) (978) (801) (5 667)
Future net cash flows 9 403 2 649 1 881 1 3 933
Discount at 1 0% per annum (4 444) (1 01 9) (449) (5 912)
Standardised measure 4 959 1 630 1 432 8 021
2003
Future cash inflows 21 689 4 992 4 1 07 30 788
Future production costs (7 922) (837) (1 01 3) (9 772)
Future development costs (2 945) (1 326) (242) (4 51 3)
Future income taxes (3 143) (865) (620) (4 628)
Future net cash flows 7 679 1 964 2 232 1 1 875
Discount at 1 0% per annum (3 816) (745) (856) (5 41 7)
Standardised measure 3 863 1 21 9 1 376 6 458
(a)
T otal future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations at 30 June 2005 are estimated to be US$1 332 million and this amount has been included in the
Standardised measure calculation.
(b)
Future costs to develop proved undeveloped reserves over the next three years are expected to be US$1 21 7 million (2006), US$907 million (2007) and US$457 million (2008). Changes in the Standardised measure are presented in the following table. The beginning of year and end of year totals are shown after reduction for
income taxes and these, together with the changes in income tax amounts, are shown as discounted amounts (at 1 0 per cent per annum). All other
items of change represent discounted amounts before consideration of income tax effects.
2005 2004 2003
US$M US$M US$M
Changes in the Standardised measure 
Standardised measure – beginning of period 8 021 6 458 5 480
Revisions:
Prices, net of production costs 4 672 2 584 1 041
Revisions of quantity estimates
(a)
397 87 97 1
Accretion of discount 1 136 91 2 789
Changes in production timing and other
(b)
(675) (1 15) (1 020)
13 551 9 926 7 261
Sales of oil and gas, net of production costs (2 795) (2 273) (1 985)
Sales of reserves-in-place (230) (23) –
Development costs incurred which reduced previously estimated development costs 985 916 855
Extensions and discoveries, net of future costs 75 1 155 5 7 7
Changes in future income taxes (1 330) (680) (250)
Standardised measure – end of period 10 932 8 021 6 458
(a)
Changes in reserves quantities are shown in the Oil and Gas Reserves tables.
(b)
Includes the effect of foreign exchange and changes in future development costs.
191
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Supplementary Oil and Gas Information continued
192 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Production
The table below details the historical net crude oil and condensate, natural gas, LNG, LPG and ethane production by region for the three years ended 
30 June 2005, 30 June 2004 and 30 June 2003. Volumes and tonnages of marketable production are reported, after deduction of applicable royalties,
fuel and flare.
2005 2004 2003
Crude oil and condensate production (millions of barrels)
Australia/Asia 31 . 1 38.9 48.0
Americas 7.6 7.5 7. 1
Europe/Middle East 12. 1 1 1 .6 1 0.8
T otal 50.8 58.0 65.9
Natural gas production (billions of cubic feet)
Australia/Asia (Domestic) 189.8 165.3 1 26.4
Australia/Asia (LNG) (leasehold production)
(a)
83. 1 60.8 62.0
Americas 15.0 20.6 20.6
Europe/Middle East 57 .8 77.6 72.2
T otal 345.7 324.3 281 .2
Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) production
(b)
(thousand tonnes)
Australia/Asia (leasehold production) 640. 1 652.8 644.2
Europe/Middle East (leasehold production) 220.0 200.7 98.9
T otal 860. 1 853.5 743. 1
Ethane production (thousand tonnes)
Australia/Asia (leasehold production) 101 .5 94.3 94.9
Total petroleum products production (millions of barrels of oil equivalent)
(c)
11 9.0 122.5 1 2 1 .8
Average sales price
Oil and condensate (US$ per barrel) 47 . 1 6 32.24 28. 1 4
Natural gas (US$ per thousand cubic feet) 2.98 2.62 2.21
Average production cost
(d)
US$ per barrel of oil equivalent (including resource rent tax and other indirect taxes) 9.89 7.78 8.01
US$ per barrel of oil equivalent (excluding resource rent tax and other indirect taxes) 4. 16 3.27 3.55
(a)
LNG consists primarily of liquefied methane.
(b)
LPG consists primarily of liquefied propane and butane.
(c)
T otal barrels of oil equivalent (boe) conversions based on the following:
6 000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe; 1 tonne of LPG equals 1 1 .6 boe; 1 tonne of ethane equals 4.4667 boe.
(d)
Average production costs include direct and indirect production costs relating to the production and transportation of hydrocarbons to the point of sale. This includes
shipping where applicable. Average production costs have been shown including and excluding resource rent tax and other indirect taxes and duties. Average production
costs also include the foreign exchange effect of translating local currency denominated costs and secondary taxes into US dollars. Accounting for suspended exploratory well costs
Refer to Accounting Policies ‘Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure’ for a discussion of the accounting policy applied to the cost 
of exploratory wells. Suspended wells are also reviewed in this context.
The adoption of FSP 1 9-1 ‘Accounting for suspended well costs’ prospectively from 1 July 2002 would not have material effect on the results of
operations for the financial years ended 30 June 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively.
The following table presents the changes to capitalised exploratory well costs that were pending the determination of proved reserves for the three
years ended 30 June 2005, 30 June 2004 and 30 June 2003.
2005 2004 2003
Movement in capitalised exploratory well costs
Balance at the beginning of period 202.9 15 9. 1 82.3
Additions to capitalised exploratory well costs pending the determination of proved reserves 12 1.9 82.2 93.6
Capitalised exploratory well costs charged to expense (2.5) (5.4) (8.0)
Reclassifications to development (62.7) (33.0) (1 0.2)
Other changes (2.2) –1.4
Balance at the end of the year 257 .4 202.9 1 59. 1
The following table provides an ageing of capitalised exploratory well costs, based on the date the drilling was completed, and the number of projects
for which exploratory well costs have been capitalised for a period greater than one year since the completion of drilling:
2005 2004 2003
Ageing of capitalised exploratory well costs
Exploratory well costs capitalised for a period of one year or less 205.6 13 7. 1 1 25. 7
Exploratory well costs capitalised for a period greater than one year 51 .8 65.8 33.4
Balance at the end of the year 257 .4 202.9 1 59. 1
Number of projects that have been capitalised for a period greater than one year 5 52
At 30 June 2005 there were no exploratory wells in areas where major capital expenditures will be required and no further exploratory drilling is planned.
Included in capitalised exploratory well costs at 30 June 2005 was $1 0.8 million related to exploratory wells that were associated with areas not
requiring major capital expenditure before production could begin, where more than one year has elapsed since the completion of drilling. These wells
form part of the North West Shelf joint ventures long-term development plans and will be developed when reserves are required.
193
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 194 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information
Aluminium Customer Sector Group
Mineral Resources
The table below deals with the total inclusive Mineral Resources for the Aluminium Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2005 and is presented 
in 1 00 per cent terms.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource
Millions of Millions of Millions of Millions of BHP Billiton
Bauxite dry metric A.Al
2
O
3
(2)
dry metric A.Al
2
O
3
(2)
dry metric A.Al
2
O
3
(2)
dry metric A.Al
2
O
3
(2)
Interest
Deposit
(1)
Ore Type tonnes % tonnes % tonnes % tonnes % %
Australia
Worsley
(4)
Laterite 455 30.50 1 83 31 .60 27 31 .00 665 30.80 86
Brazil
MRN
(3)
MRN Crude 98 – 30 – 757 – 885 – 14.8
MRN Washed 72 51 .00 22 51 .30 529 50.50 623 50.60 14.8
Millions of Millions of Millions of Millions of
dry metric T.Al
2
O
3
(2)
dry metric T.Al
2
O
3
(2)
dry metric T.Al
2
O
3
(2)
dry metric T.Al
2
O
3
(2)
tonnes % tonnes % tonnes % tonnes % 
Suriname
Coermotibo Laterite 4 50.32 2 52.64 0.4 48. 1 0 6 50.85 45
Onverdacht
(5)
Laterite 1 4 57.80 24 57. 1 0 – – 38 57.36 45
(1)
Competent Persons – Resources
Worsley: D Parmenter (MAIG)
MRN: V J van der Riet (MAusIMM)
Coermotibo: D L Butty (EFG)
Onverdacht: D L Butty (EFG).
(2)
A.Al
2
0
3
is Alumina as available alumina for Worsley and MRN, T.Al
2
0
3
is total Alumina for Coermotibo and Onverdacht.
(3)
Mineração Rio do Norte (MRN) annual reporting moisture basis has been changed from Wet/Semi Dry in 2004 to Bone Dry.
(4)
At Worsley an addition of approximately 145 Mt of resources (marginal grade) was recorded due to the application of a revised common cut-off grade for resource
estimation. In addition evaluation-drilling campaigns converted 23 Mt of Inferred Resources to 1 3 Mt of Indicated and Measured Resources.
(5)
The re-drill of the Kaaimangrasie resource was completed during the year and both Kaaimangrasie and Klaverblad resources were converted to reserves. 
The Para N and Kankantrie N resources are included in this total.
The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves presented in this
report has been produced in accordance with the Australasian Code for
reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2004 (the
‘JORC Code’). Commodity prices and exchange rates used to estimate the
economic viability of reserves are based on September 2004, BHP Billiton
long-term forecasts unless otherwise stated. The Ore Reserves tabulated
are all held within existing, fully permitted mining tenements. The BHP
Billiton Group’s mineral leases are of sufficient duration (or convey a legal
right to renew for sufficient duration) to enable all reserves on the leased
properties to be mined in accordance with current production schedules.
The information in this report relating to Mineral Resources and Ore
Reserves is based on information compiled by Competent Persons (as
defined in the JORC Code). Competent persons for deposits located
outside Australia may be members of Recognised Overseas Professional
Organisations as recognised by the ASX. All Competent Persons have, at
the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant to the style of
mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity
they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person as defined by the
JORC Code. Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion in this
Report of the matters based on their information in the form and context
in which it appears.
All of the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve figures presented are
reported in 1 00 per cent terms, and represent estimates at 30 June 2005
(unless otherwise stated). All tonnes and grade information have been
rounded; hence small differences may be present in the totals. All of the
Mineral Resource information (unless otherwise stated) is inclusive of
Mineral Resources that have been converted to Ore Reserves (i.e. Mineral
Resources are not additional to Ore Reserves).
The information contained herein differs in certain respects from that
reported to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) which is
prepared with reference to the SEC’s Industry Guide 7. BHP Billiton’s 
US GAAP disclosures reflect the information reported to the SEC.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying
tables subdivided for each of the Customer Sector Groups. 195
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Aluminium Customer Sector Group continued
Ore Reserves
The table below deals with the total Ore Reserves for the Aluminium Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2005 and is presented in 100 per cent terms.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve
Millions of Millions of Millions of BHP Billiton
Bauxite dry metric A.Al
2
O
3
dry metric A.Al
2
O
3
dry metric A.Al
2
O
3
Interest
Deposit
(2)(3)(4)
Ore Type tonnes % tonnes % tonnes % %
Australia
Worsley Laterite 297 30.90 22 30. 1 0 31 9 30.80 86
Brazil
MRN
(1)
MRN Crude 98 – – – 98 – 14.8
MRN Washed 72 51 .00 – – 72 51 .00 14.8
Suriname
Coermotibo Laterite 3 45.08 0.5 40. 1 5 4 44.49 45
Onverdacht
(5)
Laterite 9 51 .53 7 49.21 1 5 50.49 45
(1)
Mineração Rio do Norte (MRN) annual reporting moisture basis has been changed from Wet/Semi Dry in 2004 to Bone Dry.
(2)
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are:
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
Worsley maximum 1 00m maximum 200m
MRN A maximum bauxite intersection grid of 200 metres. Mining and metallurgical No reserve quoted for this category
characterisation (test pit/bulk sample), plus a reliable suite of chemical and 
size distribution data
Coermotibo 61m x 61m 122m x 122m
Onverdacht 61m x 61m 122m x 122m
(3) 
Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are:
% Metallurgical Recovery AI
2
O
3
Coermotibo (Paranam) 93.5
MRN (Alumar) 94
Onverdacht (Paranam) 93.5
Worsley 90
(4) 
Competent Persons – Reserves
Worsley: D Parmenter (MAIG)
MRN: V J van der Riet (MAusIMM)
Coermotibo: D L Butty (EFG)
Onverdacht: D L Butty (EFG).
(5)
In addition to the reserves of Lelydorp III, the 2005 statement includes an additional 1 0.8 Mt of reserves made up of 3.9 Mt of proved reserve from Klaverblad and 6.9 Mt
of probable reserve from Kaaimangrasie. 196 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
Base Metals Customer Sector Group
Mineral Resources 
The table below deals with the total inclusive Mineral Resources for the Base Metals Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2005 and is presented 
in 1 00 per cent terms.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource
Commodity T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
Deposit
(3)
Ore Type (millions) %TCu
(2)
%SCu
(2)
g/tAu g/tAg (millions) %TCu
(2)
%SCu
(2)
g/tAu g/tAg
Copper
Escondida
(5)
Oxide 1 1 9 – 0.65 – – 36 – 0.49 – –
Sulphide 601 1 .37 – – – 848 1 .00 – – –
Sulphide leach 607 0.55 – – – 1 380 0.49 – – –
Escondida Oxide 20 – 0.53 – – 110 – 0.81 – –
Norte
(5)
Sulphide 1 93 1 .65 – – – 41 0 1 .23 – – –
Sulphide leach 65 0.66––– 588 0.53–––
Pinto Valley
(6)
Sulphide 697 0. 1 9 – – – 16 0.34 – – –
Pinto Valley 
Miami unit
(6)
In situ leach 1 74 0.32 – – – 40 0.32 – – –
Tintaya
(7)
Oxide 6 1 .21 0.93 – – 27 1 .74 1 .22 – –
Sulphide 36 1 .52 0.02 0.22 5.62 44 1 .26 0.06 0. 1 5 4.66
Cerro Oxide 74 0.69 0.53 – – 130 0.70 0.51 – –
Colorado
(8)
Sulphide 31 0.89 0. 1 4 – – 74 0.74 0. 1 2 – –
Spence
(9)
Oxide 41 1 .34 0.99 – – 46 0.93 0.69 – –
Supergene 
sulphides 1 1 3 1 .36 – – – 168 0.82 – – –
Transitional 
sulphides 22 0.61 – – – 29 0.50 – – –
Copper
T onnes
(1)
kg/tonne T onnes
(1)
kg/tonne
Uranium
(millions) %Cu U
3
O
8
g/tAu g/tAg (millions) %Cu U
3
O
8
g/tAu g/tAg
Olympic Dam 
(1 0)
Sulphide 650 1 .5 0.5 0.5 3. 1 1 440 1 . 1 0.4 0.5 2.4
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
(millions) %Cu %Zn g/tAg %Mo (millions) %Cu %Zn g/tAg %Mo
Copper Zinc Sulphide Cu-only 77 0.98 – 8.0 0.040 304 1 . 16 – 9.7 0.038
Antamina 
(1 1)
Sulphide Cu-Zn 43 0.94 2.55 1 9.8 – 1 03 1 . 1 1 2.73 1 9. 1 –
Silver Lead 
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
Zinc
(millions) g/tAg %Pb %Zn (millions) g/tAg %Pb %Zn
Cannington
(1 2)
Sulphide 23 536 1 1 .94 4.49 6 454 1 0.09 4.47
(1)
All tonnes are reported on a dry metric basis.
(2)
%SCu – per cent soluble copper, %TCu – per cent total copper, kg/tonne U
3
O
8
–
U
3
O
8
and Uranium oxide in concentrate as product.
(3) 
Competent Persons – Resources
Escondida: R R Roco (MAusIMM)
Escondida Norte: R R Roco (MAusIMM)
Pinto Valley: R K Preece (FAusIMM)
Pinto Valley Miami unit: R K Preece (FAusIMM)
Tintaya: D T Brost (MAusIMM)
Cerro Colorado: E Fernández (MAIG)
Spence: M J Williams (MAusIMM)
Olympic Dam: N Pickers (MAusIMM)
Antamina: E Lipten (FAusIMM)
Cannington: A J Edwards (MAusIMM).
(5)
Escondida and Escondida Norte are adjacent supergene-enriched porphyry
copper deposits. Beneficiation of the high-grade sulphide and green copper
mineralisation is through in-pit crushing, sharing a common processing plant
complex. Changes in the Resources of both deposits are due to the depletion 
of resources through copper production. Stockpiled material from the Escondida
mine are included as Measured Resources for the appropriate materials. 
(6)
The Pinto Valley Operations consist of two units: the Pinto Valley unit consists 
of an open pit and mill complex that treats in-place porphyry copper sulphide
mineralisation and a sulphide heap leach plus SX-EW, and the Miami unit that 
is an in situ leach plus SX-EW operation within the upper parts of an oxidised
and enriched porphyry copper deposit. Both units are currently on care and
maintenance status, except that the SX-EW units are processing leach solutions
that continue to be cycled through the leachable resources. Material contained
in the Pinto Valley unit leach stockpiles are included within the Measured
Resources. Changes to Resources consist of depleting reported grades by
recovered cathode copper during FY2005.
(7)
The Tintaya resource model was updated in April 2005, based on a new
geological interpretation from 181 new holes totaling 30 1 00m of drilling.
Modifications were made to the estimation procedures, resource classification,
and method to designate the preferred process route of mixed sulphide/oxide
ore. T otal resources increased 6.4 million tonnes, net of production, from the
June 2004 report
(8)
Cerro Colorado is an open pit mine that lies within the oxidised and enriched
portion of a porphyry copper deposit, with ore processed by leaching and 
SX-EW. Changes from 2004 include depletion of production adjusted for
reconciliation differences, the results of in-fill drilling incorporated into an
updated model that resulted in a small increase to the total resource and
improved confidence. The Resources stated herein have been reduced by 
an additional 4 million dry metric tonnes to correct a 2004 reporting error . 197
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
(9)
The Spence resource declaration for June 2005 is unchanged from that
presented in 2004 prior to project approval in October 2004. A new geological
and resource estimate (unaudited) was completed in October 2004
incorporating a complete re-evaluation of data included in the resource estimate
presented in the 2003 and 2004 declarations. The result of this estimate
demonstrates no material change to the previous declaration. An extensive infill
drilling program was completed (~60 000m) at the end of July 2005. This
program targeted the first five years’ Spence production volume. Drill results
demonstrate no significant change in resource with respect to either the 2004
resource declaration or the October 2004 estimate.
(1 0)
The Olympic Dam operation was acquired in the purchase of WMC that was
finalised in August 2005. Resources are quoted per the March 2005 reporting by
WMC, depleted by production. Reviews of the resource estimation and reporting
practices by Olympic Dam are currently in progress.
(1 1)
The April 2001 Antamina resource model that was reported in 2004 has been
updated to include 144 167 meters of additional drill core information collected
in 2003 and 2004. The 2005 resource model includes changes to the data
interpolation methods used for estimating grades and ore types. These changes
require more samples on a closer spacing to classify material as measured as
compared to the 2001 resource model. The amount of Measured Resources has
therefore decreased significantly. Sulphide mineralisation has been subdivided
into Cu-only and Cu-Zn ore types to better reflect actual operations.
(1 2)
At Cannington, ongoing underground diamond drilling and geological
interpretation has resulted in minor and local changes. There has been a steady
promotion of material into the Measured category. Changes in metal prices and
exchange rates have resulted in an adjustment in the tonnages and grades
above a given (A$60) dollar per tonne cut-off. An independent audit was
completed on the resource this year .
Inferred Resource Total Resource BHP Billiton
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
Interest
(millions) %TCu
(2)
%SCu
(2)
g/tAu g/tAg (millions) %TCu
(2)
%SCu
(2)
g/tAu g/tAg %
26 – 0.42 – – 1 81 – 0.59 – – 57.5
61 7 0.90––– 2 065 1 .08––– 57.5
3 071 0.47 – – – 5 057 0.49 – – – 57.5
35 – 0.63 – – 165 – 0.74 – – 57.5
1 85 0.93 – – – 788 1 .26 – – – 57.5
1 1 77 0.48––– 1 830 0.50––– 57.5
2 0.25 – – – 71 5 0.20 – – – 1 00
––––– 214 0.32––– 100
2 1 .27 0.95 – – 35 1 .62 1 . 1 5 – – 99.98
22 1 .25 – 0. 1 5 4. 1 7 1 02 1 .35 0.03 0. 1 8 4.89 99.98
27 0.56 0.34 – – 230 0.68 0.50 – – 1 00
16 0.60 0.09 – – 1 21 0.76 0. 1 2 – – 1 00
1 0.74 0.57 – – 88 1 . 1 2 0.83 – – 1 00
6 0.65 – – – 287 1 .03 – – – 1 00
0 0.54 – – – 51 0.55 – – – 1 00
T onnes
(1)
kg/tonne T onnes
(1)
kg/tonne
(millions) %Cu U
3
O
8
g/tAu g/tAg (millions) %Cu U
3
O
8
g/tAu g/tAg
1 880 1 .0 0.3 0.4 2.0 3 970 1 . 1 0.4 0.4 2.3 1 00
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
(millions) %Cu %Zn g/tAg %Mo (millions) %Cu %Zn g/tAg %Mo
32 0.86 – 1 5.0 0.020 41 3 1 . 1 0 – 9.8 0.037 33.75
1 0 0.77 2. 1 3 1 9.2 – 1 56 1 .04 2.64 1 9.3 – 33.75
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
(millions) g/tAg %Pb %Zn (millions) g/tAg %Pb %Zn
4 344 8.21 3.74 34 495 1 1 . 1 0 4.39 1 00 198 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
(1) 
All tonnes are reported on a dry metric basis.
(2) 
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are:
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
Escondida Sulphide: 60m x 60m  Sulphide leach: 60m x 60m  Oxide: 55m x 55m Sulphide: 1 00m x 1 00m  Sulphide leach: 1 1 0m x 1 1 0m  Oxide: 60m x 60m 
Escondida Norte Sulphide: 54m x 54m  Sulphide leach: 60m x 60m  Oxide: 48m x 48m Sulphide: 90m x 90m  Sulphide leach: 125m x 125m  Oxide: 60m x 60m 
Tintaya T wo drill holes in two quadrants within 25m search distance, T wo drill holes in two quadrants within 50 meters search distance, 
considering only skarn composites considering only skarn composites
Cerro Colorado 50m 70m
Spence Continuous square drill grid = 70m Continuous square drill grid =1 00m, exclusive of Measured
Olympic Dam <40m x 40m <80m x 80m
Antamina 3 holes within 30–35m, closest hole within 20–25m, depending 3 holes within 55m, closest hole within 40m; or 2 holes within 75m, 
on grade of mineralisation closest hole within 30m; all of similar grade as the block
Cannington 12.5m sectional x 15.0m vertical 25.0m sectional x 25.0m vertical
(3) 
Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are:
% Metallurgical Recovery Cu Ag Pb Zn U
3
O
8
Escondida Sulphide: 84% of TCu;
Sulphide leach: 36% of TCu; Oxide 80% of SCu
Escondida Norte Sulphide: 88% of TCu; 
Sulphide leach: 29% of TCu; Oxide 53% of SCu 
Tintaya Sulphide: 86% of TCu; Oxide 78% of SCu
Cerro Colorado 80 
Spence 81–82
Olympic Dam 91 72
Antamina 30–94 0–84 0–85 
Cannington 848866
Base Metals Customer Sector Group continued
Ore Reserves 
(2)(3)(4)
The table below deals with the total inclusive Ore Reserves for the Base Metals Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2005 and is presented 
in 1 00 per cent terms.
Proved Ore Reserve
Commodity T onnes
(1)
Deposit Ore Type (millions) %TCu
(5)
%SCu
(5)
g/tAu g/tAg
Copper
Escondida
(6)
Oxide 1 16 – 0.66 – –
Sulphide 584 1 .37 – – –
Sulphide leach 506 0.57 – – – 
Escondida Norte 
(7)
Oxide 5 – 0.53 – – 
Sulphide 1 88 1 .65 – – –
Sulphide leach 54 0.54 – – – 
Tintaya
(8)
Oxide 6 1 .21 0.93 – –
Sulphide 31 1 .45 0.02 0.20 5. 1 0
Cerro Colorado
(9)
Oxide 70 0.69 0.53 – –
Sulphide 22 0.94 0.16 – – 
Spence
(1 0)
Oxide 401.351.00– – 
Supergene sulphides 1 07 1 .38 – – – 
Copper
T onnes
(1)
kg/tonne
Uranium
(millions) %Cu U
3
O
8
g/tAu g/tAg
Olympic Dam
(1 1)
Sulphide 1 1 5 2. 1 0.6 0.5 3.7
T onnes
(1)
(millions) %Cu %Zn g/tAg %Mo
Copper Zinc Sulphide Cu-only 58 1 . 1 4 – 9.0 0.041
Antamina 
(1 2)
Sulphide Cu-Zn 39 1 .00 2.68 20.6 – 
T onnes
(1)
Silver Lead Zinc
(millions) g/tAg %Pb %Zn
Cannington
(1 3)
Sulphide 1 8 477 1 0.7 3.9 199
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
(4)
Competent Persons
Escondida: H Delaigue (MAusIMM)
Escondida Norte: H Delaigue (MAusIMM)
Tintaya: A A Zuzunaga (MAusIMM)
Cerro Colorado: R Contreras (MAusIMM)
Spence: E Ríos (MAusIMM)
Olympic Dam: D Vink (MAusIMM)
Antamina: D Gurtler (MAusIMM)
Cannington: B H Roberts (MAusIMM).
(5) 
%SCu – per cent soluble copper, %TCu – per cent total copper, kg/tonne U
3
O
8
– U
3
O
8
and Uranium oxide in concentrate as product.
(6) 
Differences with previous statements reflect the depletion of ore reserves through production. Pit shells used to derive ore reserve are the same as those used in the
previous statement with updated topography as at the end of June 2005. Variable cut-off grade strategy during the production period has resulted in the reclassification
of some Sulphide Leach ore into Sulphide mill feed. Small tonnages of Indicated and Inferred Sulphide Leach resources were extracted and therefore they are now
included on the stockpile figures as Proven ore reserves. Stockpiled materials are included in the appropriate ore reserve estimate as Proved Reserve. 
(7) 
Differences with previous statements reflect the results of the pre-mine activities. Pit shells used to derive ore reserve are the same as those used in the previous
statement with updated topography as at the end of June 2005. Small tonnages of ore encountered during pre-stripping activities are now stockpiled and included 
in the appropriate ore reserve estimate as Proved reserve. 
(8) 
Sulphide reserves increased by 12 million tonnes, excluding production, since June 2004, on the basis of the updated resource model and revised mine plan.
(9) 
Changes in the Cerro Colorado Reserves reflect changes in the Resource base based on drilling and updated interpretation, and include depletion through mining,
adjusted by reconciliation. Although a new mine plan was determined from the updated model, pushback designs did not change compared to that reported in 2004.
(1 0)
Reserve changes for Spence from June 04 reflect project approval in October 2004 and are therefore net positive for June 2005, being that approved in the Spence
feasibility study. A mine planning exercise (unaudited) has been undertaken upon the October 2004 resource estimate and preliminary reserve calculations from this
exercise show no material difference to the feasibility study calculation (declared here). Differences in reserves to those declared in Spence Feasibility Study are related
to rounding to significant figures.
(1 1)
The Olympic Dam operation was acquired in the purchase of WMC that was finalised in August 2005. Reserves are quoted per the December 2004 reporting by WMC,
depleted by production. A review of the Olympic Dam operations and expansion project is currently in progress, which includes a determination of the compliance with
BHP Billiton Ore Reserve and Capital Investment policies.
(1 2)
At Antamina, a new optimised pit limit was determined from the May 2005 resource model that includes a different method of valuing mineralisation that now considers
all costs for producing the metals, including mill throughput and penalty elements. Higher commodity prices were used relative to the 2004, reflecting changed economic
environment. Changes include modifications to the ore valuation method.
(1 3)
Different extraction factors were used for each Mining Block. These were based on production experience from those separate Mining Blocks. The changes in reserves
were due to promotion of material to Measured Resource category.
Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve BHP Billiton
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
Interest 
(millions) %TCu
(5)
%SCu
(5)
g/tAu g/tAg (millions) %TCu
(5)
%SCu
(5)
g/tAu g/tAg %
1 8 – 0.64 – – 1 34 – 0.66 – – 57.5
769 1 .01––– 1 353 1 . 1 7––– 57.5
694 0.53 – – – 1 200 0.55 – – – 57.5
120 – 0.79 – – 125 – 0.78 – – 57.5
392 1.23––– 580 1.37––– 57.5
450 0.57 – – – 504 0.57 – – – 57.5
24 1 .74 1 .22 – – 31 1 .63 1 . 16 – – 99.98
30 1 . 16 0.07 0. 1 4 4. 1 3 61 1 .31 0.05 0. 1 7 4.63 99.98
69 0.75 0.58–– 139 0.72 0.55–– 100
30 0.79 0.14 – – 52 0.85 0.15 – – 100
38 1.01 0.76 – – 79 1.18 0.88 – – 100
124 0.92 – – – 231 1.13 – – – 100
T onnes
(1)
kg/tonne T onnes
(1)
kg/tonne
(millions) %Cu U
3
O
8
g/tAu g/tAg (millions) %Cu U
3
O
8
g/tAu g/tAg
641 1 .4 0.5 0.5 3.0 756 1 .5 0.5 0.5 3. 1 1 00
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
(millions) %Cu %Zn g/tAg %Mo (millions) %Cu %Zn g/tAg %Mo
273 1 .24 – 1 0.2 0.039 330 1 .22 – 1 0.0 0.040 33.75
97 1.15 2.82 19.5 – 136 1.10 2.78 19.8 – 33.75
T onnes
(1)
T onnes
(1)
(millions) g/tAg %Pb %Zn (millions) g/tAg %Pb %Zn
4 408 9.3 4. 1 21 465 1 0.4 3.9 1 00 200 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group
Mineral Resources
The tables below detail iron ore, manganese and metallurgical coal Resources for the Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group estimated as at 
30 June 2005 in 1 00 per cent terms. All resource figures are total Mineral Resources inclusive of material converted to Ore Reserves.
Iron Ore Mineral Resources
Measured Resource Indicated Resource
Millions Millions 
of wet of wet
Ownershipmetric metric 
Deposit Ore Type tonnes %Fe %P %SiO2 %Al2O3 %LOI tonnes %Fe %P %SiO
2
%Al2O3 %LOI
Iron Ore
(1)(2)(3)(4)(6)(8)
Mt Newman JV
(7)
BKM 505 64.3 0.06 4.2 1 .8 1 .5 696 61 .0 0. 1 0 5.6 2.5 4.0
MM 1 55 61 .7 0.07 2.7 1 .8 6.6 83 60.0 0.06 4.8 2.4 6.2
Jimblebar BKM 79 61 .3 0.07 5.7 2.9 3.3 360 61 .2 0.09 4.7 2.9 4.2
MM –– ––––––––––
Mt Goldsworthy JV 
Northern Areas NIM 41 61 .4 0.07 7.3 1 .8 2.6 83 62.3 0.05 7.4 0.9 1 .4
Mt Goldsworthy JV BKM –– ––––––––––
Area C
(5)
MM 369 61 .6 0.06 3.3 1 .8 5.9 224 62.3 0.06 3.0 1 .7 5.7
Yandi JV BKM –– ––––––––––
CID 630 58.0 0.04 5.2 1 .2 1 0.4 529 57.3 0.05 5.6 1 .6 1 0.6
BHP Billiton 
Minerals BKM – – – – – – – – – – – – 
BHP Coal BKM – – – – – – 83 59.6 0.14 3.6 3.5 7.4
MM – – – – – – 51 60.4 0.06 4.6 2.5 9.9
Millions Millions 
of dry of dry
metric metric
tonnes %Fe %Pc tonnes %Fe %Pc
Samarco JV
(9)
ROM 553.3 45.4 0.05 892.7 43.3 0.04
(1) 
Resources are divided into joint ventures and material types that reflect the various products produced. The bedded ore types are classified as per the host Archaean 
or Proterozoic banded iron formations. These are BKM – Brockman, MM – Marra Mamba and NIM – Nimingarra. The CID – Channel Iron Deposits are Cainozoic fluvial
sediments.
(2) 
The resource grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight basis. %Pc represents phosphorous in concentrate for Samarco. For Mt Newman, Jimblebar,
Mt Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures tonnages represent wet tonnes based on the following moisture contents: BKM = 3%, MM = 4%, CID = 8%, NIM = 3.5%.
(3) 
Changes at all joint ventures are in part due to a change in reporting precision where tonnes are now reported to the nearest 1 wmt, except Inferred Resources reported
to nearest 1 0 wmt. Change to reporting silica (SiO
2
), alumina (Al
2
O
3
) and Loss On Ignition (LOI) in addition to iron (Fe) and phosphorous (P). Changes in Mt Newman JV
Resources are due to additional drilling and modelling of OB18 and OB25 Pit 3, review of estimates for OB31, removal of detrital material from Resource. Changes to
Goldsworthy JV Northern Areas Resources are due to significant new drilling and geological modelling as well as review of economic criteria for deep-rooted
mineralisation. Changes to Yandi JV Resources are due to a change in reporting cut-off for the E7 deposit. Change at Goldsworthy JV Area C is due to additional drilling
and an updated model for C Deposit. Other changes are due to mining depletion. Changes to BHP Coal due to remodelling of Carramulla East.
(4)
Competent Persons
Mt Newman JV: H Arvidson (MAusIMM), I Tehnas (MAusIMM)
Jimblebar: H Arvidson (MAusIMM), I Tehnas (MAusIMM)
Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern: H Arvidson (MAusIMM), I Tehnas (MAusIMM)
Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C: I Tehnas (MAusIMM), H Arvidson (MAusIMM)
Yandi JV: H Arvidson (MAusIMM), I Tehnas (MAusIMM)
BHP Billiton Minerals: I Tehnas (MAusIMM)
BHP Coal: I Tehnas (MAusIMM).
(5)
Whilst 85 per cent is shown as the ‘BHP Billiton Interest’ for Area C, POSCO (a Korean steelmaker) has a 20 per cent legal interest in the C deposit of Area C. 
In substance, the Group retains virtually all of this interest and this disclosure and the financial statements are prepared on this basis.
(6)
West Australian Resources include lower grade material that is currently stockpiled when mined, but has not been considered for conversion to Reserve in the current 
20-year business plan.
(7)
The Whaleback deposit in the Mt Newman joint venture has been re-modelled during the year but the updated Resource estimates have not been included in this report
because the Resource has not yet been converted to Reserve. The material change to the estimate is a significant (~200wmt) reclassification of Measured Resource to
Indicated status.
(8)
Cut-off grades used to estimate Resources: Mt Newman 50–62%Fe for BKM, 54–60%Fe for MM; Jimblebar 54–60%Fe for BKM, 54% for MM; Mt Goldsworthy
56.5–60%Fe for NIM, 54–60%Fe for MM, 54–60% for BKM; Yandi 56%Fe for CID, 54% for BKM. BHP Billiton Minerals 54%Fe for BKM, BHP Coal 54–60%Fe for BKM,
54–60%Fe for MM.
(9)
Samarco Resources are estimated assuming external supply of approximately 8 wmt of process feed from the nearby Fazendao mine, which is owned by our 50 per cent
joint venture partner in Samarco (CVRD). 201
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Manganese Mineral Resources 
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource 
Millions Millions Millions Millions BHP
of dry of dry of dry of dry Billiton 
metric metric metric metric Interest
Deposit Ore Type tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield %
Manganese
(1)
GEMCO
(2)
ROM 65.848.442.00 50.446.938.00 57.245.635.00 173.347.139.00 60
Wessels ROM 4.1 48 – 20.4 48 – 0.248.1 – 24.7 48 – 60
Millions Millions Millions Millions
of wet of wet of wet of wet
metric metric metric metric
tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe
Mamatwan ROM 30.737.94.4 21.037.74.4 17.637.44.3 69.337.74.4 60
(1) 
Competent Persons
GEMCO: E P W Swindell (SACNSP)
Wessels: E P Ferreira (SACNASP)
Mamatwan: O van Antwerpen (SACNASP).
(2)
A different treatment of internal waste and yields has resulted in apparent changes to GEMCO resources and reserves. This increases ROM tonnages.
Inferred Resource Total Resource 
Millions Millions BHP
of wet of wet Billiton
metric metric Interest 
tonnes %Fe %P %SiO
2
%Al
2
O
3
%LOI tonnes %Fe %P %SiO
2
%Al
2
O
3
%LOI %
330 60.5 0. 1 0 5.8 2.9 4. 1 1 531 62.0 0.08 5.2 2.3 3.2 85
670 59.3 0.07 4.2 2.6 7.3 908 59.7 0.07 4.0 2.5 7.0 85
680 61 .3 0. 1 3 3.8 2.8 5. 1 1 1 1 9 61 .3 0. 1 1 4.2 2.8 4.7 1 00
20 60.2 0. 1 1 3.3 2.7 6.9 20 60.2 0. 1 1 3.3 2.7 6.9 1 00
40 61 .2 0.05 8.3 1 .3 2. 1 164 61 .8 0.06 7.6 1 .2 1 .9 85
40 61 .8 0. 1 7 4.6 1 .9 5. 1 40 61 .8 0. 1 7 4.6 1 .9 5. 1 85
390 61 . 1 0.06 3.5 2. 1 6.3 983 61 .6 0.06 3.3 1 .9 6.0 85
1 90 59.0 0. 1 5 4.6 2.7 7.3 1 90 59.0 0. 1 5 4.6 2.7 7.3 85
1 30 57.7 0.04 5.6 1 .6 1 0.3 1 289 57.7 0.04 5.4 1 .4 1 0.5 85
240 60.7 0. 1 3 4.3 2.3 6.0 240 60.7 0. 1 3 4.3 2.3 6.0 1 00
200 60.4 0. 1 3 4.2 3.9 6.0 283 60.2 0. 1 3 4.0 3.8 6.4 1 00
160 61 .8 0.06 3.8 2. 1 5.4 21 1 61 .5 0.06 4.0 2.2 6.5 1 00
Millions Millions 
of dry of dry
metric metric
tonnes %Fe %Pc tonnes %Fe %Pc
1 569.0 46.7 0.05 3 015.0 45.5 0.05 50 202 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
(1) 
Competent Persons – Resources
Wards Well, Lancewood, Bee Creek, Nebo West, Poitrel/Winchester, Red Hill, Daunia, Peak Downs East, 
Liskeard, Riverside, South Walker Creek, Goonyella Broadmeadow, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, South Blackwater: D Dunn (MAusIMM)
Blackwater: P Wakeling (SACNSP)
Gregory Crinum: R H Macpherson (MAIG)
Appin, West Cliff, Cordeaux, Elouera, Dendrobium: B Clark (MAusIMM)
Maruwai: M Friederich (MAusIMM).
(2)
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the resources are:
Measured Resources: Wards Well, Lancewood, Bee Creek, Nebo West, Poitrel/Winchester, Red Hill, Daunia, Peak Downs East, Liskeard, Gregory Crinum, Riverside, 
South Walker Creek, Goonyella, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Blackwater, South Blackwater – max. 500m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes with
>=95% recovery or <+/–1 0% expected error at 95% confidence on a 50m x 1 00m block for Goonyella plus 3D seismic coverage for underground Measured Resource for
Goonyella and Crinum; Illawarra Coal Operating Mines maximum of 700m between data points.
Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued
Metallurgical Coal Resources 
(1)(2)
Measured Resource Indicated Resource
Ownership Mining Coal T onnes kcal/kg T onnes kcal/kg
Deposit Method
(3)
Type
(4)
(millions) %VM
(5)
CV
(5)
%Ash %S
(5)
(millions) %VM
(5)
CV
(5)
%Ash %S
(5)
Queensland Coal Resources
at operating mines
CQCA JV
GoonyellaBroadmeadow OC Met 596 23.2 – 8.4 0.52 134 24.1 – 10.4 0.57
UG Met 45 23.5 – 6.1 0.49 294 23.0 – 7.4 0.51
Peak Downs OC Met 408 20.7 – 9.6 0.61 828 20.6 – 9.6 0.61
UG Met – – – – – 16 19.4 – 10.0 0.57
Saraji OC Met 175 18.6 – 9.7 0.58 194 18.2 – 9.7 0.61
UG Met – – – – – 40 18.1 – 9.7 0.59
Norwich Park OC Met 67 1 7.6 7 720 9.2 0.67 77 1 7.6 7 700 9.4 0.68
UG Met – – – – – 22 18.0 7 670 9.6 0.65
Blackwater OC Met/Th 173 25.5 – 8.5 0.43 206 25.6 – 8.7 0.42
UG Met/Th 6.6 24.3 – 9.2 0.49 49 24.9 – 8.6 0.44
South Blackwater OC Met/Th 41 30.1 – 4.9 0.44 62 29.8 – 4.9 0.45
UG Met/Th – – – – – 195 30.1 – 5.1 0.39
Gregory JV
Gregory Crinum OC Met/Th 2.7 34.3 – 5.8 0.58 10 33.7 – 6.0 0.58
UG Met/Th – – – – – 148 33.6 – 6.2 0.59
BHP Mitsui
Riverside OC Met 6 23.8 – 9.2 0.56 0.5 25.1 – 9.8 0.63
South Walker Creek OC Met/Th 66 12.8 – 9. 1 0.38 56 1 3. 1 – 9.6 0.36
UG Met/Th – – – – – 26 12.9 – 10.1 0.39
Queensland Coal 
Undeveloped Resources
CQCA JV
Red Hill UG Met 90 20.9 – – – 406 19.6 – – – 
OC Met/Th – – – – – 25 26.3 – 12.4 0.50
Daunia OC Met/Th 75 20.5 – – – 24 20.3 – – – 
Peak Downs East UG Met – – – – – 668 17.5 – – – 
BHP Mitsui
Wards Well UG Met 331 – – – – 289 – – – – 
Lancewood UG Met – – – – – – – – – – 
Bee Creek OC Met/Th – – – – – 55 14.4 – – – 
Nebo West OC Met/Th – – – – – 178 7.56 930 – – 
Poitrel/Winchester OC Met/Th 75 23.2 – 8.4 0.37 73 23.8 – 8.7 0.34
Gregory JV
Liskeard OC Met/Th 5.6 34.6 – – 2.30 – – – – – 
Illawarra Coal Resources
at operating mines
(6)
Appin UG Met/Th 56 – – – – 88 – – – – 
West Cliff UG Met/Th 97 – – – – 43 – – – – 
Cordeaux UG Met/Th 55 – – – – 57 – – – – 
Elouera UG Met/Th 18 – – – – 15 – – – – 
Dendrobium UG Met/Th 56 – – – – 70 – – – – 
Indonesia A75 Projects
Maruwai OC Met – – – – – 120 28.1 – 4.2 0.51 203
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Indicated Resources: Wards Well, Lancewood, Bee Creek, Nebo West, Poitrel/Winchester , Red Hill, Daunia, Peak Downs East, Liskeard, Gregory Crinum, Riverside, South
Walker Creek, Goonyella, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Blackwater , South Blackwater – 500m to 1 000m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes with >=95%
recovery or +/–1 0% to +/–20% expected error at 95% confidence on a 50m x 1 00m block for Goonyella; Illawarra Coal Operating Mines maximum of 1 000m between data
points; Maruwai 1 000m between boreholes with >85% linear core recovery; Inferred Resources: Wards Well, Lancewood, Bee Creek, Nebo West, Poitrel/Winchester , Red Hill,
Daunia, Peak Downs East, Liskeard, Gregory Crinum, Riverside, South Walker Ck, Goonyella, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Blackwater , South Blackwater – 1 000m to
4000m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes with >=95% recovery; Illawarra Coal Operating Mines >1 000m between data points.
(3) 
OC = open-cut, UG = underground.
(4)
Coal T ype: Met = metallurgical coal, Th = thermal coal.
(5)
Coal quality is for a potential product rather than the in situ quality and is on air-dried basis. CV is calorific value, VM is volatile matter, and S is sulphur .
(6)
Illawarra Coal has completely revised its assessment criteria for Resource classification based on changes to the JORC Code and Australian Coal Guidelines as well as an
internal review of environmental impacts and government approval requirements. With the implementation of these revised criteria the previously declared resources for
Authorisation 248 (A248) and Exploration License 4470 (EL4470) are no longer deemed to qualify as a resource. At present Illawarra Coal is unable to clarify its position
with respect to mining title and renewal of the Authorisations or granting of Assessment lease or mining title. Because of this it cannot be guaranteed that all of the
current authorisation areas have ‘reasonable prospect of eventual extraction’. 
Inferred Resource Total Resource BHP Billiton
T onnes kcal/kg T onnes kcal/kg Interest
(millions) %VM
(5)
CV
(5)
%Ash %S
(5)
(millions) %VM
(5)
CV
(5)
%Ash %S
(5)
%
208 24.1 – 10.9 0.57 939 23.5 – 9.2 0.54 50
212 21.2 – 9.0 0.55 551 22.4 – 7.9 0.52 50
660 21.3 – 10.0 0.66 1 898 20.9 – 9.7 0.63 50
104 20.4 – 10.2 0.59 120 20.3 – 10.2 0.59 50
264 18.1 – 9.7 0.62 633 18.3 – 9.7 0.60 50
118 17.3 – 9.7 0.59 159 17.5 – 9.7 0.59 50
125 1 7.6 7 640 8.6 0.66 268 1 7.5 7 680 8.9 0.67 50
70 1 7. 1 7 640 9.9 0.66 92 1 7.3 7 650 9.8 0.66 50
116 25.9 – 8.3 0.40 494 25.6 – 8.5 0.42 50
190 24.5 – 8.6 0.40 246 24.6 – 8.6 0.41 50
191 29.7 – 5.3 0.44 294 29.8 – 5.1 0.44 50
715 30.3 – 5.5 0.41 910 30.3 – 5.4 0.41 50
3.9 33.8 – 6.1 0.56 17 33.8 – 6.0 0.58 50
17 33.3 – 6.6 0.62 165 33.6 – 6.3 0.60 50
3.3 26.4 – 10.4 0.62 9.8 23.9 – 9.2 0.56 80
17 13.1 – 8.9 0.32 139 12.9 – 9.2 0.37 80
66 12.5 – 9.4 0.35 92 12.7 – 9.7 0.37 80
306 18.0 – – – 801 19.1 – – – 50
– – – – – 25 26.3 – 12.4 0.50 50
– – – – – 99 20.5 – – – 50
104 18.4 – – – 772 17.7 – – – 50
– – – – – 620 21.6 – – – 80
112 20.6 – – – 112 20.6 – – – 80
5 13.0 – – – 60 14.2 – – – 80
– – – – – 178 7.5 6 930 – – 80
91 23.9 – 8.8 0.32 239 23.6 – 8.6 0.34 80
– – – – – 5.6 34.6 – – 2.30 50
227 – – – – 372 – – – – 100
97 – – – – 237 – – – – 100
108 – – – – 220 – – – – 100
8.6 – – – – 41 – – – – 100
212 – – – – 338 – – – – 100
– – – – – 120 28.1 – 4.2 0.51 100 204 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
(1) 
Reserves are divided into joint ventures and material types that reflect the various products produced. The bedded ore types are classified as per the host Archaean 
or Proterozoic banded iron formations.
(2) 
Ore types are BKM – Brockman, MM – Marra Mamba, NIM – Nimingarra, and CID – Channel Iron Deposit.
(3) 
The Reserve grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight basis. %Pc represents phosphorous in concentrate for Samarco. For Mt Newman, Jimblebar, Mt
Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures tonnages represent wet tonnes based on the following moisture contents: BKM = 3%, MM = 4%, CID = 8%, NIM = 3.5%. Iron
Ore is marketed as Lump (direct blast furnace feed) and Fines (sinter plant feed). Samarco is marketed predominantly as direct reduction and blast furnace pellets.
(4) 
Mining dilution and mining recovery (in general around 95 per cent) has been taken into account in the estimation of reserves for all West Australian Iron Ore operations.
For Samarco the mine recovery is 96.5 per cent (not included in the reserve estimate) of the stated diluted reserve.
(5) 
Metallurgical recovery is 1 00 per cent for all of the West Australian Iron Ores except for the low-grade part of the Whaleback deposit (165 million tonnes) where the
beneficiation plant recovery is 64 per cent. For Samarco the beneficiation plant recovery is 57 to 59 per cent.
(6) 
The following third party reviews and audits have been undertaken: Mt Newman JV Long-Term Mine Plans review MineNet Consulting Mining Engineers 2001–2005;
Jimblebar Mine Planning Review, MineNet Consulting Mining Engineers, 2003; Mt Goldsworthy JV Southern Areas Mine Planning Review, Area C Life of Mine Plans,
MineNet Consulting Mining Engineers, 2005; Yandi JV Long-Term Mine Plan audit Australian Mining Consultants 2005; Yandi Ore Reserve Audit by AMC Consultants 
Feb 2005.
(7) 
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are:
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
Mt Newman JV 1 00m x 50m 300m x 50m
Jimblebar 50m x 50m 1 00m x 50m
Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern 25m x 25m 50m x 50m 
Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C 120m x 30m and 240m x 60m >120m x 30m or 240m x 60m
Yandi JV 1 00m x 1 00m main ore zone, 75m x 75m weathered, 150m x 150m
marginal and basal zones
Samarco JV ALE 126345: 200m x 200m x 16m ALE 126345: 400m x 400m x 16m 
ALE 7: 150m x 150m x 16m ALE 7: 300m x 300m x 16m 
ALE 8: 250m x 250m x 16m ALE 89: 500m x 500m x 16m
(8) 
Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are:
% Metallurgical Recovery High-grade iron ore Iron ore concentrate
Jimblebar 1 00
Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C 1 00
Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern 1 00
Mt Newman JV 64–1 00 
Samarco JV 56
Yandi JV 1 00
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued
Ore Reserves
The tables below detail our iron ore, manganese and metallurgical coal Reserves (in metric tonnes) for the Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector 
Group estimated as at 30 June 2005 in 1 00 per cent terms.
Iron Ore Reserves 
Proved Ore Reserve 
Millions
of wet
Ownership metric 
Deposit Ore Type
(2)
tonnes %Fe %P %SiO2 %Al2O3 %LOI
Iron Ore
(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(1 0)(1 2)
Mt Newman JV BKM 442 63.2 0.06 5.3 2.0 1 .5
MM 54 62.3 0.07 2.4 1 .6 6.3
Jimblebar BKM 43 62.5 0.07 4.7 2.6 3.0
Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern NIM 1 1 60.3 0.09 6.2 2. 1 4.8
Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C
(1 1)
MM 304 62.0 0.06 3.2 1 .8 5.9
Yandi JV CID 502 57.9 0.04 5.2 1 .2 1 0.4
Millions 
of dry
metric
tonnes %Fe %Pc
Samarco JV
(1 3)
ROM 31 1 45.8 0.04 205
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
(9) 
Competent Persons – Reserves
Mt Newman, Jimblebar, Mt Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures: R Pasyar (MAusIMM), G Carroll (MAusIMM)
Samarco JV: J E Tizon (MAusIMM).
(1 0)
Changes at Mt Newman, Jimblebar, Mt Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures are in part due to a change in reporting precision where tonnes are now reported to the
nearest 1 wmt, change to reporting silica (SiO
2
), alumina (Al
2
O
3
) and Loss On Ignition (LOI) in addition to iron (Fe) and phosphorous (P). Changes to the Reserves for 
Mt Newman JV and Jimblebar are due to changes to Fe cut-off grades used for reporting, changes to Resource classifications and changes to reconciliation factors.
Changes to Goldsworthy JV Northern Areas due to introduction of the Cattle Gorge deposit. Changes to Yandi reserves due to change in pit designs. Changes to
Goldsworthy JV Area C Reserves due to new Resource model and revised pit design for C Deposit. Other changes due to mining depletion. 
(1 1)
Whilst 85 per cent is shown as the ‘BHP Billiton Interest’ for Area C, POSCO (a Korean steelmaker) has a 20 per cent legal interest in the C deposit of Area C. In
substance, the Group retains virtually all of this interest and this disclosure and the financial statements are prepared on this basis.
(1 2)
Cut-off grades used to estimate Reserves: Mt Newman 50–62%Fe for BKM, 60%Fe for MM; Jimblebar 58–60%Fe for BKM; Mt Goldsworthy 56.5–60%Fe for NIM, 
57%Fe for MM; Yandi 56%Fe for CID.
(1 3)
Samarco Reserves are estimated assuming external supply of approximately 8 wmt of process feed from the nearby Fazendao mine, which is owned by our 50 per cent
joint venture partner in Samarco (CVRD).
Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve
Millions Millions BHP
of wet of wet Billiton
metric metric Interest 
tonnes %Fe %P %SiO
2
%Al2O3 %LOI tonnes %Fe %P %SiO
2
%Al
2
O
3
%LOI %
326 62.7 0.09 4.7 2.0 3. 1 768 63.0 0.07 5.0 2.0 2.2 85
1 4 61 .8 0.05 3.4 1 .8 6.0 68 62.2 0.07 2.6 1 .6 6.3 85
202 62.8 0.08 3.5 2.5 3.6 246 62.8 0.08 3.7 2.5 3.5 1 00
3 61 . 1 0.07 7. 1 1 .7 1 .9 1 4 60.5 0.09 6.4 2.0 4. 1 85
1 70 62.5 0.06 2.9 1 .6 5.6 474 62.2 0.06 3. 1 1 .7 5.8 85
358 57.2 0.04 5.6 1 .6 1 0.6 860 57.6 0.04 5.4 1 .3 1 0.5 85
Millions Millions 
of dry of dry
metric metric
tonnes %Fe %Pc tonnes %Fe %Pc
204 45.0 0.04 51 5 45.5 0.04 50 206 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued
Manganese Ore Reserves 
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve BHP
Millions of Millions of Millions of Billiton
dry metric dry metric dry metric Interest
Deposit Ore Type tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield tonnes %Mn %Yield %
Manganese
(1)(2)(3)
GEMCO
(4)
ROM 63.748.6 51 39.847.3 47 103.5 48.1 49 60
Wessels ROM 2.2 48 – 10.3 48 – 12.5 48 – 60
Millions of Millions of Millions of 
wet metric wet metric wet metric
tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe tonnes %Mn %Fe
Mamatwan ROM 23.537.9 4.4 15.0 37.7 4.4 38.5 37.7 4.4 60
(1) 
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are:
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
GEMCO 60m x 120m and 60m x 60m 120m x 120m
Wessels Underground sampling within a 50m to 75m Based predominately on 180m spaced drill holes
radius and incorporating 180m on average supplemented by some underground drilling
spaced surface holes
Mamatwan 40m x 40m 80m x 80m
(2) 
Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are:
% Metallurgical Recovery Mn
GEMCO 49
Wessels (for W1 Lump Product) 75
Mamatwan 96
(3) 
Competent Persons – Reserves
Wessels: E P Ferreira (SACNASP)
Mamatwan: O van Antwerpen (SACNASP)
GEMCO: E P W Swindell (SACNSP).
(4)
A different treatment of internal waste and yields has resulted in apparent changes to GEMCO resources and reserves. In particular, the estimated reserve yield was
increased (by means of factors) to reflect actual historic concentrator yields. The net effect was an increase in ROM tonnes, product tonnes and reserve yield by 
16–21per cent. 207
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued
Metallurgical Coal Reserves
(3)(7)
Proved Probable Total Marketable Reserve
Coal Coal Coal BHP
Reserve Reserve Reserve
(2)
Calorific Volatile Billiton 
Ownership Mining T onnes T onnes T onnes T onnes Value
(5)
Matter
(5)
Sulphur
(5)
Interest
Deposit
(4)
Method
(1)
(millions) (millions) (millions) (millions) (kcal/kg) % % %
Queensland Coal Reserves 
at operating mines
CQCA JV
GoonyellaBroadmeadow OC 485 116 601 419 – 23.4 0.53 50
UG 32 96 128 106 – 23.8 0.50 50
Peak Downs
(9)
OC 300 564 864 479 – 20.5 0.60 50
Saraji
(1 0)
OC 165 197 362 208 – 18.4 0.60 50
Norwich Park OC 50 45 95 69 7 082 1 7.3 0.69 50
Blackwater
(8)
OC 1 39 1 70 309 261 6 887 24. 1 0.42 50
South Blackwater
(8)
OC 34 56 90 73 7 200 27.2 0.54 50
Gregory JV
Gregory Crinum
(8)(1 1)
OC 2 9 11 10 – 32.9 0.60 50
UG – 26 26 22 – 32.8 0.60 50
BHP Mitsui
Riverside
(1 2)
OC – – 0 0 – – – 80
South Walker Creek
(8)(1 3)
OC 55 27 82 55 – – 0.36 80
Illawarra Coal Reserves 
at operating mines
(6)
Appin UG 3 39 42 37 – – – 1 00
West Cliff UG 8 1 9 26 22 – – – 1 00
Dendrobium UG 4 32 36 28 – – – 1 00
(1)
Mining method: OC=open-cut, UG = underground.
(2)
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are:
(3) 
Competent Persons – Reserves
Goonyella Broadmeadow, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Blackwater, South Blackwater, Gregory Crinum, Riverside, South Walker Creek: B Cox (MAusIMM)
Appin, West Cliff, Dendrobium: B J Colman (MAusIMM).
(4)
Some undeveloped deposits (Daunia, Poitrel/Winchester, Nebo West) do not have reserve estimates quoted in FY05 due to lack of full Feasibility Study and project
approval as required by updated BHP Billiton Ore Reserves Policy so are not quoted here.
(5)
Coal quality is for a potential product rather than the in situ quality and is on air-dried basis. CV is calorific value, VM is volatile matter, and S is sulphur .
(6)
A complete revision of the Illawarra Coal Reserve and in particular the criteria used for classification was undertaken in early 2005. The focus of this revision was on the
certainty of our ability to gain mining authority from the state government, impact of surface features and infrastructure, changes to the JORC and Coal Guidelines and
the integrity and zone of influence of geological data used to support each Reserve classification. The results of revised classification criteria were to reduce the reserve
base by 1 02Mt from that reported last year . Ongoing exploration and application for mining authority is anticipated to result in moving more of the Resource into Reserve
classification next year .
(7)
Recoverable Coal Reserves (tonnes) is the sum of Proved and Probable Coal Reserve estimates, which includes allowances for diluting materials and for losses that 
occur when the coal is mined and are at the moisture content when mined. Marketable Coal Reserve (tonnes) is the tonnage of coal available, at specified moisture and
air-dried quality, for sale after beneficiation of the Recoverable Coal Reserves. Note that where the coal is not beneficiated the recoverable tonnes are the marketable
tonnes, with moisture adjustment where applicable.
(8)
Blackwater, South Blackwater, South Walker Creek & Gregory Crinum also produce a thermal coal product.
(9)
Peak Downs marketable reserves reduced by 14 per cent from FY04 estimates due to impact of Coal Guidelines and lack of surface rights, offset by additional pits and
mine layout changes.
(1 0)
Saraji marketable reserves reduced by 38 per cent from FY04 estimates due to impact of Coal Guidelines, offset by changed mine layouts.
(1 1)
Gregory Crinum marketable reserves reduced by 42 per cent from FY04 estimates due to lack of surface rights.
(1 2)
Riverside reserves worked out.
(1 3)
South Walker Creek marketable reserves reduced by 40 per cent from FY04 estimates due to impact of Coal Guidelines and changes in economics.
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
Goonyella Broadmeadow max. 500m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes
with >=95% recovery or +/– 1 0% expected error at 95%
confidence on a 50 x 1 00m block, 3D seismic coverage of UG
resources and consideration of Modifying Factors
500m to 1 000m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes
with >95% recovery or +/– 1 0% to +/– 20% expected error at 95%
confidence on a 50m x 1 00m block and consideration of Modifying
Factors
Peak Downs
Saraji
Norwich Park
Blackwater
South Blackwater
South Walker Creek
max. 500m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes
with >=95% recovery and consideration of Modifying Factors
500m to 1 000m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes
with >=95% recovery and consideration of Modifying Factors
Gregory Crinum max. 500m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes
with >=95% recovery, 3D seismic coverage for UG resources
and consideration of Modifying Factors
500m to 1 000m spacing of geophysically logged, analysed, coreholes
with >=95% recovery and consideration of Modifying Factors
Appin 
West Cliff
Dendrobium
maximum of 700m between data points maximum of 1 000m between data points 208 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group
Mineral Resources
(1)
The table below details the Mineral Resources for the Diamonds and Speciality Products Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2005 (unless otherwise
stated) in 1 00 per cent terms.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource 
Millions carats Millions carats Millions carats Millions carats BHP
of dry per of dry per of dry per of dry per Billiton
Commodity metric tonne metric tonne metric tonne metric tonne Interest
Ownership Reserve Type
(2)
tonnes Diamonds tonnes Diamonds tonnes Diamonds tonnes Diamonds %
Diamond 
Resources
(3)
EKATI Core Zone OC 41 .3 0.8 1 7.9 0.7 3.2 1 .0 62.3 0.8 80
S/P 2.6 2.6 – – – – 2.6 2.6 80
UG 6.8 1 .5 9.2 0.7 0.5 1 .2 16.5 1 . 1 80
EKATI Buffer Zone OC 1 .2 0.8 23.8 2.0 1 7.2 2. 1 42.2 2.0 58.8
Mineral Sands T onnes (millions) T onnes (millions) T onnes (millions) T onnes (millions)
Richards Bay 
Minerals
(6)
TiO
2
slag 6.5 21 – 27.5 50
Mineral Sands 
T onnes Ilmenite THM T onnes Ilmenite THM T onnes Ilmenite THM T onnes Ilmenite THM
– Project
(millions) % % (millions) % % (millions) % %(millions) % % 
Corridor Sands
(4)(5)
ROM 1 593 4.5 8.2 1 079 3.4 6.2 – – – 2 672 4. 1 7.4 90
T onnes T onnes T onnes T onnes
Phosphate (millions) %P2O5 (millions) %P2O5 (millions) %P2O5 (millions) %P2O5
Queensland 
Fertilizer OC 63.0 25.4 26.8 23. 1 40 20. 1 1 29.3 23.3 1 00
S/P 0.622.3 – – – – 0.622.3 100
(1) 
Competent Persons – Resources
Diamonds: D Dyck (MAusIMM)
Corridor Sands: M Harley (MAusIMM)
Queensland Fertilizer: B Sommerville (MAIG).
(2)
OC=open-cut, S/P=stockpile, UG=underground, ROM=run of mine.
(3) 
Diamond Resources are based on an effective 1 mm square aperture stone size cut-off.
(4) 
%THM – total heavy mineral.
(5) 
The Corridor Sands project has not yet been approved for operation and Reserves have not been quoted as per BHP Billiton policy .
(6) 
Richards Bay Minerals are as at 31 December 2004. The Competent Person is J Dumouchel (APEGGA). 209
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group continued
Ore Reserves
(1)(2)
The table below details the Ore Reserves for the Diamonds and Speciality Products Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2005 (unless otherwise stated)
in 1 00 per cent terms.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve
Millions carats Millions carats Millions carats BHP
of dry per of dry per of dry per Billiton
Commodity Reserve metric tonne metric tonne metric tonne Interest
Deposit Type
(4)
tonnes Diamonds tonnes Diamonds tonnes Diamonds %
Diamonds
(3)
EKATI Core Zone OC 16.5 0.4 1 7.0 0.6 33.5 0.5 80
S/P 2.7 1.4 – – 2.7 1.4 80
UG 3.4 1 .0 7.2 1 . 1 1 0.6 1 . 1 80
T onnes (millions) T onnes (millions) T onnes (millions)
Mineral Sands
Richards Bay Minerals
(5)
TiO
2
slag 6.2 20.5 26.7 50
Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 
(millions) %P2O5 (millions) %P2O5 (millions) %P2O5
Phosphate
Queensland Fertilizer OC 26.8 24.4 57.6 24.4 84.4 24.4 1 00
S/P 0.6 22.3 – – 0.6 22.3 100
(1) 
Approximate drill hole spacing used to classify the reserves are:
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
EKATI Core Zone 30m 60m
Queensland Fertilizer 40m x 40m up to 400m x 400m
(2) 
Competent Persons – Reserves
EKATI Core Zone: D Scott (MAusIMM), D Gratton (NAPEGG)
Queensland Fertilizer: P Allsopp (FAusIMM).
(3) 
Diamond Reserves are based on an effective 2 mm square aperture stone size cut-off.
(4) 
UG = underground, OC = open-cut, S/P = stockpile, ROM = run of mine.
(5) 
Richards Bay Minerals Reserves are as at 31 December 2004. The Competent Person is J Dumouchel (APEGGA). 210 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
Energy Coal Customer Sector Group
Energy Coal Resources
(3)
The table below details our Coal Resources (in metric tonnes) for the Energy Coal Customer Sector Group estimated at 30 June 2005 in 1 00 per cent terms.
Measured Indicated Inferred Total BHP Billiton
Commodity Mining Coal T onnes T onnes T onnes T onnes Interest
Deposit Method
(1)
Type
(2)
(millions) (millions) (millions) (millions) %
New Mexico – Operating mines
San Juan UG Th 21 7 16 – 233 1 00
Navajo
(4)
OC Th 878 – – 878 100
South Africa – Operating mines 
Douglas
(5)
OC & UG Th 461 80 69 609 84
Khutala
(6)
OC & UG Th 690 51 – 741 1 00
Koornfontein UG Th 32 – – 32 100
Middelburg OC Th 540 – – 540 84
Optimum OC & UG Th 1 94 307 55 556 1 00
ZAC UG Anth 10 – – 10 100
South Africa – Projects 
Khutala 5 seam UG Met/Th – 1 37 – 1 37 1 00
Leandra North
(7)
UG Th 163 455 187 805 100
Leandra South UG Th – 474 – 474 100
Naudesbank OC & UG Th 72 181 22 274 1 00
Klipspruit OC Th 87 – – 87 100
Weltevreden OC & UG Th – – 418 418 1 00
South Africa – Mineral leases 
Miscellaneous
(8)
UG Met/Th – 2 106 – 2 106 100
Australia – Operating mine and project 
Mt Arthur Coal OC & UG Th 705 2 1 92 420 3 31 7 1 00
T ogara South UG Th 31 7 639 1 059 2 015 1 00
Colombia – Operating mine 
Cerrejon Coal Company
(9)
OC Th 858 1 047 1 90 2 095 33.3
(1)
OC = open-cut, UG = underground.
(2)
Th = thermal coal, Anth = anthracite, Met = metallurgical coal.
(3)
Competent Persons:
T ogara South: D Dunn (MAusIMM)
Mt Arthur Coal: P Grey (FAusIMM)
Cerrejon Coal Company: C D van Niekerk (SACNSP)
San Juan: J Mercier (MAusIMM)
Navajo: D Rawson (MAusIMM)
Miscellaneous: R C Anthony (SACNSP)
Douglas: J H Marais (SACNASP)
Khutala: D J Lawrence (SACNSP)
Koornfontein: J H Marais (SACNSP)
Middelburg: J C van der Merwe (SACNSP)
Optimum: G J Cronje (SACNSP)
ZAC: M A J Visser (SACNSP)
Khutala 5 seam: J L Pienaar (SACNSP)
Leandra North: R C Anthony (SACNSP)
Leandra South: R C Anthony (SACNSP)
Naudesbank: C W Joubert (SACNSP)
Klipspruit: J L Pienaar (SACNSP)
Weltevreden: J L Pienaar (SACNSP).
(4)
Navajo’s resources increased compared to 2004 mainly due to the inclusion of previously excluded resources.
(5)
Douglas’s resources increased compared to 2004 mainly due to the re-evaluation of previously excluded resources.
(6)
Khutala’s resources decreased compared to 2004 mainly due to the re-evaluation of resources.
(7)
Leandra North’s resources increased compared to 2004 mainly due to re-modelling and re-evaluation.
(8)
South Africa Mineral lease miscellaneous coal resources have been reduced compared to 2004 mainly due to reclassification and relinquishment 
of uncommitted resources.
(9)
Carbonnes de Cerrejon's resources have increased compared to 2004 mainly due to reclassification and the inclusion of previously excluded resources. 211
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Energy Coal Customer Sector Group continued
Energy Coal Reserves
(3)(4)
The table below details our Coal Reserves (in metric tonnes) for the Energy Coal Customer Sector Group estimated at 30 June 2005 in 1 00 per cent terms.
Proved Probable T otal
Coal Coal Coal Marketable Reserve
(6)
BHP
Reserve Reserve Reserve
(6)
. Calorific Volatile Billiton
Commodity Mining Coal T onnes T onnes T onnes T onnes Value Matter Sulphur T otal Interest
Deposit Method
(1)
Type
(2)
(millions) (millions) (millions) (millions) kcal/kg % % Moisture
(5)
%
New Mexico
– Operating mines
San Juan UG Th 84 4 88 88 5 300 – – 9.9 100
Navajo OC Th 218 – 218 218 4 800 – 0.84 13.2 100
South Africa
– Operating mines
Douglas OC & UG Th 97 – 97 72 5 520 23 0.86 8. 1 84
Khutala OC & UG Th 241 58 299 299 4 433 21 1 .04 8.0 1 00
Koornfontein UG Th 7 3 10 7 6 480 26 0.86 7.4 100
Middelburg OC Th 231 61 292 233 5 934 23 0.79 7.0 84
Optimum OC Th 171 143 314 245 5 588 25 1.07 8.0 100
ZAC UG Anth 2 – 2 2 7 400 5 0.80 6.3 100
Australia – 
Operating mine and project 
Mt Arthur Coal OC Th 21 3 40 253 205 6 378 30 0.64 8.7 1 00
Colombia – Operating mine 
Cerrejon Coal Company OC Th 668 222 889 889 6 288 32 0.60 1 1 .8 33.3
(1) 
OC = open-cut, UG = underground.
(2) 
Th = thermal coal, Anth = Anthracite.
(3) 
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are:
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
San Juan 0–500m 500m–1km
Navajo 1 1 00m maximum nearest hole spacing, 180m average n/a
Douglas >8 Boreholes per 1 00Ha 4–8 Boreholes per 1 00Ha
Khutala >16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha 5–16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha
Koornfontein >8 Boreholes per 1 00Ha 4–8 Boreholes per 1 00Ha
Middelburg >16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha 5–16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha
Optimum >16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha 5–16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha
ZAC >16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha 5–16 Boreholes per 1 00Ha
Mt Arthur Coal <500m 500m–1 000m
Cerrejon Coal Company >6 Boreholes per 1 00Ha 2–6 Boreholes per 1 00Ha
(4) 
Competent Persons
San Juan: J Mercier (MAusIMM)
Navajo: D Rawson (MAusIMM)
Douglas: J H Marais (SACNASP)
Khutala: D J Lawrence (SACNSP)
Koornfontein: J H Marais (SACNSP)
Middelburg: J C van der Merwe (SACNSP)
Optimum: G J Cronje (SACNSP)
ZAC: M A J Visser (SACNSP)
Mt Arthur Coal: P Grey (FAusIMM)
Cerrejon Coal Company: C D van Niekerk (SACNSP).
(5) 
Coal moisture content is on as an received basis.
(6) 
Recoverable Coal Reserves (tonnes) is the sum of Proved and Probable Coal Reserve estimates, which includes allowances for diluting materials and for losses that occur
when the coal is mined and are at the moisture content when mined. Marketable Coal Reserve (tonnes) is the tonnage of coal available, at a specified moisture and air-
dried quality, for sale after the beneficiation of the Recoverable Coal Reserves. 
Note that where the coal is not beneficiated the recoverable tonnes are the marketable tonnes, with moisture adjustment where applicable. 212 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
Supplementary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserves Information continued
Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group
Stainless Steel Mineral Resources 
(1)(5)
The table below details Nickel Mineral Resources for the Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group as at 30 June 2005 (unless otherwise stated)
and presented in 1 00 per cent terms.
Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource 
Millions Millions Millions Millions BHP
of dry of dry of dry of dry Billiton
Commodity Ore metric metric metric metric Interest
Deposit Type
(2)
tonnes %Ni tonnes %Ni tonnes %Ni tonnes %Ni %
Australia – Projects
Ravensthorpe Laterite 129 0.74 146 0.58 114 0.53 389 0.62 100
Colombia
Cerro Matoso Laterite 40.4 1 .78 32.6 1 .38 3.6 1 .36 76.5 1 .59 99.8
Nickel West
(3)
Leinster OC sulphide 4. 1 1 .6 69. 1 0.5 83 0.5 155.8 0.6 1 00
S/P 1.7 0.9 – – – – 1.7 0.9 100
S/P oxidised 4.5 1.7 – – – – 4.5 1.7 100
UG 1 1 . 1 2.3 1 3.7 2.6 7.8 2.0 32.6 2.3 1 00
Mt Keith
(4)
OC 231 0.53 92 0.48 52 0.5 376 0.51 100
S/P 310.49 30.32 – – 340.48 100
S/P oxidised – – – – 21 0.9 21 0.9 100
Yakabindie OC 108 0.58 132 0.58 50 0.57 289 0.58 100
Cliffs UG – – 0.5 4.0 2.0 4.1 2.4 4.0 100
Jericho OC – – – – 35 0.6 35 0.6 50
(1)
The Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources are inclusive of those Mineral Resources modified to produce the Ore Reserves.
(2) 
UG = underground, OC = open-cut, S/P = stockpile.
(3)
Mineral Resources for Nickel West have been included following the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd in June 2005. Nickel West Mineral Resources estimates for Leinster
and Mt Keith are consistent with those published by WMC as at end December 2004 updated for production. Nickel West Mineral Resource Estimates for Cliffs,
Yakabindie and Jericho are consistent with those published by WMC as at end December 2004.
(4)
The Mineral Resources at Mt Keith Operations are reported on the basis of 0.4 per cent nickel cut-off grade. Additional lower grade material, with a nickel grade of less
than 0.4 per cent but with a recovered nickel grade of greater than 0. 18 per cent, that occurs within the current life-of-mine pit shell is also included (35 million tonnes 
at 0.36 per cent nickel). Material of this type is also included in stockpiled Resources. The Mineral Resources at Yakabindie are reported on the basis of a 0.4 per cent
contained nickel cut-off grade. The Mineral Resources for Cliffs are reported on the basis of a 1 per cent nickel cut-off. The Mineral Resources for Jericho are reported on
the basis of a 0.4 per cent nickel cut-off grade.
(5)
Competent Persons – Resources
Ravensthorpe: A C Bailey (MAusIMM)
Cerro Matoso: C Rodriquez (MAusIMM)
Leinster: M Job (MAusIMM)
Mt Keith: A Weeks (MAusIMM)
Yakabindie: R Behets (FAusIMM)
Cliffs: T Journeaux (MAusIMM)
Jericho: S Fogarty (MAusIMM). 213
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group continued
Stainless Steel Ore Reserves 
(1)(3)(5)(6)
The table below details our Stainless Steel Materials Ore Reserves estimated as at 30 June 2005 (unless otherwise stated) and presented in 
1 00 per cent terms.
Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve BHP Billiton
Commodity Ore Millions of dry Millions of dry Millions of dry Interest
Deposit Type
(1)
metric tonnes %Ni metric tonnes %Ni metric tonnes %Ni %
Nickel
Australia – Projects
Ravensthorpe Laterite 1 25 0.73 1 38 0.57 263 0.65 1 00
Colombia
Cerro Matoso Laterite 34. 1 1 .82 1 1 . 1 1 .60 45. 1 1 .77 99.8
Nickel West
(2)
Leinster OC 0.2 1.9 – – 0.2 1.9 100
S/P 0.2 2.0 – – 0.2 2.0 100
UG 6.5 1 .8 1 1 .4 1 .9 1 7.9 1 .9 1 00
Mt Keith
(4)
OC 1 92 0.54 58 0.47 250 0.53 1 00
S/P 3 1 0.49 3 0.32 34 0.48 1 00
(1) 
UG = underground, OC = open-cut, S/P = stockpile.
(2) 
Ore Reserves for Nickel West have been included following the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd in June 2005. Nickel West Ore Reserve estimates are consistent with
those published by WMC as at end December 2004 updated for production. 
(3) 
The assumed metallurgical recoveries presented in the Ore Reserve tabulation represent the estimated overall recovery of the metal, or mineral, from run-of-mine ore
feed to final saleable product. The reported factors for the operations are estimated primarily on the basis of historical concentrator, smelter and refinery performance,
and do not include current planned metallurgical recovery improvements. Assumed metallurgical recoveries for the individual components of the nickel business are the
following: Leinster concentrator 86 per cent (UG ore) and 82 per cent (OC ore), Mt Keith concentrator 65 per cent (OC ore) and 57 per cent (S/P ore), Kalgoorlie Nickel
Smelter 97 per cent, and Kwinana Nickel Refinery 98 per cent. 
(4) 
The Ore Reserves at Mt Keith Operations are derived from the Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources within the existing life-of-mine pit design, after modifying
factors have been applied, and are reported on the basis of a 0. 18 per cent recovered nickel cut-off grade.
(5) 
Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are:
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves
Ravensthorpe 40mE x 50mN 80mE x 1 00mN
Cerro Matoso 1 7m x 1 7m or less 33m x 33m
Leinster 25m x 25m 25m x 50m
Mt Keith 60m x 40m 80m x 80m
(6) 
Competent Persons – Reserves
Ravensthorpe: M J Bue (PEO)
Cerro Matoso: R Argel (MAusIMM)
Leinster: A Cooper (MAusIMM), M Valent (MAusIMM)
Mt Keith: P Bebbington (MAusIMM). Shareholder Information
214 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
BHP Billiton Plc Number of % of 
fully paid issued 
shares capital
1 PLC Nominees Pty Limited 602 447 676 24.41
2 Chase Nominees Limited 96 630 349 3.92
3 Old Mutual Life Assurance Co SA Ltd 80 065 462 3.24
4 BNY (OCS) Nominees Limited 59 633 546 2.42
5 HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Ltd 
<357206 A/C> 57 1 12 307 2.31
6 Nortrust Nominees Limited <SLEND A/C> 54 618 228 2.21
7 State Street Nominees Limited <OM02 A/C> 50 91 0 375 2.06
8 Chase Nominees Limited <BGILFEL A/C> 47 679 271 1 .93
9 The Bank of New York (Nominees) Limited 41 880 480 1 .70
1 0 Chase Nominees Ltd <LEND A/C> 36 637 521 1 .48
1 1 Industrial Development Corporation 33 804 582 1 .37
12 PIC Int Equity 33 442 81 0 1 .35
1 3 Prudential Client HSBC GIS Nominee (UK) 
Limited <PAC A/C> 33 093 981 1 .34
14 PIC Equity Portfolio 32 787 232 1 .33
15 OMLAC (SA)UPF Scrip Lending POOL 32 523 01 7 1 .32
16 Nortrust Nominees Limited 29 073 122 1 . 18
1 7 HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 
<899877 A/C> 28 963 399 1 . 1 7
18 PIC Stanlib 28 935 316 1 . 1 7
1 9 Mellon Nominees (UK) Limited 
<BSDTGUSD A/C> 26 838 684 1 .09
20 Littledown Nominees Limited 26 693 595 1 .08
1 433 770 953 58.08
BHP Billiton Limited Number of % of 
fully paid issued 
shares capital
1 Westpac Custodian Nominees Ltd 618 088 1 1 7 1 7.22
2 JPMorgan Nominees 459 488 088 12.80
3 National Nominees Ltd 396 801 858 1 1 .06
4 Citicorp Nominees Pty Ltd 215 167 696 6.00
5 ANZ Nominees Ltd <Cash Income A/C> 151 1 30 738 4.21
6 Australian Mutual Provident Society 123 749 749 3.45
7 Queensland Investment Corporation 71 443 307 1 .99
8 HSBC Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 33 794 066 0.94
9 Westpac Financial Services Ltd 18 374 201 0.51
1 0 Government Superannuation Office 
<State Super Fund A/C> 15 679 1 04 0.44
1 1 RBC Global Services Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 
<PIPOOLED A/C> 14 700 875 0.41
12 Commonwealth Superannuation Board 
of Trustees 1 3 500 995 0.38
1 3 NRMA Group 1 3 007 951 0.36
14 Bond Street Custodians Limited 12 977 270 0.36
15 Australian Foundation Invest 12 933 234 0.36
16 Suncorp Insurance & Finance 12 333 094 0.34
1 7 Victorian WorkCover Authority 1 1 034 1 70 0.31
18 INVIA Custodian Pty Limited 1 0 692 582 0.30
1 9 RBC Global Services Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 9 962 771 0.28
20 RBC Global Services Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 
<BKCUST A/C> 9 821 042 0.27
2 224 680 908 61 .99
Twenty largest shareholders as at 31 August 2005 (as named on the Register of Shareholders)
Substantial shareholders
BHP Billiton Plc
By notices provided the Company’s register of substantial
shareholdings showed the following interests in 3 per cent or more 
of the Company’s shares:
Date of notice Ordinary shares %
Old Mutual Plc
(1)
05 Jul 05 21 3 220 031 8.64
Cater Allen International Limited 06 Sep 05 1 30 716 800 5.30
Barclays PLC 16 Mar 05 82 81 1 260 3.36
Legal & General Investment 
Management Limited 14 Jun 02 75 230 880 3.05
(1)
Old Mutual Life Assurance Company (South Africa) Limited holds 120 438 409
shares representing 4.88 per cent of the total disclosed for Old Mutual Plc group
companies.
BHP Billiton Limited
Nil. 215
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Distribution of shareholders and shareholdings as at 31 August 2005
BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Limited
Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares
Numbers % Numbers % Numbers % Numbers %
Registered address
Australia 79 0.6 1 1 37 1 70 0.0 336 749 94.8 3 514 656 830 97.9
New Zealand 1 9 0. 1 44 1 91 0.0 1 0 066 2.9 41 575 698 1 .2
United Kingdom 12 044 85.3 1 852 686 935 75. 1 3 931 1 . 1 1 7 355 663 0.5
United States 64 0.5 21 7 659 0.0 1 812 0.5 4 488 633 0. 1
South Africa 1 334 9.4 608 533 003 24.7 55 0.0 169 297 0.0
Other 573 4. 1 5 528 044 0.2 2 583 0.7 1 0 478 576 0.3
T otal 14 1 1 3 1 00.0 2 468 147 002 1 00.0 355 1 96 1 00.0 3 588 724 697 1 00.0
BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Limited
Shareholders Shares
(1)
Shareholders Shares
(1)
Numbers % Numbers % Numbers % Numbers %
Size of holding
1 – 500
(2)
3 854 27.3 978 276 0.0 91 596 25.8 24 816 764 0.7
501 – 1 000 3 400 24. 1 2 560 699 0. 1 72 950 20.6 58 048 572 1 .6
1 001 – 5 000 4 343 30.8 9 1 01 215 0.4 1 39 920 39.4 324 020 340 9.0
5 001 – 1 0 000 621 4.4 4 454 490 0.2 27 666 7.8 1 96 1 04 373 5.5
1 0 001 – 25 000 470 3.3 7 467 523 0.3 16 737 4.7 253 501 606 7. 1
25 001 – 50 000 287 2.0 1 0 301 077 0.4 3 866 1 . 1 1 32 828 1 09 3.7
50 001 – 1 00 000 249 1 .8 1 7 923 980 0.7 1 570 0.4 1 08 1 06 795 3.0
1 00 001 – 250 000 314 2.2 49 660 395 2.0 61 7 0.2 88 507 004 2.5
250 001 – 500 000 1 78 1 .3 64 307 547 2.6 1 30 0.0 44 551 607 1 .2
500 001 – 1 000 000 157 1 . 1 1 1 3 144 21 9 4.6 55 0.0 40 569 821 1 . 1
1 000 001 and over 240 1 .7 2 188 247 581 88.7 89 0.0 2 31 7 669 706 64.6
T otal 14 1 1 3 1 00.0 2 468 147 002 1 00.0 355 1 96 1 00.0 3 588 724 697 1 00.0
(1)
One share entitles the shareholder to one vote.
(2)
Number of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders holding less than a marketable parcel (A$500) based on the market price of A$20.46 as at 31 August 2005 was 4 638.
BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Limited
Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares
Numbers % Numbers % Numbers % Numbers %
Classification of holder
Corporate 6 788 48. 1 2 453 535 1 38 99.4 55 449 15.6 2 567 784 925 71 .6
Private 7 325 51 .9 14 61 1 864 0.6 299 747 84.4 1 020 939 772 28.4
T otal 14 1 1 3 1 00.0 2 468 147 002 1 00.0 355 1 96 1 00.0 3 588 724 697 1 00.0 Dividend payments
If you wish to have your dividends paid directly into a bank or
building society account, please contact the Registrar in the UK 
or South Africa, as appropriate, for a dividend mandate form.
When you close or amend your banking arrangements, it is essential
you notify the Registrar of the new details.
Dividend determination
The US dollar, in which the majority of the Group’s sales are made,
most reliably records the Group’s global business performance and 
is BHP Billiton’s main reporting currency. It is, therefore, the currency
in which dividends are determined. BHP Billiton Plc dividends are
declared in US dollars and converted into sterling for shareholders 
on the principal register in the UK and into rand for shareholders 
on the branch register in South Africa. 
Consolidation of share certificates
If your certificated ordinary shareholding is represented by several
share certificates, you may wish to have these replaced by one
consolidated certificate. There is no charge to individuals for this
service. You should send your share certificates to the appropriate
Registrar .
Change of address
It is important that shareholders notify BHP Billiton Plc in writing
immediately if there is a change to their registered address. For the
protection of shareholders, instructions to BHP Billiton Plc need to 
be in writing and directed to the Registrar in the United Kingdom 
or South Africa, as appropriate.
Dematerialised holdings under STRATE
If you hold shares dematerialised into STRATE, you should contact
your CSDP or stockbroker regarding the customer service items
mentioned above.
Stock exchange listings
BHP Billiton Plc is listed on stock exchanges in the UK (London), and
South Africa (Johannesburg). In addition, American Depositary Shares
(each representing two ordinary shares) evidenced by American
Depositary Receipts (ADRs) issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
Depositary, trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of BHP Billiton Plc will be held at the
Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
London, on Thursday, 20 October 2005 commencing at 1 0.30 am.
Details of the business of the meeting are contained in the separate
Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report.
Enquiries
Shareholders who wish to contact BHP Billiton Plc on any matter
relating to their shareholdings are invited to telephone the appropriate
Registrars office listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Shareholders may also telephone (44 20) 7802 4000 or write to:
Deputy Secretary
BHP Billiton Plc
Neathouse Place
London SW1V 1BH
United Kingdom
Shareholder Information continued
216 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> BHP BILLITON PLC
REGISTERED OFFICE
United Kingdom
Neathouse Place
London SW1V 1BH 
Telephone (44 20) 7802 4000
Facsimile (44 20) 7802 41 1 1
Company Secretary
Karen J Wood
BHP BILLITON OFFICES
CORPORATE CENTRES
Australia
BHP Billiton Limited
BHP Billiton Centre
180 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
Telephone (61 3) 9609 3333
Facsimile (61 3) 9609 3015
United Kingdom
Neathouse Place
London SW1V 1LH 
Telephone (44 20) 7802 7000
Facsimile (44 20) 7603 8008
South Africa
6 Hollard Street
Johannesburg 2001
Telephone (27 1 1) 376 91 1 1
Facsimile (27 1 1) 838 4716
United States
1 360 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 150
Houston, TX 77056-3020 
Telephone (1 71 3) 961 8500
Facsimile (1 71 3) 961 8400
Chile 
Avenida Americo Vespucio Sur # 1 00, 
9th Floor 
Las Condes 
Santiago 
Telephone (56 2) 330 5000 
Facsimile (56 2) 330 5601 
MARKETING OFFICES
The Netherlands
Verheeskade 25
2521 BE The Hague
Telephone (31 70) 315 6666
Facsimile (31 70) 315 6767
Singapore
168 Robinson Road #1 0-01
Capital T ower
Singapore 068912
Telephone (65) 6349 3333
Facsimile (65) 6349 4000
REGISTRARS AND TRANSFER
OFFICES
United Kingdom
The Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
Postal Address – 
PO Box 82 Bristol BS99 7NH
Telephone (44 870) 889 3148
Facsimile (44 870) 703 61 03
Email enquiries:
web.queries@computershare.co.uk
South Africa 
Mailing Address
Computershare Investor Services 
2004 (Pty) Limited
PO Box 61 051
Marshalltown 21 07
Office Address
70 Marshall Street
Johannesburg 2001
Telephone (27 1 1) 370 5312
Facsimile (27 1 1) 688 5250
Holders of shares dematerialised into
STRATE should contact their CSDP or
stockbroker .
United States
Computershare Investor Services
2 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Postal Address
PO Box 0289
Chicago, IL 60690-9569
Telephone 1 800 991 8974 
(toll-free within US)
Facsimile (1 312) 461 4331
ADR Depositary, Transfer Agent 
and Registrar
JPMorgan Chase Bank
Shareholder Services
PO Box 4301 3
Providence, RI 02940-301 3
Telephone (1 781) 575 4328 
(outside of US)
1 800 990 1 1 35 (toll-free within US)
Facsimile (1 781) 575 4082
Email: adr@jpmorgan.com
Receive your Annual Report
electronically.
BHP Billiton Plc’s Annual Report is also
posted on the internet. Shareholders are
encouraged to visit www.bhpbilliton.com
to inspect the electronic version of the
Annual Report and provide feedback to
the Company.
Corporate Directory
BHP Billiton is a Dual Listed Company comprising BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc. The two entities continue to exist as separate companies but operate as
a combined group known as BHP Billiton. 
The headquarters of BHP Billiton Limited and the global headquarters of the combined BHP Billiton Group are located in Melbourne, Australia. BHP Billiton Plc is
located in London, UK. Both companies have identical Boards of Directors and are run by a unified management team. Throughout this Report the Boards are
referred to collectively as the Board. Shareholders in each company have equivalent economic and voting rights in the BHP Billiton Group as a whole.
The laws in Australia and the UK require us to adopt a different approach to reporting results. This Annual Report deals with the affairs of the BHP Billiton Group
as a whole.
Throughout this Report, the terms BHP Billiton, the Company and the Group refer to the combined group, including both BHP Billiton Limited and subsidiary
companies and BHP Billiton Plc and subsidiary companies. The term ‘the merger’ has a corresponding meaning.
Copies of the Annual Reports for BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited (Concise Report and Combined Financial Statements) can be found on
www.bhpbilliton.com. Shareholders may also request a copy by telephoning (44 20) 7802 41 01 . Designed by Amanda Roach Design, printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press.
Photography by Anthony Bannister, Giles Barnard, Garth Oriander, Andrew Stevens, Graeme Williams and others. www .bhpbilliton.com
