 Amec Foster Wheeler plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Connected
excellence Amec F oster Wheeler serves major corporations 
and government bodies in the oil, gas and 
chemicals, mining, power and process and 
environment and infrastructure markets. 
Customers choose us because we help 
maximise the value of their assets by reducing 
the capital cost of construction and the lifetime 
cost of operation and maintenance. W e do 
this through concept studies and design work, 
value engineering, consistent project delivery, 
developing innovative solutions and adopting 
technology to enhance efficiency.
W e are a leading player in our markets and have 
a strong reputation for delivering and maintaining 
some of the world’s largest and most complex 
projects.
In March 2017 , the board recommended  
an all share offer for the entire issued and  
to be issued share capital of the Company  
by John W ood Group. The board believes 
that a combination with John W ood Group 
will accelerate the delivery of the future value 
inherent in the Company.
W elcome to Amec F oster Wheeler
Strategic report: overview
01 Performance highlights
02 Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance
06 Our business model
08 Chairman’s statement
09 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
 
Strategic report: strategic review
14 Our markets
16 Our strategy
22 Key performance indicators
24 Key contract wins and order book
25 People
28 Principal risks and uncertainties
33 Sustainability
 
Strategic report: performance review
34 Financial review
 
Governance
46 Chairman’s governance overview
47 Leadership and effectiveness
 47 Our board of directors
 50 Amec Foster Wheeler governance structure
 51 Board role and responsibilities
 52 Board composition
 53 The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 53 Senior Independent Director
 54 Non-executive Directors
 55 Board meetings
 56 Conflicts of interest
 57 Professional development
 58 Evaluation
 59 Nominations committee
 61 Our Executive committee
 63 Management committees
64 Accountability
 64 Risk management and internal control systems
 65 Audit committee
 70 Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee
72 Remuneration
 72 Remuneration committee
 74 Directors’ remuneration report
89 Engagement
 89 Relations with shareholders
90 Directors’ report
93 Responsibility statements of the directors
 
Financials
94 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc
102  Report of independent registered public accounting firm  
on internal control over financial reporting
103 Report of independent registered public accounting firm
104 Consolidated income statement
105 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
106 Consolidated balance sheet
107 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
110 Consolidated cash flow statement
112 Notes to the consolidated accounts
167 Company balance sheet
168 Company statement of changes in equity
169 Notes to the company accounts
 
Additional information
176 History and development
177 Risk factors
188 Performance measures
191 Prior year operating results
196 Information for shareholders
197 Other information
210 Cross reference to Form 20-F
212 Related undertakings
222 Five-year record (unaudited)
223 Glossary
224 Forward-looking statements Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
01
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
Amec F oster Wheeler delivered resilient trading 
results for 2016. Despite continuing weakness 
in some key markets, we benefited from the 
diversity of our business, cost saving initiatives 
and the fall in sterling in the second half. 
P erformance highlights
Revenue
1, 2
£m 
5,455
2015
5,440
2016
3,993
2014
3,974
2013
4,088
2012
Adjusted diluted EPS
1, 2, 4
p 
67.7
2015
50.4
2016
79.5
2014
87.2
2013
78.6
2012
Profit/(loss)  
before tax
1, 2
£m 
2015
(235)
2016
(542)
155
2014
255
2013
254
2012
Adjusted measures used by the Group, such as adjusted 
profit before tax and adjusted diluted EPS, are explained and 
reconciled to the equivalent IFRS measures in the section 
entitled Performance measures on pages 188 to 190.
Notes
1 Continuing operations.
2  Figures for 2012 have been restated to reflect the reclassification in 2013  
of the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation and the 
adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ .
We have made good progress with our wide-ranging review  
of our strategy, organisational structure and cost base:
 X New leaner organisational structure introduced from  
1 January 2017 , focused on four market-facing business lines
 X Business line strategies refreshed, to focus on areas  
of greatest opportunity
 X Sustainable net cost reductions of £100m per year identified, 
with the full run rate reached by 2019
 X Progress made in delivering the non-core disposal programme
13 March 2017 announcement and offer from  
John Wood Group
The board has recommended an all share offer for the entire 
issued and to be issued share capital of the Company from 
John Wood Group, at an exchange ratio of 0.75 John Wood Group 
shares for each Amec Foster Wheeler share. Further details are 
available at www.amecfw.com/investors/ offer-by-wood-group-plc
 X The offer from John Wood Group meant that the Company 
ceased preparation for a rights issue of approximately £500m 
designed to strengthen the balance sheet. We also announced 
our intention to suspend future dividends until the Company  
is generating sustainable free cash flow
Adjusted profit  
before tax
1, 2, 3
£m 
334
2015
254
2016
317
2014
332
2013
327
2012
3  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional 
items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-
related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the 
Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
4  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year before 
exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, 
asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), 
and the tax effect of those items, divided by the diluted number of 
ordinary shares. 02
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
What we do
Our customers’ operations rely on their assets, 
ranging from oil platforms to power plants and 
mines. W e help them maximise the value of these 
assets throughout their lifecycle. 
Amec F oster Wheeler at a glance
We offer similar services in each of our markets and many  
of our capabilities are transferable across markets. 
We deliver our services around the world through approximately 
35,000 highly skilled people, including engineers, project 
managers, consultants and scientists. As a people-based 
business, our operating model is low risk and asset light  
(see pages 6 to 7).
Project viability review
Greenfield projects
Brownfield projects
O&M support
Late life management
Environmental services
Well positioned across the life cycle of our customers’ assets
Consulting  
and front end
Consulting with 
our customers 
to determine what 
they require from 
their assets.
Execution/design  
and construction
Conceptualising 
and designing their 
capital projects.
Hook-up and 
commissioning
Overseeing the 
installation and 
commissioning 
of these assets.
Asset support
Providing services 
and consultancy 
to operate, maintain 
and enhance assets.
Decommissioning 
and remediation
Helping customers  
to decommission 
assets at the end of 
their economic use. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
03
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
Our business lines
Since 1 January 2017 , we have organised our operations into 
four global market-facing business lines. This structure aligns 
our organisation with our customers, helping us to meet their 
needs more effectively and efficiently. 
Our structure aligns  
our organisation with 
our customers.
Environment & 
Infrastructure
Our Environment & 
Infrastructure business 
focuses on environmental 
consulting, engineering 
design and programme and 
construction management.
We offer complete solutions 
to public and private-sector 
customers worldwide. 
Our customers benefit 
from experts with a broad 
understanding of local 
conditions, coupled with easy 
access to world-renowned 
technical expertise.
By positioning ourselves 
as a trusted partner at the 
beginning of a project – often 
the early site development 
and permitting stage – we 
can deliver comprehensive 
solutions across the lifecycle 
of our customers’ assets.
Our Environment & 
Infrastructure business 
consists of the following 
sectors: water; transportation; 
civil infrastructure; 
government; and industrial 
and pharmaceutical.
Customers include the  
US Federal Government,  
which is the largest procurer  
of environmental services  
in the world. 
Mining
We provide mining 
consultancy (including ore 
resource estimation, mine 
planning and feasibility 
studies), design, and 
project and construction 
management services to a 
range of mining companies, 
primarily in the Americas  
and Africa. 
The Mining business is 
intentionally diversified 
and we have developed 
technical capabilities in a 
range of commodities, which 
differentiate us from our 
competitors. We have a strong 
position in the recent growth 
commodities of potash, gold 
and lithium, among others. 
The breadth of our capabilities 
allows us to respond to growing 
demand for a particular 
commodity and to mitigate the 
impact of market volatility and 
changing customer focus.
T erra Nova T echnologies 
is a project group within 
the Mining business that 
designs and builds material 
handling solutions, such as 
high speed conveyor belts 
and crushing plants, for new 
and existing mines.
Power & Process
In renewables, our focus is on 
delivering customer projects, 
primarily for local utilities. 
We provide a full-service 
engineering, procurement and 
construction solution for wind, 
solar, biomass and biofuels 
projects. US solar is our 
primary market in Power.
Within the conventional 
power market, we work with 
utilities to upgrade and modify 
their existing assets, often 
in relation to environmental 
or regulatory compliance 
requirements, by providing 
consulting and engineering 
services, as well as project 
delivery solutions.
We also have an extensive 
track record of serving a 
broad range of industrial 
customers, such as the pulp 
and paper industry, with their 
process, steam and power 
needs. We provide them with 
consulting and engineering 
services, as well as project 
delivery solutions.
Oil, Gas & Chemicals
The Oil, Gas & Chemicals value 
chain has three segments: 
upstream, which involves 
exploration and production; 
midstream, which includes 
transportation and natural gas 
processing; and downstream, 
which is mainly the refining 
and petrochemical industries. 
We operate in every part of the 
project delivery phase of this 
value chain, except early cycle 
exploration and drilling. 
The majority of our upstream 
activity is currently in 
conventional oil and gas 
fields, in particular offshore oil 
facilities, providing feasibility 
studies, front-end engineering 
design, detailed engineering, 
project management, hook up 
and commissioning, and asset 
support services. 
In midstream, we support 
assets focused on storage and 
transport for both onshore 
and offshore facilities, as well 
as gas monetisation projects. 
For downstream customers, 
we focus on refinery projects 
and chemicals.
We serve a broad range 
of customers, including 
international oil companies, 
national oil companies  
and independent operators 
in Europe, the Americas, 
the Middle East, Africa, the 
Caspian, Southeast Asia  
and China. 04
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Amec F oster Wheeler at a glance continued
Where we operate
Amec Foster Wheeler operates in more than 55 countries and is headquartered in London, UK.
Employees 2016
35k
Total revenue 2016
£5.4bn
Split of revenue
% 
 Oil, Gas & Chemicals 
 Mining  
 Power & Process 
 Environment & Infrastructure 
 GPG and Investment Services
41
26
5
17
11
Office locations
Legacy reporting
For the year ended 31 December 2016, our business was 
organised into four business units. Three had geographical 
remits, namely the Americas; Northern Europe and the 
Commonwealth of Independent States; and Asia, Middle East, 
Africa and Southern Europe. The fourth business unit, the 
Global Power Group, had a global remit. Descriptions of  
these business units, and how each performed during 2016,  
can be found in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 45.
Investment Services
In addition to the business units described above,  
Investment Services manages the Company’s non-core and 
legacy assets and liabilities. These now include the European 
T ransmission and Distribution operations and two wind  
farms in Northern Europe. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
05
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
Order book
% 
 Oil, Gas & Chemicals 
 Mining  
 Power & Process 
 Environment & Infrastructure 
 GPG and Investment Services
BP
ConocoPhillips
Dominion 
Duke Energy
Enel Green Power
Engie
Enterprise Products Operating LLC
ExxonMobil
Georgia Pacific
Hyundai
K&S Potash Canada
KOC
Kuwait National Petroleum Co
National Grid
Petra Diamonds
Repsol Sinopec
Sempra
Southern Company
US Army Corps of Engineers
ZADCO
W e work for a wide 
range of customers, 
from blue-chip 
companies to national 
and local governments. 
Disposal programme
Over the past 12 months, the board has decided to dispose  
of a number of non-core businesses and assets, including:
 X Our Global Power Group (GPG), which offers a full range 
of steam generator equipment, clean air technologies, 
aftermarket products and services to the power, industrial, 
and waste-to-energy sectors 
The sale of GPG, originally announced in March 2016, has 
taken longer than expected. In November 2016, we decided 
to split GPG and pursue a plan to sell the parts to different 
parties. The disposal of the major part, the circulating  
fluidised bed (CFB) boiler business, to Sumitomo Heavy 
Industries, Ltd. for £137m, is expected to close in June 2017 .  
We anticipate selling further parts of GPG before the end of 
2017 . The aftermarket sales business is being retained as  
part of Power & Process.
 X Our Australian-based specialist consultancy, Aquenta 
Consulting, which provides cost, risk, project management 
and asset optimisation services to a broad range of 
customers, mainly in the property and infrastructure space. 
The sale of Aquenta to Jacobs Group (Australia) Pty Ltd  
for £21m closed in early 2017
 X Our equity interests in three infrastructure assets.  
These are PetroPower, a waste-to-energy project in Chile; 
Amec Foster Wheeler Power, which operates two wind farms 
in Italy; and the Incheon Bridge in South Korea. Subject to 
final completion, these are expected to realise proceeds 
totalling £88m 
 X Our nuclear business, which supports the full lifecycle 
of nuclear energy and has experience of a wide range of 
nuclear technology. Its customers include major utilities, 
governments, national regulators, reactor suppliers and other 
significant stakeholders. The sale process is continuing and  
we are on target to sell the business in the third quarter of 2017 
Order book
£5.8bn
The customers we serve
We work for a wide range of customers, from blue-chip 
companies to national and local governments. Our major 
customers include:
51
19
2
16
12 06
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
W e follow a three-stage process for winning and delivering work. This draws on our distinct 
competitive advantages, to enable us to compete effectively and create value.
Our business model
The BD teams coordinate the preparation of our proposals, along with the 
technical, project delivery and commercial teams. This includes aligning 
our strengths to customer needs to differentiate our proposal against 
competitors. T o benefit from the breadth of our business, we collaborate 
across business lines, capabilities and geographies to offer customers the 
best and most competitive solution, sharing expertise and key resource 
from around the Company. We draw on our ability to create innovative 
solutions for our customers and, where required, look to develop innovative 
commercial models.
A gated review process ensures we test our proposals at critical points and 
only progress those that continue to meet our criteria. During the Acquire 
stage we review our execution strategy and ensure we have identified the 
project risks and put plans in place to mitigate them. This plays a vital role 
in ensuring that we win projects with the greatest possible opportunity 
for success, maximising the value we generate from our resources and 
addressing risks that are part of contracting in our industry.
We use a detailed workflow system which addresses the risks associated 
with tenders (for both lump sum and reimbursable contracts) in areas such 
as technical challenges, financial and pricing terms, and joint venture and 
partner risks, as well as a full range of governance issues, such as human 
rights, safety and environmental risks.
All very large contracts, and those where any exception has been flagged  
in the approval system, are raised through the governance framework to 
a final decision at the T ender Review Committee, which is attended by the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 
Once all aspects of the bid have been reviewed and approved, we submit 
the bid, negotiate with the customer and secure the work.
Business Development (BD) is embedded in each of our four business lines 
to locate it as close as possible to our customers. Each BD team ensures 
we have a fundamental understanding of our markets and our customers’ 
needs. This enables the BD teams to create strategic plans aligned to our 
strategy and the business lines’ overall market strategy.
In addition to the prospects we identify, we also learn about projects through 
invitations to tender. We assess all prospects based on our positioning 
and capabilities, commercial considerations and their alignment with our 
strategy. BD then pursues suitable prospects. This stage includes early 
identification of our execution strategy, the resources required and our 
capacity to deliver. Our assurance process makes sure we only pursue 
the most appropriate targets.
The strength of our long-term customer relationships is a crucial advantage 
for us, helping us to understand their needs, learn about upcoming projects 
and win repeat business. Relationships with global key accounts are 
overseen by key account managers within the relevant business line’s BD 
team to ensure they have appropriate visibility and we take a consistent 
approach. Our brand and reputation for delivery are also crucial, helping us 
to attract new customers.
In addition, our Environment & Infrastructure (E&I) business line is an 
important enabler for us. Its involvement in the earliest stages of proposed 
projects, for example during permitting and environmental impact analysis, 
helps us to identify opportunities ahead of our competitors. We therefore 
embed E&I resources into the other three business lines.
Having won the project, we finalise our execution plan and mobilise the 
people who will deliver it. Delivering a project requires us to put together 
teams of people who match the precise needs of the project and the 
customer. Thus, we expect to recruit thousands of people each year, with 
others leaving us when their projects complete. However, the breadth of 
our business reduces our need to recruit, since many skills are transferable 
across our markets. This means we are often able to redeploy people from 
areas of reducing demand to parts of the business where demand is rising, 
ensuring we retain their knowledge and experience.
Through the strength of our peoples’ delivery, we create the long-term 
customer relationships and reputation for excellence on which our business 
depends. Standard processes support consistent delivery across the 
Company. We incentivise our people to deliver, offering financial recognition 
through meeting individual objectives, as well as personal recognition and 
career development. We invest in both technical and leadership training  
to maintain the pipeline of talented people we need. 
During the delivery phase, we monitor customer satisfaction with our work. 
Global and local account managers are responsible for account planning and 
co-ordinating the customer relationship. A project director is responsible 
for the delivery of our work, in line with our contract and the customers’ 
expectations. The director leads and manages the project team, with 
responsibility for running the project on a day-to-day basis.
T echnical functions – Engineering & T echnical, Supply Chain & Procurement, 
Construction & Commissioning and Project Management & Controls – work 
with the project teams to ensure project work matches the standards we 
expect. These technical functions are embedded in the business lines, giving 
them technical expertise and oversight aligned to the needs of each business 
line, and driving consistency and predictability of outcomes. Common 
systems help us to deliver work consistently and share work across offices 
and time zones.
Identify
The first stage in our process is to identify prospective projects.
Acquire
The second stage is to acquire the projects we want to win.
1
2
Deliver
The third stage is to deliver excellence to our customers. This means consistently delivering projects  
and services that meet our customers’ expectations, safely, on time and to budget.
3 Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
07
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
A low risk, capital light model
The breadth of our market and customer exposure gives 
us access to more opportunities and reduces the impact of 
lower levels of activity in any one market. This diversity of 
our business reduces risk. The footprint established by one 
business line also provides a springboard for our other business 
lines in that country or region. Our breadth means our work 
is spread across a large customer base, through more than 
10,000 contracts each year. Our top ten customers accounted 
for 34% of revenue in 2016.
We also have a diversified service offering which partially offsets 
the cyclical nature of our customers’ capital expenditure plans 
and reduces our dependence on any one part of the energy mix.
Our services can be provided through long-term contracts, 
giving us the opportunity to provide critical services in 
partnership with our customers. Many of these contracts have 
been renewed several times. As a result, our order book is 
balanced between capex and opex-related work.
The majority of contracts reimburse us for our people’s time  
and materials. We often also receive additional payments  
by achieving performance targets. In certain circumstances 
where we are confident of the project requirements, we take  
on fixed-price work. 
We have a capital light model. We are a people-based business 
and do not own significant amounts of equipment. Our profit 
margin and trading cash conversion reflect the quality of our 
project delivery.
Our competitive advantages
We believe we have a number of important competitive 
advantages, in particular:
 X The strength of our brand and the reputation of our 
people, which help us to deliver excellent work and attract 
new customers
 X Our long-term customer relationships, which help us 
to position for new projects and win a high proportion 
of repeat business
 X Our E&I business, which is involved in the earliest stage  
of projects and helps to identify opportunities for our other 
business lines
 X Our ability to create innovative solutions and commercial 
models, which differentiate our propositions
 X The diversity of our business, as a broad market exposure and 
service offering reduces risk and opens up more opportunities 
Core services
% 
 Project delivery 
 Professional services 
 Other 
 
40
56
4
Diversified customer base
% 
 T op 10 
 11-20 
 Others 
10
56
34
Revenue by contract style
% 
 Reimbursable 
 Fixed price 
 Other 
59
1 40
Order book at 31 December 2016
% 
 Capex 
 Opex
55
45 08
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Y our Company’s performance
The Company delivered a resilient trading performance  
in the face of tough market conditions, especially in oil and  
gas and mining. Our trading profit
1
 in 2016 was £318m,  
down 15% from the £374m we achieved in 2015, but in line  
with our expectations for the year. 
In August, the board declared an interim dividend of 7 .4p per 
share, which was paid in January 2017 . This was half the 14.8p 
per share paid for the same period in 2015, which is in line with 
the board’s guidance from the end of 2015. As indicated above, 
the board has not recommended a final dividend in respect  
of 2016.
Offer from John Wood Group
In March 2017 , the board recommended an all-share offer for 
the entire issued and to be issued share capital of the Company 
from John Wood Group. Whilst Amec Foster Wheeler, under the 
leadership of Jon Lewis, has developed a comprehensive 
strategy and transformation programme to deliver the 
appropriate balance sheet to support its standalone prospects, 
the board believes that a combination with John Wood Group 
will accelerate the delivery of the future value inherent in the 
Company and help to realise the full potential of both companies.
The offer will allow our shareholders to benefit from the 
significant synergies and other strategic benefits which are 
expected to be realised from the enlarged group. 
Y our board
Following Jon Lewis’ appointment as Chief Executive Officer, 
Ian McHoul ceased to be interim Chief Executive Officer and 
remained as Chief Financial Officer.
Neil Carson retired from the board on 31 December 2016, after 
six years as a non-executive director. In addition, Kent Masters, 
who was appointed as non-executive director on 13 February 
2015, will step down following the conclusion of the AGM. I want 
to thank both Neil and Kent for their considerable contribution 
during their time on the board. Colin Day replaced Neil as your 
Senior Independent Director. Roy Franklin was appointed as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and also joined the 
Audit Committee. Bob Card was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 March 2017 for an initial term of three years,  
which will end at the 2020 AGM.
Conclusion
Jon Lewis and his senior team have made substantial progress 
towards the transformation of the business and I want to thank 
them and all of our employees for their hard work during a 
challenging year. The board believes that combining with John 
Wood Group will accelerate the delivery of the results from the 
transformation programme and allow shareholders to benefit 
from the synergies which are expected of the enlarged group.
 
John Connolly 
Chairman 
25 April 2017
Chairman’s statement
2016 was a year of considerable change for Amec Foster 
Wheeler and we made very good progress in developing our 
plans to position the Company for the future. We have also 
made an encouraging start to implementing these changes.
The year began with Samir Brikho’s departure as Chief Executive 
Officer on 17 January, as I described in my statement in the 
2015 annual report. Ian McHoul stepped in to be interim 
Chief Executive Officer and the board began the search for a 
permanent replacement. After a thorough selection process,  
we were delighted to appoint Dr Jonathan (Jon) Lewis, who joined 
us on 1 June. Jon has 30 years’ experience in the oil and gas 
industry, including 20 years as a senior executive at Halliburton. 
He has a track record of safe and ethical operations, market 
insight, strong leadership as well as commercial discipline. These 
qualities are already proving highly valuable to your Company.
Jon started with a review of the Company’s strategy, 
organisation and cost base, after which he launched a 
comprehensive transformation programme to fundamentally 
improve the performance and growth of the Company. More 
details on this programme can be found in his statement on 
the following pages. The board believed that a greater focus 
on operational performance, cost and delivering excellence for 
customers was a necessary first step to putting Amec Foster 
Wheeler back on the path to growth. 
A critical part of securing the Company’s future was to ensure  
it has the financial strength and flexibility it needs. At the time  
of acquiring Foster Wheeler in 2014, the Company believed  
it would generate sufficient cash to significantly reduce its net 
debt. The downturn in the oil price and the general decline in the 
sector however contributed to a combination of lower cash and 
profit generation that resulted in gearing (calculated as the ratio 
of net debt to EBITDA) of 3.3 at 31 December 2016. 
In order to provide the Company with financial and operational 
flexibility to implement its new strategy and to strengthen 
the balance sheet, the board was preparing to launch a rights 
issue of approximately £500m on 21 March 2017 , as well as 
continuing the programme of disposals and has decided to 
suspend dividend payments (including the final dividend for 
2016) until the Company is generating sustainable free cash 
flow. In light of the offer from John Wood Group referred to 
below, the preparations for the rights issue were suspended. 
The Company has increased its leverage ratio covenant within 
its debt facilities to provide additional headroom. Good progress 
has been made on the non-core asset disposal programme and 
the board launched a process to sell the Company’s nuclear 
operations in December 2016 which is expected to conclude 
in Q3, 2017 .
John Connolly
Chairman
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190) Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
09
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 for 2016
50.4p
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Amec Foster Wheeler has many strengths, including the quality 
of its people, its brand and reputation and the truly impressive 
core consulting and engineering it offers its customers. 
However, when I joined last June, it was immediately apparent 
to me that significant change was required. The Company 
needed to win more business, reduce its debt and cost base, 
and refresh its strategy. Most importantly of all, we needed  
to generate sustainable free cash flow again.
We have seen material declines in natural resources markets 
over recent years and conditions in these markets remain 
challenging. The oil and gas market is currently oversupplied 
and customers are curtailing their upstream capital investment, 
focusing on the most cost-effective resources. Industry 
forecasts show upstream capex only growing moderately in 
2017 , with a strong outlook for onshore unconventional plays in 
the US and a weaker outlook for the rest of the world. Estimates 
of 2017 capex in mining are equivalent to the spend in 2007 . 
In these conditions, doing nothing was not an option.  
We therefore approached our task with a real sense of urgency, 
launching our Company-wide transformation programme  
in August 2016.
Strengthening the balance sheet
The purpose of the transformation programme is to strengthen 
the balance sheet and put Amec Foster Wheeler on a 
sustainable growth trajectory.
As part of the programme, we are continuing to dispose of 
our non-core assets. The disposal of the major part of the GPG,  
the circulating fluidised bed boiler business, is now expected 
to close in June 2017 . We have completed the sale of a 
number of smaller assets and announced the disposal of 
our nuclear business. We also have agreements to sell three 
infrastructure assets. 
As the Chairman has outlined in his statement, we were close 
to launching a rights issue and had decided to suspend the 
dividend until we are generating sustainable free cash flow 
when the offer from John Wood Group was announced.
Offer from John Wood Group
The proposed combination with John Wood Group means 
that a rights issue is no longer necessary and we expect our 
shareholders to benefit from John Wood Group’s progressive 
dividend payments. 
The combination with John Wood Group adds to the standalone 
prospects of the Company and will allow our shareholders to 
benefit from significant cost synergies.
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190)
Amec F oster Wheeler 
has many strengths, 
including its brand 
and reputation.
Order book
£5.8bn
Jon Lewis
Chief Executive Officer  10
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Notwithstanding current 
market conditions, we see 
long-term growth potential 
in each of the four markets 
we serve.
The global business lines 
model holds the leadership 
of each line accountable 
for penetrating all their 
markets around the world.
Delivering 
excellence is 
a key theme 
of our work.
Adapting the business model and delivering excellence
While we have faced tough markets, it is also clear that 
many of our other challenges can be rectified through the 
improvement of our practices and procedures in order to 
increase performance. Delivering excellence is a key theme of 
our work. We need to be consistent around the world and share 
best practice across the business. We also need to ensure there 
is accountability, discipline and operational control. 
We must be more cost effective, so we never lose work on 
price alone. This includes making greater use of our Indian 
engineering operations and sharing work between offices 
more effectively. We also identified that we need to be more 
customer-centric, so that rather than going to customers with 
what we want to sell, we identify the value proposition and pitch 
for work based on what the customer is looking for. Innovation 
and technology also have an important part to play, both in 
enhancing our offering to customers and improving our own 
efficiency and effectiveness.
The new organisational structure is an important step towards 
achieving these goals. By focusing on our four markets, we 
are much more aligned to our customers’ needs and better 
positioned to ensure global consistency in delivering projects 
and solutions. Business Development, which has been 
underinvested in the past, is now embedded in our business 
lines, locating it as close as possible to the customer.
Simplifying our business and moving away from the previous 
semi-autonomous geographical model will help us to share 
innovation and best practice around the Company. For example, 
our highly effective More4Less value engineering approach 
(developed for the North Sea market) gives customers a 
real solution for reducing their capex and opex, sometimes 
by as much as 40%. However, we have not effectively 
internationalised it. The global business lines model holds the 
leadership of each line accountable for penetrating all of their 
markets around the world.
Our new organisation is also considerably leaner, removing 
multiple levels of management and duplication of functions, 
so we are more competitive and better able to bid and win work. 
We have removed around 650 overhead management roles 
which will leave us with no more than two layers between me 
and our projects. The introduction of our new operating model 
is bringing more operational rigour to the business, with a single 
set of policies, procedures and systems. The Company currently 
has numerous back office IT systems which add unnecessary 
complexity to our operations. We are continuing to invest in 
our Human Resources planning software where the business 
case for this investment is compelling, as it will streamline our 
operations and drive best practice. We have decided to put 
on hold our planned investment in new enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) software pending the completion of the offer 
from John Wood Group.
Investment in our functions is another key element of our 
new structure. We have created four new technical functions 
which are common across our business lines – Engineering 
& T echnical, Supply Chain & Procurement, Construction 
& Commissioning and Project Management & Controls. 
These functions are embedded in the business lines,   Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
11
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
People and culture
As a people-based business, attracting, developing and retaining 
key talent is at the heart of everything we do. We want Amec Foster 
Wheeler to be known as ‘the place to work’ , where we celebrate 
talent, innovation, success and diversity, and reward and provide 
career advancement based on contribution and performance.
I believe that businesses with engaged employees perform 
better, so it is vitally important that we understand the views 
of our people. In recent months, we have undertaken several 
surveys to ascertain their views, helping us to design our new 
organisational model.
Our plans for the Company can only succeed if we have the 
right culture. The People section on page 25 describes the 
culture we are instilling as a central part of our transformation 
programme, in conjunction with significant improvements 
to staff communications.
2016 performance
Given the conditions in natural resources end markets, our 
2016 trading performance was robust, as we benefited from 
the breadth of our diverse business – especially the record 
performance from solar, cost saving actions and the fall in 
sterling in the second half of the year. We delivered a trading 
profit
1
 of £318m (2015: £374m) on revenues of £5,440m 
(2015: £5,455m), resulting in a trading margin of 5.8%. This 
contributed to adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 of 50.4p 
(2015: 67 .7p). Net debt increased from £946m to £1,021m 
at 31 December 2016. More information on our financial 
performance can be found in the Financial Review on  
pages 34 to 45.
We continued to win a wide range of work across our markets. 
Details of selected contract wins announced in the year and a 
breakdown of our year-end order book can be found on page 24.
Outlook
We made a solid start to our transformation programme  
in the second half of 2016.
2017 will be a year when we embed these changes within  
Amec Foster Wheeler. Standard policies, procedures and 
systems across the Company will help us to better serve our 
customers. In addition, we will continue with the non-core asset 
disposal programme.
We continue to expect another year of oil and gas decline in 2017 
and for solar activity to reduce significantly from the record 
levels seen in 2016. It is also expected that there will be a better 
performance from environment and infrastructure and a further 
significant contribution from standalone overhead cost savings. 
This year, we will continue to leverage the outstanding technical 
expertise of our people to best serve our customers and deliver 
projects safely across all the markets in which we operate. 
This and the improvements we have made to the business will 
ensure we continue to make significant progress in 2017 .
 
 
Jon Lewis
Chief Executive Officer 
25 April 2017
so they can provide the right support and oversight in each 
market while driving consistent and predictable outcomes. 
Business functions such as Finance and HR also now have 
a direct reporting line into the same functions at Company 
level. The goal is to drive standardisation and common 
policies and procedures, and ensure they are embraced 
across the organisation.
In creating our new structure, we have identified in excess 
of £100m of cost that we can sustainably remove from our 
overheads. After investing in more efficient tools, processes 
and systems, this will result in a benefit of £100m to our bottom 
line each year. We expect a good proportion of these savings to 
come through in 2017 , with the full run rate achieved by 2019. 
Maximising opportunities
Notwithstanding current market conditions, we see long-term 
growth potential in each of the four markets we serve. We have 
refreshed our business line strategies to focus on the areas with 
the greatest opportunity.
An important part of this will be expanding our role on projects, 
making it routine that we pull through more services than just 
the original contract scope. We aim to increase our exposure to 
opex and mature assets and have a globally balanced portfolio 
of contracts, with a mix of greenfield and opex. Our ability to 
differentiate ourselves through innovative solutions and sharing 
best practice, whilst remaining cost competitive, will be key.
Creating partnerships will also help us to share risk and enter 
new markets. For example, we are talking to manufacturers of 
specialist equipment with a view to providing a joint offering 
that combines their technology with our capabilities in 
installation, operations and maintenance.
The changes we are making to our short-term incentive plans 
will reward the behaviours we need to deliver our transformation 
dependent on delivery of financial and non-financial metrics 
as well as individual targets. 
Building Responsibly 
The diversity and complexity of our projects across our markets 
and value chain means that we can encounter degrees of risk 
relating to modern slavery. In December 2016, we published 
our first Slavery and Human T raffic statement, as we have a 
responsibility to ensure that our own employees, together 
with the workers in our value chain, are not victims of slavery; 
whether it is human trafficking or forced and bonded labour.  
The publishing of our statement sets out the baseline from which 
we can continue to drive awareness and implement a programme 
of continuous improvement to help tackle this issue.
Building upon our commitment to deliver projects and 
operations safely in the countries we operate in, I am proud that 
Amec Foster Wheeler was one of the six founding companies 
within the engineering and construction sector for the Building 
Responsibly initiative. The initiative seeks to develop and share 
best practice, as well as agree on common approaches and 
standards to respect rights and improve the welfare of workers 
within their operations. We have included a key performance 
indicator on page 23 which recognises the importance of this 
issue for the Company. 
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190) 12
Our success in servicing the solar energy market 
has grown steadily since we first entered the 
market in 2008. In less than 10 years, we have 
designed and built nearly 30 solar energy 
facilities and installed over 1.63 gigawatts direct 
current (GW dc) of solar energy projects across 
North America.
T oday, we are recognised as a leading solar 
power contractor in the US by Engineering News 
Record and one of the top tier solar engineering, 
procurement and construction companies in 
North America by Solar P ower W orld.
Our employees installing 
solar panels on the Arizona 
Public Service solar project 
in Yuma, Arizona, US. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
13
Additional information
Connected
excellence
thr ough the 
skills and 
e xpertis e o f 
our people 14
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Our markets
Our competitive environment
We face robust competition from a wide range of companies in each of our markets. However, there is no one competitor operating 
in all the same markets, with the same geographic footprint and with a similar approach to risk as Amec Foster Wheeler.
Oil, Gas & Chemicals
Spending in the Oil, Gas & Chemicals market, and capex 
in particular, is heavily influenced by oil and gas prices and 
their respective outlooks. This has had a significant effect 
on our markets.
In the last quarter of 2014, oil prices fell from around $100 per 
barrel to below $50, largely because the Organisation of the 
Petroleum Exporting Countries ended its policy of managing 
output and decided to focus on maintaining market share,  
to curtail the growth of shale production in North America. 
Upstream spending fell sharply in the aftermath. While global 
exploration and production spending hit an all-time high of 
$780 billion in 2014, investment was cut by $200 billion in 
2015 and by a further $140 billion in 2016, representing a 
44% reduction from 2014. Discretionary spending was swiftly 
withdrawn from North American unconventional fields and 
exploration, and cuts have spread to all resources and almost 
all geographies over the last two years. New investment in 
conventional greenfield projects virtually ceased. Upstream 
capex is expected to resume growth in 2017 , but at a modest 
single-digit rate, and to be concentrated mainly in US shale 
projects. Opex has proven more resilient, declining by a single 
digit percentage each year between 2014 and 2016, and is 
expected to hit a low in 2017 before returning to growth. 
Constrained exploration and production spending since 2014 
has had a material impact on existing production and the 
timely development of new production to mitigate the natural 
decline of well productivity. According to the International 
Energy Agency (IEA), a supply gap of 15.9 million barrels 
per day will exist in 2025 which will need to be met by new, 
as yet unapproved, conventional crude oil projects. 
The IEA expects that upstream oil and gas spending will grow 
between 2016 and 2040 to total over $17 trillion, averaging 
$700 billion per year, thus reversing the recent decline.  
Of the $17 trillion total investment, North America accounts  
for 25%, the Middle East 15% and Asia 12%.
Market split
41%
Market split
5%
Historically, upstream capital costs have moved in-line with oil 
prices. However, the IEA highlights that over the next few years, 
capital costs will only grow marginally. According to the IEA, this 
dislocation is not permanent and, in the long run, once the excess 
supply of labour and equipment is eliminated, upstream capital 
costs are expected to revert to moving in tandem with oil prices.
Investment in refining is driven by growth in demand for 
refined products, which is forecast to reach 0.4% globally, 
but with regional variations. Other factors include tightening 
environmental regulations (both for refined products and the 
refining installations themselves) and feedstock changes. 
In mature markets, refiners continue to delay major capital 
investments in favour of smaller and lower-risk refurbishments 
and upgrades, while capacity additions are concentrated in 
high-demand growth regions such as Asia and the Middle East.
Capex in refining is expected to return to growth, following two 
years of decline during which integrated oil companies curtailed 
both upstream and downstream investments. Longer term,  
the IEA expects over $1 trillion to be invested in the refining space 
between 2015 and 2040, with non-OECD countries accounting 
for 71% of the investment, and an additional 16 million barrels 
per day of new refining capacity being built over that timeframe.
Capex in the chemical sector is set to further expand,  
as companies take advantage of comparatively low oil and 
gas prices and increasing demand. Frost & Sullivan expects 
petrochemical demand to be strong in developing nations,  
with 8% growth annually in India and 6.1% in China until 2020. 
China, the United States and Saudi Arabia are expected to lead 
new capacity development, with $160 billion of announced 
project capital expenditure up to 2020 in the United States alone. 
Saudi Arabia will also spearhead investment in the sector, as it 
seeks to transform its economy and generate more value-added 
products from each barrel of oil.
  Strategic report: strategic review
15
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Mining
In mining, forecasts from the major mining firms suggest that 
expansionary capex around the world has reached the low point 
in the cycle for some commodities. Significant investment in 
the period to 2012 led to oversupply of many commodities, 
such as iron ore, driving down prices and resulting in a sharp 
contraction in capex. As a result, announced capex spend in 
2017 and 2018 is expected to be similar to actual spend in 2007 .
However, the price outlook for some products, such as gold, 
lithium and copper, is more positive. Our long-standing 
reputation for front end consulting, our strong technical skills 
and asset-light model means we can adapt to changing activity 
levels in different commodities. In the near term, these metals 
and minerals are likely to make up the majority of our workload. 
This has the potential to drive growth in our mining revenues 
beyond 2017 , as our customers seek to take selective advantage 
of a more beneficial pricing environment. 
Power & Process
The North American energy market is the key driver in 
Power & Process. Net demand for electricity is expected to 
grow at around 1% a year over the next 10 years. By 2040, 
approximately a quarter of the current installed base of 
generating capacity will need to be retired. The combination  
of steadily rising demand and the closing of significant  
existing capacity means there is robust requirement for power 
infrastructure spend, which is forecast at more than US$500bn 
over the next decade.
Generating capacity additions are expected in solar, wind, 
thermal upgrades and gas over the forecast period, although 
levels of activity for each type of generation vary over time.  
The spend and mix by generation type is sensitive to the 
availability of subsidies, changes in regulation and other factors, 
such as the price of natural gas. For example, at the end of  
2015 tax credits for commercial solar installations in the US 
were extended by a further three years to 2019, after which they 
will wind down from 30% to reach 10% from 2022 onwards. 
These credits had been expected to finish at the end of 2016, 
resulting in projects being brought forward before the extension 
was agreed and helping us to deliver a record year in 2016.  
We expect demand will fall in the short term, before recovering 
later this decade. 
The abundant supply of gas, as well as shale oil, in North 
America is also improving the competitiveness of US-based 
industry by lowering energy, hydrocarbon feedstock and 
logistics costs. This is forecast to increase demand for industrial 
power and steam generation. 
Environment & Infrastructure
The environment and infrastructure markets have shown 
steady growth in recent years and this is forecast to continue.
Environmental consulting spend worldwide is predicted to grow 
at around 2% a year from 2015 to 2020, double the rate in the 
preceding five years. In addition, many countries have an urgent 
need to upgrade their critical infrastructure, particularly in areas 
such as transport. In North America, for example, transport 
capex is forecast to grow at 3% per annum in the five years  
to 2020, with investment in roads making up the vast majority 
of this spend. Globally, the infrastructure market is expected  
to grow even more quickly than this, with a forecast growth rate 
of 4% to 7% a year to 2025.
Market split
26%
Market split
17%
GPG and Investment Services  
make up the remaining 11%  
of our markets 16
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Our strategy
Background to our strategy
F ollowing the appointment of Jon Lewis as  
Chief Executive Officer , we began a wide-ranging 
review of our strategy, organisational structure 
and cost base. As a consequence of this review, 
we have developed a number of corporate-
level strategic priorities supported by detailed 
strategies for each business line. Our strategic 
priorities at the corporate level are set out on 
page 17 . 
These priorities have a number of common 
themes. First, they will give us greater 
operational and financial discipline, through a 
reorganisation into four market-facing business 
lines, implementing a single set of operational 
procedures, enhanced management 
accountability and the benefit of the scale 
efficiencies that an organisation diversified 
across markets should provide.
Second, implementing these strategic 
priorities will improve our customer proposition 
by enhancing our cost effectiveness and 
improving the technical capabilities we can 
offer our customers. The third common theme 
is a greater focus on cash generation as a 
consequence of improved operational efficiency 
and reduced exceptional costs, with a target of 
generating free cash flow on a sustainable basis.
Our objective in implementing these priorities 
is to strengthen Amec F oster Wheeler , 
enabling us to take better advantage of growth 
opportunities. Implementing our strategy will 
reinforce our business model (see page 6) 
by improving our ability to identify, acquire 
and deliver projects. Strategic report: strategic review
17
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Our strategic priorities
5. We will invest in information technology to differentiate our project 
delivery capabilities and to help us enhance the management of our 
customers’ assets.
We plan to create value from our use of technology, starting with two 
initiatives in Oil, Gas & Chemicals which we will then apply elsewhere across 
the Company. First, we are building on our existing portfolio of process 
technologies, including with third-party license owners where we are the 
exclusive implementation partner. Second, we are developing information, 
data and data acquisition technologies to identify and deliver step changes in 
efficiency and productivity across our operations. We will use this to automate 
and accelerate our design, construction and asset support services to 
customers. We are also working in partnership with our customers and other 
innovators from the technology sector to develop new solutions designed to 
deliver superior outcomes for our customers and their assets. This will help 
us to continue to differentiate our customer offering and be better positioned 
to win new projects. 
6. We will improve the engagement of our people and focus on 
attracting, developing and retaining the best talent globally
People are our principal asset and we need to ensure we have the right culture 
for them to succeed. More information about the culture we are looking to 
create, our investment in talent and our approach to diversity and inclusion 
can be found in the People section on page 25. 
 
7. We will enhance our focus on cash generation; eliminating 
unnecessary expenditure and increasing efficiency and scalability  
of necessary costs.
Our programme to reduce overhead costs by a net £100m and our focus 
on running a lean operating model will improve our cost effectiveness. 
In addition, we are taking measures to minimise cash outflows, including 
tighter control of working capital.  
 
 
 
 
8. To strengthen the balance sheet, ensuring a stable financial platform 
to support the business. 
With the offer from John Wood Group, the Company announced it had 
intended to launch a rights issue to raise approximately £500m, and to 
suspend dividend payments to strengthen the balance sheet. The Company 
is continuing to make good progress generating proceeds from the non-core 
asset disposal programme.
Executing on the strategic priorities above – which are designed to improve 
cash flow – will, over time, further strengthen the balance sheet.  
9. We will provide a safe and sustainable environment for our people 
and the communities in which we work. 
Our sustainability strategy and commitments are aligned to the principles 
of the UN Global Compact. In alignment with these principles and the 
commitments set out in our Modern Slavery and Human T rafficking 
statement in response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, we will continue 
to raise awareness of modern slavery with our employees and value chain 
and also collaborate with industry on this issue, sharing best practice, policies 
and procedure. We will continue to embed sustainability into the delivery 
of our projects to ensure we mitigate operational risks, respect and protect 
the environment and the communities in which we work. This will protect 
our reputation and licence to operate, supporting the delivery of stronger 
business performance. 
1. We will continue our evolution into a customer-centric, multi-sector 
consulting, engineering and construction company, making resource 
allocation decisions across the business lines to benefit from the most 
attractive growth prospects.
The strategy review has highlighted numerous attractive end markets, where 
we can provide customers with consulting, engineering and construction 
services. Our new operating model, with a single set of processes for 
project delivery, will enable us to make consistent resource allocation 
decisions, enabling us to take better advantage of the most attractive 
growth opportunities.
There is also an opportunity to increase the scope of services that we provide 
to our customers, so we capture a greater share of each project, provide more 
value to the customer and potentially generate further work.
The more detailed business line strategies underpinning this priority are 
described on pages 18 to 19. 
2. We will enhance our value-based engineering offering, helping 
customers to ensure their projects are economically viable.
We are building on our track record and knowledge to strengthen our value-
based engineering offering. By working in partnership with our customers, 
we will look to create solutions that make our customers’ projects more cost 
effective, so they remain economically viable. By helping our customers to 
achieve their objectives, we will be better positioned to capture further work. 
3. Through our lean operating model and leveraging our Indian 
operations, we will ensure we are cost competitive and better  
able to bid and win.
Innovative approaches to reducing the cost of delivering our services 
to customers, such as More4Less, show that we can align our skills and 
capabilities with a strong value proposition for customers. We can also 
enhance our proposition by leveraging engineering in India, where operating 
costs are lower than in many places in the western hemisphere. We will 
therefore embed these lower costs and roll out innovations across our 
end markets. This will reduce the cost to serve our customers, potentially 
increasing our trading margin and better positioning us to win new business. 
4. We will invest in excellence in our technical and business functions, 
drive standardisation and follow common policies and procedures 
throughout the Company.
As discussed in the Chief Executive Officer’s statement on page 10,  
we have created four new technical functions and given our business 
functions direct reporting lines into the same functions at Company 
level. This will drive standardisation, reduce our operating costs, simplify 
governance and minimise the variance in project performance, helping  
us to generate more consistent financial returns. 18
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Our strategy continued
As a result of market conditions, our focus is on developing 
new revenue streams to replace some of our historically 
strong positions. 
For the upstream business, this will involve developing a balance 
of operating expenditure and capital expenditure projects, 
increasing exposure to lower-cost barrels and turning strong 
local operations into strong international ones. 
We will build on our strong presence in upstream asset 
support and commissioning in the UK North Sea by pursuing 
opportunities in other locations, and by expanding our asset 
support solutions for the downstream market. 
In the downstream business, we will continue to develop our 
core refining business by strengthening and expanding our 
consulting, hydrotreating, delayed coking and fluid catalytic 
cracking positions, along with our extensive experience  
with complex refurbishments and turnarounds. In addition,  
we intend to expand our presence in high-growth areas within 
the chemicals market.
We aim to capture a greater share of our customers’ 
expenditure on projects and carefully grow our exposure to full 
scope project delivery work. This will require some investment 
in tools and processes and the hiring of key people, and will 
often be executed in partnership with local companies.
We expect market conditions to recover from recent lows  
and we are therefore preparing the business to take advantage 
of new project opportunities. 
A key aspect of this strategy is to utilise our early stage 
consulting expertise to win project delivery work.  
A more coordinated approach between consulting, business 
development and project delivery teams will help us to be  
more competitive in bidding and to develop enhanced solutions 
for customers. We are also looking to expand our customer 
base to increase the share of work from major global miners.
We will continue to invest in our mobile materials movement 
solutions, including our patented ‘Super Portable’ systems, 
which can lower operating costs in mines by replacing fleets  
of trucks and their significant support costs.
Our business line strategies
As part of our review, strategies have been developed for each business line based on specific opportunities and challenges. 
Oil, Gas & Chemicals Mining Strategic report: strategic review
19
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Our focus is to deliver power generating capital projects for 
customers, using a variety of technologies.
We currently have a market-leading position in the utility-scale 
solar installation market in the US. Although we are expecting  
a near-term reduction in solar project activity, due to the 
phasing of government tax incentives discussed in the markets 
section on pages 14 and 15, we will remain focused on gaining 
market share through continuous improvement of our cost per 
kilowatt installed pricing.
In addition, we intend to pursue further projects in wind across 
the Americas and in conventional power plants, delivering 
projects for utilities and industrial clients, with whom we have 
strong relationships.
Our priority is to increase market share by bringing together 
the entire skills of Amec Foster Wheeler to deliver customer-
specific solutions.
We have identified a number of growth opportunities, including:
 X expanding our share of radiological remediation and waste 
management programmes
 X expanding our environmental liability and asset management 
services, especially for large companies, with significant 
legacy reserves and decommissioning obligations
 X growing our share of the US Department of Defense’s 
international budget
 X taking advantage of growing infrastructure spend in the 
US and beyond, including by pursuing new customers and 
expanding through our main geographic hubs
 X enhancing our capability and scale in the UK and Europe, 
combining our existing positions with our extensive North 
American expertise and capabilities
We will also continue to offer environmental consulting and 
engineering services across the Company’s other markets, 
where closer cooperation with Business Development and 
engineering teams can generate additional project work.
Power & Process Environment & Infrastructure 20
Connected
excellence
through  
long-term  
customer  
relationships
Working on a granite  
hosted uranium deposit  
in Namibia which is one 
of the largest uranium 
deposits in the world,  
with the potential to 
produce 15 million pounds 
per annum of uranium oxide. 
The project lies within the 
Namib Naukluft National 
Park and therefore has 
stringent environmental 
requirements that the 
project enforces. Strategic report: strategic review
21
Financials Governance Additional information
21
Delivering excellence results in repeat business 
and stronger relationships with our customers. 
The engineering, procurement and construction 
management (EPCM) contract for the Husab 
mining project with SGS Bateman follows the 
Definitive F easibility Study we delivered in 2011 
and the Engineering Cost Study for the project.
Our responsibility includes the management 
and systems used by the project joint venture we 
are part of, while responsibilities for engineering, 
procurement and construction management  
are shared with the joint venture partner .  
The construction phase of this project completed 
during 2016, with commissioning and operation 
due in 2017 . 22
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Key performance indicators
Each of the following key performance indicators 
links to one or more elements of our refreshed 
corporate strategy, as described on page 17 , 
enabling us to monitor progress with our 
strategic priorities. The adjusted performance 
measures such as underlying change in 
revenue and trading cash flow presented here 
provide both management and investors with 
information about the trading performance of the 
business, as well as risks and outcomes relating 
to non-financial key performance indicators on 
safety, employee engagement, environmental 
incident rates and respect for human rights. 
Underlying change  
in revenue
1
% 
2015 
-7
2016
-8
2014
nil +2
2013
+12
2012
Order book
£m 
6.6
2015
5.8
2016
6.3
2014
4.1
2013
3.6
2012
Definition 
The percentage movement in year-on-year revenue, excluding the effect 
of currency movements and any acquisitions or disposals.
Strategy
Links to strategic priorities: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Commentary 
Underlying revenue declined by 8% during 2016, as a strong performance 
in solar and E&I was offset by continuing weakness in the oil and gas market. 
Definition 
Cash generated from operations before cash flows arising from 
exceptional items, asbestos-related payments (net of insurance recoveries), 
the difference between retirement benefit contributions and the amount 
recognised in trading profit, legacy settlements and discontinued operations, 
and currency translation differences on working capital, but including 
dividends received from joint ventures.
Strategy
Links to strategic priority: 7
Commentary 
During 2016 T rading cash flow decreased by £13m compared to 2015.  
The decrease was primarily due to a reduction of £34m in profit before  
net financing expense which was partly offset by improvements in working 
capital of £21m.
2015 and 2016 are the only two full years that include the results of the  
legacy Foster Wheeler business. 
Trading cash flow
1
£m 
388
2015
375
2016
283
2014
341
2013
312
2012
Definition 
Our share of the total remaining value of secured projects to be executed, 
up to any break point. Contracts are only included in the order book when 
they are signed.
Strategy
Links to strategic priorities: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Commentary 
At the end of 2016 the order book stood at £5.8bn, down 13% from last year. 
There was a reduction in oil and gas as lower levels of project sanctions 
continued and we neared completion of major hook-up contracts in the 
UKCS, and in Americas Clean Energy as we worked through our record 
backlog of solar projects. Strategic report: strategic review
23
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Employee engagement
% 
54
2015
61
2016
74
2014
70
2013
Definition 
We define engagement as being the extent to which people are connected 
and committed to their work, their manager, their work team and their 
organisations because of their work environment
2
. 
Strategy
Links to strategic priorities: 6, 9
Commentary 
Our engagement scores rose steadily for several years. However in 2015,  
we saw these scores trend downwards. We believe that this was largely due 
to ongoing concern about our performance in tough markets and the obvious 
implications for job security, compensation and opportunities. Our score 
in 2016 was calculated using a new methodology
3
 that does not directly 
compare to prior scores. However, we believe it improved slightly, despite 
these concerns remaining. 
Health and Safety
T otal recordable  
incident rate 
per 200,000 hours  
worked
 
0.27
2015
0.26
2016
0.22
2014
0.19
2013
0.34
2012
Definition 
Our total recordable incident rate is the number of recordable incidents per 
200,000 hours worked which is in accordance with the standard reporting of 
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Strategy
Links to strategic priorities: 4, 6, 9
Commentary 
During 2016 our employees and contractors worked a total of 140 million man 
hours, during which we recorded 184 recordable injuries. This represents a 
small improvement on the previous year when we recorded 195 recordable 
injuries. However, we also recorded 35 lost time injuries (LTI) during 2016 
giving us an LTI rate of 0.05 per 200,000 hours worked compared to 0.046 in 
the previous year. Risk management remains one of our key areas of Health 
and Safety focus. During the year we trained 2,418 frontline supervision staff 
on hazard recognition and risk management techniques. There were zero fatal 
incidents during 2016. Notes
1  Adjusted performance measures used by the Group are explained and 
reconciled to the equivalent IFRS measures on pages 188 to 190.
2 Employee engagement was not tracked in 2012. 
3  The previous methodology used an algorithm to calculate an engagement 
index by applying factors to each type of response. The new approach adds 
the ‘agree’ and ‘strongly agree’ responses to give us an overall % agree. 
Therefore, we are now using % agree relative to a given question or in 
aggregate as our measure of engagement.
Modern Slavery (Human Rights)
Engagement with employees and resulting awareness of modern slavery and 
human trafficking risks within our operations and wider sphere of influence 
i.e. customers, supply chain and joint venture partners.
 X >95% of targeted employees are to complete awareness training during 
2017 on the issues and risks around forced and bonded labour and human 
trafficking in global supply chains.
 X Continued collaboration and engagement with the industry led ‘Building 
Responsibly’ initiative, facilitated by Business for Social Responsibility 
(BSR) with support from Humanity United.
Strategy
Links to strategic priority: 9
Commentary 
In December 2016, we published our first Slavery and Human T rafficking 
statement in line with the requirements of Section 54 of the UK Modern 
Slavery Act 2015. This statement is the basis from which we will continue 
to drive awareness of modern slavery and seek to improve our processes. 
Our KPIs for 2017 support the commitments made within the 2016 statement. 
Recognising the need to increase understanding of the risks amongst 
key employee groups, we have partnered with TRACE (an independent 
compliance and due diligence firm) to tailor an eLearning module for our 
employees. Our continued active involvement with the Building Responsibly 
initiative in 2017 recognises the need for and value of collaboration within and 
across sectors to have meaningful impact on this issue. Continued outreach 
to Non-Governmental Organisations on the issue will also ensure we share 
and learn best practise.
Environmental  
Incident Frequency  
Rate (EIFR)
 
0.11
2015
0.12
2016
0.13
2014
0.23
2013
0.23
2012
Definition
Our environmental incident frequency rate is the number of environmental 
incidents per 200,000 hours worked.
Note: Historical data for 2014 and earlier are based on AMEC data only 
as Foster Wheeler data was not captured prior to the integration of our 
two companies.
Strategy
Links to strategic priority: 9
Commentary 
During 2016, our employees and contractors worked a total of 140 million 
man hours, during which we recorded 81 environmental incidents which were 
within the boundaries of our management system and reported as per the 
requirements of our mandatory procedure, ‘Incident Reporting, Recording 
and Investigation’ . Our environmental standards provide consistency across 
our operations, ensuring we protect and enhance both our reputation and the 
environment in which we work by minimising our environmental risks. 24
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Key contract wins and order book
W e faced some challenging conditions during 
the year , with many natural resources capital 
projects being delayed or cancelled. Despite this, 
we benefited from the breadth of our business 
to win a wide range of work with major customers 
across our four markets.
Selected contract wins announced in 2016
Customer Business line Description Country
Grannus OG&C Design engineering for ammonia plant US
Repsol Sinopec OG&C 3-year (plus extensions) labour supply and engineering support services contracts UK
BP OG&C EPC for new refrigeration plant in BP Grangemouth UK
Preem OG&C EPCM of new vacuum distillation unit at Lysekil refinery Sweden
SOCAR OG&C FEED for Heydar Aliyev Oil Refinery modernisation Azerbaijan
Pertamina / Saudi Aramco OG&C Engineering and project management for Cilacap refinery upgrade Indonesia
BP OG&C 3-year framework for concept studies and pre-FEED, Rumaila field Iraq
Sasol OG&C Detailed design and engineering on Phase 1 of PSA development Mozambique
Evonik OG&C Basic engineering and EPCM for methionine facility Singapore
Thai Oil OG&C FEED for Clean Fuel refinery expansion Thailand
India Oil OG&C Supervision of EPC contracts for LNG import terminal, Ennore India
Pakistan Refinery Ltd OG&C Feasibility study for upgrade at Karachi refinery Pakistan
Sonatrach OG&C FEED for three new refineries Algeria
ConocoPhillips OG&C 3-year brownfield services contract for BayuUndan Timor-Leste
KOC OG&C FEED for upgrade of GC24 oil gathering centre Kuwait
Western Potash Mining Potash Solution mining pilot plant Canada
Anagold Madencilik Mining EPCM for the Çöpler Gold Mine T urkey
LG&E / KU P&P Coal combustion residuals project for T rimble County US
Bruce Power P&P 6-year MSA for nuclear engineering and project management Canada
Sellafield P&P 10-year framework agreement on Magnox Swarf storage silo clean-up UK
UK Ministry of Defence P&P 5-year contract to supply nuclear safety and technical advice for submarines UK
ITER P&P 13-year contract for construction management on nuclear fusion reactor project  
(as part of Momentum JV)
France
US AF E&I 7-year prime contractor for environmental services US
US AF E&I 7-year prime contractor for military housing programme US
US ACE E&I Aegis Ashore Missile Defense System construction support Poland
Order book
These and other contract wins contributed to an order book  
of £5.8bn at 31 December 2016.
2016
1
£bn
2015
2
£bn
Oil, Gas & Chemicals 3.0 3.7
Mining 0.1 0.2
Power & Process 1.1 1.3
Environment & Infrastructure 0.9 0.7
T otal  
(excluding GPG and Investment Services)
5.1 5.9 
The reduction in order book for Oil, Gas & Chemicals was largely 
due to the general reduction in project sanctions by customers. 
In Power & Process, contract wins for solar projects peaked 
in the fourth quarter of 2015, with those projects in execution 
during 2015.
Notes
1  These figures exclude £0.4bn for GPG and £0.3bn for Investment Services, 
bringing the total order book for 2016 to £5.8bn.
2  These figures exclude £0.3bn for GPG and £0.4bn for Investment Services, 
bringing the total order book figure for 2015 to £6.6bn. Strategic report: strategic review
25
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
P eople are our principal asset. Our business 
depends upon having a culture that supports 
successful project delivery for our customers  
and helps us to attract and retain the best talent. 
As part of our commitment to being a sustainable 
business, we look to achieve the highest standards 
of health and safety, mutual respect and ethical 
behaviour . More information about our approach 
to sustainability can be found on page 33. 
Culture and engagement
In a business that is about people, having the right culture is 
critical. The transformation programme we are going through will 
help us to build a real meritocracy, with a highly engaged culture 
focused on safety, collaboration, technical excellence, high 
performance and clear accountability.
Instilling this culture will enable us to deliver excellence to 
our customers, safely and consistently, wherever we work. 
It will ensure that our people know what we expect of them 
and that their performance will be recognised and rewarded. 
We have established a transformation office headed by a Chief 
T ransformation Officer and a key part of his remit is to ensure we 
deliver the cultural elements of our transformation programme. 
This includes reinforcing our commitment to adhering to our 
Code of Business Conduct and complying with policies and 
procedures. During the second half of the year, we employed 
KPMG to benchmark how well our people comply with ethics 
and anti-bribery compliance. This showed good performance.
Leaders who effectively listen and then act build effective, 
transparent and trusting relationships with employees. Gathering 
the views of our people was therefore a major part of shaping our 
transformation programme. Nearly 3,000 employees responded 
in detail to our survey asking for their views of our organisation, 
helping us to understand the strengths we need to make more 
of and the weaknesses we need to overcome. The results of this 
research, and several subsequent surveys, helped us to define 
our new organisational structure.
We have committed to continuing to listen to employee views 
and to improving communication, recognising that good 
communication is fundamental to driving employee engagement.
Adapting to market dynamics
The nature of our business means that we need to recruit large 
numbers of people each year, as we put together teams to 
match the needs of projects and customers. Similarly, many 
people leave us as projects finish or their roles change. As noted 
in the business model on pages 6 and 7 , a key advantage for us 
is that the breadth of our business often allows us to redeploy 
people to new contracts, reducing costs and the need to hire 
and release people, and helping us to keep skills and knowledge 
within the business.
In 2016 we recruited some 8,500 people to our direct 
workforce, of which 89% were recruited directly by our 
resourcing teams, who deliver excellent candidates to our 
business wherever they are needed. Around 9,600 people left 
the business. This is part of the normal cycle of recruitment and 
utilisation management on projects. It also includes people who 
left the business as a result of the transformation programme. 
This and changes in our indirectly employed workforce resulted 
in a total headcount of circa 35,000
1
 people at year end 
compared with circa 39,000
1
 at the end of 2015.
Workforce mobility is also key to meeting client expectations 
and developing our employees. Our in-house mobility team 
facilitated over 300 cross border moves in 2016.
Investing in talent
We aim to build the capability of our people year on year,  
as ongoing development is vital to both employee engagement 
and our reputation with our customers. Recently we refreshed 
the learning strategy we deliver through our global Academy. 
This involved:
 X giving all our engineers access to high-quality technical 
applications training, at no cost to the end-user
 X transitioning to virtual classrooms for delivering technical 
functional training and leadership skills
 X developing an interactive e-learning programme for people 
management skills, built specifically for our business using 
relatable scenarios
The Academy continues to offer popular on-line learning in 
management and leadership skill development, with circa 
10,000 people accessing the site in 2016. In addition, around 
4,000 people took our sustainability e-learning course.
During 2016, we rolled out a mid-year development review for all 
managers and professional employees, following a successful 
pilot in 2015. The review prompts a conversation between 
manager and employee around the individual’s longer-term 
goals, resulting in agreed development to achieve these. 
We also introduced a Company-wide framework that helps 
managers identify potential early in employees’ careers. 
Through development discussions and diagnostic tools, we can 
then provide employees with the experience and learning they 
need to accelerate their development through the organisation.
In addition to developing our people, we look to attract the next 
generation of talent into the industry. We therefore engage with 
schools and universities to stimulate interest in engineering 
careers and our sectors.
Diversity and inclusion
Organisations with diverse employees can create better 
solutions for customers, which contributes to long-term 
business success. The table below shows the gender mix  
of our directly employed workforce at the end of the year:
2016 2015
Men Women Men Women
Board 7 2 6 2
Group leadership team 12 2 9 1
Executive grades 338 48 369 41
T otal workforce 24,327 7,099 27,610 8,247
We assess age, gender and ethnic diversity and use employee 
surveys to understand harder to measure aspects, such as 
diversity of thought. We also work with groups such as the 
Women’s Engineering Society and Stonewall, to build greater 
awareness of our company and attract a more diverse workforce.
1 Figure includes non-employed workers.
People Connected
excellence
through 
sophisticated 
technology
Customers have been 
keen to trial and adopt 
the technology on their 
projects: for example, 
as part of hook-up and 
commissioning work for 
a North Sea Floating, 
Production, Storage and 
Offloading unit built on 
the other side of the world.
26 26 W e are using smart headsets, A TEX rated for 
offshore use, to enable real time interaction with 
the home office, improving efficiency and speed. 
One of the greatest benefits is the enabling of 
unambiguous and safe communication, reducing 
the possibility of unclear instructions or muffled 
radio use; these headsets can ensure that clear 
and concise information is provided to the 
relevant parties.
Strategic report: strategic review
27
Financials Governance Additional information 28
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties
Amec F oster Wheeler operates in more than 
55 countries, serving a broad range of markets 
and customers. As such, the Group is subject 
to certain general and industry specific risks. 
Where practicable, the Group seeks to mitigate 
exposure to all forms of risk through effective 
risk management and risk transfer practices.
The board has overall responsibility for risk management, for 
determining the risk appetite in relation to the principal risks, 
for implementation of the risk management policy and for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management systems.
Risk management process
A global mandatory procedure detailing the risk management 
process has been used at project, operating unit, business 
unit and group levels to identify the key risks that could have 
a significant impact on Amec Foster Wheeler’s ability to achieve 
its objectives. These are recorded in risk registers and evaluated 
to determine the likely impact and probability of occurring. The 
procedure is being updated to reflect the new operating model.
Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate risks 
that are considered unacceptable. Risk owners are identified 
and given responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented 
with appropriate review dates.
The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least quarterly 
with the relevant risk owners.
Reporting and monitoring
The risk committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer  
and meets at least twice each year to:
 X review and advise the board on Amec Foster Wheeler’s risk 
appetite in relation to the principal strategic risks, taking 
account of the current and prospective macro-economic, 
financial, political, business and sector environments 
 X review and approve the risk management strategy, policies, 
procedures and processes
 X review and report to the board on the effectiveness of the risk 
management systems
 X review the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and make 
recommendations as appropriate
 X review any new or emerging risks and any potential impact 
they may have on risk appetite and the ability of Amec Foster 
Wheeler to manage such risks
 X review any issues raised by other committees of the board 
that impact on the risk profile of Amec Foster Wheeler
 X review and consider reports on key risk issues such as  
new business and geographical locations for operations  
or projects
 X consider any internal or external risk trends and 
concentrations
The terms of reference of the risk committee have been 
amended to reflect the requirements of the 2016 edition  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Roles and responsibilities
Business unit 
presidents
Chief Executive/ 
risk committee
Project manager
Operating unit 
heads
Group function heads
Leadership teams/ 
function heads
Leadership teams/ 
function heads
Project team
Head of Risk 
Management
Business Unit 
Head of Commercial/ 
Head of Project 
Delivery
Operating Unit 
Head of Commercial/ 
Head of Project 
Delivery
Project risk owners
Risk oversight
X  ensure appropriate risk 
management processes are in place
X  ensure management is positioned 
to identify and respond to risk
X  ensure relevant information is raised 
to the appropriate level
Risk owner/risk manager
X  participate in the identification of risk
X  participate in the identification of 
risk management action plans
X  ensure action plans are implemented
X  monitor and report on risk status
Risk co-ordinator
X  ensure risk management process 
is followed
X  facilitate risk management reviews
X  collate and issue risk management 
reports/registers
X  promote learning and consistency
Group internal audit
Projects Operating 
unit
Business 
units
Board
plc Strategic report: strategic review
29
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Principal business and strategic risks
The table below shows Amec Foster Wheeler’s principal business and strategic risks. Each is specific to the Company and could 
have a material impact on it. Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Other financial risks that may impact the Company are shown on pages 146 to 150 – note 19 Capital and financial risk management.
Risk Mitigation
Geopolitical and economic conditions
Amec Foster Wheeler expects to derive the majority of its revenues from 
Europe, the US and Canada and is therefore particularly affected by political 
and economic conditions in those markets.
Changes in general economic conditions may influence customers’ decisions 
on capital investment and/or asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility 
in the development of Amec Foster Wheeler’s order intake. These may also 
lead to changes in the customer base, competition and in the way customers 
procure the services we provide. An increase in competition for new contracts 
may lead to different, less favourable contract terms and conditions.
Continuing and escalating unrest and insurgency activity in the Middle East 
may have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities in the region.
The transition to the new presidential administration in the United States 
may cause uncertainty and unpredictability for a period of time which may 
impact confidence and spending levels. In addition, following the majority 
vote in June 2016 for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, there 
is uncertainty as to the effects an exit may have on economic or market 
conditions in the United Kingdom, Europe or globally. Such uncertainty has 
the potential to lead to decreased or delayed investments in projects in the 
United Kingdom. The result of the UK general election on 8 June 2017 will also 
determine the stance Britain takes in its negotiations to leave the EU as well 
as the future of projects within the National Infrastructure Plan, which could 
create further uncertainty in UK projects.
Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence 
and, through acquisitions and organic growth, will continue to increase 
its exposure to other attractive regions of the world.
The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn 
and affecting the demand for Amec Foster Wheeler’s services has been 
addressed, as far as practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business 
portfolio in terms of geographies, markets, clients and service offering/
business model.
In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have been taken to 
assess and monitor any potential impact on Amec Foster Wheeler’s business 
opportunities and address potential increased supply chain and, more 
broadly, counterparty risk.
In January 2017 we implemented a new operating model, involving  
the reorganisation of Amec Foster Wheeler into four end markets –  
Oil, Gas & Chemicals, Environment & Infrastructure, Power & Process and 
Mining, which will enable us to be more agile and responsive to the customers 
and the markets we serve.
The business development team is focused on realising the synergies across 
our customers, markets, geographies, service offerings and relationships.
Changes in commodity prices
A sustained and significant reduction in oil & gas or commodity prices would 
have an adverse impact on the level of customer spending in Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s markets and consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
The fall in oil prices has had an impact on the investment behaviour of 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s customers in this sector, with pressure on capital 
expenditure leading to a greater focus on smaller projects and operating 
expenditure and an increase in competition for new contracts.
This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio of 
geographies, markets, clients and service offerings.
Improved efficiencies through increased workflow between offices and the 
effective use of centres of excellence and our India operations also contribute 
to addressing this risk.
Project delivery
Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer expectations on project 
delivery could result in damage to reputation, loss of repeat business and 
potentially lead to litigation and/or claims against Amec Foster Wheeler.
The T echnical Functions provide assurance, drive project execution and 
support the development, training and mobilisation of personnel to enhance 
execution competencies.
In addition, the system of globally applied policies and procedures, combined 
with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management process, 
project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate 
the risk to successful project delivery.
Lump sum contracts
Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable contracts, 
with the contractor agreeing the contract price at the start of the contract 
and accepting the risk of cost overruns in completing the project.
Lump sum contracts have accounted for an increasing proportion of the 
Company’s revenue and order book and are expected to continue to grow 
in the medium term.
This risk is mitigated by having skills and competencies fully aligned with 
the project scope. It is further mitigated by having a clear, delegated authority 
structure in place, combined with the formal global mandatory procedures 
relating to contracting principles and the tender review process. In addition, 
the T echnical Functions perform reviews, provide assurance and drive 
project execution.
Staff recruitment and retention
An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre employees 
could become a barrier to the continued success and growth of 
Amec Foster Wheeler.
Senior management departures or prolonged absences could also 
adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and manage 
our operations efficiently. 
The uncertainties about the effects of the recommended all share offer  
for Amec Foster Wheeler plc by John Wood Group could hinder our ability  
to attract new employees and retain our existing employees. 
This risk is mitigated with a clear HR strategy, which is aligned to the business 
strategy and focused on attracting, developing and retaining the best people 
for the Company with succession planning as appropriate. It is underpinned 
by an employee framework which describes how we manage our people 
consistently and we have introduced talent and performance management 
systems to help us identify and nurture talent.
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and benefits to ensure 
sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment 
teams capable of recruiting large numbers into Amec Foster Wheeler.
The additional recruitment and attrition challenges being faced as a result  
of the planned takeover are being mitigated by retention measures.  30
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risk Mitigation
Health, safety, security and environment
Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in activities and environments that have the 
potential to cause serious injury to personnel or damage to property or the 
environment and damage to our reputation.
These activities may involve operations such as design, construction, 
commissioning and decommissioning, which have potential to cause serious 
environmental damage, pollution and habitat destruction.
In order to control risk and prevent harm, Amec Foster Wheeler is focused on 
achieving the highest standards of health, safety and security management. 
This is achieved through setting of an effective policy and putting in place 
clear standards which underpin our health, safety, security and environmental 
management systems.
We have put in place processes to assure that our systems work effectively 
throughout the organisation and health and safety performance is regularly 
reviewed against agreed targets to facilitate continual improvement.
Amec Foster Wheeler employs environmental and engineering specialists 
to support projects in implementing comprehensive project management 
planning at all stages of a project. These processes are governed by 
appropriate quality management systems and are supported by risk 
identification tools aimed at identifying and managing all aspects of project 
environmental risk.
Environmental licences
Amec Foster Wheeler’s build/own/operate facilities and fabrication/
manufacturing sites rely on maintaining environmental licences to operate, 
which includes protecting the environment and achieving legally enforceable 
operating parameters. Failure to maintain these standards may result in 
the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation, 
resulting in criminal or civil action and/or financial risk to the business. Failure 
to maintain assets and/or pollution abatement equipment may result in a 
failure to meet legally binding objectives and targets for the operation.
Environmental management systems are in place to monitor and mitigate 
this risk.
Planned preventative maintenance schedules are in place to further mitigate 
this risk.
Information technology (IT)
Amec Foster Wheeler is exposed to the risk that the IT systems on which it 
relies fail, are breached or are exploited by cyber attack with a corresponding 
impact on the confidentiality, integrity and/or the availability of sensitive data 
held by the Company.
Appropriate controls are in place to mitigate the risk of systems failure 
and data loss, including systems back-up procedures, data security breach 
response plans, disaster recovery plans and globally distributed data 
centres providing a secure and reliable environment for hosting critical 
applications. There is also appropriate virus protection, malware detection 
and remediation, network security controls and penetration testing and 
encryption of mobile devices.
Ethical breach
A substantive ethical breach and/or non-compliance with laws or regulations 
could potentially lead to damage to Amec Foster Wheeler’s reputation, fines, 
litigation and claims for compensation.
Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of measures in place to mitigate the 
risk of a substantive ethical breach and/or non-compliance with laws or 
regulations, including:
 X embedded policies and procedures
 X Code of Business Conduct
 X segregation of duties
 X management oversight
 X financial and operational controls
 X independent whistle-blowing mechanism
 X appointment of Head of Ethics and Compliance and ethics  
and compliance champions
 X anti-fraud and other internal audits
 X legal team advice
 X training programmes supporting the Code of Business Conduct,  
anti-bribery and corruption and competition law
 X gifts and hospitality procedure with annual internal audits
 X oversight by the HSSEE committee – see pages 70 to 71 Strategic report: strategic review
31
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Risk Mitigation
Financial – breach of covenant, counterparty and liquidity
Whilst the Company was, as at the most recent test date of 31 December 
2016, in compliance with the unmodified financial covenants in its existing 
banking facilities there was a possibility that the Company would have 
breached the leverage ratio covenant under its existing banking facilities 
at the next test date on 30 June 2017 .
If a counterparty is unable to repay deposits, fund a loan in a committed loan 
relationship or fund a position under foreign exchange arrangements then 
the company faces the risk of capital loss.
The Company is subject to liquidity risk from being unable to generate 
sufficient cash from operations for either growth or to repay debt. If sterling 
weakens this may impact on our overall liquidity as part of our debt is drawn 
in currency and our facilities are Sterling denominated.
The Company had been preparing to launch a rights issue of approximately 
£500m on 21 March 2017 which would have addressed the risk of a breach 
of the leverage ratio covenant but as a consequence of the recommended 
all share offer for the Company by John Wood Group, the preparations for 
a rights issue have been suspended. T o ensure continued compliance with 
its financial covenants, the Company has approached its banking group and 
successfully agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking 
facilities to provide additional headroom through to the reporting period 
ending 30 June 2018.
In the event that the acquisition of the Company by John Wood Group  
does not proceed, the Company will consider recommencing preparations  
for a rights issue. The Company has suspended dividend payments until  
the Company is generating sustainable free cash flow.
Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to mitigate the counterparty risk by limiting the 
amount that can be invested with any one counterparty. Limits are arrived at 
by ratings and a review of factors such as five year credit default swap prices, 
economic and national considerations.
Bank ratings are monitored to ensure security of counterparty for both 
deposits and lending. 
If Sterling continues to weaken and liquidity comes under pressure we would 
seek additional funding from the banking group.
Pensions
Amec Foster Wheeler operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, 
where careful judgement is required in determining the assumptions for 
future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment 
returns and member longevity. There is a risk of underestimating this liability.
This risk to Amec Foster Wheeler’s pension schemes is mitigated by:
 X maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time
 X taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other professional 
advisers
 X agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees
 X close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action 
agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges
See note 14 on pages 138 to 142 for further details on our pension schemes.
Legacy risks
Litigation and business claims from divested and non-core businesses remain 
a risk to Amec Foster Wheeler.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment may require skills that  
are not common to the rest of the Company.
Ground contaminants remain at some former Amec Foster Wheeler 
operational localities where the pollutant may have been as a result of 
the Company’s operations, or the Company is responsible for its clean-up. 
There is a risk that pollution may result in a risk to human health or the 
environment. There is potential for civil and/or criminal action against  
the Company for such pollutants.
The established legacy team manages these claims with internal and external 
legal advice. The aim is to seek cost-effective management of litigation and 
promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
Amec Foster Wheeler has made provisions for the legacy issues that are 
believed to be adequate and is not aware of any other current issues relating 
to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact. Specialist 
teams with the appropriate knowledge are brought in as required.
In the case of any known contaminated land, strategies have been developed 
to minimise the risk posed by such contaminated land, including asset 
management and land remediation projects and they remain under 
continuing review.
Asbestos liability
The legacy Foster Wheeler business is exposed to significant numbers 
of claims relating to alleged exposure to asbestos. The quantum of these 
claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions are held against these 
loss projections. However there is a risk that these loss projections will be 
exceeded and the provisions could be inadequate to meet the liabilities.
There is a dedicated in-house finance and legal resource including a team 
of specialist asbestos lawyers who manage the claims, assisted by National 
Co-ordinating Counsel (NCC) and local counsel. A claims strategy has been 
developed with the NCC and regular reviews are undertaken.
The team monitors legal developments in these claims and the strategy 
to deal with them on a regular basis.
The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions 
are held against the ultimate loss projections. 32
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Viability statement
The Company was, as at the most recent test date of  
31 December 2016, in compliance with the unmodified financial 
covenants in its existing banking facilities. However, going 
forward, had the waiver of the financial covenants referred to 
below not been obtained, it is possible that the Company would 
have breached the leverage ratio covenant under its existing 
banking facilities at the next test date on 30 June 2017 .
The Company had been preparing to launch a rights issue 
of approximately £500m on 21 March 2017 which would have 
addressed the risk of a breach of the leverage ratio covenant 
but as a consequence of the recommended all share offer for 
the Company by John Wood Group, the preparations for a rights 
issue have been suspended. T o ensure continued compliance 
with its financial covenants, the Company has approached its 
banking group and successfully agreed a waiver to increase the 
leverage covenant in its banking facilities to provide additional 
headroom through to the reporting period ending 30 June 2018.
In the event that the acquisition of the Company by John 
Wood Group does not proceed, the Company will consider 
recommencing preparations for a rights issue. The Company 
has suspended dividend payments until the Company is 
generating sustainable free cash flow.
The directors have selected a three-year period for this viability 
assessment, in line with the three-year business planning 
process and this also reflects the average duration of the larger 
customer contracts entered into by the Company.
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of The UK Corporate 
Governance Code (April 2016 revision) the directors have 
performed a robust assessment of the Company’s current 
position and the principal risks detailed on pages 29 to 31 
for the next three years.
They have concluded, based on the following assumptions, that 
they have a reasonable expectation that Amec Foster Wheeler 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due over this three-year period and that Amec 
Foster Wheeler will remain compliant with the covenants and 
undertakings contained within its banking facilities over this 
same period:
 X in the event that the acquisition of the Company by John 
Wood Group does not proceed and the Company proceeds 
with a rights issue, that it is approved by shareholders and 
completes before 30 June 2018
 X dividend payments are suspended until the Company 
is generating sustainable free cash flow 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
In making this assessment the directors have also taken 
into account the Company’s current trading performance 
and prospects, the stated strategy concerning the disposal 
of non-core assets and the board’s appetite for risk.
The approach adopted for this assessment was a detailed 
review of the principal risks by a senior management team 
with representatives from finance, commercial, legal, tax 
and treasury, strategy, internal audit, compliance and risk to 
consider which of these risks might threaten the Company’s 
viability. The assessment of these risks included modelling 
them in severe but plausible scenarios taking account of:
 X varying impacts of specific risks across business lines 
 X any potential risk interdependencies
 X the risk mitigation measures currently in place
The analysis of the principal risks has been weighted towards 
downside risk and a sensitivity analysis has been used to 
stress test the risk events most likely to negatively impact the 
Company. Specific scenarios have been tested and include:
 X a further fall in oil prices, increasing pressure on customer 
spending and impacting prospects for future projects
 X project delivery failure resulting in delayed payments, 
settlement payments, reputational damage and reduced 
future work
 X risk of cost overruns on lump sum contracts
 X a substantive ethics breach and/or non-compliance with 
laws or regulation which could result in reputational damage, 
fines, litigation and claims for compensation
 X a serious environmental incident causing third party damage 
and/or injury and reputational damage Strategic report: strategic review
33
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Sustainability
W orking towards our vision  
of a Resilient W orld.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Y ear ended 30 September
2016 
CO2e 
emissions 
in tonnes
2015 
CO2e 
emissions 
in tonnes
Combustion of fuel and operation  
of facilities 1,148,118 838,073
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use 49,799 59,682
Per employee 33.94 22.83
Per £1m revenue 220.21 164.57
The figures show scope one and two emissions from our global 
business where we have operational control. 
The 12-month period to 30 September (the carbon reporting 
year), rather than the calendar year, has been used. This 
ensures actual data can be reported, even for those regions 
where energy/fuel usage is more difficult to access. By reducing 
reliance on estimation, a more accurate footprint can be 
provided in a timely manner.
We have used accepted methods of calculation based on 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition). We have used national 
conversion factor guidelines (e.g. Environmental Protection 
Agency, Environment Canada, DEFRA) where appropriate. 
Note: the 2015 data reported incorporates three quarters of 
a year of data for the legacy Foster Wheeler business as the 
acquisition was not complete until part way through the 2015 
carbon reporting year. 1,120,179 tonnes CO2e emissions from 
the combustion of fuel and operation of facilities in 2016 relate 
directly to emissions from two power generation facilities.
Our approach to sustainable business
Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing 
on our customers and how we deliver our projects safely 
and sustainably.
Our sustainability strategy was launched in 2015 and sets 
out the company’s vision for a Resilient World, where natural 
resources are cleaner and more efficient, and we work in 
partnership with others to respond to changing demands for 
a stable and secure supply of natural resources. Our strategy 
centres on the opportunities to work with others to help solve 
these challenges, as well as manage our risks, to deliver value 
to Amec Foster Wheeler and its customers. Our strategy 
focuses on three key areas;
People
Investing for tomorrow by developing a diverse, inclusive and 
talented workforce which exhibits our values and behaviours 
to drive sustainability.
Growth in demand drives the competition for skills and 
expertise within the industry that we need to deliver a resilient 
world. We will resource for a diverse and inclusive workforce 
introducing new people (both experienced and new entrants) 
to the resource pools in order to create a business with genuine 
diversity of thought.
Innovation
Delivering innovative technologies, solutions and services 
that add business value for our customers whilst minimising 
environmental impacts.
We will drive long-term growth for Amec Foster Wheeler by 
developing and encouraging a growing portfolio of innovative 
environmental technologies, solutions and services which add 
value to our customers and our business.
Delivery
Being a trusted partner by embedding a consistent 
sustainability standard across our projects.
Our customers demand high standards, and sustainability is a 
fundamental part of this. We will ensure a consistent approach to 
inherently embedding sustainability into the core of our projects, 
and implement a value-add sustainability framework to be used 
for those clients with advanced sustainability objectives.
We want to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the very 
core of our business and within our decision-making processes. 
We want to be acknowledged as a leader in sustainable 
business practice, continually validating our social licence 
to operate by ensuring employees’ behaviours and actions are 
in line with our values. Further details on our approach and our 
strategy can be found on our dedicated sustainability site at 
www.amecfw.com/sustainability.
Additionally we:
 X developed and launched our Resilient World 
sustainability strategy 
 X continue to report our approach to sustainability, our 
sustainability performance and our services via an interactive 
sustainability report on our dedicated sustainability website 
www.amecfw.com/sustainability
 X continue to commit to and embed within our business 
practices the ten UN Global Compact Principles around 
human and labour rights, environment and anti-bribery 
and corruption
 X published our first Modern Slavery and Human T rafficking 
statement in response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015
 X undertook a review of our carbon reduction and management 
strategy using science based target methodology
 X continue to support SOS Children as our global 
strategic charity 
 X donated £368,000 to charities globally as part of our 
community investment programme
 X continue to build on our partnership with 100 Resilient Cities 
(100RC) – pioneered by the Rockefeller Foundation to give 
urban centres across the world access to ground-breaking 
tools allowing them to better plan for potentially destructive 
weather events 34
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financial review
Reported under IFRS
£m unless stated 2016 2015
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,440 5,455
Loss before net financing expense (482) (205)
Loss before tax (542) (235)
Cash flow from operations 170 220
Diluted loss per share (138.9)p (66.1)p
Dividend per share 7.4p 29.0p
Adjusted measures 
£m unless stated 2016 2015 Change
Underlying 
change
7
 
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,440 5,455 In line -8%
T rading profit
1
318 374 -15% -22%
T rading margin
2
5.8% 6.9% -110bps
Adjusted profit  
before tax
3
254 334 -24%
T rading cash flow
4
375 388 -3%
Cash conversion
5
118% 104%
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per share
6
50.4p 67.7p -26%
1  T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense before the 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs 
(net of insurance recoveries) and exceptional items, but including the 
Group’s share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
2  T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage 
of revenue.
3  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before 
exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, 
asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), 
and the Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
4  T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before 
cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related payments 
(net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit 
contributions and amounts recognised in trading profit, legacy settlements 
and discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on 
working capital, but including dividends received from joint ventures.
5  Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage 
of trading profit.
6  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from 
continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation and 
impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest 
expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items, 
divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares.
7  Underlying change excludes the effect of acquisitions and disposals 
of businesses and currency exchange rate movements.
Adjusted performance measures used by the Group are 
explained and reconciled to the equivalent IFRS measures in the 
section entitled Performance measures on pages 188 to 190.
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer Strategic report: performance review
35
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Basis of preparation
Accounting policies
The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and those parts of 
the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. From the Group’s perspective, there are 
no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and 
IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
The Group’s principal accounting policies during 2016 were 
unchanged compared with 2015. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
As outlined in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, 
management considers that the most significant areas of 
judgement and estimation made in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements arise in relation to the accounting for long-
term contracts, business combinations, defined benefit and 
other retirement benefits, the estimation of liabilities in respect 
of uncertain tax positions, provisions (including asbestos-
related and other liabilities), and in assessing the recoverability 
of goodwill and other intangible assets and whether businesses 
identified as non-core meet the definition of held for sale or 
discontinued operations.
Adjusted performance measures
We report adjusted performance measures because they 
provide both management and investors with useful additional 
information about the underlying trading performance of 
the business.
The adjusted performance measures that we reported 
exclude the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, 
exceptional items, and asbestos-related costs (net of insurance 
recoveries), and, where relevant, the tax effects of those items.
Continuing operations
Revenue 
Revenue for the year at £5,440m was in line with last year 
(2015: £5,455m).
Revenue increased by £52m in AMEASE, by £42m in the Global 
Power Group and by £5m in NECIS. These increases were offset  
by a £130m reduction in revenue generated in the Americas.
Excluding the effect of currency movements, underlying 
revenue decreased by 8%. Weakness in the oil & gas markets 
in the Americas and AMEASE was partially offset by growth 
in clean energy and environment & infrastructure.
Seasonality
The Group’s revenue is generally higher in the second half of 
the year, principally because weather conditions in the northern 
hemisphere are typically more conducive to project activity. 
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses were £1,072m (2015: £872m), 
including exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and 
impairment and asbestos-related costs (net of insurance 
recoveries) of £784m (2015: £538m). 
Administrative expenses before intangibles amortisation 
and impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items 
reduced by £46m with the benefit of cost savings achieved 
to date being tempered by adverse currency movements.
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs of operating central 
corporate functions and certain regional overheads, were £10m 
lower at £44m (2015: £54m) again reflecting actions taken to 
streamline the cost base.
Loss before net financing expense
There was a loss before net financing expense of £482m 
(2015: £205m) with the increase largely due to impairment 
charges of £526m in 2016 compared to £315m in 2015. 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise goodwill and identifiable 
intangible assets that were recognised in relation to acquired 
businesses. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an 
annual impairment test. 
During 2016, impairments of £526m were recognised of which 
£500m was recorded directly against goodwill and intangible 
assets and £26m against assets classified as held for sale:
 X £246m – impairment of GPG goodwill and intangible assets. 
During 2016, there has been a further deterioration in the 
forecast results of the GPG business with further delays 
and project cancellations and reduced bookings in the year. 
This has resulted in a further impairment charge of £246m 
(year ended 31 December 2015: £308m)
 X £200m – impairment of the Americas goodwill and intangible 
assets. During the first half of 2016 there was a significant 
deterioration in the trading conditions and forecast outturn 
for the oil and gas business based in Houston. In the light 
of current trading conditions and uncertainty over future 
prospects, impairment charges of £200m (2015:£nil) have 
been recorded against goodwill and the customer relationship 
asset that was acquired with Foster Wheeler
 X £20m – impairment charge against the brand and customer 
relationship assets associated with small acquisitions
 X £34m – impairment of an ERP system
 X £26m – impairment of two operations transferred to held 
for sale in the period, including the transfer of £16m goodwill 
attributable to the disposal groups
Intangibles amortisation of £129m was in line with last year 
(2015: £129m).  36
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
T rading profit and trading margin
£m unless stated 2016 2015 Change 
Underlying 
change
Revenue 5,440 5,455 In line -8%
Loss before net 
financing expense (482) (205)
–  Amortis ation and 
impairment of 
intangibles 655 444
–  Net asbestos-
related income (4) (13)
–  Exceptional items 131 108
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 18 40
T rading profit
1
 318 374 -15% -22%
T rading margin
1
5.8% 6.9% -110 bps
Order book £5.8bn £6.6bn -11%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190).
T rading profit fell by 15% to £318m in 2016 (2015: £374m). 
T rading margin decreased by 110 basis points to 5.8% 
(2015: 6.9%). 
Excluding the effect of currency movements, trading profit 
was 22% lower than in 2015 with reductions in each of the 
operating segments. 
Within the Americas, trading profit fell by 39% on an underlying 
basis, as a result of delay or cancellation of contracts in the oil 
& gas market. 
Within NECIS, trading profit decreased by 9% on an underlying 
basis and trading margin was down 90 basis points compared 
with 2015. A strong performance from oil and gas in the North 
Sea was offset by the ending of the NMP contract at Sellafield 
and losses incurred following difficult trading conditions in the 
T ransmission and Distribution business. 
In AMEASE trading profit was down 22%, reflecting favourable 
contract settlements in 2015 and cost over-runs on a fixed price 
US government contract in the Pacific.
Exceptional and asbestos-related items
Net exceptional and asbestos-related costs totalling £137m 
(2015: £115m) were recognised in arriving at profit before 
tax from continuing operations.
During 2016, the integration of the AMEC and Foster Wheeler 
businesses has continued and there has been an ongoing cost 
savings programme. Costs of £135m have been incurred in 
achieving the integration and the cost savings. This includes:
 X £54m of onerous lease and other property costs, which was 
incurred predominantly in the Americas, as the property 
portfolio has been reviewed and consolidated
 X Severance and other exit costs were £45m. This largely 
relates to delayering management and removing overlapping 
functions, but also includes severance costs related to 
engineers in the Oil and Gas Americas business following 
the down turn in trading in that business during the year 
 X Professional fees of £31m incurred in relation to establishing 
the new Group strategy and organisational structure, the 
establishment of a Global Shared Services Centre and 
IT integration 
There were also internal costs of £5m in relation to integration 
and restructuring activities.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised 
net asbestos-related costs of £4m (2015: income of £6m) in 
profit before tax. There was a credit of £6m relating to a change 
in the discount rate applied to the net asbestos-related liabilities 
assumed on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. This was offset 
by a charge of £8m in respect of unwinding the discount and 
costs of managing the liability of £2m. There was no change to 
the actual liability required following the annual reassessment 
in 2016.
Financial review continued Strategic report: performance review
37
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Net financing expense 
The net financing expense was £71m (2015: £58m). Of this, 
expenses of £10m (2015: £20m) have been presented separately 
in the income statement relating to the unwinding of the discount 
on asbestos-related liabilities (net of insurance recoveries) 
of £8m (2015: £7m) and costs of £2m (2015: £13m) related 
to amortisation of the fees and other costs associated with 
the refinancing of Foster Wheeler acquisition facility.
Of the remaining £61m, there was net bank interest payable  
of £65m (2015: £31m), net foreign exchange gains of £2m 
(2015: losses of £1m), a net interest expense on pension assets 
and liabilities of £nil (2015: £2m) and other income classified 
as financing of £2m (2015: costs of £4m). 
A net currency exchange loss of £127m (2015: £3m) was 
recognised in the translation reserve in respect of foreign 
currency borrowings and derivatives held in designated net 
investment hedging relationships.
Share of results of joint ventures
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ profit for the year was £11m 
(2015: £28m) with the reduction due to the ending of the NMP 
contract at Sellafield and the transfer of PetroPower Energia 
Limitada to held for sale in June 2016, at which time equity 
accounting ceases.
Loss before tax 
Loss before tax was £542m (2015: £235m) after intangibles 
amortisation and impairment of £655m (2015: £444m), 
exceptional and asbestos-related items of £137m (2015: £115m) 
and the Group’s share of joint ventures’ tax expense of £4m 
(2015: £10m). 
Adjusted profit before tax was 24% lower at £254m 
(2015: £334m).
T axation
Our tax policy is to manage our obligations in compliance 
with all relevant tax laws, disclosure requirements and 
regulations. We seek to ensure that our approach to tax and 
the tax payments that we make in all territories in which we 
have operations are fully consistent with local requirements, 
taking into account available tax incentives and allowances, 
and are aligned with the Group’s wider business strategy. 
We seek to develop good, open working relationships with tax 
authorities and to engage with them proactively, recognising 
that tax legislation can be complex and may be subject to 
differing interpretations.
The Group’s effective tax rate on continuing operations 
(including its share of joint ventures’ income tax expense 
but before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and 
impairment and asbestos-related items) was in line with 
last year at 22.3% (2015: 22.0%). 
We expect the effective tax rate to remain below 25%.
During 2016, there was a tax credit on exceptional items of 
£26m (2015: £18m), and a tax credit of £43m on intangibles 
amortisation and impairment (2015: £27m).
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ income tax expense was 
£4m (2015: £10m).
Loss for the year from continuing operations
The loss for the year from continuing operations was £526m 
(2015: £253m) after intangibles amortisation and impairments 
of £655m (2015: £444m), the net asbestos-related costs of 
£4m (2015: income of £6m), net exceptional items of £133m 
(2015: £121m), and an income tax credit on those items 
of £69m (2015: £45m).
Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 
was 24% lower at £197m (2015: £261m).
Non-controlling interests
During 2016, there was a profit of £4m attributable 
to non-controlling interests (2015: loss of £1m). 
Earnings per share
The diluted loss per share was 135.6p (2015: 67 .2p), comprising 
a loss per share of 138.9p (2015: 66.1p) from continuing 
operations and a profit per share of 3.3p (2015: loss of 1.1p) 
from discontinued operations.
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations was 50.4p 
(2015: 67 .7p), the reduction being due to the decline in the 
profit for the year from continuing operations.
Dividend
The board has decided to suspend all dividend payments until 
sustainable free cash flow is being generated, and, as a result 
is not recommending a final dividend for the year. The interim 
dividend of 7 .4 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2017 . 38
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Revenue in NECIS was in line with last year at £1,497m 
(2015: £1,492m), with a higher level of Oil & Gas activity in the 
North Sea, driven by major offshore hook ups. Excluding the 
effect of currency movements, underlying revenue was also 
in line with 2015.
T rading profit decreased by 10% to £121m (2015: £134m). 
T rading margin was 8.1%, down 90 basis points compared 
with 2015 reflecting last year’s strong performance on contract 
close outs and the ending of the NMP contract at Sellafield 
during 2016, along with losses incurred in the T ransmission 
and Distribution business following difficult market conditions 
in the second half.
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe (AMEASE)
£m unless stated 2016 2015 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,102 1,050 +5% -5%
Profit before net 
financing expense 5 13
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 42 23
–  Exceptional items 10 28
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 4 4
T rading profit
1
61 68 -10% -22%
T rading margin
1
5.5% 6.5% -100bps
Order book £1.8bn £1.8bn +3%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190). 
Revenue in AMEASE was up 5% year on year at £1,102m 
(2015: £1,050m). Weaker Oil & Gas revenues, with growth in the 
Middle East impacted by project deferrals, was partially offset 
by stronger performances from Mining and E&I. Excluding the 
effect of currency movements, underlying revenue was down 5%.
T rading profit was 10% lower at £61m (2015: £68m), reflecting 
revenue mix and cost over-runs on a fixed price US government 
contract in the Pacific. T rading margin was 5.5%, down 100 
basis points compared with 2015. 
Results by operating segment
Americas
£m unless stated 2016 2015 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 2,516 2,646 -5% -15%
(Loss)/profit before 
net financing expense (203) 94
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 241 46
–  Exceptional items 71 22
–  Share of trading loss 
of joint ventures – (1)
T rading profit
1
 109 161 -32% -39%
T rading margin
1
4.3% 6.1% -180bps
Order book £1.6bn £2.0bn -21%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190). 
Revenue in Americas was £2,516m (2015: £2,646m), a 
decrease of 5%. Excluding the effect of currency movements, 
underlying revenue was down 15%. Growth in the Clean Energy 
and Environment & Infrastructure sectors offset declines in Oil 
& Gas and Mining. 
T rading profit fell by 32% to £109m (2015: £161m). The main 
impact was in Oil & Gas where key contracts were delayed 
or cancelled by customers which caused a major decline in 
utilisation rates in Houston. As a result, trading margin was 
4.3%, down by 180 basis points compared with 2015.
Northern Europe and CIS (NECIS)
£m unless stated 2016 2015 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,497 1,492 In line In line
Profit before net 
financing expense 63 60
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 42 41
–  Exceptional items 10 13
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 6 20
T rading profit
1
121 134 -10% -9%
T rading margin
1
8.1% 9.0% -90bps
Order book £2.0bn £2.4bn -15%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190). 
Financial review continued Strategic report: performance review
39
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions during 2016 or 2015.
Acquisition of Foster Wheeler in 2014
On 13 November 2014, the Group acquired a 95.3% interest in 
Foster Wheeler AG by way of a public tender offer. Consideration 
payable for the interest acquired totalled £1,915m, of which 
£979m was settled in cash, £919m was settled by the issue 
of approximately 85m of the Company’s ordinary shares and 
£17m was settled by the grant of replacement share options 
and awards.
During 2015, management completed its assessment of the net 
identifiable assets of Foster Wheeler as at the acquisition date. 
This resulted in the recognition of goodwill of £1,726m on the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler. 
In January 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 4.7% 
interest in Foster Wheeler AG by way of a ‘squeeze-out merger’ 
under Swiss law for consideration of £85m, of which £51m was 
paid in cash and £34m was settled by the issue of 4.3m of the 
Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs.
Further details of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler are set out 
in note 25 to the accompanying financial information.
Disposals
In March 2016, the Group announced its intention to reduce net 
debt via the disposal of non-core assets. During the year the 
following disposal groups met the definition of assets held for 
sale as set out in IFRS 5.
Disposal Group Location
Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd Korea
PetroPower Energia Limitada Chile
Amec Foster Wheeler Power SRL Italy
Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited Australia
GPG – Core Boiler Business Global
On 3 August 2016, the Group signed a sale and purchase 
agreement relating to its interest in The Incheon Bridge Co. 
Cash proceeds of £30m were received in December 2016,  
and reported within current payables. The disposal remains 
subject to regulatory approval but it is expected to complete 
in 2017 .
The disposal of PetroPower Energia Limitada completed 
in December 2016 with proceeds of £40m. 
In January 2017 , the Company sold Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd., 
a specialist consultancy business based in Australia, to Jacobs 
Group (Australia) Pty Ltd for £21m. 
On 2 March 2017 , the Company signed an agreement to sell 
its core boiler business to Sumitomo Heavy Industries, Ltd 
for £137m. The sale is conditional on customary regulatory 
approvals in certain jurisdictions and is expected to complete 
during the second quarter of 2017 .
Also, on 2 March 2017 , the Group announced its intention 
to dispose of its nuclear business. This business did not meet 
the definition of held for sale as at 31 December 2016.
Global Power Group
£m unless stated 2016 2015 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 406 364 +12% In line
Loss before net 
financing expense (234) (302)
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 275 334
–  Exceptional items 8 4
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 5 15
T rading profit
1
54 51 +6% -6%
T rading margin
1
13.3% 14.0% -70bps
Order book £0.4bn £0.4bn +2%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190). 
Revenues in GPG increased by 12% to £406m (2015: £364m), 
primarily driven by currency movements. On an underlying 
basis, revenue was in line with 2015.
T rading profit increased by 6% to £54m (2015: £51m) and 
trading margin was 13.3%, down 70 basis points, driven 
by pricing pressure in weak market conditions and lower 
resource utilisation.
Investment Services
During the periods under review, Investment Services 
principally comprised the Group’s wind development activities, 
the Group’s insurance captive and a range of other non-core 
activities. The Group’s interest in the Incheon Bridge PPP 
project in Korea and Amec Foster Wheeler Power SRL were 
classified as held for sale during the year. 
Revenue in Investment Services was £16m (2015: £15m). 
Investment Services made a loss before net financing expense 
of £3m (2015: profit of £10m), after deducting impairment 
charges of £21m (2015:£nil), and an exceptional profit on 
disposal of businesses of £4m (2015: loss of £2m). T rading 
profit was £17m (2015: £14m) of which £3m (2015: £2m) was 
derived from joint ventures.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and 
retained obligations of businesses sold in prior years, together 
with the UK conventional power business that was classified 
as a discontinued operation during 2013. 
Following favourable contract settlements in the UK 
conventional power business, there was trading profit from 
discontinued operations of £6m (2015: loss of £6m) and after 
a tax charge of £1m (2015: credit of £1m) there was a profit for 
the year of £5m (2015: loss of £5m).
Discontinued operations included a profit after tax on disposals 
of £7m (2015: £1m) arising from movements in indemnity 
provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in 
prior years. 
Discontinued operations generated an overall profit for the year 
of £12m (2015: loss of £4m).  40
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Movement in net debt
The movement in net debt may be analysed as follows: 
Y ear ended 31 December
2016
£m
2015
£m
T rading cash flow 375 388
Write off of finance arrangement fees – (12)
Net asbestos-related payments (21) (22)
Excess of retirement benefit contributions 
over amounts recognised in trading profit (4) (3)
Cash outflow on exceptional items (82) (72)
Legacy settlements and discontinued 
operations (88) (36)
Dividends received from joint ventures (35) (42)
Exchange rate movements 25 19
Cash generated from operations 170 220
Income taxes paid (net) (32) (79)
Interest paid (net) (47) (35)
Capital expenditure (net of disposals) (24) (36)
Acquisitions and disposals (net) 61 (51)
Ordinary dividends (113) (167)
Net share movements (2) 10
Dividends received from joint ventures 35 42
Exchange and other movements (20) 33
Cash movement in net debt 28 (63)
Non-cash movements (103) (80)
Movement in net debt (75) (143)
Opening net debt (946) (803)
Closing net debt (1,021) (946)
Net debt comprised:
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 286 307
Cash deposits 56 33
Cash deposits >3m 22 23
Financial derivatives 27 14
Bank loans (net of facility fees) (1,375) (1,264)
Finance lease obligations (51) (59)
Net cash classified as held for sale 14 – 
Net debt (1,021) (946)
Liquidity and capital resources
T rading cash flow
T rading cash flow of £375m was £13m lower than last year 
(2015: £388m), with a £34m reduction in profit before net 
financing income partially offset by working capital movements.
Cash conversion was 118% (2015: 104%).
Cash generated from operations
Cash generated from operations was £170m (2015: £220m), 
a reduction of £50m due to the reduction in trading cash flow 
and an increase of £62m in the cash outflow on exceptional and 
legacy items. This includes $70m paid following the Longview 
settlement (see note 21) and principally integration-related costs. 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets (net of disposals) were £24m (2015: £36m). 
Acquisitions and disposals
During 2016, there was a cash outflow of £2m in respect of 
deferred consideration arrangements on prior year acquisitions, 
£2m funding of joint ventures and payments of £5m in 
respect of businesses sold in prior years. Disposal proceeds 
of £70m were received being £40m in respect of the disposal 
of PetroPower Energia Limitada and £30m advance proceeds 
in respect of The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd.
During 2015 there was a cash outflow of £5m in respect of 
deferred consideration arrangements on prior year acquisitions. 
There was a cash outflow of £54m from the acquisition of the 
non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler and Kromav. This is 
presented within financing activities in the cash flow statement.
Financial review continued Strategic report: performance review
41
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Cash balances
We manage our cash balances such that there is no 
significant concentration of risk in any one bank or other 
financial institution. We monitor closely the credit quality 
of the institutions that hold the Group’s deposits. Similar 
consideration is given to the Group’s portfolio of derivative 
financial instruments. 
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had cash balances totalling 
£410m (2015: £363m), of which 78% was held in institutions 
with a long term credit rating of at least A- (or equivalent) 
by at least two internationally recognised ratings agencies.
Borrowings
Borrowing facilities 
We seek to maintain a balanced capital structure comprising a 
mix of debt and equity, which is determined by considering the 
Group’s business profile and strategy, financial policies and the 
availability and cost of funding. The Group’s long-term net debt 
target is to be no more than two times trading profit.
On 1 March 2016 the Group entered into a new credit facility 
agreement with a syndicate of lenders comprising three 
tranches: a three-year £650m term loan (Facility A), a five-year 
£650m term loan (Facility B) and a five-year £400m revolving 
credit facility. This new facility replaced the Foster Wheeler 
acquisition facility of $2,260m.
In December 2016, Facility A was reduced by £39m following 
a mandatory repayment from the proceeds of disposal of 
PetroPower Energia Limitada. There was a further reduction 
of £20m in February 2017 following the disposal of Aquenta 
Consulting Pty Ltd.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had committed banking 
facilities of £1,687m (2015: £1,768m). Including finance leases, 
there were total facilities of £1,745m (2015: £1,827m).
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had headroom of £300m 
against these committed facilities (in addition to cash, cash 
equivalents and bank deposits of £410m):
Facility 
£m
Drawings
1
 
£m
Headroom 
£m
Credit facility agreement
– Facility A 611 619 –
– Facility B 650 667 –
–  Revolving credit facility 400 100 300
Project debt 26 26 –
Finance leases 58 58 –
Committed facilities 1,745 1,470 300
1  Drawings are in excess of the facility as a result of foreign exchange movements.
Interest rate profile
Our policy is to maintain between 30% and 70% of the 
Group’s borrowings at fixed rates of interest. We achieve this 
by using interest rate swaps and other interest rate derivatives. 
At 31 December 2016, after taking into account the effect 
of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, 
approximately 32% of the Group’s borrowings are at a fixed 
rate of interest (2015: 28%). 
As at 31 December 2016, the weighted average effective cost of 
the Group’s outstanding borrowings was 3.6% and the effective 
interest maturity was 29 months.
Borrowing covenants
We are subject to customary covenants, representations and 
warranties in relation to our borrowing facilities. Our debt 
financing facility contains certain financial covenants as defined 
in the facility agreement including: 
 X the ratio of consolidated net total borrowings to adjusted 
consolidated EBITDA must not exceed 3.75:1 for periods 
to 1 March 2018 and 3.5:1 from thereafter 
 X the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated net finance 
costs must not be less than 3.0 times 
We were in compliance with the financial covenants for the year 
ended 31 December 2016.
In April 2017 the lenders under the facility agreement agreed 
to restate the covenant for the ratio of consolidated net total 
borrowings to adjusted consolidated EBITDA to 4.5:1 for the 
period to 30 June 2018.
Currency profile of debt
We aim to maintain the currency of the Group’s debt in 
proportion to the currencies in which the net assets of 
the Group’s businesses are denominated. We achieve the 
desired currency profile of the Group’s debt by borrowing 
in the relevant currency and also by entering into currency 
derivative contracts. 
As at 31 December 2016, the effect of our hedging activity 
on the currency profile of the Group’s debt was as follows: 
Debt before 
hedges 
£m
Effect of 
hedges 
£m
Debt after 
hedges 
£m
Currency:
– Sterling 1,067 (428) 639
– US dollar 380 (29) 351
– Euro 25 226 251
– Canadian dollar – 229 229
1,472 (2) 1,470 42
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Other assets and liabilities
Goodwill and other intangibles
As at 31 December 2016, the carrying amount of goodwill was 
£2,164m (2015: £2,192m), with the reduction during the year 
resulting from an impairment of £214m recognised against the 
goodwill attributable to the Global Power Group business and 
£75m attributable to the Americas. In addition there was £60m 
of goodwill allocated to disposal groups, which was partially 
offset by currency movement of £321m. See note 12 for further 
details.
As at 31 December 2016, the carrying amount of other 
intangibles was £511m (2015: £833m), which comprised 
acquired identifiable intangible assets of £473m (2015: £753m) 
and computer software of £38m (2015: £80m). There were 
impairment charges of £177m recognised against the customer 
relationship and brand intangible assets and £34m against 
software. See note 12 for further details.
Amortisation of £129m was in line with last year (2015: £129m).
Research and development
Our engineering, project management and consultancy 
businesses seek to develop advanced engineering solutions 
for our customers targeted towards the achievement of new 
or improved functions and performance of their assets. Our 
businesses are involved in front-end and detailed engineering 
design and implementation and testing activities across a broad 
range of markets including the Oil & Gas, Mining, and Clean 
Energy sectors.
GPG also conducts research and development activities in 
the areas of combustion; solid, fluid and gas dynamics; heat 
transfer; materials; and solid mechanics. GPG licenses its 
technology to a limited number of third parties in selected 
countries or markets.
In the UK, the US and Canada, the Group claims research and 
development government credits. Research and development 
expenditure net of amounts recoverable from customers and 
government credits claimed is not material to the Group’s 
operating results.
Property, plant and equipment
As at 31 December 2016, property, plant and equipment 
amounted to £71m (2015: £127m), with a reduction of £56m 
during the year due as the transfer of assets with a net book 
value of £57m to held for sale and depreciation and impairment 
of £29m offset by additions of £17m and currency movements 
of £15m.
We hold the majority of the properties through which the Group 
operates under operating leases which are for varying periods 
and on differing terms. The Group has a network of over 350 
offices worldwide, which range from regional hubs to smaller 
offices with more local focus.
Due to the geographical spread of the Group’s operations, 
there is no individual facility the loss of which would have a 
material adverse impact on the Group’s operations. Equally, 
there are no plans to construct, expand or improve facilities 
that would, on completion or cancellation, significantly affect 
the Group’s operations.
Post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and 
overseas employees. As at 31 December 2015, the two most 
significant defined benefit schemes were based in the UK: 
the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme (an open “career average 
salary” scheme, which also has an associated Executive top-
up scheme) and the Foster Wheeler Pension Plan (a legacy 
scheme that closed to further accrual in 2010). The next 
most significant was based in the US: The Foster Wheeler Inc. 
Salaried Employees Pension Plan which was closed to further 
accrual in 2003. 
Following an employee consultation exercise at the end of 2015 
and subsequent T rustee approval in early 2016, the Company 
closed the AMEC Staff and Executive top-up schemes to further 
accrual from 1 April 2016 and replaced them with a new defined 
contribution arrangement. 
During 2016, all legacy defined benefit plans in the UK were 
merged into the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme, which was 
renamed the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan on 1 April 2016. 
The merged scheme holds all the pension assets in a separately 
administered fund and is governed by the employment laws 
of the UK. The benefits are determined by the member’s 
length of service and salary each year. Once the benefits are in 
payment, the pension is adjusted each year in accordance with 
the scheme’s rules relative to UK price inflation. The scheme 
is established under trust law and is governed by a corporate 
T rustee Board (the “T rustees”), which consists of employers’ 
and employees’ representatives and two independent 
trustees. The T rustees are responsible for the management 
and administration of the scheme and for the definition of 
the investment strategy.
As at 31 December 2016, there was a net deficit of £137m 
on the Group’s defined benefit pension plans (2015: surplus of 
£63m) with the reduction principally due to changes in actuarial 
assumptions to reflect financial conditions at the year-end. 
During 2016, the Group contributed £20m (2015: £36m) 
to defined benefit pension plans and expects to contribute 
£23m in 2017 , including special contributions of £12m.
Further information on the Group’s retirement benefit plans is 
provided in note 14 to the accompanying financial information.
Financial review continued Strategic report: performance review
43
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Provisions
Provisions held at 31 December 2016 amounted to £619m 
(2015: £664m), with the substantial reduction during the year 
arising principally due to the release and utilisation of brought 
forward provisions of £99m and £72m respectively. Otherwise, 
additional provisions of £32m were created and there was an 
exchange movement of £84m on the opening balances.
Provisions may be summarised as follows:
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Asbestos-related litigation 413 378
Legal claims and actions 89 154
Obligations relating to disposed businesses 60 78
Property related provisions 17 19
Other provisions 40 35
619 664
Details of the provisions held by the Group are set out in note 21 
to the accompanying financial information. 
Asbestos-related obligations
The Group is subject to claims by individuals who allege that 
they have suffered personal injury from exposure to asbestos 
primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured 
by certain of the Group’s subsidiaries during the 1970s or earlier.
We assumed the majority of our asbestos-related liabilities 
when we acquired Foster Wheeler in November 2014. Whilst 
some of these claims have been and are expected to be made in 
the United Kingdom, the overwhelming majority have been and 
are expected to be made in the United States. The disclosure 
below is therefore presented in respect of the US claims of the 
former Foster Wheeler entities. The estimates and averages 
presented have been calculated on the basis of the total 
historical US asbestos claims since the initiation of claims  
filed against such Foster Wheeler entities.
US Claim Activities 2016 2015 2014
Number of claims:
Open claims at beginning of year 110,130 118,870 125,240 
New claims received 3,800 3,420 3,730 
Claims resolved (32,210) (12,160) (10,100)
Open claims at end of year
1
81,720 110,130 118,870
1  Includes 59,660 non-malignancy claims comprised of claims in inactive 
court dockets and claims over six years old at 31 December 2016. 
Mesothelioma and lung cancer claims are considered malignant claims.
The following table summarizes our approximate US 
asbestos related net cash impact for indemnity and defence 
cost payments and collection of insurance proceeds:
(All US $ in thousands) 2016 2015 2014
Asbestos litigation, defence  
and case resolution payments 46,000 51,130 52,830
Insurance proceeds (17,220) (17 ,460) (21,110)
Net asbestos-related payments 28,780 33,670 31,720
We expect to have net cash outflows of $30.4m as a result 
of asbestos liability indemnity and defence payments in excess 
of insurance proceeds during 2017 . This estimate assumes 
no additional settlements with insurance companies and no 
elections by us to fund additional payments. As we continue to 
collect cash from insurance settlements, the asbestos-related 
insurance receivable recorded on our consolidated balance 
sheet will continue to decrease. We have discounted the 
expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos-related 
liabilities and the expected insurance recoveries using discount 
rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market 
interest rates.
We have worked with our independent asbestos valuation 
expert to estimate the amount of asbestos-related indemnity 
and defence costs at each year-end based on a forecast to 
31 December 2050. Each year we have recorded our estimated 
asbestos liability at a level consistent with our expert’s 
reasonable best estimate. The total asbestos-related liabilities 
are comprised of our estimates for our liability relating to open 
(outstanding) claims being valued and our liability for future 
un-asserted claims to 31 December 2050. 
For the period to 31 December 2016, total cumulative indemnity 
costs paid, prior to insurance recoveries, were approximately 
$912m and total cumulative defence costs paid were 
approximately $474m, or approximately 34% of total defence 
and indemnity costs. The overall historic average combined 
indemnity and defence cost per resolved claim through 
31 December 2016 has been approximately $3.1k. The average 
cost per resolved claim is increasing and we believe it will 
continue to increase in the future. 
Over the last several years, annual claim filings against these 
Foster Wheeler entities have generally trended down. Claims for 
non-malignancies have decreased while claims for lung cancer 
and mesothelioma are approximately in line with our expert’s 
forecast. T ogether with our independent asbestos valuation 
expert, we continue to monitor claim filings to determine if any 
adjustments to our expert’s forecast are warranted. 44
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Contractual obligations 
As at 31 December 2016, the Group’s contractual obligations were as follows:
Earliest period in which payment due
T otal 
£m
Less than 
one year 
£m
Between one 
and two years 
£m
Between two 
and five years 
£m
After more 
than five years 
£m
Bank and other loans
Principal 1,413 106 4 1,299 4
Interest
1
195 50 54 91 –
Derivative financial instruments
1, 2
73 45 – 28 –
Finance leases 58 12 14 23 9
Operating leases 379 95 91 133 60
Post-retirement benefits
3
23 23 – – –
T otal
4
 2,141 331 163 1,574 73
1  Floating rate interest payments and payments on the floating rate legs of interest rate derivatives are estimated based on market interest rates as at 
31 December 2016.
2 Payments on foreign currency derivatives are estimated based on market exchange rates as at 31 December 2016.
3  Post-employment benefit obligations represent contributions to which the Group is committed and are not subject to potential future adjustment to reflect 
investment performance and other actuarial factors.
4  Future payments relating to the Group’s uncertain tax positions are not included because it is not practicable to estimate reliably the timing of these 
cash outflows.
The estimate of the liabilities and assets related to asbestos 
claims and recoveries is subject to a number of uncertainties 
that may result in significant changes in the current estimates. 
Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number 
and type of claims filed, the amounts of claim costs, the 
impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos 
claims, uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from 
jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, as well as 
potential legislative changes. Increases in the number of claims 
filed or costs to resolve those claims could cause us to increase 
further the estimates of the costs associated with asbestos 
claims and could have a material adverse effect on our financial 
condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Risk factors 
on pages 177 to 187 .
As at 31 December 2016, the Group recognised:
 X an asbestos-related provision of £450m (after the effect of 
discounting of £84m), which included estimates of indemnity 
amounts and defence costs for open and yet to be asserted 
claims expected to be incurred in each year in the period 
to 2050 
 X insurance recoveries of £116m (after discounting of £3m) 
Non-controlling interests
As at 31 December 2016, non-controlling interests in equity 
amounted to £11m (2015: £9m), with the increase during the 
year largely being due to share of profit for year attributable to 
non-controlling interests. 
Distributable reserves
As at 31 December 2016, the Company’s distributable reserves 
stood at £548m (2015: £564m).
£m
As at 1 January 2016 564
Dividends paid during 2016 (113)
Dividends received from subsidiaries 244
Impairment charges (64)
Integration costs (28)
Other costs (55)
As at 31 December 2016 548
In total, there was a write-down of £571m against the investments 
in subsidiary undertakings. Of this, £507m was charged against 
the merger reserve, and so has no impact on distributable 
profits, and £64m against the profit and loss account reserve.
During 2012, the Company generated a significant profit from 
a Group restructuring which becomes distributable as qualifying 
consideration is received by the Company in settlement of the 
associated loan. There were no repayments of this loan during 
2015 or 2014, and a repayment during 2016 was not considered 
to be qualifying consideration.
Financial review continued Strategic report: performance review
45
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Additional information
Off-balance sheet arrangements
At 31 December 2016, the Group had no off-balance sheet 
arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a 
current or future effect on the Group’s financial condition, 
revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital 
expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 
Details of the Group’s operating lease commitments are set out 
in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Outlook for 2017
Given conditions in natural resources end markets, our 2016 
trading performance was robust, as we benefited from the 
breadth of our business – especially the record performance 
from solar – cost saving actions and the fall in sterling in the 
second half of the year. 
We continue to expect another year of decline in oil and gas 
activity in 2017 and for solar activity to reduce significantly from 
the record levels seen in 2016. It is also expected that there will 
be a better performance from environment and infrastructure 
and a further significant contribution from standalone overhead 
cost savings.
This year, we will continue to leverage the outstanding technical 
expertise of our people to best serve our customers and deliver 
projects safely across all the markets in which we operate. 
This and the improvements we have made to the business 
will ensure we continue to make significant progress in 2017 .
Going concern
As at 31 December 2016, the Company had net debt of 
£1,021m. Committed facilities under the principal Debt Facility 
Arrangement and other smaller facilities were £1,745m of 
which £300m was undrawn. The Company has taken steps to 
reduce its debt including the disposal of non-core assets, cost 
savings measures and suspending dividend payments until the 
Company is generating sustainable free cash flow. Despite the 
actions taken to date, there remained a risk that the leverage 
ratio would exceed the maximum leverage ratio under the  
Debt Facility Arrangement of 3.75:1 in the measurement period 
ended 30 June 2017 and in subsequent periods.
Should there be a breach of the leverage covenant, the lenders 
could demand accelerated repayment and the Company may 
not have the funds to make these repayments. T o ensure 
continued compliance with its financial covenants, the 
Company has approached its banking group and successfully 
agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking 
facilities to 4.5:1 to provide additional headroom through to 
the reporting period ending 30 June 2018. The Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
will comply with this revised covenant and will be able to 
operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the 
foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
We outline on pages 28 to 32 the principal risks and 
uncertainties that may affect the Group’s results, cash flows 
and financial position.
Directors’ approval statement
The strategic report, as set out on pages 1 to 45, has been 
reviewed and approved by our board of directors.
 
Ian McHoul 
Chief Financial Officer 
25 April 2017 46
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Good corporate governance underpins effective 
long-term company performance. Y our board is 
responsible for the Group’s governance and is 
committed to delivering the highest standards 
for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Dear shareholder 
This section of the report examines the work of your board over 
the past 12 months and the processes we have implemented. 
We once again carried out a review of the effectiveness of your 
board. Best practice is for these reviews to be facilitated by an 
external specialist every three years, and we had a full external 
review by Lintstock in 2015. This year Lintstock assisted us 
with our internal review, which we carried out by questionnaire. 
Lintstock prepared a report on the findings which was presented 
at the January 2017 board meeting and which are summarised 
on page 58. 
In April 2016, the UK Financial Reporting Council issued a revised 
version of the UK Corporate Governance Code* (the Code). 
Although we are not yet required to comply with this version 
of the Code, our belief in adopting the highest standards means 
that we have chosen to report against this framework this year. 
In the opinion of the directors, your Company has complied with 
the provisions of the April 2016 edition of the Code, in respect 
of the year ended 31 December 2016. The governance report 
examines how we have applied these provisions. 
This was the second year that your Company needed to comply 
with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
which governs management’s assessment of internal controls 
over financial reporting. We have again successfully achieved 
compliance by 31 December 2016. This process added further 
requirements to the activities of your board’s committees. 
In my Chairman’s report on page 8, I outline the board 
changes which have occurred since the start of 2016. 
After a comprehensive search by Korn Ferry, the board 
appointed Jon Lewis as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2016. 
This followed Samir Brikho stepping down as Chief Executive 
Officer in January. Ian McHoul, our Chief Financial Officer, 
was interim CEO until Jon’s appointment. 
Chairman’s governance overview
Since my last report, Neil Carson has retired from the board and 
Colin Day has taken on the role of Senior Independent Director. 
Roy Franklin has been appointed Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. Kent 
Masters has indicated his intention to retire from the board 
following the conclusion of the AGM and he will step down as a 
member of the HSSEE Committee at the same time. Bob Card 
joined the board on 1 March 2017 and is a member of the Audit 
and HSSEE Committees. Bob has over 40 years of experience 
in the oversight, operations and management of infrastructure, 
power, mining and energy projects and I am delighted that he 
has joined our board.
In addition to filing an annual report in the UK, we are required 
to also file our annual report in the US on Form 20-F, which 
complies with the reporting requirements of the New Y ork Stock 
Exchange, US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission applicable to foreign private issuers. 
We have again produced a combined annual report and annual 
report on Form 20-F to ensure we provide consistent information 
to all our investors. 
As required by the SEC, a summary outlining the significant 
differences between the Company’s corporate governance 
practices as a UK listed company and those followed by US 
companies can be found on pages 208 to 209. 
As we have explained in the strategic report, your Company is 
going through a period of significant change. The board has an 
important role to play in overseeing this transformation and we 
will continue to apply the highest standards of governance to 
assure effective implementation to the benefit of shareholders.
John Connolly
Chairman
25 April 2017
*Printed copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be obtained from 
www.frcpublications.com 47
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Leadership and effectiveness
Our board of directors
Our board members are selected to ensure and 
maintain an effective balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the areas in 
which Amec F oster Wheeler operates and in the 
duties and responsibilities associated with being 
a director of a listed company.
John Connolly
Chairman of the board, Chairman 
of the nominations committee and 
a member of the remuneration 
committee
A chartered accountant, John 
spent his career until May 2011 
with global professional services 
firm Deloitte. John joined the firm 
in 1980, serving in various roles of 
increasing responsibility. During his 
time at Deloitte, he held a wide range 
of senior leadership positions in the 
United Kingdom and internationally. 
He was Global Chairman between 
2007 and 2011 and Global Managing 
Director from 2003 to 2007 . He 
was Senior Partner and CEO of the 
UK Partnership from 1999 until his 
retirement from the Partnership 
in 2011.
John is chairman of G4S plc and also 
of a number of private companies. 
Beyond commercial business roles, 
John is Chairman of the Board of 
T rustees of Great Ormond Street 
Hospital Charity and a member of 
the CBI President’s Advisory Council.
T erm of office
John was appointed as non-executive 
Chairman on 1 June 2011 and was 
considered to be independent on 
appointment in accordance with 
the requirements of the Code.
His term of office was extended in 
March 2015 for a second three-year 
term to the date of the 2018 AGM.
Jon Lewis
Chief Executive Officer 
Prior to joining Amec Foster 
Wheeler, Jon had been employed 
in a number of senior roles at 
Halliburton Company Inc since 
1996 – most recently as a Senior 
Vice President and member of the 
Halliburton Executive Committee, 
with responsibility, since 2014, 
for leading its largest division, 
Completion & Production. Prior 
roles included leadership of the 
Europe/Sub-Saharan Africa Region 
(the largest operating region outside 
North America) and the Drilling and 
Evaluation Division.
He joined Halliburton following nine 
years in academia, where he was 
NERC research fellow at the Royal 
School of Mines at Imperial College 
in London and Conoco Lecturer in 
Petroleum Geology at Heriot Watt 
University, Edinburgh. Jon holds 
a BSc in Geology from Kingston 
University and a PhD in Geology/
Sedimentology from the University 
of Reading.
T erm of office
Jon was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 June 2016 and has no 
fixed term of office. His service 
contract is terminable on six and 
twelve months’ notice by him and 
the Company respectively. 48
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Our board of directors continued
Linda Adamany
Non-executive Director, Chairman 
of the health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics (HSSEE) 
committee and a member of 
the audit, remuneration and 
nominations committees
Linda has over 40 years’ business 
experience, with 27 in the 
international energy sector. Between 
1980 and 2007 . Linda held a number 
of executive positions at BP plc 
in the UK and US. During that time, 
she held various executive roles in 
refining and marketing, exploration 
and production and petrochemicals, 
including Chief Executive of BP 
Shipping and Group Vice President 
and Commercial Director, BP 
Refining & Marketing.
In March 2013, Linda was appointed 
a non-executive director of Coeur 
Mining, Inc., a US-based publicly 
quoted primary silver producer, 
where she serves as chairman of 
the audit committee and is a member 
of the environmental, health, safety 
and social responsibility committee. 
In March 2014, Linda was appointed 
to the board of directors of Leucadia 
National Corporation, a US-based, 
NYSE-listed, diversified holding 
company engaged through its 
consolidated subsidiaries in a variety 
of businesses, where she is a member 
of the audit and the nominating and 
corporate governance committees. 
From 2006 to 2012, prior to joining 
Amec Foster Wheeler, Linda was a 
non-executive director of National 
Grid plc and a member of their audit, 
nominations and safety, environment 
and health committees. Linda is a 
qualified accountant (CPA) with a 
BSc in Business Administration from 
John Carroll University, Ohio, and 
has also undertaken post-graduate, 
non-degree executive programmes 
at Harvard, Cambridge and 
T singhua universities.
T erm of office
Linda was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 October 2012. 
In January 2016, her term of office 
was extended for a second three-year 
term to the date of the 2019 AGM.
Bob Card
Non-executive Director, member 
of the audit and health, safety, 
security, environmental and ethics 
(HSSEE) committees
Bob has over 40 years of experience 
in the oversight, operations and 
management of infrastructure, power, 
oil & gas, mining and environmental 
projects. Between 2012 and 2015, 
Bob was the President, Chief 
Executive Officer and a board 
member of SNC-Lavalin Group, Inc. 
Between 1975 and 2012 he spent 
his career at CH2M where he held 
a variety of executive management 
positions, including almost 14 years 
as a member of its board. While at 
CH2M, he also served as deputy 
programme manager for the London 
2012 Olympics for the Delivery 
Partner, CLM. He was also the project 
manager for one of the world’s 
largest and most successful nuclear 
weapons plant remediation projects 
for the Rocky Flats site in Colorado. 
Bob was the Under Secretary 
of the U.S. Department of Energy 
between 2001 and 2004 responsible 
for all the Department’s business 
in Energy, Environment and Science. 
He has prior relationships with the 
Center for Strategic & International 
Studies (CSIS) and the Brookings 
Institution. He holds a Master’s 
Degree in Environmental Engineering 
from Stanford and completed the 
Executive PMD program at Harvard 
Business School. He is currently the 
President of The Card Group, LLC, 
an executive consultancy.
T erm of office
Bob was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 March 2017 for an initial 
term of three years, which will end 
at the 2020 AGM.
In accordance with the Company’s 
articles of association, Bob will retire 
from office at the forthcoming AGM 
and offer himself for election.
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer 
Ian qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with KPMG in 1984. 
His early career was spent in the 
brewing industry. Between 1985 and 
1995 he held various positions with 
the Foster’s Brewing Group, including 
General Manager, Strategy. He was 
Finance & Strategy Director of the 
Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited 
from 1995 to 1998 and then served at 
Scottish & Newcastle plc from 1998 
to 2008, first as Finance Director 
of Scottish Courage and later as 
Group Finance Director of Scottish 
& Newcastle plc. Ian holds a BSc 
in Mathematics from the University 
of Bristol.
T erm of office
Ian was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer on 8 September 2008 
and served as interim CEO from 
17 January 2016 to the appointment 
of Jon Lewis on 1 June 2016. Ian has 
no fixed term of office. His service 
contract is terminable on six and 
twelve months’ notice by him and 
the Company respectively.
External appointments
Ian has been a non-executive director 
of Britvic plc since March 2014 and 
was a non-executive director of 
Premier Foods plc from July 2004 
to April 2013.
Colin Day
Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the audit committee 
and a member of the remuneration 
and nominations committees
Colin has more than 25 years of 
experience of blue chip companies 
including Aegis Group Plc, ABB 
Group, De La Rue Group Plc and 
British Gas. Colin served as Chief 
Executive Officer of Essentra 
plc (formerly Filtrona plc) from 
1 April 2011 to 31 December 2016 
and remained on the board until 
the conclusion of Essentra’s annual 
general meeting on 20 April 2017 . 
Prior to Essentra, he was Chief 
Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc from 2000 to 2011. 
Between 1995 and 2000, he served 
as Group Finance Director of Aegis 
Group plc. He spent six years in a 
number of divisional finance director 
positions with ABB Group and 
served as Group Finance Director 
of ABB Kent Instrumentation and 
ABB Kent plc from 1988 to 1994. 
Colin started his career in 1973 
as a trainee accountant at Kodak. 
He is a Fellow of the Association of 
Chartered Certified Accountants and 
holds an MBA from Cranfield School 
of Management, UK.
Colin has been a director of FM 
Global since January 2014 and 
was appointed as a non-executive 
director and chairman of the audit 
committee of Meggitt plc on 1 
October 2015. He was previously 
a non-executive director of WPP plc 
from 2005 to June 2015. Colin was 
appointed to the FRC Audit Advisory 
Group on 3 July 2014.
T erm of office
Colin was appointed a non-executive 
director on 14 October 2010. 
His term of office was extended in 
January 2017 for a third three-year 
term to the date of the 2020 AGM. 49
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
We will continue to seek to 
build upon and complement 
the board’s existing skills 
set, including a focus on 
increased diversity, whether 
this is through gender, 
race, nationality, thought 
or general background.
Independence of non-executive 
directors
The board considers that, with 
the exception of Kent Masters, 
whose previous employment 
by Foster Wheeler precludes 
him from meeting the required 
independence criteria, the non-
executive directors are independent 
and free from any relationships or 
circumstances that could affect 
their independent judgement.
Stephanie Newby
Non-executive Director, member 
of the audit and health, safety, 
security, environmental and ethics 
(HSSEE) committees
Stephanie is the Chief Executive 
Officer of Crimson Hexagon, a big 
data social media analytics company. 
Prior to Crimson Hexagon she 
founded Golden Seeds in 2004, 
an investment company that 
provides investment capital to 
early-stage, high-growth companies. 
Previously, she spent 20 years 
working in the financial services 
industry in Sydney, London and New 
Y ork, with the majority of her career 
spent with J.P . Morgan, where she 
headed several global businesses 
serving as Global Head of Futures 
and Options, Head of International 
Private Banking, Chief Operating 
Officer of Global Equities and Head 
of eCommerce.
Appointed in 2004, Stephanie 
was a member of the Foster Wheeler 
AG board until the completion of 
the acquisition by AMEC, serving 
on the audit and governance and 
nominating committees. She also 
previously served as a non-executive 
director and member of the audit and 
compensation and HR committees 
of RiskMetrics Group, Inc. Stephanie 
also holds a BA in English Literature 
from the University of Sydney. 
T erm of office
Stephanie was appointed a non-
executive director on 13 November 
2014 for an initial term of three years, 
which will end at the 2018 AGM.
Roy A Franklin
Non-executive Director, Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee 
and member of the audit and 
nominations committees
Roy has more than 40 years’ 
experience as an executive in the 
oil & gas industry. He spent 18 years 
at BP , latterly as Head of M&A, BP 
Exploration, after which he was 
Group MD of Clyde Petroleum and 
then CEO of Paladin Resources until 
its acquisition by T alisman Energy 
in 2005. Since then Roy has served 
on a number of international energy 
boards in non-executive roles, and 
until recently, was chairman of 
Keller Group plc.
Roy is currently deputy chairman 
of Statoil ASA and a non-executive 
director of Santos Ltd. He is also 
currently chairman of privately-
owned Cuadrilla Resources Holdings 
Ltd, and a member of the advisory 
board of Kerogen Capital LLC. 
Roy holds BSc in Geology from 
the University of Southampton.
T erm of office
Roy was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 January 2016 for an 
initial term of three years, which will 
end at the 2019 AGM. 
Kent Masters
Non-executive Director and 
member of the health, safety, 
security, environmental and ethics 
committee (HSSEE)
Kent was the Chief Executive Officer 
of Foster Wheeler AG from 2011 until 
the completion of the acquisition 
by AMEC in November 2014. Prior 
to joining Foster Wheeler, he served 
as a member of the Executive Board 
of Linde AG, a world leading gases 
and engineering company, from 
2006 to 2011. At Linde, Kent had 
responsibility for the Americas, 
Africa, the South Pacific, the global 
business unit Healthcare, and 
the business area Merchant and 
Packaged Gases. He was employed 
by BOC Group plc from 1984 until the 
acquisition of BOC by Linde in 2006. 
Kent served in roles of increasing 
responsibility at BOC, including 
as Chief Executive, Industrial and 
Special Products, from 2005 to 
2006, and as President, Process Gas 
Solutions-Americas from 2002 to 
2005. He also served on the board of 
directors of BOC from 2005 to 2006. 
Kent served as the non-executive 
chairman of African Oxygen Limited 
from 2005 to 2011. 
Kent joined the board of Albemarle in 
January 2015 following its acquisition 
of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. where 
he had served as a director since 
2007 . Kent is a member of the 
compensation committee at 
Albemarle and served on the audit 
and compensation committees 
at Rockwood.
T erm of office
Kent was appointed a non-executive 
director on 13 February 2015. 
He will be retiring from the board 
at the close of the 2017 AGM having 
served over two years as a non- 
executive director. 50
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Amec F oster Wheeler governance structure
Board
The board has ownership  
of the global policies
Behaviours, vision, values,
Code of Business Conduct, global policies
Local jurisdictional 
policies and procedures
Fundamental procedures 
and mandatory procedures
Board committees
Support the board in its work with specific review and oversight
Executive Committee
Responsible for implementation of the global policies
Presidents of Oil, Gas  
& Chemicals division  
and business lines
Functional leaders
(including Chief Financial Officer)
Business development
Chief Executive Officer
Primarily responsible for running 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses 
with the objective of creating 
shareholder value
Project groups Business functions Technical functions
Management committees and groups
Deal generally with more operational matters
Share allotment Pensions and  
retirement benefits
Risk
HSSE review Corporate transactions
Disclosure
Tender review
Inside information disclosure
Audit
Provides independent 
scrutiny of the Company’s 
financial and non-financial 
performance, risks and 
audit functions
Nominations
Identifies and makes 
recommendations 
concerning the 
composition of the board 
and that of its committees
Health, Safety, Security, 
Environmental and Ethics
Assists in upholding our 
core value of integrity and 
maintaining our HSSEE 
commitments for a safe and 
secure working environment
Remuneration
Aims to attract and retain 
good management and to 
incentivise them to create 
shareholder value
Transformation steering 51
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The board is collectively responsible for delivering sustainable 
long-term shareholder value in line with its obligations to, and 
the expectations of, the Company’s stakeholders. 
The board is responsible for setting the Company’s strategic 
aims and providing the leadership and resources to achieve its 
objectives. The board’s role is to be distinguished from overall 
operational management, which is the responsibility of the 
Chief Executive Officer who, in turn, delegates authorities to 
the Chief Financial Officer, business line and functional leaders. 
They have in turn further delegated authorities to their teams.
In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control 
of the Group, a number of key matters are not delegated 
to management and as such the board maintains a schedule 
of matters reserved for its approval. These include:
 X annual strategic and short-range plans
 X financial and treasury policies
 X risk identification, risk appetite, risk management and internal 
control systems
 X high-value potentially high-risk projects
 X major acquisitions and disposals
 X Code of Business Conduct and Health, Safety, Security, 
Environmental and Ethics policies
 X full and half-year accounts
 X dividend policy
 X succession planning for directors and senior executives
 X group-wide policy framework
 X ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices
 X appointment and removal of the Company Secretary
This schedule is reviewed for continued acceptability on an 
annual basis. In August 2016, the schedule was reviewed and a 
couple of minor changes were made in relation to due diligence 
in HSSE matters. No further changes were deemed necessary. 
High quality corporate governance helps to underpin 
long-term company performance and the board is responsible 
for maintaining strong governance practices and regularly 
reviewing the Company’s governance structure as illustrated 
on page 50.
The Code of Business Conduct is the cornerstone of the 
Company’s approach to governance and is applicable to all 
employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer and other senior financial professionals. The Code of 
Business Conduct is the responsibility of, and is upheld by, 
the board; it acts as a guide for our day-to-day working life, 
providing a practical application of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
values and ensuring all those who work for and under Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s direction understand the behaviour that is 
expected of them. The Code of Business Conduct, which is 
available to employees in 14 different languages, complies 
with relevant UK and US regulations and is available on the 
Company’s website at amecfw.com/ethics. 
A global policies document works in conjunction with the Code 
of Business Conduct providing further detail and elaboration 
on matters affecting all of Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses. 
The global policies document describes the key policies for 
directing and managing the Group’s businesses consistently 
in accordance with our vision and values. These global policies 
are supported by a set of mandatory procedures, which 
further explain how the policies are to be applied. T ogether, 
the global policies and procedures set the framework within 
which business, functional and local policies and procedures 
are set. The board approves the group-wide policy framework. 
On a day-to-day basis, the board has delegated responsibility 
for implementation of the global policies and ownership of the 
procedures to the Executive Committee. The board considers 
the global policies to be part of the risk-based approach 
to corporate governance and the maintenance of sound 
internal controls.
In order to discharge its role, the board is also responsible 
for maintaining sound risk management and internal control 
systems. The board has a rigorous and comprehensive risk 
management approach to protect the Group’s assets and the 
interests of its stakeholders and create an environment for 
business success. The board regularly reviews the effectiveness 
and adequacy of the Group’s financial, operational, compliance 
and risk management systems. 
The board is supported in its work by four board committees 
(nominations, audit, HSSEE and remuneration), chaired by 
either the board Chairman or another non-executive director, 
and a number of management committees and groups, chaired 
by executive directors (or other senior individuals), to which 
specific responsibilities have been delegated. Y ou can find out 
more about the membership, duties, responsibilities and work 
of these committees in the dedicated reports that follow. Full 
written terms of reference for each board committee can also 
be found online at amecfw.com/aboutus/corporate-governance.
The directors believe that the board leads the Group effectively 
and that all directors act in accordance with what they 
consider to be the best interests of the Company, consistent 
with their statutory duties under the Companies Act 2006 
and other legislation.
Board role and responsibilities 52
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
As part of the Company’s broader diversity initiative, it 
supports the recommendations of the final report in the 
Davies Review series. For a short period of time, 22% of our 
board will be female until Kent Masters retires from the board 
at the close of the 2017 AGM, after which, 25% of our board 
will again be female. The board will take into consideration 
the recommendation of the Hampton-Alexander Review, that 
FTSE 350 companies should aim to build the representation 
of women on their boards to 33% by 2020, when considering 
future candidates for board appointments. Candidates for board 
appointments are evaluated on merit in light of the requirements 
of the role, having due regard to the Group-wide commitment 
to diversity and inclusion. The board recognises the importance 
of diversity, including but not limited to gender balance across 
the Group more generally. In recognition of this, Amec Foster 
Wheeler won the Diversity and Inclusiveness Award at the Oil 
& Gas UK Awards 2016. In June 2016 we celebrated our first 
global diversity and inclusion week which focused on ‘thinking 
differently, together’ and provided our employees with the 
opportunity to question and challenge themselves and others, 
to share their views, and to listen to the ideas and thoughts of 
others on the importance of diversity and inclusion on a global 
scale. During the year, we also saw the launch of our second 
series on women in leadership which was an initiative driven to 
provide support and empower young women across the business 
to take ownership of their careers. The gender diversity of the 
Company and its senior management is shown on page 25.
As at 31 December 2016, the board comprised the non-executive 
chairman; two executive directors (the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Chief Financial Officer); and six non-executive directors. 
On 1 January 2016, Roy Franklin was appointed as a non-
executive director of the Company. The Company announced 
on 18 January 2016 that Samir Brikho had stepped down 
as Chief Executive Officer. Ian McHoul fulfilled the role of 
interim CEO, alongside his role as Chief Financial Officer, 
until the appointment of Jon Lewis as Chief Executive Officer 
on 1 June 2016. On 31 December 2016, Neil Carson stepped 
down as a non-executive director of the Company.
On 1 March 2017 , Bob Card was appointed as a non-executive 
director of the Company. Kent Masters will be retiring from the 
board as a non-executive director at the close of the 2017 AGM.
 
 
Details of the directors, including their biographies, other 
significant commitments and committee memberships can 
be found on pages 47 to 49. Details of the directors’ service 
contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in 
the remuneration report on pages 72 to 88.
The Company’s articles of association require all directors to 
seek election by shareholders at the AGM following their initial 
appointment and re-election every three years thereafter. 
However, in line with the recommendations of the Code, our 
practice is that all directors submit themselves for re-election 
on an annual basis. All of the directors wishing to continue 
serving, and considered eligible by the board, will offer 
themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM. 
The independence of the non-executive directors is continually 
monitored and formally assessed as part of the board’s 
annual evaluation process. The board considers that, with 
the exception of Kent Masters, whose previous employment 
by Foster Wheeler precludes him from meeting the required 
independence criteria, the non-executive directors are 
independent and free from any relationships or circumstances 
that could affect their independent judgement.
The balance of executive and non-executive directors provides 
continuity on the board while ensuring no one individual, or 
group of individuals, dominates the decision-making process.
The varied backgrounds and commercial experience of the non-
executive directors, and their independence from management, 
ensures rigorous debate at meetings and constructive 
challenge and oversight of the executive directors in relation 
to the strategic direction and performance of the Group.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Board composition
Membership of the board
 Non-executive Chairman 
 Executive director 
 Non-executive director
1
2
6
Experience of the board
 Financial management 
 and corporate finance 
 Corporate governance 
 International experience 
 Experience in business sectors 
 relevant to Amec Foster Wheeler 
 HSSE 
 Strategy
Number of board directors 
with experience in each topic  
8
9
7
7
9
9
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Directors’ tenure as at 31 December 2016
John Connolly
Jon Lewis
Ian McHoul
Linda Adamany
Neil Carson
Colin Day
Roy Franklin
Kent Masters
Stephanie Newby
5yrs 7m
7m
8yrs 3m
4yrs 3m
6yrs 3m
6yrs 2m
2yr 1m
1yr 10m
1yr
Gender diversity of the board
% 
 Female 
 Male
78
22 53
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer
The Company does not combine the roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer. There is a clear and well-defined division 
of accountability and responsibility between the roles of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and these are set out 
in writing and have been agreed by the board. The consequence 
of this clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company 
is such that no individual has unrestricted powers of decision. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are committed to 
ensuring the development and maintenance of an effective 
and trusting relationship with the appropriate balance 
between challenge and support.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and 
effectiveness of the board. He is accountable for promoting 
effective board relationships and the participation of all 
board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness 
and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its 
role. The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board 
discharges its duties to promote the success of the Company 
for the benefit of all stakeholders and to guide Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s business and conduct in accordance with the 
highest ethical standards. 
Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to 
summarise the board’s activities in executing its duties during 
the year. The plan highlights the priorities the board has 
identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive Officer, 
and can be modified to take account of any unscheduled 
developments. In chairing and setting the agenda for board 
meetings, the Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for 
discussion and meaningful challenge in areas such as strategy, 
performance, value creation and accountability.
Subject to matters reserved for the board, the Chief Executive 
Officer is responsible for the leadership of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder 
value. Consistent with this objective, overall operational 
management is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer who, 
together with the Executive Committee, is responsible for the 
proposal, development and implementation of the Group’s overall 
strategy, driving execution, growing markets and customers 
and developing our people. The building and maintenance of 
an effective executive management team, and the allocation 
of responsibility therein, are key components of and essential 
to the performance of the Chief Executive Officer’s role.
The Chief Executive Officer also takes the lead role in the 
promotion of Amec Foster Wheeler, setting the tone in the 
realisation of the Company’s vision and values and encouraging 
the highest standards of health, safety, security, environmental 
and ethical performance.
 
Colin Day has acted as the board’s Senior Independent Director 
since the retirement of Neil Carson on 31 December 2016. 
Colin was selected for the role on account of his significant 
knowledge of Amec Foster Wheeler and its operations and 
his experience as a director of international companies. 
Both the nominations committee and the board considered 
that Colin best met the criteria required for the role. 
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for:
 X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding 
board for the Chairman on board-related matters
 X acting as an additional channel of communication between 
the Chairman and the other directors where necessary
 X being available to shareholders for concerns they may have 
that have not been resolved through the normal channels 
of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other executive 
directors, or which are not appropriate to raise through 
these channels
 X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and 
concerns of Amec Foster Wheeler’s shareholders through 
attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the 
company’s major shareholders and financial analysts
 X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive 
directors as to the performance of the Chairman
 X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, 
providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance
 X overseeing the search for a new Chairman, as required
Senior Independent Director 54
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The non-executive directors are crucial in bringing an external 
perspective and wide range of skills, experience, expertise 
and diversity of views to the board’s deliberations and the 
development of strategy. The membership of each of the 
board committees is structured to ensure the most effective 
use of each non-executive director’s time and to reflect their 
individual skills and experience. The non-executive directors 
constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance 
of management against agreed objectives and provide an 
invaluable contribution to the work of the board’s committees. 
The board benefits greatly from the contribution and balance 
they bring and to ensure this continues, the Chairman holds 
meetings with the non-executive directors, without the 
executive directors present, immediately following most 
scheduled board meetings.
The board’s policy is that non-executive director appointments 
are normally for three consecutive three-year terms, subject 
to assessment by the nominations committee after the end 
of each term. The committee makes recommendations on 
reappointments to the board.
T o ensure their independence and ability to constructively 
challenge, the external commitments of each non-executive 
director, including those of the Chairman, are reviewed prior 
to appointment. In accordance with the board’s policy to 
ensure that the non-executive directors are not conflicted 
and are able to commit sufficient time to meet their duties 
and responsibilities to Amec Foster Wheeler, all additional 
prospective appointments are also disclosed to the 
board to determine whether they present a detrimental 
effect. Each director’s undertaking as to their ongoing 
commitment to the role, together with an assessment of their 
continued independence, is reviewed as part of their annual 
performance evaluation.
Amec Foster Wheeler’s non-executive directors are not 
employed by the Company in any capacity. Kent Masters was 
the former Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler AG and 
Stephanie Newby was formerly an independent non-executive 
director of Foster Wheeler AG. 
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors 
are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
by request to the Company Secretary and will be available 
for inspection at the company’s forthcoming AGM.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Non-executive directors 55
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The board holds a minimum of six regular meetings throughout 
the year, scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable. 
Additional board meetings and telephone conference calls are 
held as required to deal with specific issues. In 2016 there were 
7 scheduled meetings and 6 unscheduled meetings.
Directors are expected to attend all scheduled board and 
relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from 
doing so by unavoidable prior business commitments or other 
valid reasons. All directors are provided with full papers in 
advance of each meeting. Where a director is unable to attend 
a meeting, they are encouraged to discuss any issues arising 
with the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer as appropriate. 
Number of meetings attended
Scheduled Unscheduled
John Connolly 7/7 6/6
Samir Brikho (until 18 January 2016) 0/0 1/1
Jon Lewis (from 1 June 2016) 4/4 1/1
Ian McHoul 7/7 6/6
Linda Adamany 7/7 5/6
Neil Carson 5/7 5/6
Colin Day 6/7 5/6
Kent Masters 7/7 6/6
Stephanie Newby 7/7 6/6
Roy Franklin 7/7 5/6
Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year 
to consider such matters as trading updates and director 
appointments. As these were not scheduled, members were 
not always able to attend but were provided with full packs 
of information and were invited to make comments.
At least one scheduled meeting each year takes place away 
from Amec Foster Wheeler’s head office in London. This 
provides the board with an opportunity to understand more 
about Amec Foster Wheeler’s business and to meet employees 
based locally. The October 2016 board meeting and board 
strategy discussions took place in Kuwait, where the board 
met with local management and also visited a client clean 
fuels project site.
In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain items 
are considered at every scheduled board meeting. The Chief 
Executive Officer provides a report on business performance, 
strategy execution and emerging issues and the Chief Financial 
Officer updates the board on financial results and progress 
against the short-range plan. Reports are also received on 
investor relations and market issues, HR and HSSEE matters. 
In addition, the Chairman and the Chief General Counsel and 
Company Secretary provide an update on legislative, regulatory 
and governance matters and twice yearly the Chief General 
Counsel and Company Secretary provides updates on material 
claims and disputes.
Senior management is regularly invited to present at board 
meetings and, led by the business line presidents, provides 
‘deep dive’ reviews of each business line. In addition to standing 
items discussed at each meeting, the board considers a 
regular schedule of financial and planning matters including 
the approval of financial results and dividends; special matters 
including the review and approval of strategy; the determination 
of major risks and risk appetite and transaction and competitor 
reviews. The board receives an annual presentation from 
the Chief People Officer on senior management succession 
planning and management development. In August 2016, 
a discussion took place on the strategy for the development 
of talent and performance and an update on succession planning 
but a fuller review has been deferred to 2017 due to the new 
organisation structure and reconfiguration of the senior 
leadership team. The board has also identified a range of topic 
reviews that are addressed annually and these include the 
strategies followed by the corporate functions eg T ax,  
T reasury and IT , as well as the board effectiveness and 
composition reviews.
The board also holds a separate additional meeting each year 
to perform a full strategic review of the Group. On account 
of the overseas visit being postponed until October 2016, 
the strategy event was held at the same time in Kuwait. 
During this meeting, the new organisational structure and 
strategy was presented and discussed, which is designed 
to bring us closer to our customers, improve the consistency 
of project delivery and sustainably reduce our overhead costs, 
thus offering long term opportunities to offset the current 
headwinds in areas such as offshore greenfield oil and gas 
and mineable oil sands. 
The Company Secretary is fundamental in ensuring the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the board and its committees 
and is responsible for ensuring that the directors have timely 
access to full, accurate and relevant information and whatever 
resources they need to undertake their duties. Agendas and 
supporting papers for board and committee meetings are 
circulated approximately one week prior to the meeting date  
to allow sufficient time for review and enable informed debate 
and challenge at meetings.
Board meetings 56
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Where the directors, particularly non-executive directors, 
require further insight on an issue, the Company Secretary 
will facilitate this from the business or relevant members of the 
senior management team. Members of senior management are 
regularly invited to attend board meetings to present on specific 
projects and issues. The Company Secretary also ensures that 
the correct board procedures are followed from both a legal 
and a regulatory perspective. 
In addition to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, a formal process exists for the directors to 
obtain independent professional advice, at the Company’s 
expense, where appropriate and necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities. The Company Secretary is responsible for 
the organisation and co-ordination of access to such advice. 
The Company Secretary ensures that a timely and accurate 
record of all meetings of the board and its committees is 
taken and circulated. In addition, the chairman of each board 
committee reports fully to the board following each meeting 
and minutes are made available to the board.
If a director had a concern about the running of the Company 
or a proposed action that could not be resolved, this would be 
recorded in the minutes. In addition, upon resignation, should 
a director have any such outstanding concerns, they would be 
invited to provide the Chairman with a written statement for 
circulation to the board. No such statements were received 
during 2016. 
The board has procedures in place for the disclosure and review 
of conflicts of interest. No material conflicts of interest arose 
in 2016. Prior to appointment, prospective directors provide 
information on any conflicts of interest, and thereafter any 
potential conflicts of interest are considered at the start of 
each board meeting. Accordingly, each director is aware of their 
responsibility to avoid a situation where they have an actual or 
potential conflict of interest, the requirement to keep the same 
under review and inform the Chairman and Company Secretary 
of any change in their situation. An effective procedure is in 
place for the board to authorise conflict situations in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s articles of 
association, should they arise. In other cases, the conflict is 
managed by excluding the relevant director from the discussion.
The Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate 
records, including the scope of any authorisations granted by 
the board, and ensures the board undertakes regular reviews 
of conflict authorisations. Such matters are normally recorded 
in the minutes of the relevant meetings.
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external 
appointments without the prior approval of the board. 
The board will review the nature, scope and complexity 
of any proposed external appointments, to ensure they will 
not adversely impact a director’s ability to devote such time 
and energy to their role as is necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively or create any potential conflicts.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Board meetings continued Conflicts of interest 57
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in the 
co-ordination of director induction upon appointment and 
ongoing training. A comprehensive induction programme 
is in place for all new directors which takes into account their 
previous experience, background and role on the board. 
The programme is tailored accordingly to:
 X provide an understanding of the duties and responsibilities 
of a director and their particular role
 X build an understanding of how the board operates within 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s structure
 X further their knowledge and understanding of Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s culture, its business and operations and the 
markets and countries in which it operates
 X establish a link with Amec Foster Wheeler’s management 
and people
 X establish an understanding of the Company’s main 
relationships
New directors are provided with key board, operational and 
financial information and relevant legislatory and regulatory 
guidance. The programme is designed so as to prioritise and 
vary the delivery of materials to optimise its effectiveness 
and facilitate completion in a timely manner. The programme 
involves a combination of documentation, accessible via 
the portal used by the board to communicate and share 
documents electronically, meetings with other members of 
the board, senior management and their extended teams, key 
external parties including the Company’s advisers and, where 
appropriate, major shareholders, and site visits where possible. 
Where a new director is to serve on a board committee, 
induction material relevant to the committee is also provided. 
Progress against the induction programme is reviewed with the 
director midway throughout the process to ensure a smooth 
transition into director training and ongoing development.
Ongoing training, relevant to each director’s individual 
development needs, continues after appointment. The 
Chairman endeavours to review the training and development 
needs of the directors at least annually. The aim is to ensure 
the further enhancement of their skills and knowledge of the 
business, so that they continue to fulfil their role effectively 
on the board and its committees.
 
Internally facilitated training is arranged by the Company 
Secretary on topics and issues relevant to the operation of 
the board and the responsibilities of the directors. The board 
receives presentations from management on changes and 
significant developments in the business. Updates on changes 
in legislation and communications from the Company 
Secretary’s office on key developments in corporate governance 
are also provided. In addition, use is made of external auditor 
and adviser training programmes. During the year the board 
received presentations from internal and external experts 
on such matters as anti-bribery and corruption, information 
systems, the new Market Abuse Regulations, and the Modern 
Slavery Act. From time to time the directors individually attend 
seminars and conferences related to their areas of expertise 
and responsibility.
T o further develop the directors’ understanding of the Group’s 
businesses and culture, the board undertakes visits to various 
places of Amec Foster Wheeler business. As previously 
mentioned, during the year the board visited some of the 
Group’s operations in Kuwait.
Professional development  58
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
In line with the recommendations of the Code, each year 
a formal performance evaluation review is undertaken 
of the board, its committees and the directors individually. 
In 2016, the performance evaluation was internally facilitated 
with the support of Lintstock, a third-party service provider. 
Lintstock have been the provider of the Company’s insider 
list management software since 2011 and have assisted with 
the board evaluation process since 2014, but other than this, 
have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board 
or the Company.
This year, the review process involved the completion of a 
tailored questionnaire by each director which was designed 
to establish their perceptions in a number of areas considered 
to be key to an effective board. 
Lintstock’s report on the findings of this survey of board 
effectiveness was discussed at the board’s January 2017 
meeting. In summary, the results were very positive and 
engagement and interaction amongst board members 
continue to be very strong. The main observations from 
the evaluation were:
 X the appointment of Roy Franklin in the year as a non-executive 
director was identified as a valuable addition of oil & gas 
sector experience, providing greater industry experience 
which was desired by the board 
 X the relationships between the board members and the board 
and wider senior management were rated highly and the non-
executive directors’ support and challenge of management 
was positively rated
 X the management of meetings in terms of setting the annual 
cycle of work and management of time and input during the 
meetings was considered to be very good
 X the effectiveness with which the board reviewed past 
performance and influenced future performance was rated 
positively, although it was suggested that more time might be 
spent on strategy considerations and review of large projects
 X the clarity of the articulation of the conclusions reached 
was positively rated and the importance of monitoring 
progress noted
 X the board’s overall oversight of the risk appetite was rated 
highly although it was considered that there should be greater 
alignment in some areas between risk appetite and post- 
mitigated risks
 X the handling of the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer 
and the overall process by which a successor was selected 
and appointed was rated highly
A number of areas for improvement were identified and these 
will continue to be addressed over the coming year as part 
of the board plan. These include:
 X continued exposure to senior management to aid assessment 
of the broader management team
 X focus on the board’s priorities including strengthening  
of the balance sheet
 X delivery of the Company’s growth initiatives and cost 
reduction plans
 X enhancement of the board’s experience in the industries 
and geographies in which the company operates
 X continued focus on the strategic objectives of the Group 
and their execution 
In addition, and as required by the Code, the Senior 
Independent Director, having taken the views of the 
non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed the 
performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent Director 
met with the Chairman in April 2017 to review his performance 
during 2016. The Chief Executive Officer conducts annual 
performance development reviews with his direct reports.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Evaluation 59
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The nominations committee is primarily 
focused on evaluating the board of directors 
and on examining the skills, characteristics 
and dynamics that are needed to run an 
effective board.
Dear shareholder 
The Group continues to undergo transformational change 
and the nominations committee has played a key role over the 
last 12 months in ensuring your Company has the leadership 
it needs.
Most significantly, the committee led the search process that 
resulted in Jon Lewis’ appointment as Chief Executive Officer 
on 1 June 2016. In recommending Jon’s appointment to the 
board, we noted that he had the strategic vision, operational 
skills and the values that your Company required, and that 
he was the outstanding candidate for the role.
The committee believes that the board members have a strong 
blend of skills, experience and length of service, as shown 
by the chart on page 52. One of the committee’s key tasks 
is to ensure that the board remains appropriately balanced 
and to nominate new board members who will add valuable 
knowledge to the board’s deliberations. With Neil Carson 
retiring from the board at the end of 2016 and Kent Masters 
indicating his intention to retire at the conclusion of the AGM in 
June 2017 , the committee has determined that the board would 
benefit from recruiting additional non-executive directors with 
relevant industry experience. 
We were therefore pleased to recommend to the board 
the appointment of Bob Card, who joined the board on 
1 March 2017 . Bob has over 40 years’ experience in the 
oversight, operations and management of infrastructure, 
power, mining and energy products, and we are delighted 
that he has joined us. 
John Connolly
Chairman of the nominations committee
25 April 2017
Members
During 2016, the nominations committee comprised  
the Chairman, Linda Adamany, Colin Day and Roy Franklin. 
The quorum for the committee is two members. There were 
 six committee meetings held in the year.
Membership and attendance of the nominations  
committee up to 31 December 2016
Meeting attendance
John Connolly (Chairman) 6/6
Linda Adamany 4/6
Colin Day 5/6
Roy Franklin 5/6
Meetings of the committee are usually called at short notice 
to consider matters as they arise. This means that members 
may not always be available, but they are always fully apprised 
of matters to be discussed and their views sought and taken 
into account. Due to prior commitments, Linda Adamany was 
unable to attend two meetings called at short notice and Colin 
Day and Roy Franklin were both unable to attend one meeting 
called at short notice due to prior commitments.
At its meeting on 5 December 2016, the board approved 
the terms of reference for the committee as remaining fit for 
purpose and no changes were required. The terms of reference 
of the committee are available to review on amecfw.com.
There have been no changes to the membership of the 
committee in 2017 . 
Key responsibilities
The committee is mindful of the board’s desire to maintain 
an appropriately diverse and balanced membership, in terms 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 
Group, taking into account the benefits of diversity, so as to 
ensure the delivery of the Group’s strategy and performance. 
The committee regularly reviews the board’s structure, size 
and composition against these criteria and the board selection 
criteria referred to on page 60. 
T ogether with the board, the committee also considers 
board succession planning in conjunction with reports from 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief People Officer on senior 
management succession planning, so as to ensure that an 
appropriate balance of skills is maintained both within the 
senior management team and on the board.
As part of the internally conducted board effectiveness review 
undertaken in 2016, the performance of the committee was 
also evaluated and this was overall rated highly. As an area for 
further improvement, it was suggested that there be greater 
focus on succession planning which would improve the ability 
of the board to evaluate top management.
Nominations committee  60
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Activities of the committee
Following Samir Brikho’s departure on 17 January 2016, 
the Company appointed Ian McHoul as the interim CEO 
and appointed the executive search firm, Korn Ferry, to assist 
the Company in its search for a new Chief Executive Officer. 
Both internal and external candidates were considered.
A role specification had been prepared to assist in distilling 
a long list of both internal and external candidates. Both 
internal and external candidates were interviewed by the 
Chairman and Chief People Officer and the resulting shortlist 
of candidates was interviewed by all the board members. After 
careful consideration of both his academic and professional 
background and the current needs of the Company, the 
committee recommended the appointment of Jon Lewis to 
the board, and he joined the board on 1 June 2016. Jon brings 
with him over 30 years’ experience in the oil and gas industry, 
including 20 years as a senior executive at Haliburton
Korn Ferry has been appointed as one of the search partners 
of the Company and a global agreement has been put place 
in respect of this appointment. 
In early 2016, the committee recommended Linda Adamany 
be appointed as a non-executive director for a second 
three-year term of office on the basis of her significant relevant 
international experience and her knowledge of the activities 
of the Group. The board approved the recommendation and 
her second three-year term will end at the conclusion of 
the 2019 AGM.
In September 2016, Neil Carson announced his intention 
to retire from the board at the end of 2016 and from his 
roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. After careful consideration, the 
committee concluded that Colin Day best met the required 
criteria to replace Neil as Senior Independent Director and Roy 
Franklin was appointed as the Chairman of the Remuneration 
and a member of the Audit Committee, both with effect from 
31 December 2016. 
In October 2016, the Company appointed the executive search 
firm, The Zygos Partnership (Zygos) to search for two new 
non-executive directors, with experience in the Oil, Gas and 
Chemicals industry, or the Mining sector, or who could bring 
diversity to the board in the form of geography and/or gender. 
Zygos identified a long list of quality candidates within the 
Oil, Gas and Chemicals industry from which the committee 
identified a shortlist of candidates. Several of the members 
of the board interviewed the candidates and after due 
and careful consideration, due to his significant relevant 
experience, the committee recommended the appointment 
of Bob Card to the board with effect from 1 March 2017 . 
Bob was also appointed a member of the Audit and Health, 
Safety, Security, Environmental and Ethics committees. 
Bob Card has over 40 years’ experience in the oversight, 
operations and management of infrastructure, power, mining 
and energy projects and is the former CEO of SNC-Lavalin 
Group Inc.
Zygos had previously worked with the Company in respect 
of its search for a new Chairman in 2011 and in respect of 
the process that led to Linda Adamany’s appointment in 2012 
and Roy Franklin’s appointment in 2016. Other than this they 
have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board 
or the Company.
In June 2016, the committee reviewed the board selection 
criteria and confirmed it remained appropriate to be used to 
identify any gaps in the overall experience and knowledge of 
the board as a whole and to assist appropriately in the future 
board selection process.
In early 2017 , the committee considered the reappointment 
of Colin Day as a non-executive director for a second three-
year term of office as his first three-year term would end at 
the 2017 AGM. On the basis of his significant relevant financial 
experience and his knowledge of running a business as CEO, 
the committee recommended that he should be reappointed 
for a second three-year term. 
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Nominations committee continued 61
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Our Executive committee
Eddie Aaron 
President, Power & Process
Appointed to this position in January 2017 , Eddie previously held the role 
of Vice President of Business Acquisitions for the Power & Process Americas 
business. Eddie joined Amec Foster Wheeler in 2008 as Vice President of 
Construction. In this role, he was responsible for the construction group’s 
P&L performance and safe execution of EPC (engineering, procurement, 
construction) projects. Eddie has more than 38 years’ experience in 
the construction industry with an extensive background in scheduling, 
estimating, cost control, and project management. His EPC project delivery 
experience spans many energy market sectors including solar, wind, gas, 
conventional power, and bio process industries. Prior to joining Amec Foster 
Wheeler, Eddie held a number of leadership roles, including as President 
of Watkins Engineers & Constructors and Chief Operating Officer of Milton 
J. Wood Company. Eddie completed the Construction Executive Program 
at T exas A&M University. 
Distinct from the executive directors (shown 
on pages 47 to 49), the Executive Committee 
comprises the following senior operational 
and functional management: 
 
Rod Carr
Chief Information Officer
Rod was appointed Chief Information Officer on 2 August 2016. Immediately 
prior to that he was Group Chief Information Officer for Centrica Energy. 
He joined Centrica in 2010 from Scotia Gas Networks plc, where he was 
IT Director – a role he also performed at AEP Energy Services between 
2002 and 2003. Rod is also a former managing consultant with PA 
Consulting and was a Consulting Director with Arthur Andersen. Rod is a 
Fellow of the Chartered Management Institute and a Member of the British 
Computing Society.
Garry Dryburgh
Chief T ransformation Officer
Garry was appointed Chief T ransformation Officer on 1 August 2016, 
immediately prior to which he was President, Middle East & Africa. Previously, 
he led the integration of Amec Foster Wheeler and prior to that he was 
Executive Vice President, Asia Pacific for AMEC. Before joining the business 
in 2006 Garry spent 16 years working internationally for one of the world’s 
largest drilling contractors. Garry has a strong operations, programme and 
change management background, with extensive experience across our 
core markets, acquired over the years on six continents. Garry holds an 
MSc in Project Management, Lancaster University and a BSc in Mechanical 
Engineering, Robert Gordon University Aberdeen. He is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Directors, Fellow of Association for Project Management, Member 
of Institution of Mechanical Engineers, and a registered Chartered Engineer. 
Garry remains an active member of a Government / Industry Leadership Set 
Group following his participation in a UK Cabinet Office T op Management 
Programme in 2009.
Rupert Green
Chief Corporate Development Officer
Rupert was appointed to this position on 11 January 2017 , with responsibility 
for the Company’s strategy, M&A and investor relations functions. Prior to 
this he served as Head of Investor Relations from 2013. He has almost 20 
years’ experience of capital markets and M&A. Before joining Amec Foster 
Wheeler he was a director in the corporate broking team at Deutsche Bank, 
where he acted as a company adviser across a number of sectors supporting 
equity issues and corporate transactions, including for AMEC. He started 
his career as a trainee in a forensic accountancy practice. Rupert holds a 
Master’s degree in geography from Oxford University and is currently a 
member of the UK Investor Relations Society’s policy committee. 
Dave Lawson
President, Mining
Appointed to this position in January 2017 , Dave previously held the role 
of President, Global Mining and Metals Markets. He joined Foster Wheeler 
in May 2013 as President of Minerals & Metals. Prior to that, Dave held various 
roles within Ausenco, Aker, Kvaerner, T rafalgar House and the Davy McKee 
group of companies, accumulating over 35 years of executive management 
experience in the engineering & construction business in the mining & 
metals, power, oil & gas and environmental industries. He has considerable 
international experience including long term assignments in the USA, UK, 
Australia, India, Greece, South Africa, Brazil and Chile. Dave is currently a 
Director of the British Chamber of Commerce in Chile. He holds a B.Sc (Hons) 
in Electrical/Electronic Engineering from the University of Aston, Birmingham 
and a M.Sc. in Project Management from Cranfield University (School of 
Management), UK.
Ann Massey
President, Environment & Infrastructure
Appointed to this position in January 2017 , Ann previously held the role 
of Global E&I Market President. Ann has over 30 years’ experience in project, 
programme, operations and business development in the engineering, 
construction and environmental markets. Prior to joining Amec Foster 
Wheeler, Ann held various operations and business development leadership 
roles, including President of the engineering and consulting and construction 
businesses within MACTEC and as CEO of MACTEC, Inc. Ann holds a B.S. 
in Geology and an MBA from T ennessee T echnological University. 62
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Gary Nedelka
President, Global Power Group
Gary was appointed President, Global Power Group on 1 January 2015, 
having served as Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler’s Global Power 
Group since January 2009. Prior to this, he served as President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler North America Corp., an indirect, 
wholly-owned subsidiary within the Global Power Group. Previously he was 
President and General Manager of operating companies in China and he held 
a variety of positions of increasing responsibility in commercial operations 
and engineering management. He joined Foster Wheeler in 1979 and is 
a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Gary holds 
a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from Clarkson College of T echnology.
John Pearson
Division President, Oil, Gas & Chemicals
John was appointed Division President, Oil, Gas & Chemicals on 1 January 
2017 . Most recently he held the position of Group President, Americas 
and prior to that Group President Northern Europe & CIS. John joined the 
company in 1990 and has held a variety of roles in engineering and project 
management in Aberdeen, Baku and London, John led Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
oil & gas projects and asset support business streams globally, serving first  
as Head of Global Oil & Gas Projects from 2001 to 2003 and Head of Global 
Oil & Gas Asset Support from 2004 to 2007 . He joined Amec Foster Wheeler 
from Chevron, where he held a number of engineering roles. He is former 
co-chair of Oil & Gas UK, and former chair of the Offshore Contractors 
Association and Pan Industry Efficiency T ask Force. John holds a BSc (Hons) 
in Engineering from Aberdeen University.
John Raine
Chief HSSE Officer
John was appointed Chief HSSE Officer on 23 January 2017 , prior to which 
he was Vice President of Quality, Health, Safety, Security and Environment 
(QHSSE) at Weatherford, based in Houston. He began his career in the British 
Army, moving after six years to a role in the Prison Service in Peterhead, 
Scotland, where he worked with some of the country’s most serious 
offenders. A focus on a more family-friendly profession saw him join the 
Wood Group in Aberdeen in 2007 – a move that marked the beginning of a 
distinguished career in oil and gas. John soon moved to Weatherford and into 
HSSE, where his passion for and dedication to HSSE took him to Australia, 
Malaysia and the United States. John holds a PgDip in Human Resource 
Management from the Robert Gordon University.
Jeff Reilly
President, Business Development
Jeff is currently serving as President, Business Development for Amec 
Foster Wheeler, where he leads the Company’s overall business development 
activities across all market segments globally. Jeff has over 30 years of 
industry experience and, prior to joining Amec Foster Wheeler, worked for  
a variety of international engineering and construction firms, including ABB 
Lummus Global and Stone & Webster, where he served as Vice President  
at both Engineering and Construction organisations. Most recently, Jeff spent 
nine years at ConocoPhillips/Phillips 66, ultimately as the group’s  
Chief Procurement Officer and Global Head of Projects. He has an MBA  
in Finance and International Business from the University of Houston  
and a BS in Chemical Engineering from The University of T exas (Austin)  
where he is an External Advisory Council Member for the Department  
of Chemical Engineering.
Will Serle
Chief People Officer
Will was appointed Chief People Officer on 1 January 2017 . He has held 
a number of senior HR related positions including Group Human Resources 
Director since May 2011, and previously Human Resources Operations 
Director since 2009. Will is also responsible for sustainability at Amec Foster 
Wheeler. He joined the Company in 2000 as Human Resources Director 
for the oil & gas business, moving to the Natural Resources role in 2006. 
Since 2014, he has served on the board of Engineers Against Poverty. 
Will holds a Master’s degree in Human Resources from the Robert Gordon 
University and is a Fellow of the CIPD.
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Our Executive committee continued
Alison Y app
Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary
Alison was appointed General Counsel and Company Secretary on 
1 December 2012. Immediately prior to joining the Company she was 
Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel of Hays plc, previous to 
which she was Company Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of Charter plc. 
She has almost 25 years’ experience as a senior lawyer in industry. She began 
her career in private practice at T urner Kenneth Brown, advising corporate 
and commercial clients in M&A before moving in-house to Johnson Matthey 
plc where she held various senior legal roles. Alison holds an LLB (Hons) 
from Bristol University and is a qualified solicitor. 63
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The board has also created a number of 
management committees and groups that deal 
generally with more operational matters.
Management committees 
These are chaired by executive directors or other senior 
individuals and members are drawn from senior management 
within the Group. The minutes of each of these meetings are 
circulated to each board meeting. 
Committee Members Responsibilities
Corporate 
transactions 
committee
Chief Executive Officer (chairman); 
Chief Financial Officer; Chief General Counsel 
and Company Secretary; Head of Mergers 
and Acquisitions.
The corporate transactions committee considers mergers, acquisitions and 
disposals and approves transactions where the consideration or assumption 
of liabilities, as appropriate, is £5m or less, and above this level it submits 
recommendations to the board for approval. In addition it determines 
transaction guidelines that are in line with Group policies and procedures.
Disclosure 
committee 
Group Financial Controller (chairman); 
Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary; 
Head of Risk Management and Insurance; Head 
of Group Assurance; Director of T ax and T reasury; 
Director of Communications; Chief Corporate 
Development Officer.
The disclosure committee assists the audit committee with regard to 
verifying the information that is required to be disclosed in the Company’s 
material public disclosures and in its periodic reports. This is intended 
to ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant laws, rules 
and regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock 
Exchange, the New Y ork Stock Exchange and the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission.
Inside information 
disclosure 
committee
Chief Executive Officer (chairman); Chief 
Financial Officer; Chief General Counsel 
and Company Secretary; Chief Corporate 
Development Officer.
The inside information disclosure committee assists the Company in its 
obligations to manage the process of the identification and treatment of 
inside information, including accurate and timely disclosure in accordance 
with the Company’s legal and regulatory responsibilities. The Committee 
also overseas the management of the Company’s insider lists.
HSSE review 
committee
Chief Executive Officer (chairman); 
Executive Committee.
The HSSE review committee’s key responsibility is to provide effective 
oversight of the Company’s performance and management of HSSE issues 
across the Group. This includes the evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s policies and management systems in respect of managing health, 
safety, security and environmental risk in both current and future operations. 
Pensions and 
retirement benefits 
committee
Chief Financial Officer (chairman); Chief General 
Counsel and Company Secretary; Chief People 
Officer; Head of Group Pensions.
The pensions and retirement benefits committee reviews and recommends 
the establishment of any new or replacement pension arrangements, any 
material amendments to existing pension schemes, and the discontinuance, 
winding up or merger of any existing arrangement. It also agrees with the 
trustees of those pension arrangements appropriate funding plans to secure 
the benefits promised.
Risk committee Chief Executive Officer (chairman); Chief 
Financial Officer; Chief General Counsel and 
Company Secretary; Company Commercial 
Director; Head of Risk Management 
and Insurance.
The risk committee performs an integral role in the governance of risk 
within Amec Foster Wheeler by providing advice and assistance to the board 
enabling it to fulfil its responsibilities in determining the risk appetite of the 
Group and the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems that support it. It also reviews the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk 
register and the potential impact of any issues on the risk appetite and the 
risk profile of the Group. It reports on key risk issues such as new business 
and geographical locations and also makes recommendations on the 
insurance programme for the Group.
Share allotment 
committee
Any two directors or a director and the Chief 
General Counsel and Company Secretary or 
the Deputy Company Secretary (the chairman 
to be appointed from those directors present).
The share allotment committee approves the allotment of new shares or 
the issue of existing shares held in treasury following the exercise of options 
under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Tender review 
committee
Chief Executive Officer (chairman); Chief 
Financial Officer; Chief General Counsel and 
Company Secretary; Head of Risk Management 
and Insurance; Company Commercial Director.
The tender review committee primarily reviews and approves proposed 
tender submissions for contracts to be undertaken by the business lines that 
are outside the delegated authority of the business line presidents. Higher 
risk contracts with an estimated revenue in excess of US$750m also require 
the approval of the board.
Transformation 
steering committee
Executive Committee (the chairman being 
either the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief 
T ransformation Officer)
T o set the ambition and then maximise the value achieved from the 
transformation programme in each of the workstreams and across the 
Company operations and functions. Workstreams range from: strategy, 
organisational design, operating model, driving competitiveness, business 
development, through to back office systems and global business services. 64
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The board has overall responsibility for setting Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s risk appetite, and for maintaining sound risk 
management and internal control systems. Responsibility for 
risk management activities and practices, and internal control 
systems, is undertaken on behalf of the board by the audit 
committee and risk committee, both of which provide reports 
to the board on their work. Regular reviews of the effectiveness 
and adequacy of the Group’s financial, operational, compliance 
and risk management systems are undertaken and considered 
by the board. These systems can, however, only provide 
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss, 
as they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives.
The internal control processes are complemented by an annual 
control self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal 
businesses. This covers health, safety and environment, legal, 
commercial and contractual, financial, information technology 
and human resources. The results are reviewed by the board, 
through the audit committee, as part of the ongoing internal 
control monitoring process.
Amec Foster Wheeler has interests in a number of joint 
arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part 
of the Group’s formal corporate governance process because 
of the joint management responsibilities. Responsibility for 
such reviews rests with the joint venture and joint operations 
boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part 
of Amec Foster Wheeler’s normal internal audit process. 
Details of the Company’s related undertakings can be found 
on pages 212 to 221.
The board and its committees have an ongoing process that is 
reviewed regularly by the board for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the principal risks faced by Amec Foster Wheeler, 
including strategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant 
acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry into and exit from 
different markets. This process and the associated internal 
control systems accord with the September 2014 Financial 
Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting. 
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following 
a structured and documented review of potential opportunities 
and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any 
risk exposure.
The threats and opportunities associated with tender 
submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at 
various levels in the Group in line with the delegated authorities. 
T enders that are outside the delegated authority of the business 
lines are also reviewed by the tender review committee and, 
in addition, tenders for entering into high-risk contracts with 
an estimated revenue in excess of $750m are approved by the 
board. The most significant contractual issues in terms of risk 
require the approval of the relevant business line lead and the 
business line Company Commercial Director.
As a result of its ongoing involvement in and overview of 
risk management and internal control systems across the 
Group, the board is satisfied that the systems in place remain 
effective. Further details of the Group’s risk management 
process, including reporting and monitoring, and roles and 
responsibilities, can be found on page 28.
Accountability
Risk management and internal control systems 
A significant programme of work was undertaken following 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler to integrate the control 
framework and risk and control systems with those of the wider 
group, and 2015 saw the Group reach full compliance with our 
obligations under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). 
Work continued during 2016 on the continued development 
and refinement of the Group’s obligations under SOX. Pursuant 
to section 302 of SOX, we have again carried out an evaluation 
of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our 
disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined 
in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) 
under the supervision and the participation of the Executive 
Committee, which is responsible for the management of the 
internal controls, and which includes the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. There are inherent 
limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure 
controls and procedures, including the possibility of human 
error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and 
procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls 
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of 
achieving their control objectives. Based upon our evaluation 
as at 31 December 2016, we have concluded that the disclosure 
controls and procedures (i) were effective at a reasonable level 
of assurance as of the end of the period covered by this annual 
report in ensuring that information required to be recorded, 
processed, summarised and reported in the reports that 
are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act, is recorded, 
processed, summarised and reported within the time periods 
specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) were effective 
at a reasonable level of assurance as of the end of the period 
covered by this annual report in ensuring that information to 
be disclosed in the reports that are filed or submitted under 
the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the 
Executive Committee, including the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding 
required disclosure.
Pursuant to section 404 of SOX, under the supervision and the 
participation of the Executive Committee, which includes the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, management 
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal control over financial reporting. We have carried out an 
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under 
the Exchange Act) based on the Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organisations of the T readway Commission (COSO). Based on 
this evaluation, we have concluded that our internal control over 
financial reporting was effective as at 31 December 2016.
Ernst & Y oung LLP has audited the consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and has also 
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial 
reporting. Their attestation report can be found on page 103.
During the period covered by this annual report, we have 
not made any changes to our internal control over financial 
reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely 
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 65
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The audit committee’s main objective is 
to assist the board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities, by providing independent 
scrutiny of the company’s financial and non-
financial performance, the adequacy of the risk 
management framework and internal controls, 
and related governance and compliance 
matters. The committee members’ wide 
diversity of experience and knowledge helps 
to achieve these objectives, and to provide 
constructive challenge and guidance to 
the senior management team.
Dear Shareholder 
I am pleased to present our annual audit committee report and 
trust it will give you insight to the workings of this committee 
and the matters we considered during 2016. The committee 
had another busy year, during which it oversaw management’s 
refinements to its second year Sarbanes-Oxley compliance 
programme (SOX). These refinements are designed to make 
the Group’s SOX processes more resilient and efficient, 
and this work will continue throughout 2017 as the Group 
restructures and the announced asset disposals take place.
A new Director of SOX, with extensive experience, was 
appointed in May last year and directly updated the committee 
at each of its meetings on the Group’s SOX programme. As 
committee chairman, I also met separately on a regular basis 
with senior management, the Head of Group Assurance for 
internal audit and SOX matters, and, the external service 
provider engaged to underpin the group’s SOX programme. 
As you would expect, the external auditor reviews our SOX 
processes throughout the year and has provided regular 
feedback directly to me and the committee.
Audit committee 
As I said in my 2015 statement, bringing two sizeable, complex, 
and wide ranging companies together makes for a challenging 
environment, particularly around business culture, systems, 
policies and procedures. Management continues to consolidate 
its systems, culture, and mandatory policies, procedures, and 
controls across the integrated business. Y our committee and 
the board continue to give high priority to these areas and 
focus strongly on management’s adherence to the revised 
arrangements. Y our committee has a number of inputs that 
keep it appraised of how well management is doing in this 
regard, not least the valuable reports the committee receives 
from the external and internal auditors, which are reviewed 
at every audit committee.
The committee continued to oversee the internal and external 
audit activities to monitor the capability and resources of both 
the internal audit and SOX teams. The committee and your 
board are well aware of the ever increasing cyber threat, and 
management has appointed a new Chief Information Officer 
and a new Chief Information Security Officer, to refresh and 
bring new insights and focus to this area of risk.
Our principal objectives are to be proactive and to provide 
constructive challenge of the information we receive, 
particularly the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, 
significant areas of judgement, other relevant financial 
information and overall risk appetite. Throughout the year 
the committee has received timely and relevant information 
from management. These reports have been appropriate, 
concise, and transparent, which has enabled your committee 
to discharge its duties effectively. 
Finally, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank Neil 
Carson for his service to the committee over the past six years 
and to welcome Roy Franklin and Bob Card, who between them 
bring considerable industry experience to this committee and 
the board. 
 
Colin Day
Chairman of the audit committee
25 April 2017 66
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Members
The committee meets at least three times each year and the 
quorum for the committee is two members.
Membership and attendance of the audit committee  
up to 31 December 2016
Scheduled Unscheduled
Colin Day (Chairman) 3/3 2/2
Linda Adamany 3/3 2/2
Neil Carson 3/3 1/2
Stephanie Newby 3/3 1/2
There were three scheduled audit committee meetings in 2016 
and two unscheduled meetings. The unscheduled meetings 
were arranged at very short notice and two members had 
prior commitments.
Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing 
and accounting and the board considers that he has sufficient 
financial experience and qualifications to satisfy the criteria 
under US rules for an audit committee financial expert. 
The audit committee as a whole has competence relevant 
to the sector in which the company operates. Biographies 
of all committee members can be found on pages 47 to 49. 
Following Neil Carson’s retirement from the committee at 
the end of 2016 and Roy Franklin and Bob Card joining the 
committee, the membership of the committee currently 
comprises Colin Day (Chairman), Linda Adamany, 
Stephanie Newby, Roy Franklin and Bob Card.
The Company Chairman, the executive directors, the 
Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group 
Financial Controller, the Group Chief Accountant, the Head 
of Group Assurance, the Company Commercial Director 
and representatives of the external auditor also attended 
meetings throughout the year.
During 2016, the committee met separately with the external 
auditor, the Head of Group Assurance and the Chief Financial 
Officer, in each case without others being present.
During the year the committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed and updated to reflect the 2016 UK Corporate 
Governance code, updated FRC Guidance for Audit 
Committees including their revised Ethical Standard for non-
audit services, and changes to the Disclosure and T ransparency 
Rules. These are available to view at amecfw.com.
Key responsibilities
The committee’s key responsibilities are:
 X reviewing the annual and half-yearly financial statements with 
particular focus on key accounting and audit judgements and 
making recommendations to the board for their approval
 X monitoring the clarity of disclosures, the going concern 
assumptions, the viability statement and compliance 
with IFRS
 X reviewing and monitoring the internal controls and risk 
management systems, in particular internal controls over 
financial reporting
 X overseeing the relationship with the external auditor including 
the approval of the engagement letter, letter of representation 
and statutory and non-audit fees, with particular focus on 
independence and rotation in accordance with UK and US 
rules or requirements
 X promoting an effective internal audit function
 X overseeing the Company’s compliance with the London 
and New Y ork stock exchanges, FCA and SEC requirements
 X reviewing arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns 
about any suspected or known improprieties and ensuring 
that such matters are investigated and appropriate 
actions taken
 X monitoring and reviewing UK corporate governance  
and US SOX compliance
 X receiving the reports of the disclosure committee
Activities of the committee
In 2016, as part of the internal review of board and committee 
effectiveness, respondents were asked about the perceived 
performance of the audit committee. This was very highly 
rated overall. 
In preparation for each meeting, the Chief Financial Officer 
prepares an extensive report covering all material financial, 
tax and treasury matters. Particular areas of focus in 
2016 included:
 X consideration of revenue recognition, which is by necessity 
based on management estimates and assumptions, 
particularly with regard to timing and consideration of the 
Group’s policy for aged work in progress and receivables. 
In conjunction with the external auditor, these judgements 
were scrutinised, especially with regard to end-life 
forecast estimates
 X provisions and estimates (including for litigation) within 
the accounts. The committee, in conjunction with the 
external auditor, spent time focusing on these areas and 
on satisfying itself as to their appropriateness, particularly 
for legacy liabilities
Accountability continued
Audit committee continued 67
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
 X contract risks and material contracts showing a deteriorating 
position over time, including the monitoring of management’s 
early warning system to increase visibility of underperforming 
material contracts
 X the Foster Wheeler allocation of goodwill and impairment 
testing arising from the acquisition, in respect of which  
the committee continued to challenge and stress test  
the assumptions made within the goodwill and intangible 
asset impairment review process
 X appropriate accounting for assets identified as non-core and 
whether they met the accounting definition of ‘held for sale’ 
or discontinued operations
 X the classification of costs as exceptional, with costs of £135m 
incurred in 2016 in restructuring and integration activities 
presented as exceptional costs
 X adequacy of provisioning for legacy liabilities, including 
the accounting for asbestos and environmental liabilities
 X accounting for taxation including the recognition of deferred 
tax and assets relating to research and development 
government credits and monitoring the outcome of recent 
EU cases on tax rulings and the adequacy of any required 
contingent liability disclosures
 X reviewing and challenging the papers prepared as part 
of management’s assessment of going concern and the 
assurance of the Group’s viability statement
 X holding discussions with the external auditor in relation 
to going concern and considering the opinion given in 
its audit report
 X reviewing the disclosures made in the Annual Report 
and Accounts to ensure that they are fair, balanced 
and understandable
 X the ongoing quality and acceptability of the Group’s accounting 
policies, procedures, systems and internal controls
 X the ongoing SOX programme oversight and the risk and control 
matrices and key controls to meet the SOX control objectives
 X a review of the audit procedures required in order to meet 
the requirements of the SEC and Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board (PCAOB) in the US
 X as part of the Chief Financial Officer’s report, the committee 
received details of all breaches of treasury policy, which were 
minor in nature. This enabled the committee to see how these 
issues are identified and addressed to ensure they do not 
become more significant matters. In the year, minor breaches 
were identified in relation to bank counterparty limits, but 
none was considered to be material 
In its reviews of the full and half-year results, particular 
emphasis was placed on contractual issues where the reported 
financial position was analysed and discussed in the Chief 
Financial Officer’s report and the findings validated by means 
of in-depth questioning. 
At the request of the board, the committee also reviewed and 
provided advice on whether the annual report and accounts, 
when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, 
to enable the Company’s shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
In coming to its view that it was satisfied with the overall 
fairness, balance and clarity of the document, the committee 
took into account:
 X its own knowledge of the Group, and its strategy and 
performance in the year
 X the comprehensive guidance provided to all contributors  
to the annual report and accounts
 X a thorough internal verification of the factual content  
within the document
 X the comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels  
in the Group to ensure consistency and overall balance
 X a detailed review by senior management
Internal controls and risk management
The committee reviews the processes by which the 
Company’s control environment is evaluated. A control risk 
self assessment is undertaken every year, with comprehensive 
integrity checks, and the exercise in 2016 identified no 
significant areas of concern. The Group’s senior management 
is formally required to confirm compliance within their 
businesses with the Group’s Code of Business Conduct, 
its policies and procedures and any areas of concern need 
to be fully explained and addressed. A revised Code of 
Business Conduct was introduced in 2015.
The Head of Group Assurance reports to the committee 
on any alleged or suspected wrongdoings reported through 
the independently operated helplines or otherwise. All such 
incidents in the year were investigated and did not reveal any 
significant internal control failures or have a material financial 
impact at Group level. 
In a few instances, disciplinary action was taken against 
employees, which led to dismissal where warranted.
The committee’s primary responsibilities in relation to risk 
management are in ensuring that robust processes are in place 
for managing risk throughout the Group. 
The Group’s principal business and strategic risks are shown 
in the strategic report on pages 29 to 31 and the approach 
to managing risk is shown in more detail on pages 28 and 64. 68
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Internal audit
In 2016, the committee continued to monitor and review the 
operation of the internal audit function, receiving a full report at 
each meeting from the Head of Group Assurance. The Head of 
Group Assurance formally reports to the committee chairman.
The findings of each internal audit review are summarised 
and the committee focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory 
findings and on the action plans in place to address them. 
Particular areas of focus during 2016 included a number 
of identified low level frauds, and a focus on project controls, 
IT security and shared services. Concerns were also raised 
about an increase in the number of control-related issues 
and the reasons for this.
Staffing levels of the internal audit function are kept under 
constant review. A recommendation was made by the 
committee to increase the team size to meet increasing 
demands and to augment geographic coverage. This was 
endorsed by the board.
External audit
During 2016, the committee continued to oversee the 
relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Y oung LLP (EY). 
The committee reviews both the procedure for the engagement 
of the external auditor and the procedure for the appointment 
of the external auditor every year. In 2016 both procedures  
met both UK and US requirements.
Each year the relevant audit risks are assessed and EY’s views 
are presented to the committee. During the year, the significant 
risks identified by EY were appropriateness of revenue 
recognition on contracts, legacy liabilities including asbestos, 
impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax assets and 
R&D tax credits and risk of fraud and management override. 
Other risk areas included going concern and accounting for 
disposals and assets held for sale, presentation of exceptional 
items, valuation of pension assets and liabilities, share based 
payment accounting and quality of earnings.
Throughout the year and in conjunction with EY, the committee 
challenged management and assured itself that the risks 
were being addressed and that reporting on the matters 
was balanced.
Examples of these challenges included, the assessment of 
the accounting position taken on a fixed price US government 
project in the Pacific, the appropriateness of the liabilities 
recorded in respect of disputes with customers relating to 
projects undertaken on a gold mine in Southern Africa and an 
oil refinery in India and accounting for projects in the Group’s 
transmission and distribution business. Other challenges 
included those related to the estimates applied in the 
performance of the Group’s annual goodwill impairment 
review, particularly in North America, and those taken in 
the determination of the Group’s asbestos related liability. 
The committee also discussed the appropriateness of the 
Group’s application of accounting policies for the recognition 
of liabilities for outstanding debtors, work in progress, 
uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets.
The audit differences and quality of earnings schedule for 
the year ended 2016 were presented by EY at the meetings 
held in February 2017 and April 2017 . The value of unadjusted 
differences and the quality of earnings high-level review of 
the impact of items that could be considered non-recurring 
in nature were discussed in detail. The audit differences were 
not considered to be material and the quality of earnings was 
considered appropriate overall.
On behalf of the committee, the Head of Group Assurance 
undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external auditor. The views of senior members of the finance 
teams throughout the Group are sought, as well as qualitative 
feedback. Responses are measured and directly compared 
with previous surveys, so that progress can be monitored.
The external auditor effectiveness review for the 2015 year 
end was presented to the August 2016 committee meeting, 
no major issues were identified by management. The 2016 
effectiveness review will be undertaken after the year-end 
process has been completed and the results will be presented 
to the committee in August 2017 . The results of that review 
will be reported in next year’s report.
EY were appointed as Amec Foster Wheeler’s external auditor 
in 2010, following a formal tender process. As the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit had been in place for five 
years, a new audit partner (Colin Brown) was appointed for the 
2015 audit. The committee takes account of and endorses the 
relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with 
regard to the appointment of the external auditor, which means 
that the external audit contract will be put out to tender at the 
latest by 2020, subject to any further regulatory change. The 
committee also considers that the process complies with the 
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
Order for UK audit market published on 26 September 2014.
Amec Foster Wheeler has formal procedures relating to 
its relationship with the external auditor including for the 
provision of non-audit services, to ensure that such work 
does not impair the external auditor’s objectivity and 
independence. This procedure clearly outlines the category 
of work the external auditor is permitted to carry out and the 
rules governing what is not permitted. The procedure follows 
the guidelines and requirements set out by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has been 
amended to take account of the 2016 FRC revised Ethical 
Standard for non-audit services, which prohibited certain 
services previously permitted (including the majority of tax 
services) and limited the pre-approval of other services at 
a level of fees which would be clearly trivial with effect from 
1 January 2017 . In addition, the requirements of SOX and 
the PCAOB are taken into account. In addition, all non-audit 
services performed by the external auditor will be disclosed  
to investors in the company’s periodic reports.
Accountability continued
Audit committee continued 69
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The process is continually monitored by the Head of Group 
Assurance and details of all ‘other services’ performed are 
formally presented to the audit committee twice a year. 
It is the responsibility of the audit committee to monitor 
the overall level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees from 
an independence point of view and to confirm that auditor 
independence has been safeguarded. If there are any concerns 
about this, for the avoidance of doubt, the undertaking of such 
work would not be permitted. 
Fees payable by the Group to the Company’s statutory auditor, 
EY, and its associates were as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Audit fees:
Audit of the Company’s accounts 3.6 4.1
Audit of the accounts of the Company’s 
subsidiaries 1.6 1.4
5.2 5.5
T ax fees:
T ax compliance services 0.2 0.9
T ax advisory services – –
0.2 0.9
All other fees:
Corporate finance transactions 1.2 0.9
Other non-audit services 0.1 0.2
1.3 1.1
6.7 7.5
Fees for the audit of the Company’s accounts relate to the 
audit of the parent company’s accounts and the consolidated 
financial statements. 
All EY’s fees for non-audit work in 2016 were approved in 
accordance with the Company’s policy covering non-audit 
services. As a result of the application of this policy and 
additional discussions with EY, the directors do not believe 
that EY’s independence has been compromised because 
of this additional work on behalf of the Company. 70
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The HSSEE committee assists the board 
in upholding the Company’s principal value 
of doing the right thing. The committee reviews 
the HSSE policy statement and satisfies itself 
that all significant HSSE and ethics risks are 
identified and controlled. 
Dear shareholder 
This was the HSSEE committee’s second year of operation. 
The committee provides an additional level of governance 
in respect of Amec Foster Wheeler’s health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics activities, reflecting their 
fundamental importance to the way the business operates.
The Company has embarked on a significant programme of 
transformation but some things will not change. The first is our 
absolute commitment to protecting the health, safety and well 
being of our people. They have the right to work in a safe and 
secure environment, and we remain focused on our Beyond 
Zero initiative, which aims to deliver first-class protection 
from harm for our people, our assets, our environment 
and our customers.
The new operating model will help us to achieve our HSSE 
goals. Business functions, including HSSE, now have a 
direct reporting line into the same functions at Company 
level. This will drive standardisation and common policies 
and procedures across the organisation, and ensure they 
are embraced everywhere we work.
Our insistence on the highest standards of business ethics 
is also unchanged and we have zero tolerance for violations 
of our Code of Business Conduct. The Company has a strong 
framework to ensure that our employees, and those who work 
with and for us, act with integrity wherever they are based. 
Our employees can use a third-party reporting system to report 
any concerns in complete confidence. All calls are investigated 
and actions taken where appropriate.
This coming year will see us focus on becoming a zero 
incidents organisation, in line with our Beyond Zero ambition 
and embedding the HSSE function through the new 
organisational structure.
Linda Adamany
Chairman of the Health, Safety, Security, Environmental  
and Ethics Committee
25 April 2017
 
Members
The HSSEE committee comprises only independent 
non-executive directors. The quorum for the committee is 
two members. In 2016 there were three scheduled committee 
meetings held, and no unscheduled meetings.
The Company Chairman, the executive directors, the Chief 
General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Head of Ethics 
& Compliance and the Chief HSSE Officer also attend each 
meeting by invitation.
The membership of the committee is detailed below.
Membership and attendance of the HSSEE committee 
during 2016 
Meeting attendance
Linda Adamany (Chairman) 3/3
Neil Carson 2/3
Stephanie Newby 3/3
Kent Masters 3/3
Bob Card joined the committee on 1 March 2017 .
Key responsibilities of the HSSEE committee
The committee reviews Amec Foster Wheeler’s HSSE policy 
at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose and 
meets legal and regulatory requirements in all respects. 
It also examines the processes in place to satisfy itself that 
all significant health, safety, security and environmental risks 
are identified and mitigated.
The committee oversees the operations and activities of the 
HSSE review committee which is a management committee, 
details of which are outlined on page 63.
The committee reviews and monitors business ethics within the 
Group, including compliance with relevant legislation, regulation 
and current best practice. It also reviews and approves the 
Group’s Code of Business Conduct at least annually.
It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all ethical 
compliance activity within the Group and reviews the extent 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal training and external 
reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of 
the Code of Business Conduct or any other serious matter, 
a member of the committee will normally take responsibility for 
and manage any investigation into the relevant matter with the 
support of the Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Accountability continued
Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee  71
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Activities of the HSSEE committee
The committee reviewed the revised Amec Foster Wheeler 
Code of Business Conduct in August 2016 and endorsed its 
content. This document has also been translated into Russian 
and is now available in 14 different languages. 
During the year all concerns raised in Amec Foster Wheeler 
in respect of alleged or suspected ethical breaches, most 
of which were reported through the independent third-party 
reporting systems were taken seriously and investigated. 
The outcome of these investigations resulted in disciplinary 
action where appropriate as well as enhancements to the 
existing control environment where necessary.
A new Head of Ethics & Compliance joined the Company in 
2016 and presented his 12 month strategy to the committee, 
which included a review and consolidation of the current 
mandatory processes, a review of the onboarding process 
for new employees and a review and refresh of the ethics 
and compliance training materials.
The Global Head of HSSE left the business in 2016 and 
therefore a search for a replacement began. The Occupational 
Health and Environmental Manager covered the role on 
an interim basis until the new Chief HSSE Officer joined 
the Company from an equivalent position at Weatherford 
International plc at the end of February 2017 . 
Areas of focus during the year included risk mitigation and high 
potential incidents, particularly those that occurred within joint 
ventures. The committee was pleased to note the deep dive 
reviews that were undertaken in respect of each incident and 
that the outcomes and lessons learned were taken on board 
throughout the business. 
As part of the internally conducted board and committee 
effectiveness review undertaken in 2016, respondents were 
asked about the performance of the HSSEE committee. 
The committee’s oversight of business HSSE and ethics within 
the Company, including compliance with relevant regulations 
and best practice was rated highly. The importance of setting 
priorities with management with respect to HSSE matters 
was noted. 
The committee also reviewed its terms of reference in 
December 2016 and recommended to the board that the terms 
of reference remained fit for purpose and continued to meet 
the Group’s requirements.  72
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Remuneration
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee’s aim is to operate 
a reward policy that promotes the future success 
of the business.
Dear shareholder 
I am pleased to introduce my first Directors’ Remuneration 
Report as Chairman of the committee having taken over the 
role from Neil Carson on 1 January 2017 . 
Board changes
2016 has been a year of change for Amec Foster Wheeler. 
Jon Lewis was appointed as the new Chief Executive Officer on 
1 June 2016. His salary was set at £775,000 p.a. His incentive 
opportunities are in-line with our policy and the arrangements 
for the previous Chief Executive Officer. As we previously 
announced on his appointment an award was made to Jon 
Lewis to compensate him for remuneration foregone on leaving 
his previous employer which was structured broadly on a like 
for like basis. Further details are provided on page 78. 
Remuneration for 2016
The stretching performance targets set for the annual bonus 
have not been met and therefore no bonus will be paid to 
executive directors in respect of 2016. EPS targets set for 
the LTIP awards made in 2014 under the Performance Share 
Plan were not met and TSR performance was below median. 
No portion of this award therefore vested.
Remuneration arrangements for 2017
There are no changes to the annual STIP and LTIP 
opportunities for the year. Base salaries were reviewed with 
effect from 1 April 2017 . There will be no increase in salary 
for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 
In light of the offer from John Wood Group the committee 
approved some changes to the annual bonus measures for 
2017 to simplify the structure and focus management on key 
business imperatives for 2017 . The performance measures for 
the 2017 bonus will be EBITA (50%) and Other Key Financial 
and Operational objectives (50%). Further details are provided 
on page 74. In line with our past practice, the actual targets 
and outcomes will be disclosed after the end of the year.
As set out in the 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report, for 
2016 LTIP awards we introduced a third performance measure 
relating to the implementation and execution of our strategy. 
The measure accounted for 40% of the award, with EPS 
growth and relative TSR performance each being weighted 
at 30%. We intend to keep the same performance measures 
and weightings for 2017 awards.
 
Since Jon Lewis was appointed, the committee have been 
working with him to establish strategic performance measures 
which are aligned with the strategy for the business that he 
has developed. The metrics against which performance will be 
assessed for 2016 and 2017 LTIP awards relate to the following 
areas of the strategy:
 X Operational discipline
 X Competitiveness
 X Balance sheet efficiency
 X Our people and culture
The committee believes that delivering in these areas is critical 
to the long-term success of the business. Further details of the 
measures are provided on page 75.
The arrangements described above will be operated under the 
existing Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The policy is not due 
for renewal until our AGM in 2018.
Conclusion
The committee believes that the overall approach to the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors is appropriate to the 
circumstances of the business. We look forward to receiving 
your support in the vote on the annual remuneration report 
at our AGM.
 
 
Roy Franklin
Chairman of the remuneration committee
25 April 2017 73
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Membership and attendance of the remuneration 
committee up to 31 December 2016
Scheduled Unscheduled
Neil Carson (Chairman) 3/3 1/2
Linda Adamany 3/3 2/2
John Connolly 3/3 2/2
Colin Day 3/3 1/2
The quorum for the committee is two members. There were 
three scheduled and two unscheduled meetings held in 2016. 
The first unscheduled meeting was called to discuss and agree 
the terms of Samir Brikho’s termination of employment; the 
second was held in respect of the appointment of Jon Lewis  
as Chief Executive Officer. Neil Carson and Colin Day were 
each unable to attend one unscheduled meeting due to 
pre-existing commitments.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and 
other members of management attend meetings by invitation 
but not when their own remuneration is being discussed. 
Neil Carson continued to chair the committee in 2016 until 
his resignation from the board on 31 December 2016, after 
being appointed Chairman of the committee in May 2015. 
Roy Franklin was appointed as Chairman of the committee 
from 1 January 2017 .
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee 
takes account of recommendations from the Chairman 
in respect of the Chief Executive Officer and from the Chief 
Executive Officer in respect of the other executive directors 
and designated executives. 
The committee is independently advised by Deloitte. Deloitte 
were appointed by the committee following a competitive 
tender in 2015.
During the year Deloitte also provided advice to management 
in relation to market practice relating to various aspects of 
remuneration and the interpretation of the Remuneration 
Reporting Regulations. Separate teams within Deloitte 
provided unrelated advisory services in respect of business 
model integration, research, development and innovation 
taxation, treasury taxation, corporate finance and treasury 
services to the Group during the year.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration 
Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this Code in its 
dealings with the committee. The committee is comfortable 
that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that 
provide remuneration advice to the committee do not 
have connections with the Company that may impair their 
independence. The committee reviewed the potential for 
conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate 
safeguards against such conflicts. The committee is therefore 
satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte is objective 
and independent.
Deloitte was paid £29,280 during the year for the advice 
provided to the committee on the basis of time expended 
and seniority of individuals providing the advice.
The committee is also supported by the Company’s human 
resources department who may from time to time use third 
parties to provide data and technical advice. 
The committee normally meets three times a year and 
has an established annual agenda of items that it considers 
at the various meetings, the major elements of which are 
summarised below:
March X Confirmation of short and long-term 
incentive outcomes.
 X Approval of Directors’ remuneration report.
 X New long-term incentive awards. 
 X Review of individual base salaries  
and total remuneration.
August X Shareholder feedback/consultation.
 X Remuneration policy and practice.
 X Committee processes and appointment  
of consultants.
December X Incentive plan targets. 74
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Annual report on remuneration
Remuneration policy
There are no changes proposed to remuneration policy for 2017 from that approved by shareholders at the AGM on 14 May 2015. 
For reference the policy is set out in full on pages 83 to 88. In accordance with the legislation we shall submit a new policy for 
shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
Application of remuneration policy for 2017
Changes to base salaries for executive directors
The base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are not being increased in 2017 . Jon Lewis’ salary was 
set on his appointment to the board on 1 June 2016. Between the date the previous Chief Executive Officer stepped down from the 
board to the date of the new Chief Executive Officer’s appointment, Ian McHoul took on the role of interim CEO and received an 
acting up allowance equivalent to £100,000 for the period (£240,000 per annum). His salary for the role of Chief Financial Officer 
last increased on 1 January 2014. The effective annualised salaries of each of the directors are shown below.
Going forward, the effective date of any salary increases for the executive directors has been changed to 1 April from 2017 ,  
in line with all other employees.
2017 2016 % change
Jon Lewis £775,000 £775,000 n/c
Ian McHoul as Chief Financial Officer £530,000 £530,000 n/c
Annual bonus measures and targets
The following bonus measures and their weightings (maximum opportunity as a percentage of base salary) have been agreed by 
the committee for 2017 . The committee approved some changes to the annual bonus for 2017 to simplify the structure and focus 
management on key business imperatives for 2017 . 
Measure Jon Lewis Ian McHoul
EBITA 75% 62.5%
Other Key Financial and Operational Objectives 75% 62.5%
Totals 150% 125%
Other Key Financial and Operational Objectives include Cash Flow and Cost Savings for both Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer and otherwise comprise individual objectives relating to the specific short-term imperatives for their respective 
roles. The specific targets against these measures are commercially sensitive and may be subject to revision. They will be 
disclosed retrospectively in next year’s report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Long-term incentive awards 
Awards with a face value equivalent to 250% of base salary are being made to Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul in 2017 in line with previous 
years. In line with 2016, 30% of the award will be subject to a comparative TSR measure, 30% to an EPS performance measure 
and 40% to a strategic scorecard measure, each of which will be tested over three financial years. For each measure, 25% of that 
part of the award is paid for threshold achievement and 100% for maximum achievement with straight-line vesting in between.
TSR will be measured against a peer group comprising Amec Foster Wheeler and UK and international companies against which 
Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly. Some changes have been made to the comparator group for 2017 awards compared 
to 2016 to reflect corporate activity in the sector. The comparator group for the 2017 awards will therefore be as set out below. 
Threshold vesting occurs at median ranking and maximum at upper quartile ranking or higher.
Comparator group in respect of 2017 awards 
Aecom T echnology USA McDermott International USA
Aker Solutions Norway Petrofac UK
Amec Foster Wheeler UK Saipem Italy
Atkins, WS UK SNC-Lavalin Group Canada
Chicago Bridge & Iron USA T echnipFMC France/USA
Fluor USA T ecnicas Reunidas Spain
Granite Construction USA T utor Perini USA
Jacobs USA Wood Group (John) UK
KBR USA Worley Parsons Australia
The EPS target range will be 50.5 pence per share in 2019 for threshold vesting and 67 .1 pence per share for maximum vesting. 
These targets recognise the continuing challenging market conditions, particularly for the oil and gas services sector. In line with 
policy, the targets and actual EPS will be adjusted to reflect anticipated corporate transactions and may also be adjusted for 
certain other defined items.
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report 75
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The structure for the strategic scorecard measure, which is designed to drive and reward delivery on key aspects of our overall 
strategy, is set out below. The objectives for the 2017 awards will be based on the same areas of the strategy to reflect an ongoing 
focus on the delivery of operational excellence and business growth as apply to the 2016 awards. The precise metrics used for 
each awards, however, reflect the evolving priorities over the relevant performance periods. The measurement bases that will 
apply to 2016 and 2017 awards are summarised below.
Strategic objective Measurement basis
2016 awards 2017 awards
Operational discipline Roll-out of new strengthened global mandatory 
procedures and controls
Adherence to new strengthened global mandatory 
procedures and controls
Competitiveness Overhead cost savings Administrative expenses as percentage of revenue
Balance sheet efficiency Net debt to EBITA ratio for 2018 Free cash flow in 2019
Our people and culture Execution of employment aspects of the strategy Execution of employment aspects of the strategy
The specific measures against which performance is assessed and the targets against these are not included in this report 
because of commercial sensitivity. These, together with the outcomes, will be fully disclosed, subject to any continuing commercial 
confidentiality, in the directors’ remuneration reports for the years in which the awards vest.
Pensions 
Both Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul receive a cash allowance of 20% of salary in lieu of pension benefit. They also have life assurance 
benefit of four times their base annual salary.
Samir Brikho’s existing pension arrangements (explained below) ceased when his employment with Amec Foster Wheeler plc 
terminated on 31 January 2016.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy for 2017
The total remuneration for each of the executive directors that could result from the remuneration policy (previously approved 
by shareholders) in 2017 under three different performance levels is shown below.
 
Notes
1 Fixed pay is base salary for 2017 plus the value of the pension cash allowance and an estimate of taxable benefits based on 2016 amounts. 
2 On target performance is the level of performance required to deliver 66.67% of the maximum annual bonus and 50% of the full LTIP award.
3 Maximum performance would result in the maximum bonus and 100% vesting of LTIP award.
4 LTIP values do not include any change in share price or dividend equivalents.
Changes to Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ fees
The fees for the Chairman and the non-executive directors are not being increased for 2017 .
2017 2016 % change
Chairman £318,000 £318,000 n/c
Board fee £60,500 £60,500 n/c
Audit committee chairman £30,000 £30,000 n/c
Remuneration committee chairman £13,000 £13,000 n/c
HSSEE committee chairman £6,000 £6,000 n/c
Senior Independent Director £5,500 £5,500 n/c 
Non-UK director (additional travel time) £12,100 £12,100 n/c
Annual report on remuneration continued
Jon Lewis
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
23.7% 35.5% 100%
5
4
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
28.6%
28.7%
35.8%
47.7%
4.061
2.705
0.961
Ian McHoul
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
24.7% 37.2% 100%
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
25.1%
25.1%
37.7%
50.2%
2.642
1.758
0.654 76
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The information from this point onwards up to and including the statement of directors’ share 
interests and shareholding on page 79 is subject to audit.
Single total figure of remuneration for 2016
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2016 financial year for each 
director, together with comparative figures for 2015.
Salary/fees 
£’000
T axable benefits 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
LTIP 
£’000
Sharesave 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Acting up 
allowance 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Executive
Jon Lewis* 452 – 165 – – – – – – – 90 – – – 707 –
Samir Brikho* 44 954 7 53 – – – – – 3 21 255 – – 72 1,265
Ian McHoul 530 530 18 18 – – – – – – 123 106 100 – 771 654
Non-executive
John Connolly 318 318 – – – – – – – – – – – – 318 318
Neil Carson 79 72 – – – – – – – – – – – – 79 72
Colin Day 91 91 – – – – – – – – – – – – 91 91
Linda Adamany 79 79 – – – – – – – – – – – – 79 79
Stephanie Newby 73 73 – – – – – – – – – – – – 73 73
Kent Masters 73 61 – – – – – – – – – – – – 73 61
Roy Franklin 61 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 61 –
Simon Thompson* – 29 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 29
Aggregate 
directors’ 
emoluments 2,324 2,642
*Samir Brikho stepped down from the board and his role of Chief Executive Officer on 17 January 2016 therefore the amounts above are in respect of the 
period 1 January to 17 January 2016. Jon Lewis was appointed to the board on 1 June 2016. Ian McHoul received an acting up allowance in respect of his role 
as interim CEO between 18 January and 31 May 2016. Simon Thompson stepped down from the board in May 2015.
T axable benefits for the executive directors comprise disability and healthcare insurance, car/travel allowance, working lunches, 
relocation expenses and tax return preparation assistance. Jon Lewis’ taxable benefits relate largely to one-off contractual 
amounts which were agreed as part of his recruitment, comprising relocation expenses (£142,000) in respect of his relocation 
from the US to the UK, and professional fees for pre-employment taxation advice (£5,000).
The Sharesave figures shown are the gains made on the exercise of options granted under the Savings-related Share Option 
Scheme (Sharesave). No Sharesave options were exercised by the executive directors during 2016.
Jon Lewis holds no other director roles. Ian McHoul continued to be a director of Britvic plc and received fees of £64,069 during 
the year. Samir Brikho continued to be a member of the advisory board of Stena AB and a non-executive director of Skandinaviska 
Enskilda Banken AB; during the period he was a director of the Company he received fees of SEK 45,411 in relation to the first 
appointment and SEK 30,740 in relation to the second. Such appointments are subject to prior approval of the board. Directors 
are permitted to retain fees. (These amounts are not subject to audit and are not included in the single total figure table above.) 
 
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 77
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Total pension entitlements
The pension amount shown in the 2016 ‘single total figure of remuneration’ above comprises the following:
Accrued DB pension 
at 31/12/16 
£’000
Value of 
DB benefit 
£’000
Cash 
allowance 
£’000
T otal pension 
benefit 
£’000
Jon Lewis – – 90 90
Samir Brikho 49 13 7 20
Ian McHoul – – 123 123
Samir Brikho had an historic arrangement that provided for a pension payable from age 60 made up of 4.17% of final pensionable 
salary in respect of service to 31 December 2007 and one-thirtieth of career averaged revalued earnings in respect of each year 
of service thereafter until the date of leaving on 31 January 2016. Salary and earnings for pension purposes are subject to a cap, 
which was £161,000 pa for the tax year 2015/16. Samir Brikho also received a cash allowance representing 20% of salary above 
this cap in lieu of further pension benefit. The cash allowance above relates to the period up to the date he stepped down from 
the board; the value of his DB benefit is the accrued amount in the year to 31 December 2016.
Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul both received a cash allowance in lieu of pension equal to 20% of base salary during their period 
of employment in 2016. 
Annual bonus
The bonus targets and outcomes against the various performance elements, together with the proportion of overall bonus 
opportunity that related to each, were as follows:
Measure T arget range Actual Weighting
EBITA* £335-370m £318m 50%
Cash conversion 80 – 100% 118% 10%
Net debt (£1,027) – (£727)m £1,021m 15%
Use of High Value Execution Centre (HVEC) n/a n/a 10%
Other strategic objectives n/a n/a 15%
*For bonus purposes EBITA (after exceptional items which may be disallowed for bonus purposes at the committee’s discretion) is normalised for exchange 
rate movements and cost of share-based payments: the target and actual figures shown above are before any such adjustments.
The target for the ‘Use of HVEC’ measure was based on the percentage of addressable man-hours for the company as a whole 
executed through the HVEC. ‘Other strategic objectives’ comprise of a range of individual objectives; for Jon Lewis these related 
to strategy development, business refocusing and cost reduction, safety and compliance, and for Ian McHoul these included 
a range of activities relating to debt reduction and financing, as well as his role as acting CEO for the first part of the year.
In the light of the overall company position, the committee has determined that no annual bonus payments will be made 
to executive directors in respect of 2016, notwithstanding that some of the targets were achieved.
Performance Share Plan
The LTIP amount shown in the 2016 ‘single total figure of remuneration’ is the award made under the Performance Share Plan 
in 2014. Vesting was due to take place on 27 March 2017 and was subject to two performance conditions each measured over 
three-year periods: (i) earnings per share (EPS*) growth between 2013 and 2016 and (ii) total shareholder return (TSR) relative 
to a comparator group based on average returns in the final quarter of 2016 compared to those in the corresponding period in 2013. 
The two performance conditions operate independently on different parts of the award: half of the basic award is dependent on 
EPS and the other half on TSR; the matched award depends solely on EPS.
*EPS for this measure means the diluted earnings per share expressed to one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and intangible 
amortisation, the charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items. ‘Real’ growth means in excess of the change in the  
UK Retail Prices Index for December 2016 compared to December 2013.
The performance achieved against the EPS target and the TSR outcome are as follows:
2013 awards performance measure Threshold – 25% vesting Maximum – 100% vesting Outcome Percentage of max achieved
Real annual compound growth in EPS 5% 10% <5% 0%
T otal shareholder return ranking Median Upper quartile 21st out of 24 0%
Accordingly no shares vested from these awards. 78
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Details of share awards during year
A share award with a face value of 250% of normal base salary was made to Ian McHoul on 18 March 2016 under the Long-T erm 
Incentive Plan (LTIP) approved at the 2015 AGM. The face value of the award is based on the share price at the date of award 
which was £4.968. This award was made in the form of a nil-cost option; such awards may normally be exercised up to 18 months 
after vesting.
On 1 June 2016, following his appointment to the board, a share award with a face value of 250% of base salary was made 
to Jon Lewis under the LTIP . The face value of this award was based on the share price at the date of award which was £4.368. 
The vesting period for this award runs for three years from Jon Lewis’ appointment date, in line with the remuneration policy.
The above LTIP awards granted to Ian McHoul and Jon Lewis will vest in March 2019 and June 2019 respectively, subject to the 
outcome against the performance conditions measured over the three years 2016 to 2018. 30% of the awards are subject to a 
TSR performance condition, 30% are subject to an EPS performance condition, and 40% are subject to a strategic performance 
condition as described on page 75. Any shares delivered on vesting/exercise will then be held in trust and subject to a two-year 
post-vesting holding period in line with policy.
As disclosed when he joined the business in connection with the terms of his recruitment, on 1 June 2016 a further award 
over 68,681 shares was made to Jon Lewis via a separate award agreement in accordance with the directors’ remuneration 
policy (the “Recruitment Award”). This Recruitment Award was to Jon Lewis to compensate him for remuneration foregone on 
leaving his previous employer. This Recruitment Award will vest in equal tranches on the first three anniversaries of Jon Lewis’ 
appointment to the board (1 June 2017 , 2018 and 2019); there are no other performance conditions attached to the Recruitment 
Award. The Recruitment Award has been structured broadly on a like for like basis with remuneration foregone. The Recruitment 
Award will normally lapse if Jon Lewis leaves employment with Amec Foster Wheeler plc before it vests, or if he serves or is served 
notice, or is subject to disciplinary action at the time of vesting. The Recruitment Award was made as a conditional share award 
and will vest automatically. It is not pensionable and is not transferrable (other than with the consent of the committee), and 
no new issue shares or treasury shares will be used to satisfy the Recruitment Award. Certain amendments to the Recruitment 
Awards which are to Jon Lewis’ advantage (other than minor amendments) may not be made without prior shareholder approval. 
In the event of a change of control and in the absence of an exchange of awards being agreed, the Recruitment Award will normally 
vest. If there is a variation of share capital (such as a rights issue or consolidation), the number of class of shares subject to the 
Recruitment Award may be adjusted. The value of this award will be included in the single total figure of remuneration table for 
the years in which it vests, consistent with our reporting of other share awards.
The table below summarises the share awards made during the year.
Plan T ype of interest awarded
Face value 
£’000
Percentage vesting at 
threshold performance Number of shares End of performance period
Jon Lewis LTIP Conditional award 1,938 25% 443,566 31 December 2018
Jon Lewis Recruitment Award Conditional award 300 – 68,681 –
Ian McHoul LTIP Nil-cost options 1,325 25% 266,706 31 December 2018
*Calculated based on the share price at the date of award of £4.368, £4.368 and £4.968 respectively.
The TSR measure is based on Amec Foster Wheeler’s ranking against the comparator group set out below based on the average 
share price over the final quarter of 2018 compared to the corresponding period in 2015. The threshold for any vesting to occur 
is that Amec Foster Wheeler needs to be ranked at median or higher. If upper quartile ranking is achieved, full vesting will occur. 
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these threshold and maximum targets.
Comparator group in respect of 2016 awards 
Aecom T echnology USA McDermott International USA
Aker Solutions Norway Petrofac UK
Amec Foster Wheeler UK Saipem Italy
Babcock International UK Schlumberger USA
Cameron International USA SNC-Lavalin Group Canada
Chicago Bridge & Iron USA T echnip France
Fluor USA T ecnicas Reunidas Spain
Granite Construction USA T utor Perini USA
Halliburton USA Wood Group (John) UK
Jacobs USA Worley Parsons Australia
KBR USA
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 79
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Annual report on remuneration continued
The committee has discretion to make adjustments to the list when necessary to take account of mergers, acquisitions or other such 
events. In April 2016 Cameron International was acquired by Schlumberger and the committee agreed to remove Cameron International 
from the comparator group. In January 2017 T echnip and FMC merged to create T echnipFMC. The committee agreed that the TSR 
of T echnip will be tracked up until the merger, following which the TSR of the new merged T echnipFMC entity will be used. 
The EPS measure is based on the earnings per share of Amec Foster Wheeler plc achieved in the final year of the performance 
period, being 2018. EPS for this purpose is defined as the diluted earnings per share of continuing operations expressed to 
one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and intangible amortisation, asbestos-related costs and interest 
expense (net of insurance recoveries), the charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items 
(at the committee’s discretion). Threshold (25%) vesting will occur if EPS equals 67 .8p and maximum (100%) vesting will 
occur if EPS equals or is greater than 73.8p, with straight-line vesting for a result between these targets.
The number of shares vesting as determined by the performance conditions outcomes will be increased to take account 
of reinvested dividends in the period between award and vesting.
Details of the specific companies included in the TSR comparator groups and EPS targets for both the 2014 and 2015 awards were 
included in the directors’ remuneration reports for those years and may be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Leaving arrangements for Samir Brikho
Payments were made, in accordance with his service agreement and/or the Company’s remuneration policy, to Samir Brikho 
during 2016 after he ceased employment with Amec Foster Wheeler plc. All details relating to these payments were disclosed 
in full in the 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
No loss of office payments or other payments to former directors were made during 2016.
Directors’ share interests and shareholding requirements
As at 31 December 2016 (or in the case of Samir Brikho as at the date he ceased employment), the beneficial interests in the share 
capital of the Company of the directors and their connected persons were as follows:
Legally owned shares
Vested but unexercised 
share options
Unvested share options subject 
to performance conditions 
(LTIP and PSP awards)
Unvested share options 
not subject to performance 
conditions (Sharesave and 
Recruitment Award)
John Connolly 92,830 – – –
Samir Brikho 1,975,674 – – –
Jon Lewis – – 443,566 68,681
Ian McHoul 329,538 – 527 ,871 2,206
Neil Carson** 5,000 – – –
Colin Day 23,966 – – –
Linda Adamany 3,100 – – –
Stephanie Newby 21,899* – – –
Kent Masters 70,000* – – –
Roy Franklin – – – –
*Held as ADSs
**Neil Carson retired from the board on 31 December 2016.
Details of the unvested options for Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul included in the table above are as follows:
Date of award T ype of award Number of shares Exercise price Vesting date/Exercise period
Jon Lewis June 2016 LTIP 443,566 Nil June 2019
June 2016 Recruitment Award 22,894 Nil June 2017
June 2016 Recruitment Award 22,894 Nil June 2018
June 2016 Recruitment Award 22,893 Nil June 2019
Ian McHoul October 2013 Sharesave 1,046 £8.60 January to June 2017
March 2014 PSP 119,908 Nil March 2017 to September 2018
May 2015 LTIP 141,257 Nil March 2018 to September 2019
October 2015 Sharesave 1,160 £6.795 January to June 2019
March 2016 LTIP 266,706 Nil March 2019 to September 2020
All of Samir Brikho’s unvested options lapsed on 31 January 2016 on cessation of employment. The PSP award made to Ian McHoul 
in March 2014 lapsed on 27 March 2017 due to the minimum performance requirements not having been met. 
No options were exercised by any of the directors during the 2016 financial year. 80
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
On 4 January 2017 John Connolly, Ian McHoul and Colin Day acquired 1,442, 28 and 372 shares respectively; all of these were 
in lieu of the interim dividend paid on 4 January 2017 per the dividend reinvestment plans operated by the nominee accounts 
in which the relevant shares are held.
There were no other changes in the directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company between 31 December 2016 and 
10 April 2017 . As at 10 April 2017 , the shareholdings of each of the directors was less than 1% of the total shares outstanding. 
No director has used any of their shareholdings in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans.
Guidelines are in place requiring executive directors and members of the Group Leadership T eam to build up and retain a 
holding of Amec Foster Wheeler plc shares received from incentive plans or purchased and held by them directly or via a nominee. 
The level of targeted shareholding is 250% of salary for executive directors and 125% for other senior executives. Unvested 
awards or options, or options which have vested but have not yet been exercised, do not count towards the holding. Until such 
time as the target level is reached, executive directors are obliged to retain a minimum of 50% (post tax) of any shares vesting 
to them.
Based on the average share price and salaries during December 2016, the legally-owned shares shown above represented 
the following percentages of base salary:
Jon Lewis 0%  
Ian McHoul 286%
Ian McHoul’s shareholding is in excess of the shareholding requirement. Jon Lewis’ shareholding is currently below the targeted 
shareholding level due to his recent appointment to the board in June 2016. Under the shareholding guideline Jon Lewis will be 
required to retain at least 50% of any shares which vest from his outstanding unvested share awards until such time that his 
shareholding increases sufficiently.
There is no shareholding requirement for the Chairman or non-executive directors. 
Total shareholder return 
This graph compares the TSR performance of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, assuming dividends are re-invested, with the TSR 
performance of the FTSE 250 over the period 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2016. The FTSE 250 has been selected 
as the comparator for the purpose of this chart as it is an all sector index of which the Company is a constituent. 
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Total shareholder return 
 Amec Foster Wheeler 
 FTSE 250 Index 
Source: Datastream
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400 81
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Chief Executive Officer’s pay in the last eight years
CEO
Single total figure 
of remuneration 
£’000
Bonus awarded as a 
% of maximum
LTIP vesting as a 
% of maximum
2009 Samir Brikho 4,103 58% 100%
2010 Samir Brikho 9,295 97% 80%
2011 Samir Brikho 4,590 64% 71%
2012 Samir Brikho 3,092 57% 50%
2013 Samir Brikho 2,370 52% 19%
2014 Samir Brikho 1,837 41% 0%
2015 Samir Brikho 1,265 0% 0%
2016 (1 January to 17 January) Samir Brikho 72 0% 0%
2016 (18 January to 31 May) Ian McHoul 285 0% 0%
2016 (1 June to 31 December) Jon Lewis 707 0% 0%
The figures for 2016 show amounts by each individual who served as Chief Executive Officer during the year, for the periods only 
that they held the Chief Executive Officer position. For Samir Brikho, this was the period 1 January to 17 January 2016; for Ian McHoul 
this was the period 18 January 2016 to 31 May 2016; and for Jon Lewis this was the period 1 June 2016 to 31 December 2016. 
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change between 2015 and 2016 in the Chief Executive Officer’s salary, benefits 
and bonus compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those elements of pay for a comparator group of 
employees. The committee has selected employees in the UK as the comparator group as they have broadly the same structure 
of remuneration and to eliminate the impact of exchange rate movements if employees in other countries were included.
Salary T axable benefits Bonus
2016 2015 % change 2016 2015 % change 2016 2015 % change
Chief Executive Officer 775 954 -19% 165 48 +244% 0 0 0%
UK staff +2.6% 0% -84.2%
The salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus received by Jon Lewis have been annualised to reflect amounts receivable for a full 
year’s service in role, with the exception of the relocation expenses and pre-employment tax advice received by Jon Lewis which 
have not been annualised given the one-off nature of these benefits (relating to his appointment).
The year-on-year change for UK staff taxable benefits is based on data for tax years ending in 2016 and 2015 averaged over the 
number of employees in receipt of those benefits. The year-on-year changes for UK staff salary and bonus are based on the aggregate 
amounts paid in each year divided by the average number of employees in that year.  82
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Relative importance of spending on pay 
The table and chart below illustrate the relative importance of spending on pay compared to distributions to shareholders 
(dividends and share buy-back) and other disbursements from profit or cash flow that are considered by the directors  
to be the most material expenditures in relation to the Company’s strategy. 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Staff costs (see page 127) 2,138 2,137 1,642
Dividends and share buy-backs (see page 157) 113 167 124
Acquisitions (see pages 160 to 163) 2 85 1,983
 
Shareholder voting on remuneration policy and report at last AGM
The latest directors’ remuneration policy was put to shareholders at the annual general meeting held on 14 April 2015.  
Votes were cast as follows:
Resolution
Shares for (including 
discretionary) % in favour Shares against % against Shares withheld
T o approve the remuneration policy 253,956,672 98.90 2,824,184 1.10 1,770,186
At the last annual general meeting held on 27 April 2016 votes were cast as follows:
Resolution
Shares for (including 
discretionary) % in favour Shares against % against Shares withheld
T o approve the remuneration report 245,509,722 99.08 2,273,553 0.92 20,024,427
The committee do not consider that the votes against the above resolutions were substantial requiring any specific explanation 
or action in response. 
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Relative importance  
of spending on pay 
£bn 
 2016 
 2015 
 2014 
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0 Staff costs Dividends and share buy-backs Acquisitions 83
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration policy
Introduction
The following sets out the policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM. References to Samir Brikho’s employment 
are historic – Samir Brikho left the Company on 17 January 2016. Jon Lewis was appointed as the new Chief Executive Officer  
on 1 June 2016.
Remuneration policy table
This table sets out the components of the directors’ remuneration package (except on recruitments or promotions which are 
described separately). It is also part of this policy that we will honour payments or awards crystallising after the effective date of 
this policy (14 May 2015) but arising from commitments entered into prior to that date or at a time when the relevant individual 
was not a director of the Company.
Executive directors
Component and how 
this supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Salary 
Enables the business 
to attract and retain 
individuals with the 
personal attributes, 
skills and experience 
required to deliver 
our strategy. This 
also applies to the 
other elements of 
fixed remuneration 
below (pension and 
other benefits).
Reviewed annually from 1 January. Interim reviews only in case of significant changes of responsibility. Salary increases for 
executive directors will 
not normally exceed the 
average increase awarded 
to other employees based 
in the same country. 
Increases may be above 
this level if there is an 
increase in the scale, 
scope, complexity or 
responsibility of the 
role or to allow the base 
salary of newly appointed 
executives to move 
towards market norms 
as their experience and 
contribution increase. 
Pension and  
related benefits
Normally through a fixed allowance, some or all of which can be paid in the form of a company 
contribution to a defined contribution pension plan with any balance paid as a cash supplement. 
Where the plan permits, individuals may also sacrifice on a like-for-like basis part of base salary in 
return for an enhanced company contribution. Pension plan membership is available on the same 
basis as for senior employees generally in the country in which the individual is based and there 
are no special arrangements for directors. 
Life assurance is also provided.
T o allow for the fluctuating 
value of defined benefit 
pension accrual and cost 
of life assurance, the 
aggregate value of those 
arrangements, company 
contribution to a defined 
contribution arrangement 
and cash supplement 
will not exceed 50% 
of annual salary.
Other benefits Standard benefits typically include disability and healthcare insurance (including cover for eligible 
dependants), car/travel allowance, working lunches and tax return preparation assistance. 
Additional benefits may be paid where an individual is required by the Company to relocate. This can 
include temporary housing prior to full relocation and a one-off payment to cover specific costs of 
moving home or an allowance of an equivalent amount paid for a fixed number of years.
Where individuals are required to work in another country on a temporary basis, housing, travel, tax 
equalisation and cost of living adjustments may also be paid in line with the Company’s normal policy 
for employees generally.
Other benefits may be provided from time to time where the committee feels it appropriate and  
in line with market practice to do so in the country in which the director is based.
The Company may from time to time operate other arrangements that are open to employees in 
a particular country (for example relating to savings, discounted purchase, salary sacrifice, holiday 
buy and sell, service recognition awards) that executive directors may participate in on the same 
basis as other employees in the country in which they are based.
The actual value of these 
benefits will vary from 
time to time depending, 
among other things, on 
the cost of insuring them. 
The intention is that the 
aggregate cost would be in 
line with market practice 
and will not exceed 100% 
of annual salary where 
there is a relocation/ 
expatriate element 
and 20% of annual 
salary otherwise. 84
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Component and how 
this supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Annual bonus 
Rewards the 
achievement of 
annual financial 
and delivery of 
other strategic 
business targets.
Calculated by reference to a mix of financial and other strategic objectives set by the remuneration 
committee that vary from year to year and may vary between individuals to reflect the business 
priorities associated with each role. Profit-based measures will have a weighting of not less than 50%. 
The committee will determine for each year threshold and target levels of bonus that will be payable 
for meeting predefined performance levels against the objectives set for the year. T arget bonus will 
not exceed two-thirds of maximum.
25% of any bonus earned is paid in the form of Amec Foster Wheeler shares deferred for three years 
during which it is subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for the year for which the shares 
were earned are required to be restated for a correction of a prior period error or, at the committee’s 
discretion, for personal misconduct.
The balance of the bonus is normally paid as a cash allowance following the end of the year to which 
the payment relates. However, to facilitate higher levels of executive share ownership, the bonus may, 
at the director’s option and subject to the committee’s agreement, be in the form of nil-cost options 
over company shares of equivalent value instead of cash payment. The vesting is deferred for three 
months during which it is forfeit if the individual is a bad leaver. Such options have a six-month  
exercise window.
The committee has discretion to amend performance measures and targets or adjust bonus pay-outs 
to take account of exceptional items, unbudgeted acquisitions or disposals, and other aspects of 
performance which have not been specifically identified in the targets.
The maximum opportunity 
is 150% of annual salary 
for the Chief Executive 
Officer and 125% for other 
executive directors.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
Incentivises directors 
to achieve long-term 
value creation and 
alignment with 
long-term returns 
to shareholders.
Annual awards of conditional awards or nil-cost options (with an 18-month exercise period after 
vesting). Following vesting and, where relevant, exercise all shares (net of tax) will be held in trust 
for two years from the original vesting date. During this period shares will not normally be able to be 
transferred and may be subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for any year over which the 
shares were earned are required to be restated for correction of a prior period error. There is further 
provision to reduce leaver awards retrospectively on an individual basis as set out below.
Awards are subject to EPS growth and relative TSR measured over a three-year period with equal 
weighting on each measure and any additional strategic measures that the committee may consider 
appropriate for any particular set of awards. Additionally, awards are subject to a provision that allows 
the committee to reduce vesting in the event of a materially adverse misstatement of results for any 
year of the performance period, to correct errors or for personal misconduct. The number of shares 
vesting from these awards is increased to take account of reinvested dividends.
The committee will determine the applicable EPS range for each set of awards, with 25% of the 
relevant portion of the awards vesting if the bottom of the range is achieved and 100% if the top is 
achieved, with straight-line vesting between. EPS is adjusted for certain defined items and calculated 
on a consistent basis between base and final years.
The committee will determine the TSR comparator group for each set of awards with 25% of the 
relevant portion of the awards vesting if Amec Foster Wheeler’s ranking is at median and 100% if it 
is at upper quartile, with straight-line vesting between. The committee, at its discretion, may reduce 
or eliminate the portion of the LTIP determined by reference to relative TSR if it is not satisfied with 
the underlying financial performance of the business during the performance period.
The committee may amend the performance conditions if an event happens which the committee 
considers to be of a genuine, exceptional nature so that amended performance condition(s) would  
be a fairer measure of performance and would be materially neither easier nor more difficult to satisfy.
In the event of a change of control and in the absence of an exchange of awards being agreed,  
awards will normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been met at that 
time. The committee has discretion to measure performance based solely against one of the 
performance conditions.
Award of shares with a 
face value at the time of 
award of up to 250% of 
annual salary (ignoring 
dividend equivalents).
Sharesave 
Provides alignment 
with shareholders’ 
interests.
Sharesave is an employee share plan under which discounted options over Amec Foster Wheeler 
shares are granted linked to a savings arrangement with the options becoming exercisable at the 
end of the savings period. The exercise price can be up to a 20% discount to the share price at the  
time of offer and the number of shares is that which can be bought at the exercise price with the 
expected proceeds of the savings contract. Executive directors are eligible to participate in this  
plan on the same basis as other employees in the country in which they are located. Invitations  
to participate may be made annually. 
Sharesave is not subject to performance conditions as the terms of the plan are subject to tax 
legislation in the UK and certain other countries including the US that preclude this.
Sharesave options become exercisable, to the extent of savings made, in the event of a change 
of control.
The maximum monthly 
savings level under any 
concurrent Sharesave 
plans is in line with 
the limit set by the UK 
government from time 
to time for such plans 
(currently £500 per 
month or the equivalent 
in other currencies).
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy continued 85
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration policy continued
Chairman and non-executive directors
Note: The remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer under delegated authority 
from the board rather than by the remuneration committee.
Component and how 
this supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Fees 
T o attract and 
retain individuals 
with the personal 
attributes, skills and 
experience required 
to determine 
strategy and 
governance, to apply 
executive oversight 
and to represent 
shareholders’ 
interests.
Non-executive directors receive only fees for their services and do not participate in any of the incentive 
or benefit schemes of the group. Fee structure comprises a base fee and additional fees to reflect time 
commitment and responsibility of specific roles (for example, SID and committee chair). Additional 
fees may also be paid to directors not resident in the UK to recognise the additional travelling time 
in attending meetings. 
The Chairman, whilst a non-executive director, will not participate in any of the incentive or benefit 
schemes of the group.
Directors (including the Chairman) are reimbursed for expenses relating to performing their duties  
and any tax thereon.
Increases in the 
Chairman’s fee will not 
normally exceed the 
average increase awarded 
to executive directors.
The company’s articles 
currently set an aggregate 
limit of £600,000 for base 
fees for non-executive 
directors. T otal fees will 
not exceed market norms.
Selection of performance targets
Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set so that the target level of bonus is paid normally for achieving 
the Company’s short-range plan. T o achieve maximum bonus, higher targets have to be met. In determining targets, the 
committee takes account of the general business circumstances including the perceived difficulty inherent in the short-range 
plan and the need to balance stretch against risk. Profit is chosen as the most appropriate measure of the Company’s short-term 
performance and the cash measures are chosen to reflect the conversion of profit to cash across the year. Strategic targets are set 
to reflect other key business objectives during the year. 
EPS targets under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan are set to reflect the Company’s longer-term growth objectives at a level where 
the maximum represents genuine outperformance against expectations. EPS is chosen as the most appropriate measure of 
absolute growth in line with the Company’s strategy. TSR is chosen to measure relative long-term performance against a peer 
group comprising UK and international companies against which Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly. Other strategic targets 
may be set to reflect other key business objectives during the particular three-year cycle. 
  86
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Remuneration policy continued
Recruitment pay policy
Item External hire Internal promotion to the board
Base salary T ake account of current terms and any premium required  
to secure high-calibre appointment.
T ake account of current terms, relativities with other board 
members and whether any previous plc board experience. 
If initial salary is below market benchmark for role, would expect 
to move progressively to that level over next 24 months based 
on performance in role.
Pension and 
related benefits
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line  
with standard policy.
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Other benefits Normally in line with standard policy but may include special 
transitional arrangements eg overseas hire where dependants 
remain outside the UK.
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Annual bonus Inclusion in annual bonus for year of hire based on  
pro-rated salary. 
Maximum opportunity (as a percentage of salary) no greater 
than that for Chief Executive Officer.
Where relevant, increase existing bonus opportunity to level 
applicable to new role and apply pro-rata from date of promotion 
including any amendment to performance measures.
Maximum opportunity (as a percentage of salary) no greater than 
that for Chief Executive Officer.
Long-Term 
Incentive plan
Inclusion in LTIP for year of hire subject to same performance 
conditions as others but with three-year vesting period running 
from date of joining.
Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy.
Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy allowing for an 
additional award to be made in year of appointment to reflect the 
timing of the appointment and the extent of other enhancements 
to remuneration terms. Previous awards will continue on their 
original terms.
Sharesave Inclusion in next offer subject to meeting any qualifying period 
of service that applies for new employees generally.
Inclusion in next offer subject to any restrictions as a result 
of savings limits.
Notice periods Where it is necessary to secure the services of a particular 
individual, the remuneration committee has discretion to agree 
initial notice periods of not more than 24 months reducing to 
normal policy level over a period not more than 12 months.
Apply standard policy immediately including, if relevant, 
reducing any more favourable existing terms.
One-off 
arrangements
Where individuals forfeit bonus or long-term incentive 
payments from their former employer as a result of resigning 
to join Amec Foster Wheeler, then the committee has the 
discretion to make additional one-off awards in the form 
of cash and/or shares and subject to performance and/or 
other conditions, including holding periods, as appropriate. 
The maximum amounts to be awarded would be based on an 
estimate of actual loss discounted for any accelerated payment 
and the extent to which the loss is otherwise compensated for 
by the new terms overall. 
Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including 
temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required 
to relocate to take up the new role. Alternatively a temporary 
cash allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which 
equates to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise 
have been reimbursed. These amounts will include any 
grossing-up for tax.
Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including 
temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required 
to relocate to take up the new role. Alternatively a temporary cash 
allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which equates 
to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise have been 
reimbursed. These amounts will include any grossing-up for tax.
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued 87
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration policy continued
Policy on notice and payment for loss of office
Newly appointed executive directors will be employed on contracts that include the following provisions:
 X the individual will be required to give six months’ notice if they wish to leave and the Company will give up to 12 months’ notice 
of termination other than for gross misconduct or other circumstances where employment may be terminated without notice
 X at the Company’s discretion, the individual may be placed on garden leave for some or all of the period between the giving of 
notice and termination in which case the Company will continue to pay salary and benefits for the garden leave period but will 
not make new share or other incentive awards
 X at any time, at the Company’s discretion, employment may be terminated before the end of the required notice period by making 
a payment in lieu of the balance and subject to mitigation as described more fully in the table below
In the event of long-term incapacity, employment would not normally be terminated so long as the executive was entitled to 
payments under the Company’s group income protection insurance arrangements but the executive would be required to stand 
down from their role and as a director.
Payment for loss of office will be determined according to the following principles set out below and, for the current executive 
directors, having regard to their existing contractual terms as described following the table.
Notice The executive will receive base salary, pension and other benefits for any part of the notice period worked (and any period of garden 
leave). On termination, the executive will be entitled to payment for any accrued but untaken holiday pay. 
The Company may elect to pay a sum in lieu of notice for all or any part of the notice period, calculated by reference to the value of 
salary, pension and other contractual benefits (excluding bonus). In determining the payments to be made and the structure of such 
payments, the Company will have regard to the executive’s ability to mitigate their loss. In respect of any defined benefit pension 
rights, an augmentation of benefits for the relevant part of the notice period may be made. The committee has discretion to continue 
to provide certain benefits to the end of the notice period rather than including them in the payment in lieu.
Where the employment is being terminated by the Company for gross misconduct (or other circumstances entitling the Company 
to treat the contract as at an immediate end) termination will be immediate and no payment in lieu of notice will be made.
Annual bonus No bonus will be paid in the event of termination for gross misconduct. 
In all other circumstances, the committee will consider whether it is appropriate to make a bonus payment for the year in question 
taking into account all relevant circumstances, including performance and conduct. Payment will usually be determined and paid 
in cash at the normal time.
Deferred bonus 
from prior years
In the event of termination due to misconduct by the individual, the Remuneration Committee may determine that some or all,  
at its discretion, of the deferred shares will be forfeit.
In the case of death the shares will be released in full to the estate as soon as practicable thereafter.
In other circumstances, they will continue to be subject to the deferral period and only released at the end of it providing no further 
claw-back applies.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
All unvested awards will lapse on leaving in the event of termination for gross misconduct or other bad leaver circumstances.  
An example of a ‘bad leaver’ would be an individual resigning in order to take up a position with a competitor.
Awards will immediately vest in full in the event of death.
In other cases, unvested awards will be pro-rated for service, which may include any period for which payment was made in lieu. 
For pre-2015 awards, provided the associated investment shares remain lodged, matched awards will normally be retained in full 
unless the committee decide to pro-rate for service. A further reduction may be made at the committee’s discretion to take account 
of relevant circumstances at the time of leaving. The retained awards will vest in the normal way, taking account of the relevant 
performance conditions, and at the normal time subject to the committee being satisfied at that time that the individual remains 
a good leaver.
Other Redundancy pay in line with statutory provisions or those applying to employees generally in the country in which the director is based 
will be provided in the event of termination due to redundancy.
The cost of legal, tax or other advice incurred by the individual in connection with the termination and/or support with seeking 
alternative employment may be met up to a maximum of £100,000.
Additional payments may be made where required to settle legal disputes or as consideration for new or amended post-employment 
restrictions.
Where an individual is in receipt of relocation or expatriation benefits, the costs of actual expenses incurred in relation to any 
arrangements that are subject to term contracts may continue to be reimbursed for up to six months or, at the Company’s discretion, 
a one-off payment made to cover the costs of premature cancellation. The cost of repatriation will also be covered where this was part 
of the original expatriation terms.
Sharesave options lapse unless the director leaves because of specified good leaver reasons in which case they can be exercised  
for a limited period, to the extent of savings made to the date of exercise. 88
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Remuneration policy continued
Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are both employed under contracts (dated April 2007 and September 2008 respectively)  
with notice periods of twelve months from the Company and which require them to give six months’ notice of resignation.  
The contracts permit for payment to be made in lieu of all or part of the required notice period at the Company’s discretion  
but there is no prescribed methodology for calculating such payment in lieu or applying mitigation. Should circumstances arise 
where notice is given and the executive is not required to work all or part of the notice period, the terms of the existing contracts 
would be honoured. The individuals may be placed on garden leave for part of the notice period in which case the committee  
may determine that it is appropriate to pay an element of bonus for that garden leave period.
Existing directors’ service contracts
The notice provisions for Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are described above. There are no specified change-of-control provisions.
The Chairman’s engagement may be terminated on six months’ notice on either side.
The contracts of non-executive directors may be terminated by the individual at any time. There are no specific provisions for 
compensation in the event of early termination by the Company. Our practice is that all directors submit themselves for re-election 
on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in company and shareholder views
Our approach to the annual review of base salaries is to take account of personal performance, company performance, and pay 
levels more broadly within the Company. External benchmarking is also taken into account, particularly for new appointments.
Any proposals to change remuneration policy are considered against the ‘best practice’ guidelines produced by shareholder 
bodies and major shareholders are consulted directly when formulating any proposals for significant changes. 
The Chairman of the Company and the chairman of the remuneration committee make themselves available at any time and also 
at each annual general meeting to discuss any issues raised.
Differences in policy for directors compared to other employees
The structure of remuneration for executive directors is in line with other senior management. The primary differences compared 
to other employees are the structure of variable pay, which for senior management is in the form of performance-related 
incentives and for other employees is largely in the form of overtime and allowances reflecting the different emphases of the roles, 
and in the level of accrual under defined benefit arrangements.
Illustrations of application of policy
The total remuneration for each of the executive directors that could result from the proposed remuneration policy in 2015 under 
three different performance levels is shown below. 
 
Notes
1  Fixed pay is base salary for 2015 plus the value of pension and benefits. The value of pension and benefits in kind is taken from the single total figure 
of remuneration for 2015.
2 On target performance is the level of performance required to deliver 66.67% of the maximum annual bonus and 50% of the full LTIP award.
3 Maximum performance would result in the maximum bonus and 100% vesting of LTIP award.
4 LTIP values ignore any change in share price or dividend equivalents.
Remuneration continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Samir Brikho
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
25% 39% 100%
6
5
4
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
28%
24%
37%
47%
5.069
3.399
1.243
Ian McHoul
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
25% 39% 100%
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
25%
21%
40%
50%
2.643
1.760
0.654 89
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The executive directors undertake an extensive programme 
of meetings with institutional shareholders during each year. 
Our results presentations and investor education events are 
recorded and remain available on our website at amecfw.com/
investors for those unable to participate on the day.
Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director offer 
to meet with all major shareholders. Since the publication of the 
previous annual report, 11 such meetings have taken place. 
Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with members 
of the board are facilitated by the investor relations team.
The board also receives unedited feedback reports following 
shareholder meetings and all material brokers’ research notes, 
together with a report at each meeting including benchmark 
data within our peer group. 
During 2016 we appointed T aylor Rafferty, an independent 
service provider, to conduct an investor survey and provide 
advice on dealing with potential investors. This information 
is used to help target potential new shareholders and improve 
the efficiency and quality of our investor communications.
Our 2017 AGM will be held at the offices of Linklaters LLP , 
One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England on 2 June 2017 
at 11.00 a.m. The notice of meeting, which includes explanatory 
notes on the business to be transacted at the meeting, will be 
available on our website on 3 May 2017 .
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to receive 
the annual report and accounts; to approve the remuneration 
report; to re-elect each of the current directors who will retire 
in accordance with the provisions of the Code; to elect Jon 
Lewis and Bob Card as directors; to re-appoint Ernst & Y oung 
LLP as auditor; and to authorise the directors to fix the 
auditor’s remuneration.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general 
authority of the directors to allot shares in the Company 
and to allot such shares without the application of statutory 
pre-emption rights. In addition, shareholders will be requested 
to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its 
own shares within prescribed limits and approve the resolution, 
to be repeated at each AGM going forward, to authorise the 
calling of general meetings, other than annual general meetings, 
on 14 clear days’ notice. 
 
Engagement
Relations with shareholders
The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly 
communicate the Group’s progress and engage with 
shareholders. Where possible, the entire board will attend 
the AGM and will be available to answer questions from those 
shareholders present. The board encourages all shareholders 
to attend and participate where possible.
At last year’s AGM a number of interesting questions were 
raised and all of the proposed resolutions passed by way of a 
poll vote. The percentage of the Company’s share capital voted 
in favour of each resolution ranged from 86.53% to 99.98%. 
In line with the requirements of the Code, if significant dissent 
against a resolution was experienced the board would engage 
with shareholders to understand the reasons behind the vote.
Find out more online
Visit our website at amecfw.com/investors for further information regarding 
this year’s AGM. 90
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Our directors present their annual report and 
the audited accounts of Amec F oster Wheeler 
plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together 
referred to as the Group) for the year ended 
31 December 2016.
Achievements in 2016 and priorities for 2017
Disclosures relating to particulars of important events affecting 
the Group that have occurred since the last financial year, an 
indication of likely future developments in the business of the 
Group and research and development activities can be found 
in the strategic report on pages 1 to 45.
Dividends
The board has decided to suspend dividend payments, 
including the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 
2016, until the Company is generating sustainable free cash 
flow. An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 
of 7 .4 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2017 . Further 
information on the payment of dividends to shareholders and 
the holders of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) can be 
found on pages 197 to 198.
Dividends paid during 2016 comprised an interim dividend 
of 14.8 pence per share and a final dividend of 14.2 pence per 
share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
Changes to the board of directors
Details of the directors of the Company as at the date of 
this report, together with brief biographical details and board 
committee memberships, are set out on pages 47 to 49.
Changes to the board since 1 January 2016:
Samir Brikho Chief Executive 
Officer
Stepped down  
as Chief Executive 
17 January 2016
Roy Franklin Non-executive 
director
Appointed  
1 January 2016
Jon Lewis Chief Executive 
Officer
Appointed  
1 June 2016
Neil Carson Non-executive 
director
Retired 
31 December 2016
Bob Card Non-executive 
director
Appointed 
1 March 2017
Effective immediately upon Mr Brikho’s departure, 
Mr McHoul was appointed to the role of interim CEO, which 
he discharged alongside his role as Chief Financial Officer until 
the appointment of Jon Lewis as Chief Executive Officer on 
1 June 2016. Kent Masters will not be standing for re-election 
at the forthcoming AGM and has indicated his intention to 
retire from the board at the conclusion of the AGM. 
 
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance cover. In addition, throughout the financial year 
and at the date of this report, qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions within the meaning of Sections 232–234 of the 
Companies Act 2006 were in place for all of the directors 
and the Company Secretary.
In addition, throughout the financial year and at the date of this 
report, certain employees serving as directors of certain eligible 
subsidiaries at the Group’s request have also received direct 
qualifying third-party indemnity provisions within the meaning 
of Sections 232-234 of the Companies Act 2006 in relation 
to such directorships.
Directors’ interests
None of the directors is, or was, materially interested in any 
contract of significance to Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses 
during, or at the end of, the financial year. Details of directors’ 
share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are 
shown in the remuneration report on pages 79 to 80.
Corporate governance statement
The Company’s statement on corporate governance is set 
out on pages 46 to 93 and is incorporated into this report 
by reference.
Share capital
The primary market for Amec Foster Wheeler’s ordinary shares 
is the London Stock Exchange, where we have a premium listing 
and our shares are admitted to the main market. The Company’s 
shares are also listed on the New Y ork Stock Exchange (NYSE) 
and are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares 
(ADS). Further information on the Company’s ADS programme 
can be found on pages 197 to 198.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 
2016 comprised a single class of ordinary share. The rights 
and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in full in 
the articles of association of the Company and are described 
on pages 200 to 203. In summary, each share carries the right 
to one vote at general meetings of the company and no right 
to a fixed income. There are no restrictions on voting rights. 
Details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year are set out in note 22 on pages 155 to 157 .
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2016 AGM 
to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert 
any security to shares up to a nominal amount of £64,345,628 
(Section 551 amount) of which up to £19,498,675 could be 
allotted for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive 
offer (Section 561 amount). 
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM 
to extend this authority to the end of the AGM in 2018 or 
2 June 2018, whichever is earlier. The revised Section 551 
amount will be £64,345,628 and the revised Section 561 
amount will be £19,498,675. The directors have no present 
intention of issuing any shares other than in respect of the 
exercise of share options. No issue will be made that will 
effectively alter the control of the Company without the 
prior approval of shareholders at a General Meeting. 
Directors’ report 91
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Since the completion of the £400m share buy-back programme 
in February 2013, the Company has not made any purchases 
of its shares in the market. At the 2016 AGM, authority was 
granted to the directors to make market purchases of up 
to 38,997 ,350 of the Company’s shares. A resolution will be 
proposed at the 2017 AGM to extend the authority of the 
directors to make market purchases of up to 10% of the 
Company’s shares within prescribed limits.
For further information on the above resolutions relating to 
the Company’s share capital, please refer to the notice of annual 
general meeting 2017 , which includes explanatory notes on the 
business to be transacted at the meeting.
Major interests in shares 
On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and 
T ransparency Rules (DTR 5) and other notifications received 
by Amec Foster Wheeler plc from shareholders, shareholdings 
of 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 
31 December 2016 were as follows:
Number %
Franklin T empleton Institutional, LLC 38,857 ,338 9.96
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 20,253,855 5.28
BlackRock, Inc 19,538,928 5.01
The shareholding percentages reflect the Company’s issued 
share capital at the time of the notification. Since 31 December 
2016, pursuant to DTR 5, the following notifications were 
received by the Company:
 X Franklin T empleton Institutional, LLC notified their interest 
in 10.03% of the voting rights on 9 February 2017 and that 
their interest had fallen to 9.97% of the voting rights on 
24 March 2017 .
 X BlackRock, Inc. notified that their interest had fallen below 
5% of the voting rights on 27 February 2017 , that their interest 
reached 5.02% of the voting rights on 6 March 2017 and that 
their interest had fallen below 5% of the voting rights on  
20 March 2017 .
 X Artisan Partners Limited Partnership notified their interest 
in 10.2% of the voting rights on 23 March 2017 . 
There were no other notifications received under DTR 5 
from the above shareholders between 31 December 2016 and 
10 April 2017 . There are no shareholdings that carry special 
rights relating to control of the Company.
Financial instruments
Disclosures relating to the Group’s use of financial instruments 
can be found in note 19 on pages 146 to 150 and are incorporated 
into this report by reference.
Branches
As a global group, our interests and activities are held or 
operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements 
or associates established in, and subject to the laws and 
regulations of, numerous different jurisdictions.
Details of the Company’s related undertakings can be found 
on pages 212 to 221. 
Significant arrangements – change of control
The following significant agreements contain provisions 
entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other 
rights in the event of a change of control of the Company:
Under the £1,700m three- and five-year term loan and five year 
multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement (as amended) 
dated 1 March 2016 between, amongst others, the Company 
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited 
(as facility agent), the Company must promptly notify the 
facility agent if it becomes aware of any change of control.
Following such notice the lenders under the relevant 
agreement are required to negotiate with the Company for a 
period of 30 days with a view to agreeing terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Company and all the relevant lenders for 
continuing the relevant facilities. If agreement is not reached  
by the relevant parties before the end of the 30-day period,  
if a lender so requires, the relevant facility agent must, by 
notice of not less than 30 days to the Company, cancel the 
commitments of that lender under the relevant agreement 
and declare the participations of that lender in all outstanding 
loans under that agreement together with accrued interest 
and all other amounts accrued under that agreement to be 
immediately due and payable. If the Company is subject to 
a change of control by one or more persons who are listed as 
having been the subject of a sanctions designation, then the 
banks do not need to fund any new debt drawdowns and their 
commitments can be cancelled within a 14 day period. 
The service contracts of a small number of senior executives 
previously employed by Foster Wheeler provide for enhanced 
severance payments to be made in the event that their 
employment is terminated involuntarily and not for cause 
within the first two years of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. 
These provisions ceased to apply from November 2016.
Additionally, a number of employees (who are not directors) 
are entitled to a payment if there is a change of control of 
the Company, arising from an approach during 2017 .
Depending on the nature of the transaction, entitlements 
under the Company’s share plans may be triggered by a 
change of control. Further detail can be found in the directors’ 
remuneration report.
Under the lease agreement dated 16 August 2002 between 
Energy (NJ) QRS 15-10, Inc. (as landlord) and Foster Wheeler 
Realty Services, Inc. (as tenant) in relation to certain premises 
in Perryville, Clinton, New Jersey, as subsequently amended, 
an event of default will occur if any Obligor (as defined under 
the credit agreement referred to above) enters into any 
amalgamation or merger, subject to certain carve-outs.
Where an event of default arises under the lease agreement 
(as amended), the landlord may exercise certain remedies 
and collect damages. These remedies include, amongst other 
things, terminating the lease, re-letting the leased premises, 
requiring the tenant to make an irrevocable offer to terminate 
the lease agreement (as amended) upon payment to the 
landlord of an amount to be calculated in accordance with 
the lease agreement (as amended). 92
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
In addition, a small number of contracts and agreements 
entered into by Group companies in the ordinary course of 
business contain provisions under which the approval of 
the counterparty would be required in respect of a change 
of control. In the absence of such approval the contracts 
could be terminated by the counterparties. Alternatively, 
a small number of contracts and agreements entered into by 
Group companies in the ordinary course of business contain 
provisions under which the counterparty could terminate the 
contract following a change of control. Such contracts are 
however not considered to be material with respect to the 
results of the Group as a whole.
A change of control occurs if any person or group of persons 
acting in concert gains control of the Company.
Employees
Our employees embody our knowledge, brand and reputation 
and it is through their activities, day by day, that we deliver on 
our business objectives and commitments to shareholders, 
clients and the wider community. Information on employee 
development and training; how we engage with our employees 
to ensure they understand the direction in which the Company 
is going and are committed to Amec Foster Wheeler’s values; 
the actions taken to share knowledge with our employees and 
keep them informed of developments; how we assess and 
act on employee opinion and encourage involvement in the 
Company’s performance; and our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion, and equal opportunities, can be found on page 25 and 
is incorporated in this report by reference. As can be seen in our 
Code of Business Conduct, Amec Foster Wheeler is committed 
to providing a workplace which offers equal opportunity for 
promotion and advancement. The Code of Business Conduct 
is kept under review and updated as required to ensure it 
continues to meet the needs of the wider Group.
As part of the Company’s equal opportunities policy, 
procedures are in place that are designed to provide for full 
and fair consideration and selection of disabled applicants, 
to ensure they are properly trained to perform safely and 
effectively and to provide career opportunities that allow 
them to fulfil their potential. Where an employee becomes 
disabled in the course of their employment, Amec Foster 
Wheeler will actively seek to retain them wherever possible 
by making adjustments to their work content and environment 
or by retraining them to undertake new roles.
Sustainability
Summary details about our commitment to sustainability 
and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set out 
specifically on page 33 and in general throughout our strategic 
report. Further detail is available in our sustainability report 
and on our website.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Disclosures relating to the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions, 
as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 
(strategic report and directors’ report) Regulations 2013,  
can be found in the strategic report on page 33.
Political donations 
During 2016, Amec Foster Wheeler made no political donations.
Going concern
The directors, having negotiated an amendment to the leverage 
ratio in the leverage covenant for measurement periods up to 
and including 30 June 2018, have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group will comply with this covenant 
and will be able to operate within the level of available facilities 
and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe 
that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a 
going concern basis. Further details of this review can be found 
on page 45.
Viability statement
The directors’ viability statement and accompanying basis 
of assessment can be found on page 32.
Auditor
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment 
of Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditor of the Company.
Disclosure of information to auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and the directors have taken all the steps 
that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibility statements
The statement of directors’ responsibilities, including 
the fair, balanced and understandable statement, in respect 
of the annual report and accounts can be found on page 93. 
The statement by the Company’s auditor relating to their 
reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 94 to 101.
On behalf of the board
Alison Y app
Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary
25 April 2017
Directors’ report continued 93
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the annual report and the accounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the consolidated and parent company accounts, in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated 
and parent company accounts for each financial year. Under 
that law the directors are required to prepare the consolidated 
accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under Company law the directors must not approve the 
consolidated and parent company accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for 
that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company 
accounts, the directors are required to:
 X select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently
 X make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent
 X for the consolidated accounts, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU
 X for the parent company accounts, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company accounts
 X prepare the consolidated and parent company accounts on 
the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the consolidated and the parent company will continue 
in business
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of consolidated and 
parent company accounts may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
 
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect  
of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 X the accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole
 X the strategic report and directors’ report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the issuer and undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face
In addition, we confirm that the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the position and performance, strategy and business model 
of the Company.
Signed on behalf of the board
 
 
Jonathan Lewis
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2017
 
 
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer 
25 April 2017
Responsibility statements of the directors 94
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
 X the Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
 X the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union;
 X the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial Reporting Standard 101 
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and
 X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated income statement Balance sheet 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Statement of changes in equity
Consolidated balance sheet Related Notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
Consolidated cash flow statement 
Related Notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent 
company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ .
Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material misstatement X (New in 2016) Preparation of the financial statements 
using the going concern basis 
 X Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts 
and adequacy of contract related provisions 
 X Goodwill and intangible asset impairment
 X Liabilities for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred 
tax assets and recognition of Research and Development 
tax credits
 X Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos
Audit scope X We performed an audit of the complete financial information 
of 4 components and audit procedures on specific balances 
for a further 31 components
 X The components where we performed full or specific audit 
procedures accounted for 92% of profit before tax adjusted 
for pre-tax non-recurring items and 96% of Revenue
Materiality X Overall Group materiality of £9m which represents 5% of 
profit before taxes adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc 95
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit 
strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, 
we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, 
consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated 
to the Audit Committee
Appropriateness of adopting the Going Concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements
Refer to the Strategic Report (page 45); the Audit 
Committee Report (page 67); Note 1 of the Group 
financial statements.
The Company has taken steps to reduce its debt 
including the disposal of non-core assets, cost 
savings measures and suspending dividend 
payments until sustainable free cash flow is being 
generated. We focused on this area because 
despite the actions taken to date, there is a risk 
that the leverage ratio will exceed the maximum 
leverage ratio under the Debt Facility Arrangement 
of 3.75:1 in the measurement period ended 
30 June 2017 and in subsequent periods. 
As described in Note 1 to the financial statements 
an amendment to the banking covenants was 
agreed on 10 April 2017 . This increases the 
leverage covenant ratio to 4.5:1 for measurement 
periods up to and including June 2018.
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood 
of occurrence and the size of an error should it 
occur) has increased compared to the prior year.
We read management’s assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
We understood the key assumptions underpinning the Group’s forecasts 
and assessed whether they are appropriate by considering the Group’s 
historical performance and the current market conditions. 
We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s forecasts by 
comparing the actual result to forecasts. We assessed the adequacy of 
the sensitivities and stress testing applied to forecasts and the underlying 
key assumptions. 
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the cash flow model and the related 
financial covenant forecasts. 
We agreed the Company’s committed debt facilities, including financial 
covenant terms and the timing of early repayment in the event there is 
a breach, to facility agreements and amendments.
We inspected the Covenant Amendment Letter approved on 10 April 2017 . 
We considered whether the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts 
relating to going concern are fair, balanced and understandable.
We are satisfied that 
having assessed the 
appropriateness of 
management’s forecasts, 
and given a signed 
Covenant Amendment 
Letter which increases 
the leverage covenant 
ratio to 4.5:1 for periods up 
to and including June 2018 
has been obtained by the 
Company, the adoption 
of the going concern 
basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial 
statements is reasonable.
The disclosures made 
in the Annual Report and 
Accounts with respect 
to the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going 
concern are appropriate.
Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts and adequacy of contract related provisions
Refer to the Strategic Report (page 29); the Audit 
Committee Report (page 66); Critical accounting 
policies and the use of judgements, estimates and 
assumptions (page 113) and Note 3 of the Group 
financial statements.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, revenue 
recorded was £5.4bn. 
We focused on this area because there is a 
risk that due to the complexity associated with 
accounting for long term contracts and the 
judgements involved in determining contract 
provisions, the Group’s financial statements 
could be misstated. 
Specific risks over revenue recognition include 
inappropriate percentage of completion 
accounting, inappropriate recognition of 
variation orders and claims and inappropriate 
determination of recoverable costs. 
Specific risks over contract related provisions 
include unrecorded liabilities for contractual 
disputes and inappropriate application of 
the Group’s policy for aged work in progress 
and receivables. 
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood 
of occurrence and the size of an error should 
it occur) is consistent with the prior year.
We tested internal financial controls over the calculation of revenue, 
including those used to determine the percentage of completion for fixed 
price contracts. 
For a sample of contracts, we challenged management in respect of 
the reasonableness of judgements made regarding the cost to complete 
estimate, the timing of the recognition of variation orders and claims and the 
appropriateness of assumptions made in estimating warranty provisions. 
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of cost to complete calculations, 
agreed key contractual terms back to signed contracts, discussed and 
corroborated key judgements with various levels of management including 
project managers and inspected third party correspondence in the case of 
variation orders and claims where appropriate. For a sample of lump-sum 
contracts, we re-performed the calculation of the revenue taken in the year 
based on the percentage of completion. 
We challenged management’s assessment of the adequacy of contingency 
provisions against contract specific risks and its assessments around 
the potential for liquidated damages for projects with delays. For those 
contracts subject to claims, we have made enquires of internal and 
external legal counsel to assess the adequacy of and corroborate the 
position taken by management. 
We have understood management’s assessment of the recoverability of 
aged work in progress and receivables. For a sample of balances, we tested 
the arithmetical accuracy of the aging of work in progress and receivables. 
We performed audit procedures on the recoverability of a sample of trade 
receivable balances by obtaining customer confirmations and subsequent 
cash receipts where appropriate. We performed audit procedures on a 
sample of unbilled work in progress balances by assessing the company’s 
calculations and subsequent invoicing. We assessed whether the Group’s 
accounting policies have been appropriately applied.
We have assessed whether management’s policies and processes 
for making these estimates are appropriate, in accordance with IAS 37 
and consistently applied. 
Overall, we are satisfied 
that the Group’s 
accounting policies for 
revenue recognition and 
contract related provisions 
are reasonable and 
have been appropriately 
applied. The valuation of 
contract risk provisions 
at 31 December 2016 
is within an acceptable 
range of potential 
outcomes based on the 
facts and circumstances 
as at that date. 
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 96
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated 
to the Audit Committee
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 67); 
Critical accounting policies and the use of 
judgements, estimates and assumptions 
(page 113) and Note 12 of the Group 
financial statements.
The total carrying value of goodwill at the year end 
is £2.2bn. This reflects impairments of £289m 
recorded in the year. Of this, £214m has been 
recorded against the carrying value of goodwill in 
the Global Power Group (‘GPG’) cash generating 
unit (‘CGU’) and £75m in the Americas CGU. 
An impairment has arisen as the recoverable 
amount of the GPG and Americas CGU’s was 
less than the carrying value of the investment.
The total carrying value of other intangible 
assets at the year end is £0.5bn. This is following 
impairments of £211m in the year, the most 
significant of which relate to customer relationship 
assets. Of this, £32m has been recorded in the 
GPG segment, £125m in the Americas segment, 
£14m in AMEASE and £40m in Northern Europe 
and CIS (‘NECIS’). Impairments in the carrying 
value of these intangible assets have arisen 
following a downturn in trading meaning the 
recoverable amounts of these assets was less 
than their carrying values. 
We focused on these areas given the significant 
judgements and complexity of valuation 
methodologies requiring the use of estimates 
used to determine whether the carrying value 
of goodwill and customer relationships is 
appropriate. These include the assumptions used 
within models to support the recoverable amount 
of goodwill and intangible assets. 
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood 
of occurrence and the size of an error should 
it occur) is the same as the prior year. 
We tested internal financial controls over the goodwill and intangible assets 
impairment process including the determination of assumptions used 
within the models to assess the recoverable amount. 
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models and confirmed the 
CGUs identified are the lowest level at which management monitors 
goodwill. We performed audit procedures over the assumptions used in 
respect of forecast growth rates and involved our valuation specialists to 
corroborate the appropriateness of the discount and growth rates used 
by reference to third party source data. We have verified that the profit 
forecasts used in the valuation models are consistent with those reviewed 
and approved by the board.
We have evaluated the profit forecasts used within the models 
against current trading conditions and validated the key assumptions 
underpinning the forecasts are consistent with our findings from other 
areas of the audit. 
We performed sensitivity analysis by stress testing the valuation models, 
to determine the degree to which the assumptions would need to move 
before an impairment would be triggered. 
The impairments 
recognised in respect of 
the goodwill and intangible 
assets allocated to GPG, 
Americas, AMEASE 
and NECIS have been 
appropriately determined. 
The carrying value of 
goodwill and intangible 
assets at the year end 
is appropriate. 
We agree with 
management that a 
reasonably possible 
change in assumptions 
would result in further 
impairment losses in 
the Americas cash 
generating unit and 
that the additional 
sensitivity disclosures in 
Note 12 comply with the 
requirements of IAS 36. 
Liabilities for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred tax assets and recognition of Research and Development tax credits
Refer to the Audit Committee Report 
(page 67) and Notes 8 and 15 of the Group 
financial statements.
We focused on the risk arising from tax planning 
given the significant judgements involved in 
assessing the appropriateness of the valuation 
and completeness of uncertain tax positions 
including those relating to the financing 
structures the Group has in place in Canada 
and the United States.
We focus on the recognition of certain deferred 
tax assets and assets relating to research and 
development tax credits as both these areas 
involve judgement in the assessment of the 
recoverability of the associated tax asset. 
This includes assessment of the period over 
which taxable profits will be available to utilise 
the assets against. 
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood 
of occurrence and the size of an error should 
it occur) is consistent with the prior year.
We tested internal financial controls over the determination of uncertain 
tax provisions. We also tested internal financial controls over the 
recognition of deferred tax assets and assets relating to research 
and development tax credits.
We challenged the valuation of tax exposures estimated by management. 
Using our tax experts, we evaluated the range and quantum of risks 
associated with these exposures along with claims or assessments 
made by tax authorities to date. We have also inspected documentation 
in relation to tax audits to ensure that exposures the tax authorities are 
raising have been considered and provided for where necessary. 
We have challenged the profit forecasts used by management in 
determining the quantum and period over which deferred tax assets 
and assets held in respect of research and development tax credits will 
be recovered. We have also assessed if management’s rationale over 
the length of time such assets will be recovered, is supportable and 
consistent with prior periods based on forecasting information and growth 
assumptions. We have evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting 
taxable profits and the integrity of the models used.
We are satisfied 
that the provisions 
recorded in respect 
of tax risks are within 
an acceptable range. 
The carrying value of 
assets relating to deferred 
tax and research and 
development tax credits 
are within an acceptable 
range at the year end. 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 97
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated 
to the Audit Committee
Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos 
Refer to the Strategic Report (page 31), the Audit 
Committee Report (page 67); Critical accounting 
policies and the use of judgements, estimates and 
assumptions (page 113) and Note 21 of the Group 
financial statements.
The Group has risks relating to claims or 
potential claims resulting from the disposal of 
businesses in previous years and those relating 
to asbestos exposure. T otal provisions relating 
to legacy businesses at the year end are £124m, 
and asbestos £413m.
We focused on this area, as determining the 
impact and likely outcome of litigation matters 
requires significant judgement. There is a risk that 
provisions are not made for claims which have 
been received.
The magnitude of the risk (i.e., the likelihood 
of occurrence and the size of an error should 
it occur) is consistent with the prior year.
We tested internal financial controls over the appropriate valuation and 
completeness of liabilities. We assessed the judgements and accounting 
treatments, including recognition of provisions and contingent liabilities, 
made by management arising from contractual disputes, indemnities 
and warranty obligations. We performed audit procedures including 
discussions with management’s legal experts, obtaining external legal 
letters, inspection of claims documentation and review of out-turn 
of historic estimates.
We have engaged our own actuarial specialists to compare the 
methodology used by management to assess asbestos liabilities with 
industry accepted practice including assessment of the appropriateness 
of the discount rate. We tested the completeness and accuracy of the data 
used by management’s expert to calculate the liability. We have assessed 
the recoverability of insurance receivables due to the Group. 
The valuation of legacy 
liabilities at 31 December 
2016 is within an 
acceptable range. 
We are satisfied that 
the company has made 
a reasonable estimate 
of the asbestos liability 
at 31 December 2016. 
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to purchase price allocation adjustments 
relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. This is not a relevant significant risk in the current year as the period in which 
adjustments to the provisional fair value of assets and liabilities acquired could be made ended on 13 November 2015. 
In addition to the risks identified as part of our audit planning, the size of and judgement involved in determining the Group’s 
exceptional items affected the allocation of resources and the direction of our audit efforts and for which our audit response 
was as follows:
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated 
to the Audit Committee
Presentation of exceptional items
The Group consider the separate reporting 
of exceptional costs helps to provide a 
better indication of the Group’s underlying 
business performance. 
Continuing pre-tax exceptional costs including 
impairment and amortisation recorded in the 
current year are £792m (2015: £559m). 
There is judgement in determining whether 
the classification and measurement of items 
presented as exceptional is reasonable. There is 
also a risk that the Group’s policy for such items 
is not applied consistently. 
We tested internal financial controls over the determination of items  
to be presented as exceptional.
We have challenged management over whether the costs which have 
been recorded as exceptional are presented in line with the Group’s policy 
and have been appropriately excluded from trading profit. We obtained 
supporting calculations and invoices for a sample of costs presented as 
exceptional. In particular, we have focused on whether the inclusion of 
internal labour costs on the basis of time spent on integration activities 
is reasonable by inspecting management’s calculations, agreeing 
details to a sample of employment contracts and assessing whether the 
presentation of restructuring costs as exceptional is reasonable. In doing 
so, we have considered the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) guidance 
on items being reported as exceptional.
We have assessed whether the level of disclosure provided in the financial 
statements appropriately reflects the assessment made by management 
in determining the classification of such items as exceptional. 
The disclosure of 
exceptional items is 
in accordance with 
the Group’s disclosed 
accounting policy for 
exceptional items and 
is in accordance with 
the requirements of 
IAS 1, Presentation of 
Financial Statements. 
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 98
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The scope of our audit 
T ailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our 
audit scope for each entity within the Group. T aken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements. We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, 
changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Group Internal Audit result findings when assessing 
the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative 
coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements we selected 35 components covering entities within UK, US, Canada, 
Italy, China and Singapore, which represent the principal business units within the Group. The Primary T eam performs audit 
procedures on those areas of accounting performed centrally such as goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews  
and consolidation adjustments. 
Of the 35 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 4 components (‘full scope 
components’) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 31 components (‘specific scope 
components’), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential 
for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their 
risk profile. The audit risks disclosed above were subject to full scope audit procedures as appropriate. 
The reporting components where we performed full and specific audit procedures accounted for 92% (2015: 90%) of the Group’s 
profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items and 96% (2015: 89%) of the Group’s Revenue.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 54% of the Group’s profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax 
non-recurring items and 67% of the Group’s Revenue. 
The specific scope components contributed 38% of the profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items used  
to calculate materiality and 29% of the Group’s Revenue. The audit scope of these components may not have included testing  
of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of risks tested for the Group. 
Of the remaining components that together represent 8% of the Group’s profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring 
items, none are individually greater than 5% of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax. For these components, we performed 
other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency 
translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
 
Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each 
of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms 
operating under our instruction. Of the 4 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 1 of these directly by the 
primary audit team and 3 by component teams. For the 31 specific scope components, where the work was primarily performed 
by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit 
evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior 
Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the key locations at both the interim and year end stages of the audit process. 
During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were undertaken at least once by the primary audit team to the component teams 
in Canada, the United States and various sites in the UK, including some specific scope locations. 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Profit before tax adjusted for  
pre-tax non-recurring items
% 
 Full scope components 
 Specific scope components  
 Other procedures 
54
38
8
Revenue
% 
 Full scope components 
 Specific scope components  
 Other procedures
29
67
4 99
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
These visits involved co-developing the significant risk area audit approach, reviewing key local working papers and conclusions, 
meeting with local and regional leadership team, getting an understanding of key control processes including centralised entity 
level control processes and attending closing meetings. The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where 
appropriate during various stages of the audit, attended all full scope and certain specific scope closing meetings in person and 
all other specific scope close meetings via conference call, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope 
and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate 
evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements 
on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. 
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence  
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent  
of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £9 million (2015: £10 million), which is 5% (2015: 5%) of profit before tax adjusted 
for pre-tax non-recurring items. We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the items, as described below, provides us with  
a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders  
of the entity. Detailed audit procedures are performed on material exceptional items. 
 
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level 
the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment and other 
qualitative considerations, our judgement was that overall performance materiality (i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in 
an individual account or balance) was 50% (2015: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely £4.5m (2015: £5m). We have set 
performance materiality at this percentage to ensure that the total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts 
did not exceed our materiality.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts  
is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component  
is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement 
at that component. In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was £1m to £3m  
(2015: £1m to £4m). 
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.5m 
(2015: £0.5m), which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view,  
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light 
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Materiality
Adjustments
 X Continuing loss before tax £(542)m
 X £727m
 X Adjust for pre-tax non-recurring items to determine adjusted profit before tax
 X T otals £185m
 X Materiality of £9m (5% of materiality basis)
Starting basis 100
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit  
and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 X the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006; and 
 X based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 –  the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements
 –  the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting 
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: 
 X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course  
of performing our audit; or 
 X otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the 
course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, 
business model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to  
the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.  
We have no exceptions to report.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 101
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have 
identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors’ Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 X the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 X certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review requirements 
We are required to review:
 X the directors’ statement, in relation to going concern, set out on page 45, and longer-term viability, set out on page 32; and
 X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting 
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 X the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 X the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 X the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue 
to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and 
 X the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they 
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Colin Brown (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP , Statutory Auditor 
London
25 April 2017
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Notes 
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Amec Foster Wheeler plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does 
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  102
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Amec Foster Wheeler plc 
We have audited Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2016, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the T readway 
Commission 2013 framework (the COSO criteria). Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s management is responsible for maintaining effective 
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting 
included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility  
is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal 
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal 
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary  
in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the 
company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s 
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Amec Foster Wheeler plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting  
as of 31 December 2016, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),  
the consolidated balance sheets of Amec Foster Wheeler as of 31 December 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated income 
statement, statement of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flow statement for each of the three years in the 
period ended 31 December 2016 of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and our report dated 21 March 2017 , expressed an unqualified 
opinion thereon. 
Ernst & Y oung LLP
London, England
25 April 2017
Report of independent registered public accounting firm  
on internal control over financial reporting 103
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Amec Foster Wheeler plc
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amec Foster Wheeler plc as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, 
and the related consolidated income statement, statements of comprehensive income, change in equity and cash flows for each 
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s 
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates 
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position 
of Amec Foster Wheeler at December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), 
Amec Foster Wheeler plc’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the T readway Commission 
(2013 framework) and our report dated 21 March 2017 , expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Y oung LLP
London, England
25 April 2017
Report of independent registered public accounting firm 104
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Consolidated income statement
F or the year ended 31 December 2016
2016 2015 2014
Note
Before 
impairment, 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos-
related items 
£m
Impairment, 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos-
related items 
(note 5) 
£m
Total 
£m
Before 
impairment, 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos-
related items 
£m
Impairment, 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos-
related items 
(note 5) 
£m
T otal 
£m
Before 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos-
related 
items 
£m
Amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos-
related items 
(note 5) 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations 
Revenue 2, 3 5,440 – 5,440 5,455 − 5,455 3,993 – 3,993
Cost of sales (4,852) – (4,852) (4,787) − (4,787) (3,475) – (3,475)
Gross profit 588 – 588 668 − 668 518 – 518
Administrative expenses (288) (784) (1,072) (334) (538) (872) (219) (135) (354)
Profit/(loss) on business 
disposals and closures – 2 2 − (1) (1) – (16) (16)
Profit/(loss) before  
net financing expense 4 300 (782) (482) 334 (539) (205) 299 (151) 148
Financial income 16 – 16 16 − 16 11 – 11
Financial expense (77) (10) (87) (54) (20) (74) (11) (5) (16)
Net financing expense 7 (61) (10) (71) (38) (20) (58) – (5) (5)
Share of post-tax results  
of joint ventures 2, 13 11 – 11 28 − 28 12 – 12
Profit/(loss) before 
income tax 2 250 (792) (542) 324 (559) (235) 311 (156) 155
Income tax 8 (53) 69 16 (63) 45 (18) (67) 18 (49)
Profit/(loss) for the 
year from continuing 
operations 197 (723) (526) 261 (514) (253) 244 (138) 106
Profit/(loss) for the 
year from discontinued 
operations 9 5 7 12 (5) 1 (4) (8) (19) (27)
Profit/(loss) for the year 202 (716) (514) 256 (513) (257) 236 (157) 79
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (518) (256) 82
Non-controlling interests 4 (1) (3)
(514) (257) 79
Basic (loss)/earnings  
per share 10
Continuing operations 50.7p (138.9)p 68.1p (66.1)p 81.8p 36.1p
Discontinued operations 1.4p 3.3p (1.3)p (1.1)p (2.6)p (8.9)p
52.1p (135.6)p 66.8p (67 .2)p 79.2p 27 .2p
Diluted (loss)/earnings 
per share 10
Continuing operations 50.4p (138.9)p 67.7p (66.1)p 79.5p 35.1p
Discontinued operations 1.4p 3.3p (1.3)p (1.1)p (2.5)p (8.6)p
51.8p (135.6)p 66.4p (67 .2)p 77.0p 26.5p 105
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
F or the year ended 31 December 2016
Note
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
(Loss)/profit for the year (514) (257) 79
Other comprehensive income
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Exchange movements:
− Exchange movements on translation of foreign subsidiaries 315 (46) (4)
− Cumulative exchange movement recognised in profit on disposal (10) – – 
− Net loss on hedges of net investment in foreign subsidiaries 19 (127) (3) (4)
Cash flow hedges:
− Effective portion of changes in fair value (2) (2) (1)
− T ax on effective portion of changes in fair value − 2 –
− T ransferred to the income statement 2 − –
178 (49) (9)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes 14 (169) 150 (58)
T ax on actuarial (losses)/gains 31 (25) 11
(138) 125 (47)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 40 76 (56)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (474) (181) 23
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (480) (181) 26
Non-controlling interests 6 − (3)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (474) (181) 23 106
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Note
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 71 127
Intangible assets 12 2,675 3,025
Interests in joint ventures 13 38 104
Derivative financial instruments 19 28 18
Retirement benefit assets 14 70 231
Other receivables 20 140 145
Deferred tax assets 15 85 50
Total non-current assets 3,107 3,700
Current assets
Inventories 16 9 13
T rade and other receivables 17 1,418 1,455
Derivative financial instruments 19 9 16
Current tax receivable 30 25
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 22 23
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 23 342 340
Assets classified as held for sale 24 336 –
Total current assets 2,166 1,872
Total assets 5,273 5,572
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23 (109) (683)
T rade and other payables 18 (1,412) (1,459)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (45) (21)
Current tax payable (118) (98)
Liabilities classified as held for sale 24 (187) –
Provisions 21 (9) –
Total current liabilities (1,880) (2,261)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23 (1,317) (640)
T rade and other payables 20 (149) (121)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (28) (4)
Retirement benefit liabilities 14 (207) (168)
Deferred tax liabilities 15 (57) (106)
Provisions 21 (610) (664)
Total non-current liabilities (2,368) (1,703)
Total liabilities (4,248) (3,964)
Net assets 1,025 1,608
EQUITY
Share capital 22 197 197
Share premium account 133 133
Merger reserve 33 540
Hedging and translation reserves 150 (26)
Capital redemption reserve 34 34
Retained earnings 467 721
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,014 1,599
Non-controlling interests 11 9
Total equity 1,025 1,608
The accounts on pages 104 to 166 were approved by the board of directors on 25 April 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
 
 
Jonathan Lewis Ian McHoul
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2016
Registered number 1675285 107
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2016 197 133 540 – (26) 34 721 1,599 9 1,608
(Loss)/profit  
for the year − − − − − − (518) (518) 4 (514)
Exchange movements 
on translation of foreign 
subsidiaries − − − − 313 − − 313 2 315 
Cumulative exchange 
movement recognised  
in profit on disposal − − − − (10) − − (10) − (10)
Net loss on hedges  
of net investment in 
foreign subsidiaries − − − − (127) − − (127) − (127)
Effective portion of 
changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges − − − (2) – − − (2) − (2)
Cash flow hedges 
transferred to the  
income statement − − − 2 − − − 2 − 2
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension schemes − − − − − − (169) (169) − (169)
T ax on actuarial losses − − − − − − 31 31 − 31
Other comprehensive 
income for the year − − − − 176 − (138) 38 2 40
Total comprehensive 
loss for the year − − − − 176 − (656) (480) 6 (474)
Dividends − − − − − − (113) (113) − (113)
Dividends to non-
controlling interests − − − − − − − − (4) (4)
Equity-settled 
share-based payments − − − − − − 10 10 − 10
Acquisition of shares  
by trustees of the 
Employee Share T rust − − − − − − (2) (2) − (2)
T ransfer of impairment 
losses to merger reserve − − (507) − − − 507 − − −
As at 31 December 2016 197 133 33 − 150 34 467 1,014 11 1,025
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
F or the year ended 31 December 2016 108
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2015 194 101 877 – 24 34 744 1,974 22 1,996
Loss for the year − − − − − − (256) (256) (1) (257)
Exchange movements 
on translation of foreign 
subsidiaries − − − − (47) − − (47) 1 (46)
Net loss on hedges  
of net investment in 
foreign subsidiaries − − − − (3) − − (3) − (3)
Effective portion of 
changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges − − − (2) − − − (2) − (2)
T ax on effective portion  
of changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges − − − 2 − − − 2 − 2
Actuarial gains on defined 
benefit pension schemes − − − − − − 150 150 − 150
T ax on actuarial gains − − − − − − (25) (25) − (25)
Other comprehensive 
income for the year − − − − (50) − 125 75 1 76
Total comprehensive 
loss for the year − − − − (50) − (131) (181) − (181)
Dividends − − − − − − (167) (167) − (167)
Dividends to non-
controlling interests − − − − − − − − (4) (4)
Equity-settled 
share-based payments − − − − − − 7 7 − 7
Acquisition of shares  
by trustees of the 
Employee Share T rust − − − − − − (5) (5) − (5)
Utilisation of  
treasury shares − − − − − − 15 15 − 15
Acquisition of non-
controlling interests − − − − − − (79) (79) (9) (88)
Shares issued 3 32 − − − − − 35 − 35
T ransfer of impairment 
losses to merger reserve − − (337) − − − 337 − − −
As at 31 December 2015 197 133 540 − (26) 34 721 1,599 9 1,608
Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2015 109
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2014 152 101 – 1 32 34 802 1,122 2 1,124
Profit for the year – – – – – – 82 82 (3) 79
Exchange movements 
on translation of foreign 
subsidiaries – – – – (4) – – (4) – (4)
Net loss on hedges  
of net investment in 
foreign subsidiaries – – – – (4) – – (4) – (4)
Effective portion of 
changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges – – – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension schemes – – – – – – (58) (58) – (58)
T ax on actuarial losses – – – – – – 11 11 – 11
Other comprehensive 
loss for the year – – – (1) (8) – (47) (56) – (56)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year – – – (1) (8) – 35 26 (3) 23
Dividends – – – – – – (124) (124) – (124)
Equity-settled 
share-based payments – – – – – – 25 25 – 25
Utilisation of  
treasury shares – – – – – – 6 6 – 6
Arising on business 
combinations – – – – – – – – 23 23
Shares issued 42 877 – – – – – 919 – 919
T ransfer to merger reserve − (877) 877 − − − − − − −
As at 31 December 2014 194 101 877 – 24 34 744 1,974 22 1,996
Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2014 110
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Note
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
(Loss)/profit before income tax from continuing operations (542) (235) 155
Profit/(loss) before income tax from discontinued operations 9 15 (5) (33)
(Loss)/profit before income tax (527) (240) 122
Financial income 7 (16) (16) (11)
Financial expense 7 87 74 16
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 2, 13 (11) (28) (12)
Intangible impairment and amortisation 5, 12 629 444 49
Impairment of assets held for sale 5 26 − −
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 11 29 26 16
(Profit)/loss on disposal of businesses 5 (9) (1) 44
Difference between contributions to retirement benefit schemes  
and amount charged to profit before net financing expense 14 (4) (3) (2)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment − (1) –
Loss on disposal of intangible assets − − 1
Equity-settled share-based payments 10 7 8
214 262 231
Decrease in inventories − 1 –
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (39) 38 106
Decrease in trade and other payables and provisions (5) (81) (137)
Cash generated from operations 170 220 200
T ax paid (32) (79) (54)
Net cash flow from operating activities 138 141 146
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) 25 (2) (5) (781)
Investment in joint ventures (2) (1) (1)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (16) (15) (14)
Purchase of intangible assets (10) (23) (17)
Movements in bank deposits (more than three months) 1 (2) (3)
Disposal of businesses (net of cash disposed of) (5) (2) (2)
Disposal of joint ventures 40 11 (21)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 2 –
Advance disposal proceeds 24 30 − −
Interest received 11 3 4
Dividends received from joint ventures 13 34 42 14
Dividends received from joint ventures classified as held for sale 1 − −
Amounts (paid)/received on maturity of net investment hedges (16) 37 (7)
Net cash flow from investing activities 68 47 (828)
Net cash flow before financing activities 206 188 (682)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from other borrowings 1,333 68 1,198
Repayments of other borrowings (1,345) (143) (100)
Cash flows in respect of facility arrangement fees (18) (3) (13)
Interest paid (58) (38) (7)
Dividends paid (113) (167) (124)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest 25 − (54) −
Cash received in respect of debt related cash flow hedges 23 30 12 −
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (4) (4) −
Cash flows in respect of treasury shares* − 15 6
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the Employee Share T rust (2) (5) –
Net cash flow from financing activities (177) (319) 960
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 29 (131) 278
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year 23 340 495 223
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 23 19 (24) (6)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 388 340 495
Consolidated cash flow statement
F or the year ended 31 December 2016 111
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Note
2016 
£m
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash at bank and in hand 23 286 307 377
Bank deposits (less than three months) 23 56 33 118
Cash at bank and in hand classified as held for sale 24 46 − −
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 388 340 495
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 22 23 21
Bank loans 23 (1,388) (1,264) (1,267)
Loan payable to joint venture 23, 28 (2) − −
Bank loans classified as held for sale 23, 24 (25) − −
Fees capitalised against bank facilities 23 15 − 9
Derivatives classified as net debt 23 27 14 −
Finance leases 23 (51) (59) (61)
Finance leases classified as held for sale 23, 24 (7) − −
Net debt as at the end of the year (1,021) (946) (803)
*Cash received from SAYE option holders on exercise of options.
Consolidated cash flow statement continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2016 112
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Significant accounting policies
Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company, which is listed on both the London Stock Exchange and the New Y ork Stock 
Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in England. The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the Group) 
are described in note 2.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December 
each year, and the Group’s share of the profit after interest and tax and net assets of joint ventures based on the equity method 
of accounting. These are available from the registered office of the Company, Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire 
WA16 8QZ, UK.
In accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002), the consolidated accounts of the Group have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted for use in the EU as at 31 December 2016 (adopted IFRS), 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101); these are presented on pages 167 to 175.
From the Group’s perspective, there are no applicable differences between adopted IFRS and IFRS as issued by the IASB, 
and therefore the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Accounting standards adopted in the year
There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material 
impact on the Group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ . 
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including the new expected 
credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and the new general hedge accounting requirements. It also 
carries forward guidance on recognition and de-recognition of financial instruments from IAS 39. IFRS 9 is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted.
We do not expect the adoption of IFRS 9 to have a significant impact on the total assets, total liabilities, guarantees, equity, 
earnings and earnings per share.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how 
much and when revenue is recognised. It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 
‘Construction Contracts’ . 
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted. 
The Group has performed an initial assessment of the potential impact of implementing IFRS 15. Under the existing accounting 
policy, contract revenue is recognised over the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion on the contract activity 
at the end of each reporting period. Under IFRS 15, revenue will be recognised when a customer obtains control of the services, 
which can be at a point in time or over time.
For each performance obligation satisfied over time, revenue needs to be recognised by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation at the end of each reporting period.
Based on the initial review a large number of contracts were identified where the impact of implementing the standard may impact 
the timing of revenue recognition, in particular recognition of variation orders.
A further detailed assessment will commence shortly, and will involve each business segment reviewing the existing contracts 
in place to assess the likely impact of introducing the standard. 
The Group has not yet determined whether to adopt the modified retrospective transition approach upon initial adoption 
of IFRS 15. An update will be made during the 2017 interim reporting. 
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17 ‘Leases’ . IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating 
leases or finance leases. The standard introduces a single lessee accounting model, which requires a lessee to recognise assets 
and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months. The income statement will include depreciation on the leased 
asset and an interest charge on the liability. 
IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods on or after 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted if IFRS 15 has also been applied.
The Group has begun a systematic review of all existing major lease contracts to ensure that the impact and effects of IFRS 16 
are fully understood and changes to the current accounting procedures are highlighted and acted upon in advance of the effective 
date. Details of the Group’s operating lease commitments are included in note 26. This shows as at 31 December 2016 there were 
off-balance operating lease obligations (undiscounted) of £379 million.
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts 113
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group 
continued
The Group has not yet decided whether to early adopt IFRS 16 and which transition approach to apply, and has not yet decided 
whether it will use any of the optional exemptions. 
Other than as described above, there are no other IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations which are not yet effective 
that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Basis of preparation
The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million. All calculated numbers, for example earnings per share, 
are calculated on the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision. They are prepared on the historical cost basis except 
that derivative financial instruments and retirement benefit assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors 
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies 
and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from:
 X long-term contracts under IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ 
 X intangible assets, including goodwill, under IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’
 X provisions under IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and other similar liabilities
 X classification of businesses as held for sale and for discontinued operations under IFRS 5 ‘Non-Current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations’
 X uncertain tax positions under IAS 12 ‘Income T axes’
 X defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ 
 X acquisition accounting under IFRS 3 ’Business Combinations’
In addition, judgement has also been applied in the presentation of certain research and development government credits 
and in presenting the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation in 2013.
IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’
A significant amount of the Group’s activities is undertaken via long-term contracts. These contracts are accounted for 
in accordance with IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ which requires estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues. 
Management bases its judgements of contract costs and revenues on the latest available information, which includes detailed 
contract valuations. In many cases the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term contractual obligations which span 
more than one reporting period. Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the 
outcome of future events and often need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved. The estimates of contract 
costs and revenues are updated regularly and significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures. 
In particular, the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age and recoverability of 
any unagreed income from variations to the contract scope or claims. The impact of the changes in accounting estimates is then 
reflected in the ongoing results. 
Principally, there are two types of long-term contracts being cost reimbursable contracts and fixed price contracts. Due to the 
nature of these contracts the significant estimates tend to arise on fixed price contracts rather than cost reimbursable contracts.
IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’
The Group has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet. The determination of carrying value involves 
significant judgements when allocating goodwill to the cash generating units (‘CGUs’) expected to benefit from the acquisition. 
The estimation of the recoverable amounts also requires significant judgements and estimates including the future cash flows 
of the CGU, terminal growth rates and the appropriate rate at which to discount those cash flows. See note 12 for further details 
of the impairment reviews performed during the year. In total £500m of impairment charges have been recorded against goodwill 
and intangible assets during the year, see note 5 for further details. 114
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation continued
IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and other similar liabilities’
When accounting for provisions for litigation and other items the Group has taken internal and external advice in considering 
known legal claims and actions made by or against the Group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action. 
Appropriate provisions are made for legal claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions 
are made for those which, in the view of management, are unlikely to succeed. 
The Group has a significant asbestos-related provision. Some of the Group’s US and UK subsidiaries are defendants in numerous 
asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and UK. Plaintiffs claim damages for personal 
injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed by the Group’s 
subsidiaries during the 1970s and earlier.
The provision for asbestos is the Group’s best estimate of its obligation required to settle claims that is expected to continue 
up until 2050. The provision is discounted back to a net present value using a US T reasury yield curve discount rate. 
As part of the ongoing cost reduction programme, there has been consolidation of office space and significant onerous lease 
liabilities have been established. The estimation of these liabilities involves management’s assessment of the ability of the Group 
to sub-lease the vacated space and the value of sub-lease income that will be generated.
See note 21 for further details of the Group’s provisions.
IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’
A non-current asset, or disposal group, is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through 
a sale transaction rather than continued use. In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations’ , assets and disposal which meet the definition of held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value 
less costs to sell and their assets and liabilities are presented separately from other assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. 
On 5 November 2015, a review of the assets portfolio was announced, since then a number of assets have been identified 
as no longer being core to the future of the business and the disposals process is well advanced. 
The Group’s interests in PetroPower Energia Limitada, The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd, Foster Wheeler Power S.r.l., Aquenta Consulting 
Ltd and the GPG core boiler business were all classified as held for sale during 2016. 
Judgements required in determining whether an asset meets the IFRS 5 criteria of held for sale include whether the business 
is being actively marketed, is available for sale in its current condition and whether a sale is highly probable within 12 months 
of classification as held for sale. On 2 March 2017 , the potential disposal of the nuclear business was announced, this is not 
considered to have met the held for sale criteria as at 31 December 2016 as it had not been actively marketed at that date. 
When calculating fair value less costs to sell of an asset or disposal group, estimates of future disposal proceeds and goodwill  
to be allocated to the disposal group are required. Further details are provided in note 24.
In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ , the post-tax results of discontinued 
operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement. 
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007 , SPIE, which was sold 
in 2006, and the UK conventional power business that was discontinued in 2013. 
Judgements required in determining whether an asset or disposal group meets the IFRS 5 criteria of discontinued includes 
whether it represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single co-ordinated plan 
to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Of the assets classified as held for sale in 2016, 
the largest is the GPG core boiler business which contributed 4% to group revenue in 2016. In view of their relative size in relation 
to both the Group and the operating segment in which they are reported, none of assets or disposal groups classified as held for 
sale on 2016 are considered to be major lines of business and therefore are not discontinued operations.
The judgements applied in presenting the UK conventional power business as discontinued are explained in note 1 to the 2013 
financial statements. The results and other disclosures in respect of discontinued operations are shown in note 9.
IAS 12 ‘Income T axes’
Significant judgement is required in determining liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, in particular those in respect of 
financing structures. A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is more likely than not that the Group will be required to settle that obligation. A current tax provision is measured using 
the single best estimate of the likely outcome approach. There is also significant judgement required in assessing the recoverability 
of deferred tax assets, particularly to the extent they are supported by forecast profits and determining the period of forecasts 
used to support the asset. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 115
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries but 
significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, 
inflation and member life expectancy that underpin their valuations. 
See note 14 for further details of the Group’s retirement benefit schemes.
IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’
During 2014, the Group acquired Foster Wheeler AG. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase under IFRS 3. Determining 
the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired involved significant judgement and estimates. This involved the use of valuation 
models to determine the fair value of the intangible assets acquired. Inputs to these models include estimates of the future cash 
flows of Foster Wheeler; the appropriate discount rate to apply to these future cash flows, estimates of the retention rates for key 
customers and the likelihood of renewal of significant service contracts. 
Going concern
As at 31 December 2016, the Company had net debt of £1,021m. Committed facilities under the principal Debt Facility 
Arrangement and other smaller facilities were £1,745m of which £300m was undrawn. The Company has taken steps to reduce  
its debt including the disposal of non-core assets, cost savings measures and suspending dividend payments until the Company  
is generating sustainable free cash flow. Despite the actions taken to date, there remained a risk that the leverage ratio would 
exceed the maximum leverage ratio under the Debt Facility Arrangement of 3.75:1 in the measurement period ended 30 June 2017 
and in subsequent periods.
Should there be a breach of the leverage covenant, the lenders could demand accelerated repayment and the Company may 
not have the funds to make these repayments. T o ensure continued compliance with its financial covenants, the Company has 
approached its banking group and successfully agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking facilities to 4.5:1  
to provide additional headroom through to the reporting period ending 30 June 2018. The Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group will comply with this revised covenant and will be able to operate within the level of available 
facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements  
on a going concern basis. 
Accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
consolidated accounts. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016. Control is achieved 
when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the investee. Generally there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate there is a change of control. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control 
of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in 
the consolidated accounts from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of comprehensive income is attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and 
to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, 
adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies. All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 
between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling 
interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any investment retained 
is recognised at fair value.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net 
assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when 
decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. 116
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation continued
The Group’s investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment 
in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the 
Group’s share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date. The results of the joint ventures are included in the 
consolidated accounts from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement and represents 
profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the joint venture.
Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has incurred 
legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, 
and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When a Group entity undertakes its activities under joint operations, the Group as a joint operator recognises in relation 
to its interest in a joint operation:
 X its assets and liabilities, including its share of any assets and liabilities held jointly
 X its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation
 X its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by joint operation
 X its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly
Assets held for sale
Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable 
that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use.
Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill, and then to property, plant and equipment or where 
appropriate the interest in joint ventures. The remaining assets and liabilities continue to be measured in accordance with 
the Group’s other accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale or held for distribution and 
subsequent gains and losses on re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss.
Once classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortised or depreciated, 
and any interest in joint ventures are no longer equity accounted. 
Bid costs
Bid costs and all related expenditure are expensed in the income statement as incurred. 
Business combinations and goodwill
The purchase method is used to account for all business combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually 
and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is not amortised.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments
Cash comprises cash balances and deposits repayable on demand and available within one working day without penalty.
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity period of three months or less from date of acquisition; convertible without 
an undue period of notice and not subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s cash management are included 
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. 
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three months at inception are classified as bank deposits (more than three months).
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 117
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Development expenditure
Expenditure that is directly attributable to the development of wind farm projects is recognised as an intangible asset when 
the Group can demonstrate it is probable that the wind farm development will generate future economic benefits in excess 
of the amounts capitalised and other relevant criteria for capitalising such costs in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ 
have been met.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when the wind farm development is complete 
and the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. During the period of development, 
the asset is reviewed for impairment annually.
Discontinued operations 
A discontinued operation is a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations that has either been disposed 
of, abandoned or is part of a plan to dispose of a major line of business or geographic area. An operation is classified as a 
discontinued operation in the year that the above criteria are met. 
Certain legacy settlements and relevant provision adjustments are allocated to discontinued operations when those settlements 
and provisions arise from or are directly related to the discontinued operations.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. That benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value; and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount 
rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms 
of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
A net surplus from a defined benefit plan is recognised on the balance sheet when the asset would be recoverable as a result 
of an expected future refund after a gradual settlement of plan liabilities. 
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Exceptional items
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ , certain items are presented separately as exceptional on the face 
of the consolidated income statement. In the opinion of the directors, these exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue 
of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Group’s underlying performance and 
to provide consistency with internal management reporting. Exceptional items may include, but are not restricted to: impairment 
charges, acquisition-related costs; restructuring costs; gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets; and gains and losses on 
the disposal or closure of businesses. Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs (including external advisory, legal, 
valuation and other professional fees and attributable internal costs), the amortisation of acquisition-related facility fees, payments 
to selling shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument.
Cash, bank deposits, borrowings and trade receivables and payables are held at amortised cost.
Bank loans and similar borrowings are recognised initially at fair value (i.e. proceeds received) net of directly attributable 
transaction fees. Interest expense, including transaction fees is recognised over the life of the bank loan using the effective 
interest method.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair 
value is recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition 
of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. The fair value of derivative financial instruments 
is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments or by discounting the expected future cash flows 
at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments are non-speculative. 118
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments continued
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge against the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or 
liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, any gain or loss on the effective part of the derivative financial instrument 
is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within the hedging reserve. The gain or loss on any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires, 
or is sold, terminated or exercised. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the hedging reserve remains there until 
the forecast transaction occurs. The cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve is transferred to the income statement in the 
same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of financial instruments designated as a hedge of a net investment 
in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income, to the extent that the hedge is effective. The gain or loss 
of any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement. On disposal of the foreign operation, 
the cumulative value of gains and losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Foreign currencies
The Group’s consolidated accounts are presented in Sterling, which is also the parent company’s functional currency. Each entity 
in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the accounts of each entity are measured using that 
functional currency. An entity’s functional currency reflects the underlying transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated to the 
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the day of the transaction. Entities which have multiple foreign currency 
transactions apply the average rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange rate on the day of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any foreign exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement 
except those arising on intra-Group balances, settlement of which is neither planned nor probable to occur, which are recognised 
in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling using a monthly 
average exchange rate. The net assets of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency net investments and any foreign currency borrowings, 
or forward contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken to a translation reserve. They are recycled and recognised as a 
profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a business. The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed 
to be zero as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of 
the assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are 
indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Impairment
The carrying values of all of the Group’s assets other than inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred tax assets 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If there are indications 
of an impairment in the carrying value then the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
For goodwill and assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date. An impairment 
loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 119
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Intangible assets other than goodwill
Intangible assets acquired by the Group, which include customer relationships, brands/trademarks, order backlog, patents 
and software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The cost of an intangible asset acquired 
in a business combination is its fair value at date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, 
from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2016 are as follows:
Customer relationships T wo to 18 years
Brand/trademarks Up to 20 years
Order backlog Three to five years
Patents 15 years
Software Three to seven years
Other Up to six years
Inventories
Inventories, including land held for and in the course of development, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and disposing of the 
development. Cost includes cost of acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable fees and expenses 
net of rental and other income attributable to the development.
Leases 
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the 
inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a 
specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified 
in an arrangement. 
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks 
and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction 
of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are 
recognised in finance costs in the income statement. 
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain 
ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the 
lease term. 
Operating lease costs, including incentives received, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period 
of the lease.
Net financing expense
Net financing expense comprises interest receivable on funds invested, interest payable, pension financing income, the unwinding 
of discounted balances and foreign exchange gains and losses. Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the income 
statement as they accrue, using the effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the cost of purchased and constructed property, plant and equipment, 
until the relevant assets are brought into operational use. 120
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, was determined by reference to its fair value 
at that date.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to write 
off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. Reviews are made 
annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual assets.
The estimated lives used are:
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the lease term or 50 years
Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known and reasonably likely legal claims and actions made by 
or against the Group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions are made for legal 
claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of 
management, are unlikely to succeed. These possible but not probable liabilities are disclosed in note 27 as contingent liabilities.
Research and development government credits
The Group claims research and development government credits in the UK, US and Canada. These are judged to have 
characteristics more akin to grants than income taxes and are offset against the relevant expenditure caption. Credits are 
recognised to the extent there is reasonable assurance they will be received which, given the necessary claims processes,  
can be some time after the original expense is incurred.
Revenue recognition and long term contracts
Revenue represents the amount received or receivable for goods and services supplied by the Group to its customers, including 
the Group’s share of revenue from work carried out by jointly controlled operations. Revenue excludes intra-Group sales and value 
added tax and other sales taxes. 
The Group’s revenue is derived principally from service and construction-type contracts. Contract revenue is recognised over 
the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of each reporting period. 
Revenue from cost reimbursable contracts is based on the services provided, typically represented by man-hours worked, 
and is measured by reference to agreed charge-out rates or to the estimated total contract revenue. Flow-through costs on cost 
reimbursable contracts, typically consisting of materials, equipment or subcontractor services, are included as both contract 
revenue and contract costs.
Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by reference to physical 
completion or the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs. If the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated 
reliably, as may be the case in the initial stages of completion of the contract, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the 
costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable. If a contract is expected to be loss-making, the expected amount of the loss 
is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
A variation is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the contract. Variations 
are included in contract revenue when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the related adjustment to 
the contract price can be measured reliably. 
A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from the customer as reimbursement for costs whose inclusion in 
the contract price is disputed, and may arise from, for example, delays caused by the customer, errors in specification or design 
and disputed variations in contract work. Claims are included in contract revenue when negotiations with the customer have 
reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount of the claim can 
be measured reliably.
Incentive payments are additional amounts payable to the contractor if specified performance standards are met or exceeded. 
Incentive payments are recognised when the contract is sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the required performance 
standards will be met and the amount of the payment can be measured reliably.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 121
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition and long term contracts continued
Gross amounts due from customers included in trade and other receivables represent the costs incurred plus recognised profits, 
less provision for recognised losses and progress billings. Progress billings that have not been settled by customers (including 
retentions related to contracts in progress) are included in trade receivables where they are stated after allowance for any 
doubtful debts. 
T rade receivables, which are generally of a short term nature, are recognised and carried at the original invoiced amount less an 
allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able 
to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Gross amounts due to customers included in trade and other payables represent payments on account received from customers 
in excess of the gross amounts due from customers and advances. Advances are amounts received by the customer before the 
related work is performed.
Share-based payments
There are various share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster 
Wheeler shares; these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of 
employment with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation 
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as an expense 
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to total shareholder return not 
achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax. 
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. T axable profit 
is different from accounting profit due to temporary differences between accounting and tax treatments, and due to items that 
are never taxable or deductible.
T ax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income 
or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The provision 
is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account 
risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Separate provisions for interest and penalties are also recorded if appropriate. 
Movements in interest and penalty amounts in respect of tax provisions are not included in the tax charge, but are disclosed within 
profit/(loss) before income tax.
T ax provisions are based on management’s interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement. This involves 
a significant amount of judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different interpretation. Management uses 
in-house tax experts, professional firms and previous experience when assessing tax risks. Where actual tax liabilities differ 
from the provisions, adjustments are made which can have a material impact on the Group’s profits for the year.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences with deferred tax assets being recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the asset can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
adjustments made to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply when the deferred 
tax asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended 
that they will be settled on a net basis.
  122
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations
Amec Foster Wheeler designs, delivers and maintains strategic and complex assets for its customers across the global energy 
and related sectors.
During 2016, the Group’s continuing operations were organised into five operating units: Americas; Northern Europe and CIS;  
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe; Global Power Group and Investment Services. Details of the services offered  
by each segment and the end markets in which they operate are given on pages 2 to 4 and 14 to 15. 
With effect from 1 January 2017 , the Group has organised its Engineering & Construction business into four market-based 
business lines: Oil, Gas & Chemicals; Mining; Power and Environment & Infrastructure. The Global Power Group and Investment 
Services will continue to be reported separately – See page 3 for further details of the new business lines.
Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Group’s Executive Committee 
for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Group’s businesses.
The Group Executive Committee uses trading profit as the measure of the profitability of the Group’s businesses. T rading profit is, 
therefore, the measure of segment profit presented in the Group’s segment disclosures. T rading profit represents profit before net 
financing expense excluding exceptional items; the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets; and asbestos-related costs 
(net of insurance recoveries). T rading profit includes the Group’s share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
Revenue and results
Revenue Profit/(loss)
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Americas 2,516 2,646 2,184 109 161 212
Northern Europe and CIS 1,497 1,492 1,293 121 134 105
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern 
Europe 1,102 1,050 516 61 68 25
Global Power Group 406 364 53 54 51 1
Investment Services 16 15 8 17 14 9
5,537 5,567 4,054 362 428 352
Internal revenue (97) (112) (61) − – –
External revenue 5,440 5,455 3,993 − – –
Corporate costs
1
(44) (54) (31)
T rading profit
2
318 374 321
Net financing expense
3
(64) (40) (4)
Adjusted profit before tax 254 334 317
T ax on results of joint ventures
4
(4) (10) (6)
250 324 311
Intangible amortisation and impairment
5
(655) (444) (49)
Exceptional and asbestos-related items
5
(137) (115) (107)
(Loss)/profit before income tax (542) (235) 155
1 Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads. 
2  T rading profit is earnings from continuing operations before net financing expense, tax, intangible amortisation and impairment, pre-tax exceptional items 
and asbestos-related items of £303m (2015: £334m; 2014: £299m), but including joint venture trading profit of £18m (2015: £40m; 2014: £22m).
3 Net financing expense excludes exceptional and asbestos-related items, but includes Amec Foster Wheeler’s share of net interest payable of joint ventures.
4 The share of post-tax results of joint ventures is further analysed as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m 
T rading profit 18 40 22
Net financing expense (3) (2) (4)
Tax (4) (10) (6)
11 28 12
5 See note 5 for further details.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 123
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations continued 
T ransactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis. Internal revenue arises in the segments 
as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m 
Americas 13 12 13
Northern Europe and CIS 29 35 23
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 53 65 24
Global Power Group 2 − −
Investment Services − − 1
97 112 61
Other information
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures Depreciation Intangible amortisation and impairment
1
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Americas (1) (1) 1 8 9 8 241 46 20
Northern Europe and CIS 4 15 8 5 6 5 42 41 19
Asia, Middle East, Africa and 
Southern Europe 3 3 2 4 4 2 42 23 6
Global Power Group 4 11 2 5 4 1 275 334 4
Investment Services 1 − (1) 3 3 − 21 − −
Corporate costs − − − − − − 34 − −
11 28 12 25 26 16 655 444 49
1 See Note 5 for details.
Geographical origin
Revenue Non-current assets
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
United Kingdom 1,312 1,223 1,067 627 647 801
Canada 538 741 938 296 288 297
United States 1,979 1,873 1,218 1,009 1,302 1,175
Rest of the world 1,611 1,618 770 852 1,019 1,442
5,440 5,455 3,993 2,784 3,256 3,715
The non-current assets analysed by geography include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and interests  
in joint ventures.
Revenue to external customers by region is based on the location of the Group subsidiary which made the sale.
3 Revenue
2016 
£m
2015 
(restated) 
£m
2014 
£m
Construction contracts 1,603 1,637 917
Services 3,837 3,818 3,076
5,440 5,455 3,993
The 2015 comparative has been restated following a review of the classification of a number of legacy Foster Wheeler contracts.
The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included in IAS 11  
and includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if Amec Foster Wheeler’s role  
is as a service provider, for example project management. 124
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
4 Profit before net financing expense – continuing operations
2016 
£m
2015 
(restated) 
£m
2014 
£m 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 29 26 16
Minimum payments under operating leases 113 107 87
Research and development government credits (17) (15) (23)
The 2015 comparative for minimum payments under operating leases has been restated to include leases with a value of £18m  
not previously reported.
There are no material receipts from subleases.
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fees paid to the auditor and its associates:
The auditing of the accounts 3.6 4.1 3.9
The auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the company 1.6 1.4 1.5
T axation compliance services 0.2 0.9 0.4
All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed 
to be entered into, by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 1.2 0.9 6.4
All other non-audit services 0.1 0.2 0.1
6.7 7.5 12.3
5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Continuing operations:
Administrative expenses – exceptional and asbestos-related items (129) (94) (86)
Administrative expenses – intangible amortisation and impairment (655) (444) (49)
(784) (538) (135)
Profit/(loss) on business disposals and closures 2 (1) (16)
Net financing expense (10) (20) (5)
(792) (559) (156)
T axation credit on exceptional and asbestos-related items of continuing operations 26 18 6
T axation credit on intangible amortisation and impairment 43 27 12
69 45 18
Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items  
of continuing operations (723) (514) (138)
Exceptional items of discontinued operations (post-tax) 7 1 (19)
Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items (716) (513) (157)
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items (104) (96) (120)
Post-tax intangible amortisation and impairment (612) (417) (37)
(716) (513) (157)
Intangible amortisation and impairments are analysed as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Intangible amortisation 129 129 49
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 500 315 −
Impairment of assets on classification as held for sale 26 − −
655 444 49
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 125
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items continued
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
During 2016, the goodwill in the Global Power Group has been written down by £214m (2015: £308m) and in the Americas by 
£75m (2015: £nil). The Customer Relationship intangible assets acquired with Foster Wheeler and allocated to the Global Power 
Group and the Americas segments have also been written down by £32m and £125m respectively, following a review of the cash 
flows associated with these assets.
There were impairments of £20m charged against the Brand and Customer Relationship assets acquired with smaller acquisitions 
and a £34m impairment of an ERP system.
In total, there were impairment charges of £500m against goodwill and intangible assets in 2016, of which £246m arose in GPG, 
£200m in the Americas, £14m in AMEASE, £6m in NECIS and £34m in the Corporate centre. The impairment loss of £315m 
recognised in 2015 related to a £308m impairment of goodwill in the Global Power Group and a £7m impairment of the order 
backlog intangible asset in the Americas.
Impairment of assets on classification as held for sale
During 2016, the Group’s interests in PetroPower Energia Limitada, The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd, Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd 
and the core boiler business of the Global Power Group were classified as held for sale. As part of the assessment of fair value 
less costs to sell of these businesses, impairment charges of £26m were recognised, this included goodwill of £16m allocated 
to the disposal groups.
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2016 are further analysed as follows:
2016
Profit on 
disposals 
£m
Profit in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Profit on 
business 
disposals and 
closures 
£m
Asbestos-
related items 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
£m
Continuing operations − 2 2 (4) (135) (137)
Discontinued operations 9 − 9 − − 9
Profit/(loss) before tax 9 2 11 (4) (135) (128)
T axation on exceptional items (2) 1 (1) − 25 24
Profit/(loss) after tax 7 3 10 (4) (110) (104)
Profit on disposals
During 2016, there were contract settlements and other positive developments on a number of retained liabilities associated 
with businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued. This resulted in provision releases which were offset by other 
movements in indemnities provisions and costs associated with running these businesses to give a profit on disposal of £9m.
Asbestos related items
There was a credit of £6m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability. This was offset by a charge 
of £8m in respect of unwinding the discount and costs of managing the liability of £2m. There was no change to the actual liability 
required following the annual reassessment in 2016.
Other exceptional items
During 2016, the integration of the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses has continued and there has been an ongoing cost 
savings programme. Costs of £135m have been incurred in achieving the integration and the cost savings. This includes £54m 
of onerous lease and other property costs, which was incurred predominantly in the Americas, as the property portfolio has 
been reviewed and consolidated. Severance and other exit costs were £45m, which largely relates to delayering management 
and removing overlapping functions, but also includes severance cost related to engineers in the Oil and Gas Americas business 
following the down turn in trading in that business during the year. Professional fees of £31m have been incurred in relation 
to establishing the new group strategy and structure, the establishment of a Global Shared Services Centre and IT integration. 
There were also internal costs of £5m in relation to integration and restructuring activities.
Cash payments of £82m have been made during the year in respect of exceptional items incurred in the current and prior years. 126
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items continued
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2015 are further analysed as follows:
2015
Profit on 
disposals 
£m
Loss in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Profit/(loss) 
on business 
disposals and 
closures 
£m
Asbestos-
related items 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations − (1) (1) 6 (120) (115)
Discontinued operations 1 − 1 − − 1
Profit/(loss) before tax 1 (1) − 6 (120) (114)
T axation on exceptional items − − − − 18 18
Profit/(loss) after tax 1 (1) − 6 (102) (96)
The pre-tax profit on disposal of £1m relates to costs and movements in indemnity provisions associated with businesses sold 
in prior years and classified as discontinued.
There was a credit of £5m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and experiential gains of £9m 
as the liability is reassessed on an annual basis. These credits were offset by a £7m charge in respect of unwinding the discount 
and £1m other costs of managing the liability.
Other exceptional items of £120m includes £97m relating to the costs of integrating the Amec and Foster Wheeler businesses, 
£13m amortisation of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition, a £5m loss incurred following an 
unauthorised payment made from the Australian business and not expected to be recovered and other exceptional items 
totalling £5m. 
Integration costs includes severance (£32m), professional and consultancy fees (£11m), costs of rationalisation of agents 
(£8m), property and office rationalisation (£27m), and staff costs (£11m) as well as IT , rebranding and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
implementation costs totalling £8m.
Cash payments of £72m have been made during the year in respect of exceptional items incurred in the current and prior years.
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2014 are further analysed as follows:
2014
Loss on 
disposals 
£m
Profit in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Loss on 
business 
disposals and 
closures 
£m
Asbestos-
related items 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations (21) 5 (16) (9) (82) (107)
Discontinued operations (23) – (23) − – (23)
(Loss)/profit before tax (44) 5 (39) (9) (82) (130)
T axation on exceptional items 5 – 5 − 5 10
(Loss)/profit after tax (39) 5 (34) (9) (77) (120)
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disposed of its investment in the Lancashire Waste project at a loss of 
£21m mainly arising from a reverse premium payable on exit. This combined with additional indemnity provisions and costs of 
£23m associated with businesses sold in prior years (and classified as discontinued) to give a pre-tax loss on disposal of £44m. 
This includes a provision of £11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract completed by the DPS 
business which was sold in 2007 .
There was a credit of £5m from the release of a provision no longer required in respect of a business closed in a prior year 
(and classified as continuing). 
Other exceptional items of £82m includes transaction costs of £37m relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, £35m costs 
of integrating the two businesses and £4m of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition. Integration 
costs include consultancy and other costs of identifying cost synergies of £18m which includes associated internal labour, 
plus £17m costs of achieving cost synergies (including £14m redundancy costs). In addition £6m was incurred in completing 
the previously announced restructuring into geographic business units. There was a charge of £8m relating to a change in the 
discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and £1m in respect of unwinding the discount. 
Cash payments of £58m have been made during the year in respect of exceptional items incurred in the current and prior years.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 127
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
6 Staff costs and employee numbers – continuing operations
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 1,872 1,857 1,466
Social security costs 190 193 100
Equity-settled share-based payments (note 22) 10 7 8
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 50 42 37
Defined benefit pension scheme expense (note 14) 16 38 31
 2,138 2,137 1,642
 2016 
number
 2015 
number
 2014 
number
The average number of people employed was as follows:
Americas 12,670 15,040 12,365
Northern Europe and CIS 9,572 9,232 7,898
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 6,139 7 ,086 3,376
Global Power Group 2,099 2,332 322
Investment Services/Centre 420 323 264
30,900 34,013 24,225
The average number of people employed in 2014 includes AMEC staff for the full year and Foster Wheeler staff for the period 
following the acquisition.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 88.
7 Net financing expense – continuing operations
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Financial income
Interest income on bank deposits 9 7 3
Other interest and similar income 2 3 5
Pension financing income − − 2
Foreign exchange gains 5 6 1
16 16 11
Financial expense
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (76) (51) (10)
Other interest and similar expense − (7) (4)
Pension finance expense − (2) −
Foreign exchange losses (3) (7) (1)
Unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision (8) (7) (1)
(87) (74) (16)
Net financing expense (71) (58) (5)
The unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision of £8m (2015: £7m, 2014: £1m) as well as costs associated with the 
refinancing of the acquisition facilities of £2m (2015: £nil, 2014: £nil) have been presented separately in the income statement 
as exceptional items. Included within exceptional financing expense in 2015 and 2014 were costs relating to the amortisation 
of the acquisition facility fees of £13m and £4m respectively. 
Interest income on bank deposits and interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts relates to financial assets and liabilities 
measured at amortised cost. 128
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
8 Income tax – continuing operations
Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Income tax expense on continuing operations before intangible amortisation  
and impairment, exceptionals and asbestos-related items 53 63 67
Income tax credit on intangible amortisation and impairment (43) (27) (12)
Income tax credit in respect of other exceptional items (26) (18) (6)
T otal income tax (credit)/expense from continuing operations in the income statement (16) 18 49
The income tax charge is split between current and deferred tax as follows:
2016 
£m
 2015 
(restated) 
£m
 2014 
(restated) 
£m
Current tax
Current year 67 62 74
Adjustments in respect of prior years (22) (22) (8)
45 40 66
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (60) (19) (13)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1) (3) (4)
(61) (22) (17)
T otal income tax (credit)/expense for continuing operations (16) 18 49
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK will be reduced to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 , with a further reduction to 17% 
from 1 April 2020. These changes were all substantively enacted prior to the end of the year.
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax (542) (235) 155
Less: share of net income from joint ventures (11) (28) (12)
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations (excluding joint ventures) (553) (263) 143
Expected income tax (credit)/expense at UK tax rate (111) (53) 31
Non-deductible expenses – pre-exceptional 9 7 13
Non-deductible expenses – exceptional 8 3 11
Non-deductible impairments 62 62 –
Non-taxable income – pre-exceptional (11) (2) –
Benefit from finance structures (15) (12) (6)
Closure of HMRC enquiry into intragroup lending − (12) −
Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax (3) (7) –
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than UK rate (24) 5 8
Utilisation of tax assets not previously recognised (6) (1) –
Recognition of tax assets not previously recognised (8) (3) (8)
Current year tax assets not recognised 29 15 10
Write-off of previously recognised tax assets 69 26 –
Other adjustments in respect of prior years (15) (10) (10)
T otal income tax (credit)/expense for the year for continuing operations (16) 18 49
The benefit from financing structures includes prior year adjustments in relation to tax risk provisions of £8m (2015: £3m, 2014: £2m).
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than UK rate decreases the tax charge in 2016 primarily because of losses 
in the US including impairments of intangible assets relating to the legacy Foster Wheeler US business. Given the low rate of tax 
in the UK, this would typically increase the tax charge as in 2014 and 2015. However in 2016, the impact of losses is greater than 
the impact of profits in countries with higher tax rates than the UK.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 129
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
8 Income tax – continuing operations continued
Current year tax assets not recognised primarily relates to the losses of the legacy Foster Wheeler US business. 
Write-off of previously recognised tax assets primarily relates to assets that have been derecognised as a result of impairments 
of intangible assets reducing the deferred tax liabilities which previously supported the corresponding asset recognition.
During 2015, HMRC’s enquiry into the nature of the intercompany debt payable from the legacy AMEC US group to the UK was 
concluded without tax adjustment. Accordingly, £12m of risk provision was released in full during the year.
Net income tax liabilities in the Group balance sheet include £104m (2015: £105m) relating to uncertain tax positions.
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income
Current tax − − –
Deferred tax (note 15) (31) 23 (11)
T ax (credit)/charge recognised directly in other comprehensive income (31) 23 (11)
9 Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and retained obligations in respect of businesses sold in prior years, 
including the UK conventional power business, which was discontinued in 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated 
income statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are all attributable to the equity holders of the parent and are as follows:
 
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Revenue (7) − (13)
Cost of sales and net operating expenses 13 (6) 3
Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and income tax 6 (6) (10)
Attributable tax (1) 1 2
5 (5) (8)
Profit/(loss) on disposal 9 1 (23)
T ax on profit/(loss) on disposal (2) − 4
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 12 (4) (27)
The negative revenue and profit before exceptional items and income tax in 2016 arose from the settlement of the final account 
of a contract in the UK conventional power business. The profit on disposals of £9m is a result of movements in indemnities 
provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in prior years.
The loss before exceptional items and income tax in 2015 represents additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK 
conventional power business.
The negative revenue of £13m and loss of £10m before exceptional items and income tax in 2014 related to the settlement  
of final accounts and additional provisions on the UK conventional power contracts.
The loss on disposals of £23m in 2014 relates to additional indemnity provisions and costs associated with businesses sold 
in prior years.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations
The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows:
2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Net cash flow from operating activities 8 (1) (3)
Net cash flow from investing activities (5) 2 3
3 1 – 130
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
10 Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement. The calculation of the average number 
of shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Employee Share T rust and those held 
in treasury by the Company. As the Group has reported a basic loss per ordinary share from continuing operations, any potential 
ordinary shares are anti-dilutive and so excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share.
2016 2015 2014
(Loss)/
earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
(Loss)/
earnings 
per share 
pence
Loss 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Loss per 
share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings/
(loss) per 
share 
pence
Basic (loss)/earnings  
from continuing operations (530) 383 (138.9) (252) 383 (66.1) 109 302 36.1
Share options − − − − − − – 2 (0.2)
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − − − − − − – 7 (0.8)
Diluted (loss)/earnings  
from continuing operations (530) 383 (138.9) (252) 383 (66.1) 109 311 35.1
Basic earnings/(loss)  
from discontinued operations 12 383 3.3 (4) 383 (1.1) (27) 302 (8.9)
Share options − − − − − − – 2 0.1
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − − − − − − – 7 0.2
Diluted earnings/(loss)  
from discontinued operations 12 383 3.3 (4) 383 (1.1) (27) 311 (8.6)
Basic and diluted (loss)/profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (526) (253) 106
(Profit)/loss attributable to non-controlling interests (4) 1 3
Basic and diluted (loss)/profit from continuing operations (530) (252) 109
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 131
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
10 Earnings per share continued
In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation and impairment, exceptional items 
and asbestos-related items, along with the impact of the potential ordinary shares, additional calculations of earnings per share 
are presented.
2016 2015 2014
(Loss)/ 
earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
(Loss)/
earnings 
per share 
pence
(Loss)/
earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
(Loss)/
earnings 
per share 
pence
(Loss)/
earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings/
(loss) per 
share 
pence
Basic (loss)/earnings  
from continuing operations (530) 383 (138.9) (252) 383 (66.1) 109 302 36.1
Exceptional and asbestos- 
related items (post-tax) 111 − 29.4 97 − 25.3 101 – 33.4
Amortisation and  
impairment (post-tax) 612 − 160.2 417 − 108.9 37 – 12.3
Basic earnings from continuing 
operations before impairment, 
amortisation, exceptional and 
asbestos-related items 193 383 50.7 262 383 68.1 247 302 81.8
Share options − − − − − − – 2 (0.5)
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − 2 (0.3) − 2 (0.4) – 7 (1.8)
Diluted earnings from 
continuing operations before 
impairment, amortisation, 
exceptional and asbestos-
related items 193 385 50.4 262 385 67.7 247 311 79.5
Basic earnings/(loss)  
from discontinued operations 12 383 3.3 (4) 383 (1.1) (27) 302 (8.9)
Exceptional items (post-tax) (7) − (1.9) (1) − (0.2) 19 – 6.3
Basic earnings/(loss)  
from discontinued operations 
before exceptional items 5 383 1.4 (5) 383 (1.3) (8) 302 (2.6)
Share options − − − − − − – 2 –
Employee share and  
incentive schemes − 2 − − 2 − – 7 0.1
Diluted earnings/(loss)  
from discontinuing operations 
before exceptional items 5 385 1.4 (5) 385 (1.3) (8) 311 (2.5) 132
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
11 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2016 75 171 246
Exchange and other movements 8 24 32
Reclassifications (6) 4 (2)
Additions 6 11 17
Disposals (2) (7) (9)
T ransfer to assets held for sale (7) (62) (69)
As at 31 December 2016 74 141 215
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2016 29 90 119
Exchange and other movements 5 12 17
Reclassifications − (1) (1)
Provided during the year 7 18 25
Disposals (2) (6) (8)
Impairment loss 2 2 4
T ransfer to assets held for sale (2) (10) (12)
As at 31 December 2016 39 105 144
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 78 172 250
Exchange and other movements (3) (4) (7)
Reclassifications (2) (5) (7)
Additions 4 12 16
Disposals (2) (4) (6)
As at 31 December 2015 75 171 246
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2015 24 76 100
Exchange and other movements (1) (2) (3)
Provided during the year 7 19 26
Disposals (1) (3) (4)
As at 31 December 2015 29 90 119
Net book value
As at 31 December 2016 35 36 71
As at 31 December 2015 46 81 127
As at 1 January 2015 54 96 150
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freehold 18 24
Short leasehold 17 22
35 46
The carrying value of land and buildings held under finance lease at 31 December 2016 was £4m (2015: £5m). Additions during the 
year include £nil (2015: £nil) under finance leases.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 133
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill 
£m
Customer 
relationships 
£m
Brands/
trademarks 
£m
Order 
backlog 
£m
Patents 
£m
Software 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2016 2,531 530 194 137 117 145 3,654
Exchange and  
other movements 391 65 35 20 23 10 544
Additions − − − − − 13 13
Disposals and retirements − − − − − (3) (3)
T ransfer to assets  
held for sale (645) − (14) (16) (92) (5) (772)
Reclassifications − − − − − 2 2
As at 31 December 2016 2,277 595 215 141 48 162 3,438
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2016 339 119 32 65 9 65 629
Exchange and  
other movements 70 25 5 12 3 5 120
Impairment loss 289 173 4 − − 34 500
Provided during the year − 40 11 46 8 24 129
Disposals and retirements − − − − − (3) (3)
T ransfer to assets  
held for sale (585) − (2) (11) (13) (2) (613)
Reclassifications − − − − − 1 1
As at 31 December 2016 113 357 50 112 7 124 763
Cost
As at 1 January 2015 2,551 560 186 137 109 123 3,666
Exchange and  
other movements (21) 1 8 − 8 − (4)
Additions 1 − − − − 21 22
Disposals and retirements − (31) − − − (6) (37)
Reclassifications − − − − − 7 7
As at 31 December 2015 2,531 530 194 137 117 145 3,654
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2015 35 107 21 14 1 45 223
Exchange and  
other movements (4) − − 1 1 1 (1)
Impairment loss 308 − − 7 − − 315
Provided during the year − 43 11 43 7 25 129
Disposals and retirements − (31) − − − (6) (37)
As at 31 December 2015 339 119 32 65 9 65 629
Net book value
As at 31 December 2016 2,164 238 165 29 41 38 2,675
As at 31 December 2015 2,192 411 162 72 108 80 3,025
As at 1 January 2015 2,516 453 165 123 108 78 3,443
The carrying value of software held under deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases as at 
31 December 2016 was £21m (2015: £24m). Additions during the year include £4m (2015: £nil) of software held under 
deferred payment arrangements.
During 2016 there has been an impairment charge against the goodwill in the Global Power Group of £214m (2015: £308m) 
and in the Americas of £75m (2015: £nil). The customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Power Group and the 
Americas have also been impaired by £32m and £125m respectively.
In addition, there were impairments of £20m charged against the brand and customer relationship assets acquired with smaller 
acquisitions and a £34m impairment of an ERP system. 134
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
12 Intangible assets continued
The impairment loss of £315m recognised in 2015 related to a £308m impairment of goodwill in the Global Power Group and 
a £7m impairment of the order backlog intangible asset in the Americas.
The Group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if indicators 
of impairment exist.
The review of goodwill for indications of impairment by management is performed at the operating segment level, being the lowest 
level of cash-generating units (CGU) monitored for goodwill purposes. 
The table below shows the goodwill allocated to each CGU, post recognition of any impairment losses.
Goodwill 
31 December 
2016 
£m
Pre-tax 
discount rate 
2016 
%
Americas 1,172 11
Northern Europe and CIS 655 11
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 337 11
Global Power Group − 13
The recoverable amount of all CGUs has been based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections 
included in the financial budgets approved by the board for 2017 and 2018, and pre-tax discount rates as set out in the table above. 
For the purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted period include 5% 
growth in 2019, 10% growth in 2020 and 3% growth per annum thereafter. The long-term growth rates are in line with long-term 
average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
The financial budgets reflect management’s judgement of the future cash flows which includes past experience and expectations 
of future performance. The most significant assumptions relate to trading profit margin and the conversion of trading profit into 
cash (cash conversion). Revenue is underpinned by a secure order book for each CGU and the order book which stood out at 
£5.8 billion as at 31 December 2016 (2015: £6.6 billion). The selection of trading profit margin takes into account the margins 
being generated on contracts in progress and management’s view of the margin on orders received, and is consistent with 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s growth strategy. The cash conversion reflects past experience and current contract mix.
The value-in-use has been compared to the carrying value for each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged 
in respect of the Northern Europe and CIS, or Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGUs.
The carrying amount of the Global Power Group CGU has been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of 
an impairment loss of £214m against goodwill. This has been included in administrative expenses in the income statement. 
The impairment loss arose during the first half of 2016 due to a further deterioration in the forecast results of the Global Power 
Group with further delays and project cancellations and reduced bookings in the period. The residual goodwill in the Global Power 
Group CGU was allocated to the core boiler business which was classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2016.
The carrying amount of the Americas CGU has been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of an impairment loss 
of £75m against goodwill. This has been included in administrative expenses in the income statement. The impairment loss arose 
following a significant deterioration in the trading conditions and forecast out-turn of the oil and gas business based in Houston. 
The recoverable amount of the Americas CGU is £1,226m.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions on the results of the 
impairment tests. Any adverse changes in the key assumptions would increase the impairment loss recorded in the Americas. 
The value-in-use calculation for the Northern Europe and CIS CGU showed headroom of £173m, however, applying zero terminal 
growth would eliminate the headroom and would result in an impairment to goodwill of £107m. A zero growth rate would not result 
in an impairment in the Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGU. Consideration was also given to the impact of a 10% 
decrease in volume, a 1% decrease in margin, or a 1% increase in discount rate, in each case holding other assumptions constant. 
This did not identify any impairments in these CGUs.
  
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 135
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
13 Interests in joint ventures
Interests in joint ventures
Details in aggregate of the Group’s interests in joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method are as follows:
£m
Net book value
As at 1 January 2016 104
Exchange and other movements 12
Disposal of businesses (1)
Additions 2
Reclassifications 4
T ransfer to assets held for sale (60)
T otal comprehensive income 11
Dividends received (34)
As at 31 December 2016 38
As at 1 January 2015 122
Exchange and other movements 2
Disposal of businesses (9)
Additions 1
Reclassifications 2
T otal comprehensive income 28
Dividends received (42)
As at 31 December 2015 104
Group companies and their applicable registered offices are listed on pages 212 to 221.
Details of material joint ventures
PetroPower Energia Limitada
The Group had an 85% interest in PetroPower Energia Limitada, a joint venture alongside the state-owned oil company of the 
Republic of Chile, which began commercial operation in November 1998. The Group’s interest was accounted for using the equity 
method in the consolidated financial statements. 
Although the Group had an 85% interest in PetroPower Energia Limitada, the profits were split according to the joint venture 
agreement. In the year the profit after tax received by the Group from PetroPower Energia Limitada was £4m (2015: £11m), 
the carrying value of the investment was £nil (2015: £53m). The primary difference between the equity value of PetroPower 
Energia Limitada and the Group’s carrying value of investment relates to the distributions that have been recognised as a 
liability but have not been paid to Amec Foster Wheeler.
On 30 June 2016, the Group’s interest in PetroPower Energia Limitada was transferred to assets held for sale (see note 24),  
and on 7 December 2016, its sale was completed (see note 25).
Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial statements is set out below:
Summarised Balance Sheet of PetroPower Energia Limitada: 
2015 
£m
Non-current assets 47
Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of £20m 35
Current liabilities (30)
Non-current liabilities (12)
Equity 40
Group’s carrying value of investment 53 136
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
13 Interests in joint ventures continued
Summarised Income Statement of PetroPower Energia Limitada:
Period to 
30 June 
2016 
£m
Y ear ended 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Revenue 20 43
Cost of sales including depreciation of £3m (2015: £6m) (11) (20)
Administrative expenses (1) (2)
Profit before tax 8 21
Income tax expense (2) (5)
Profit for the period/year 6 16
Total comprehensive income 6 16
Group’s share of profit for the period/year 4 11
Group’s share of total comprehensive income for the period/year 4 11
Reconciliation of movement in the Group’s carrying value in the investment in PetroPower Energia Limitada:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
As at 1 January 53 54
Exchange and other movement 4 4
Group share of total comprehensive income 4 11
Dividends paid to the Group (18) (16)
T ransfer to assets held for sale (43) −
As at 31 December − 53
Nuclear Management Partners Limited
The Group has a 36% interest in Nuclear Management Partners Limited. The Group’s interest is accounted for using the equity 
method in the consolidated financial statements. 
On 13 January 2015, the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority announced its intention to change the commercial model at 
Sellafield. Under the new arrangements, the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority terminated the Parent Body Agreement between 
Nuclear Management Partners Limited, it and Sellafield, with effect from 1 April 2016. It is intended that the company will be 
wound up in a structured manner in the future. Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial 
statements, is set out below:
Summarised Balance Sheet of Nuclear Management Partners Limited:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Non-current assets − 10
Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of £1m (2015: £5m) 2 8
Current liabilities, including current financial liabilities of £2m (2015: £3m) (2) (6)
Non-current liabilities − −
Equity − 12
Group’s carrying value of investment − 4
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 137
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
13 Interests in joint ventures continued
Summarised Income Statement of Nuclear Management Partners Limited:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Revenue 2 6
Cost of sales (2) (6)
Administrative expenses − (2)
Share of post-tax results of associate 12 40
Profit before tax 12 38
Income tax expense − –
Profit for the year 12 38
Total comprehensive income 12 38
Group’s share of profit for the year 4 14
Group’s share of total comprehensive income for the year 4 14
Reconciliation of movement in the Group’s carrying value of the investment in Nuclear Management Partners Limited
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
As at 1 January 4 10
Share of total comprehensive income 4 14
Dividends paid (8) (20)
As at 31 December − 4
Summary of individually immaterial joint ventures
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Profit for the year 3 3
Total comprehensive income 3 3
PPP service concessions
Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows:
Financial 
close
Equity 
stake
Concession 
period
Net equity 
invested
T ransport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years –
Incheon Bridge, Korea* 2005 23% 30 years £16m
*Presented in assets held for sale
Interests in joint operations
The Group does not hold any individually material interests in joint operations in either the current or prior year. 138
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees. As at 31 December 2015, the two most 
significant defined benefit schemes were based in the UK: the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme (an open ‘career average salary’ 
scheme, which also has an associated Executive top-up scheme) and the Foster Wheeler Pension Plan (a legacy scheme that 
closed to further accrual in 2010). The next most significant was based in the US: The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees 
Pension Plan which was closed to further accrual in 2003. 
Following an employee consultation exercise at the end of 2015 and subsequent T rustee approval in early 2016, the Company 
closed the AMEC Staff and Executive top-up schemes to further accrual from 1 April 2016 and replaced them with a new defined 
contribution arrangement. 
During 2016, all legacy defined benefit plans in the UK were merged into the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme, which was renamed the 
Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan on 1 April 2016. The merged scheme holds all the pension assets in a separately administered 
fund and is governed by the employment laws of the UK. The benefits are determined by the member’s length of service and salary 
each year. Once the benefits are in payment, the pension is adjusted each year in accordance with the scheme’s rules relative 
to UK price inflation. The scheme is established under trust law and is governed by a corporate T rustee Board (the ‘T rustees’), 
which consists of employers’ and employees’ representatives and two independent trustees. The T rustees are responsible 
for the management and administration of the scheme and for the definition of the investment strategy.
Every three years, the T rustees undertake an actuarial valuation of the scheme’s funding position. In the event that the valuation 
results indicate a funding deficit, the T rustees and the employer will agree a recovery plan to eliminate that deficit over as short 
a period as is reasonably affordable. The next triennial review of the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is due to take place 
as at 31 March 2017 .
Due to the nature of the liabilities, the pension plan is exposed to inflation, interest rate risk and changes in the life expectancy for 
pensioners. As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equities, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk.
Contributions by the Group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed in note 6.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries are as follows:
31 December 
2016 
%
31 December 
2015 
%
31 December 
2014 
%
The Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan (formerly AMEC Staff  
and Executive Pension schemes)
Rate of discount 2.7 3.9 3.6
Rate of inflation 3.2 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (service before/after 1 January 2008)* 3.0/2.1 2.8/1.9 2.9/2.0
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan
Rate of discount N/A 3.9 3.7
Rate of inflation N/A 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment  
(service before/after 5 April 2005, nil before 6 April 1997) N/A 2.0/1.5 1.1
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan
Rate of discount 3.9 3.9 3.6
Rate of inflation 2.2 2.3 2.5
*Assumptions disclosed are in respect of members of the former AMEC Staff and Executive Pension schemes. For members of the former  
Foster Wheeler Pension Plan, the rate of increase in pensions in payment is 2.2% for service before 5 April 2005, and 1.7% for service after 5 April 2005  
(nil before 6 April 1997).
In addition the Group has a number of smaller overseas schemes. During the year the discount rate ranged from  
1.3% to 9.1% (2015: 1.5% to 10.1%; 2014: 1.8% to 9.0%). The rate of increase in salaries ranged from 1.5% to 8.0%  
(2015: 1.9% to 8.0%; 2014: 1.8% to 8.0%).
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 139
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
For the principal defined benefit schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows:
31 December 
2016 
Male 
years
31 December 
2016 
Female 
years
31 December 
2015 
Male 
years
31 December 
2015 
Female 
years
31 December 
2014 
Male 
years
31 December 
2014 
Female 
years
The Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan 
(formerly AMEC Staff and Executive 
Pension schemes)
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 22.4 24.7 22.4 24.6 22.5 24.6
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 24.2 26.6 24.1 26.5 24.2 26.5
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) N/A N/A 23.4 23.2 23.5 23.2
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) N/A N/A 25.1 25.1 25.3 25.1
The Foster Wheeler Inc.  
Salaried Employees Pension Plan
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 20.5 22.4 21.1 23.1 21.6 23.7
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 21.9 23.7 23.2 25.2 23.2 25.4
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due 
to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
Retirement benefit assets 70 231 102
Retirement benefit liabilities (207) (168) (188)
Retirement benefit net (liability)/asset (137) 63 (86)
The retirement benefit net (liability)/asset is analysed as follows:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
The Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan  
(formerly AMEC Staff and Executive Pension schemes) 70 184 65
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan − 47 37
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan (71) (59) (57)
Other smaller pension schemes (136) (109) (131)
(137) 63 (86)
The retirement benefit liabilities of £207m (2015: £168m; 2014: £188m) reflect the deficits on the Foster Wheeler Inc.  
Salaried Employees Pension Plan and the smaller overseas schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows:
31 December 
2016 
%
31 December 
2015 
%
31 December 
2014 
%
Equities 35.5 34.6 35.4
Bonds (including gilts) 49.5 51.8 52.6
Property 7.0 8.7 8.4
Other 8.0 4.9 3.6
100.0 100.0 100.0
The equities and bonds as listed above are predominantly quoted investments. There is a small investment in privately held pooled 
fund investments and the property/other investments are unquoted.  140
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Current service cost, past service cost and administrative expenses 16 36 33
Interest cost 105 104 84
Interest income (105) (102) (86)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs 
(note 6) 16 38 31
Settlement gain − (3) (3)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 16 35 28
The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 11 22 20
Administrative expenses 5 11 10
Net financing expense/(income) − 2 (2)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 16 35 28
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
As at 1 January 2,717 2,931 1,743
Exchange and other movements 95 (1) 3
Acquired through business combinations − − 898
Current and past service cost 13 32 29
Interest cost 105 104 84
Plan participants’ contributions 5 11 12
Actuarial losses/(gains) arising from changes in financial assumptions  
and experience adjustments 587 (177) 278
Actuarial gains from changes in demographic assumptions (16) (14) (19)
Settlements − (31) (12)
Benefits paid (165) (141) (85)
Reclassifications − 3 −
As at 31 December 3,341 2,717 2,931
The defined benefit obligation can be allocated to the plans’ participants as follows:
2016 
%
 2015 
%
 2014 
%
Active plan participants 21.8 20.5 22.0
Deferred plan participants 30.0 28.4 31.3
Retirees 48.2 51.1 46.7
100.0 100.0 100.0
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 18 years.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 141
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
As at 1 January 2,780 2,845 1,783
Exchange and other movements 60 − 3
Acquired through business combinations − − 826
Interest income 105 102 86
Actuarial gains/(losses) 402 (41) 201
Employer contributions 20 36 32
Plan participants’ contributions 5 11 12
Administrative expenses (3) (4) (4)
Settlements − (28) (9)
Benefits paid (165) (141) (85)
As at 31 December 3,204 2,780 2,845
The movement in the scheme net (liability)/asset during the year is as follows:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Scheme net asset/(liability) as at 1 January 63 (86) 40
Exchange and other movements (35) 1 –
Acquired through business combinations − − (72)
T otal charge as per note 6 (16) (38) (31)
Employer contributions 20 36 32
Settlements − 3 3
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income (169) 150 (58)
Reclassifications − (3) −
Scheme net (liability)/asset as at 31 December (137) 63 (86)
The impact on the defined benefit obligation of the principal pension schemes of changes in the most significant assumptions 
as at 31 December 2016 is shown below: 
The Amec Foster Wheeler 
Pension Plan 
£m
The Foster Wheeler Inc. 
Salaried Employees Pension Plan 
£m
Discount rate
-10 bps (54) (3)
+10 bps 51 3
Inflation
-10 bps 37 −
+10 bps (38) −
Mortality
+1 year (92) (9)
- 1 year 92 9
The sensitivity analysis above is based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation of reasonable 
changes in key assumptions occurring as at 31 December 2016.
The defined benefit obligations of the other benefit schemes are significantly lower than those of the principal defined benefit 
schemes. Sensitivity analysis of reasonable changes in the key assumptions as at 31 December did not indicate any significant 
changes to the defined benefit obligations of those schemes. 142
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
Expected benefit payments from the defined benefit plans in future years are as follows:
£m
Y ear 1 167
Y ear 2 170
Y ear 3 174
Y ear 4 177
Y ear 5 181
Next five years 958
1,827
The Group expects to contribute £23m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2017 . This includes special contributions of £12m.
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 25 17 (13) (10)
Intangible assets 11 4 (153) (226)
Retirement benefits 78 43 (43) (43)
Derivative financial instruments 3 2 (5) (2)
Provisions 108 144 − −
Employee share schemes 1 − − −
Other items 11 12 (30) (29)
T ax losses carried forward 34 30 − −
T ax credits carried forward 2 2 − −
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 273 254 (244) (310)
Offset of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating 
to income tax levied by the same taxation authority (182) (204) 182 204
T ransfer to held for sale assets/(liabilities) (6) − 5 −
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 85 50 (57) (106)
Recognition of £45m of the legacy AMEC US deferred tax asset is based on forecast future profits for that business. Whilst the 
business has made a loss in the current year, this is partly attributable to one off items, and additionally, a reduction of the level 
of debt in the business during 2016 will lead to an increase in the profits in future years to support the asset recognition.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 143
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
As at 
1 January 
2016 
£m
Exchange 
and other 
movements 
£m
Reclassifications 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
 As at 
31 December 
2016 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 7 − − 5 − 12
Intangible assets (222) (27) − 107 − (142)
Retirement benefits − 5 − (1) 31 35
Derivative financial instruments − − − (2) − (2)
Provisions 144 20 − (56) − 108
Employee share schemes − – − – − 1
Other items (17) (6) − 4 − (19)
T ax losses carried forward 30 4 − − − 34
T ax credits carried forward 2 1 − (1) − 2
(56) (3) − 57 31 29
T ransfer to assets held for sale (1)
28
The deferred tax credit of £57m (2015: £22m) recognised in income consists of a credit of £61m (2015: £22m) relating to 
continuing operations and a £4m charge (2015: £nil) in respect of discontinued operations.
As at 
1 January 
2015 
£m
Exchange 
and other 
movements 
£m
Reclassifications 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
 As at 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 6 − − 1 − 7
Intangible assets (250) (6) (1) 35 − (222)
Retirement benefits 29 2 − (5) (26) −
Derivative financial instruments (2) − − − 2 −
Provisions 130 1 − 12 1 144
Employee share schemes 1 − − (1) − −
Other items (9) 1 1 (9) (1) (17)
T ax losses carried forward 42 (1) (1) (11) 1 30
T ax credits carried forward 1 − 1 − − 2
(52) (3) − 22 (23) (56)
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
There are a number of factors that may affect the Group’s future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with tax 
authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation and tax rates.
Significant areas which are expected to impact on the tax charge in future years are:
The US President indicated during his election campaign that there would be substantial reforms of the US tax system following 
his election, including a potential reduction in the Federal rate of corporation tax. Whilst full details of the reforms are not available 
and it is not possible to determine the overall impact of the changes, for every 1% reduction in the Federal tax rate there would be 
a deferred tax charge of £1.3m based on the asset at 31 December 2016. In the longer term if the rate were reduced it is likely that 
this would reduce the effective tax rate of the Group.
Due to anti-hybrid legislation introduced as a result of the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, the benefit of tax 
efficient financing structures currently in place will reduce in 2017 . By comparison to 2016 we anticipate the additional tax payable 
as result of the new legislation to be £1.7m. 
Due to new legislation to be introduced to limit tax deductible interest deductions in the UK from 1 April 2017 , we anticipate that an 
element of interest will no longer be deductible for tax purposes. The impact of this is dependent on a number of factors including 
the level of reduction in borrowings of the group, the timing of that reduction and the results in 2017 . Based on forecasts we 
anticipate this will result in c£5m of additional tax charge in 2017 . 144
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
(restated) 
£m
Deductible temporary differences 393 322
T ax losses 741 687
1,134 1,009
The prior year unrecognised losses have been restated to reflect losses not incorporated in the disclosure at 31 December 2015 
which formed part of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler and which existed at that date. Work has been carried out during 2016 
to confirm veracity of those losses. 
As at 31 December 2016 the expiry dates of unrecognised deferred tax assets carried forward are as follows:
T ax losses 
£m
Deductible 
temporary 
differences 
£m
T otal 
£m
Expiring within 5 years 173 36 209
Expiring within 6-10 years 43 87 130
Expiring within 11-20 years 77 − 77
Unlimited 448 270 718
741 393 1,134
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will  
be available against which the Group can utilise these assets.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of £2,572m (2015: £2,390m (restated)) of unremitted earnings of 
subsidiaries and joint ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be £33m (2015: £28m).
16 Inventories
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Raw materials 9 13
9 13
£4m of raw materials are held in assets held for sale as at 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil).
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 145
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
17 Current trade and other receivables
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Amounts expected to be recovered within one year
Gross amounts due from customers 499 552
T rade receivables 724 717
Amounts owed by joint ventures 12 13
Other receivables 66 63
Prepayments and accrued income 60 72
Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor (note 21) 14 14
1,375 1,431
Amounts expected to be recovered after more than one year
Gross amounts due from customers − 2
T rade receivables 11 7
Amounts owed by joint ventures 6 1
Other receivables 26 14
43 24
1,418 1,455
T rade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of £66m (2015: £34m) relating to contracts  
in progress. T rade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions of £10m (2015: £7m)  
net of £1m impairment (2015: £1m) relating to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all long-term contracts in progress 
for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was £5,507m (2015: £6,428m).
T rade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
18 Current trade and other payables
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Amounts expected to be settled within one year
T rade payables 580 584
Gross amounts due to customers 324 328
Other taxation and social security costs 45 50
Other payables 224 225
Accruals 189 198
1,362 1,385
Amounts expected to be settled after more than one year
T rade payables 1 1
Gross amounts due to customers − 5
Other taxation and social security costs − 17
Other payables 45 47
Accruals 4 4
50 74
1,412 1,459
Gross amounts due to customers include advances received of £74m (2015: £5m).
Other payables expected to be settled within one year includes an advanced payment represents the proceeds from the disposal 
of The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd, which are repayable in the event that the disposal does not complete.
T rade payables, other payables and accruals are classified as other financial liabilities. 146
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
19 Capital and financial risk management
Capital management 
The objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it has a strong financial position from which to grow the 
business and to maximise shareholder value. The appropriate capital structure for the Group comprises of a mix of debt and 
equity. The mix is determined by considering business profile and strategy, financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
The Group is in a net debt position. The long-term net debt is targeted to be no more than two times trading profit. The Group may 
exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it. However, it is expected that any increases would be temporary.
On 1 March 2016, the Group entered into a new £1,700m syndicated credit facilities agreement (as amended) comprising three 
tranches; a three-year £650m term loan (maturing 1 March 2019), a five-year £650m term loan (maturing 1 March 2021) and a 
five-year £400m revolving credit facility (maturing 1 March 2021). This new facility replaced the Foster Wheeler acquisition facility 
of $2.26bn.
During December 2016, the banking facilities were reduced by £39m as a result of a mandatory repayment following the disposal 
of PetroPower Energia Limitada and in February 2017 there was a further repayment of £20m following the disposal of Aquenta 
Consulting Pty Limited.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had committed banking facilities of £1,745m (2015: £1,827m, including £59m of finance leases). 
This consists of £26m project debt, £1,661m of the credit facilities agreement, £58m of finance leases and other smaller facilities. 
As at 31 December 2016, all of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt (2015: £1,264m) and £nil was utilised by way 
of Letters of Credit (2015: £62m). As at 31 December 2016, the undrawn portion of the Group’s committed facilities was £300m.
Financial risk management
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange risk; funding and liquidity risk; 
counterparty credit risk; and interest rate risk. The board has approved policies for the management of these risks which are 
reviewed annually.
The Group’s treasury department manages funding, liquidity, credit risk and risks arising from movements in interest and foreign 
currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board, most recently in December 2016. The treasury 
department does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Foreign currency exchange risk
The Group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling. The majority of the Group’s trading income is denominated in the 
local currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge against the currency of its cost base. Where commercial 
contracts are undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk, 
when the cash flow giving rise to such exposure becomes certain or highly probable. This is achieved through the use of forward 
currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options. There are currently no material transactional 
exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged. The Group has no reason to believe that any outstanding forward 
contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
A significant portion of the Group’s earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies. Such overseas profits are translated into 
Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year. There is currently no hedging in place for profits generated 
in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on Group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis. In addition, the Group has various 
assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euros. The Group hedges translation 
exposure, wherever possible, by matching the currency of its borrowing (either directly or via derivatives) to the currency of 
its net assets and future free cash flow. As a result, the Group has designated a series of derivatives and financial instruments 
as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships. In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation 
of foreign assets, the Group may from time to time enter into additional net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks. 
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of transactions entered into to manage the cash flow exposures of its borrowings. 
Forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swap contracts are held to manage the cash flow exposures 
of a portion of borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and are designated as cash flow hedges.
Based on the Group’s net debt as at 31 December 2016, if Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the Group’s 
net debt would decrease by £13m (2015: increase by £46m). This represents a £45m increase in foreign currency borrowings 
(2015: £130m), a £23m increase in derivative assets designated as cash flow hedges of Group borrowings (2015: £50m) 
and a £35m increase in foreign currency cash and cash equivalents (2015: £34m).
If Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, then the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts  
and cross currency interest rate swaps, other than those designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings,  
as at 31 December 2016 would decrease by £64m (2015: £51m).
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps would be recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve (where designated as cash flow hedge) or translation 
reserve (where designated as net investment hedge).
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 147
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – cash flow hedges
The Group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising on foreign currency borrowings and where contracts are awarded, 
or involve costs, in non-local currency. Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose 
and are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts 
and swaps designated as cash flow hedges (including those held for sale) are as follows:
 2016 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2015 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2016 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
 2015 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Non-current assets – cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 199 105 27 6
T otal non-current assets 199 105 27 6
Current assets – cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 64 57 1 1
Current assets – cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings − 328 − 8
T otal current assets 64 385 1 9
Current liabilities – cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 229 191 (11) (9)
T otal current liabilities 229 191 (11) (9)
492 681 17 6
There was no charge for ineffectiveness recognised in either 2016 or 2015. A net foreign exchange loss for the year of £2m 
(2015: £2m) was recognised in the hedging reserve as a result of fair value movements on derivative financial instruments 
designated as cash flow hedging instruments of £1m (2015: £1m) and amounts recycled to the income statement in line 
with underlying cash flows £1m (2015: £1m).
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – fair value through income statement
Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and changes 
in their fair value are recognised through the income statement. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values 
of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows:
 2016 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2015 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2016 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
 2015 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Current assets 539 241 9 5
Current liabilities 998 388 (22) (5)
1,537 629 (13) −
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – net investment hedges
The Group had forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as hedges of the net investments in core 
subsidiaries in Canada (denominated in Canadian Dollar), the US (denominated in US Dollar) and Europe (denominated in Euro). 
Net investment hedges relating to core subsidiaries in Europe closed out during 2016. The notional contract amount, carrying 
amount and fair values of swaps designated as net investment hedges are as follows:
 2016 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2015 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2016 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
 2015 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Non-current assets − 105 – 12
Current assets − 111 – 2
Non-current liabilities 199 − (27) −
Current liabilities 208 168 (17) (7)
407 384 (44) 7
A net foreign exchange loss for the year of £127m (2015: £3m) was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of forward 
foreign exchange contracts, currency interest rate swaps and borrowings designated as net investment hedging instruments. 148
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Other derivative financial assets and liabilities
The Group has other derivative financial liabilities of £4m (2015: £4m). As at 31 December 2016 this was included in liabilities  
held for sale.
The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the other derivative financial instruments 
(including those held for sale) are expected to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss:
 2016
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
12 months 
or less 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Assets 37 916 600 3 313
Liabilities (including held for sale) (81) 1,856 1,426 16 414
(44) 2,772 2,026 19 727
 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
12 months 
or less 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Derivative financial instruments
Assets 34 948 726 12 210
Liabilities (25) 963 739 16 208
9 1,911 1,465 28 418
Funding and liquidity risk
The Group’s policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future 
forecast requirements consistent with the Group’s budget and strategic plans. The Group will finance operations and growth from 
its existing cash resources and the £300m undrawn portion of the Group’s committed banking facilities as at 31 December 2016. 
The requirement to enter into additional external facilities has been kept under review during the year. This includes discussions 
with the Group’s main relationship banks to ensure additional bilateral lending capacity is available.
Appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for bank guarantees and letters of credit.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial 
instruments. The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the Group’s risk management activities.
The maximum credit risk exposure on derivatives at 31 December 2016 was £37m, being the total net debit fair values per 
derivative counterparty on forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps. The Group performs 
a Credit Value Adjustment (CVA) and Debit Value Adjustment (DVA) analysis to establish the credit risk inherent in the closing 
derivative portfolio. As at 31 December 2016, the result of this adjustment has no impact on the Group’s income statement. 
In 2015, a similar analysis also had no impact on the Group’s income statement. Credit risks arising from treasury activities are 
managed by a central treasury function in accordance with the board approved treasury policy. The objective of the policy is to 
diversify and minimise the Group’s exposure to credit risk from its treasury activities by ensuring that surplus funds are placed 
with a diversified range of 25 to 30 mainstream banks and with each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit. These limits are 
set at prudent levels by the board and are based primarily on publicly available credit ratings of counterparties. Credit ratings 
are monitored continually by the Group treasury department. 
The maximum credit risk exposure on cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits (more than three months) at 31 December 
2016 was £410m including cash reported within held for sale assets (2015: £363m). The Group treasury department monitors 
counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid an over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially through 
contract payment terms. Where appropriate, payment security is sought. Credit control practices are applied thereafter during 
the project execution phase. A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 149
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit risk continued
The ageing of trade receivables at the year-end was as follows:
Gross 
receivables 
31 December 
 2016 
£m
Impairment 
31 December 
2016 
£m
Gross 
receivables 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Impairment 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Not past due 381 − 357 −
Past due 0 to 30 days 158 − 216 −
Past due 31 to 120 days 73 − 90 (3)
Past due 121 to 365 days 61 (17) 40 (18)
More than one year 109 (105) 88 (86)
782 (122) 791 (107)
The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of £66m (2015: £34m) expected to be recovered within 
one year and £10m (2015: £7m) net of £1m impairment (2015: £1m) expected to be recovered after one year. Net receivables  
as at 31 December 2016 include £4m (2015: £2m) in respect of amounts overdue by more than one year.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
As at 1 January (107) (99)
Exchange movement (8) (1)
Increase in impairment allowance (18) (23)
Decrease in impairment allowance 11 16
As at 31 December (122) (107)
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables 
not past due.
T rade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government-backed organisations and the credit ratings 
of these organisations are monitored. Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent company guarantees, 
insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The Group’s most significant customer in 2016 accounted for around 9% (2015: 8%) of continuing revenues, and around 3% 
(2015: 2%) of current trade and other receivables. The revenue in 2016 was generated in the Americas.
Interest rate risk 
The £1,700m syndicated credit facilities agreement (as amended) is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending 
on leverage.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash and borrowings. Cash is viewed as temporary with any longer term surplus 
used to repay credit facilities. 
When required, the Group uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to meet its objective of protecting  
borrowing costs within parameters set by the board. The Group’s policy is to keep between 30% and 70% of its borrowings  
at fixed rates of interest. Movements in the fair value of interest rates swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps that are  
designated as cash flow hedges of the Group’s borrowings resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised  
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve with the fair value recorded in the balance sheet.  
At 31 December 2016, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, 
approximately 32% of the Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (2015: 28%). 
Based on the Group’s gross borrowings as at 31 December 2016, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points in all 
currencies then the annual net interest charge would increase by £10m (2015: £9m). A decrease in interest rates by 100 basis 
points in all currencies would have an equal but opposite effect. 150
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk – contractual maturity and effective interest rates
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective 
interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature:
 2016
Effective 
interest rate 
%
Total 
£m
Less than 
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Over 5 
years 
£m
Bank deposits 
(more than three months) 0.47 22 19 3 − −
Cash and cash equivalents
1
 1.75 388 388 − − −
Fees capitalised against bank facilities − 15 5 5 5 −
Bank loans
1
3.47 (1,413) (106) (4) (1,299) (4)
Loans from joint ventures 4.35 (2) (2) − − −
Finance leases
1
8.54 (58) (12) (14) (23) (9)
Derivatives classified as bank loans − 27 − − 27 −
(1,021) 292 (10) (1,290) (13)
1  Included in the figures in the table above are cash balances of £46m (2015: £nil), bank loans of £25m (2015: £nil) and finance leases of £7m (2015: £nil) 
reported within held for sale assets and liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
 2015
Effective 
interest rate 
%
T otal 
£m
Less than 
1 year 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Over 5 
years 
£m
Bank deposits 
(more than three months) 0.47 23 14 4 5 −
Cash and cash equivalents 3.00 340 340 − − −
Bank loans 3.28 (1,264) (679) (192) (386) (7)
Finance leases 6.84 (59) (4) (18) (24) (13)
Derivatives classified as bank loans − 14 8 – 6 −
(946) (321) (206) (399) (20)
Interest payments of £50m are expected to be paid within one year, £54m between one and two years, £91m between two and five 
years and £nil over five years.
Group borrowing
The Group had no overdrafts as at the end of 2016 or 2015. The bank loans are denominated in Sterling and US Dollars 
(2015: Sterling and US Dollars).
All covenants attached to borrowings have been complied with throughout the current and prior years. 
Fair values
Fair values (excluding the fair value of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale) are determined using observable market 
prices (level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’) as follows:
 X The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward 
price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate
 X The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting estimated future 
cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market rates
All derivative fair values are verified by comparison to valuations provided by the derivative counterparty banks. There are 
no material credit valuation adjustments (CVA) or debit valuation adjustments (DVA) required on the derivatives outstanding 
at 31 December 2016.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group has net assets classified held for sale of £149m (2015: £nil). The fair value of these net 
assets has been determined using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3 as defined by IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value 
Measurement’). Further information on assets and liabilities classified as held for sale has been included in note 24.
The Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on 
the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. During the 
year ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, there were no transfers into or out of level 2 fair value measurements.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 151
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
20 Other non-current receivables and payables
Other non-current receivables
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor (note 21) 102 104
Indemnities receivable 12 16
Insurance receivables 5 4
Lease receivable 16 17
Other non-current receivables 5 4
140 145
Other non-current payables
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
Unfavourable leases 112 84
Lease incentives 6 8
Other payables 22 20
Other post-employment benefits 9 9
149 121
21 Provisions
Asbestos-
related 
litigation 
£m
Project and 
environmental 
litigation 
£m
Obligations 
relating to 
disposed 
businesses 
£m
Property 
related 
provisions 
£m
Other 
£m
T otal 
£m
As at 1 January 2016 378 154 78 19 35 664
Exchange and other movements 62 15 2 3 1 83
T ransfer from other balance sheet captions 5 − − − 11 16
T ransfer to liabilities held for sale − (4) − (4) − (8)
Utilised (35) (25) (7) (1) (4) (72)
Provided 2 1 23 4 3 33
Released (1) (52) (36) (4) (6) (99)
Change in discount rate (6) − − − − (6)
Unwinding of discount 8 − − − − 8
As at 31 December 2016 413 89 60 17 40 619
Provisions classified as current liabilities 9
Provisions classified as non-current liabilities 610
619
Asbestos-related litigation 
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries in the US and the UK are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and 
out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and the UK. Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen 
from exposure to asbestos primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured by certain of our subsidiaries during 
the 1970s or earlier. We expect that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in additional and/or similar suits and that new 
claims will be filed in the future. Whilst some of these claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the overwhelming 
majority have been and are expected to be made in the US.
We assumed the majority of our asbestos-related liabilities when we acquired Foster Wheeler in November 2014. Management 
worked with independent asbestos valuation experts, to measure the asbestos-related liabilities assumed. Asbestos-related 
liabilities recognised by the Group include estimates of indemnity amounts and defence costs expected to be incurred in each 
year in the period to 2050, beyond which time management expects that there will no longer be a significant number of open 
claims. Management’s estimates were based on the following information and/or assumptions: the number of open claims, 
the forecasted number of future claims, the estimated average cost per claim by disease type – mesothelioma, lung cancer 
and non-malignancies, claim filings which result in no monetary payments (the ‘zero pay rate’), as well as other factors.  152
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
21 Provisions continued
Asbestos-related litigation continued 
Over the last several years, certain of our subsidiaries have entered into settlement agreements calling for insurers to make 
lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defence 
costs, and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs incurred. Asbestos-related insurance recoveries 
under executed settlement agreements are recognised in trade and other receivables together with our best estimate of actual 
and probable insurance recoveries relating to our liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims in the period to 
2050. Our actual insurance recoveries may be limited by future insolvencies among our insurers. We do not recognise insurance 
recoveries due from currently insolvent insurers unless they are subject to court-approved settlement in liquidation proceedings. 
We have discounted the expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos-related liabilities and the expected insurance 
recoveries using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Asbestos-related liabilities and assets recognised on the Group’s balance sheet were as follows:
2016 2015
US 
£m
UK 
£m
Total 
£m
US 
£m
UK 
£m
T otal 
£m
Asbestos-related provision
Gross provision 478 56 534 432 56 488
Effect of discounting (84) − (84) (74) – (74)
Net provision
1
394 56 450 358 56 414
Insurance recoveries
Gross recoveries (67) (52) (119) (68) (54) (122)
Effect of discounting 3 − 3 4 – 4
Net recoveries (64) (52) (116) (64) (54) (118)
Net asbestos-related liabilities 330 4 334 294 2 296
1  The net asbestos provision of £450m (2015: £414m) is made up of £413m included in provisions (2015: £378m) and £37m (2015: £36m) in respect 
of asbestos provisions included in trade and other payables.
Estimation of asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries is subject to a number of uncertainties that may result in 
significant changes in the current estimates. Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of claims filed, 
the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos claims, uncertainties surrounding 
the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, as well as potential legislative changes. 
Fluctuations in market interest rates could cause significant changes in the discounted amount of the asbestos-related liabilities 
and insurance recoveries.
Project litigation
As described in note 27 , the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts. 
Management has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known or reasonably likely legal claims and actions 
by and against the Group. Where a known or likely claim or action is identified, management carefully assesses the likelihood 
of success of the claim or action. Generally, a provision is recognised only in respect of those claims or actions that management 
considers are probable of success. Additionally, however, the Group recognises provisions for known or likely claims against 
an acquired business if, at the acquisition date, it is possible that the claim or action will be successful and its amount can 
be reliably estimated. 
Provision is made for management’s best estimate of the future legal costs to be incurred in defending each claim or action and 
of the likely settlement costs and/or damages to be awarded for those claims and actions that management considers are likely 
to be successful. Due to the inherent commercial, legal and technical uncertainties underlying the estimation of our project claims, 
the amounts ultimately paid or realised by the Group could differ materially from the amounts, if any, that are recognised in the 
financial statements.
As at 31 December 2016, there were two significant ongoing disputes with the US Power Plant arbitration being settled in early 
2016. Both of these ongoing disputes involve Foster Wheeler and were ongoing at the acquisition date. Accordingly, in measuring 
Foster Wheeler’s identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date, management established provisions in respect of these 
disputes and made appropriate reductions to the carrying amount of the related receivables.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 153
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
21 Provisions continued
Refinery Project Arbitration – India
In November 2012, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection of unpaid invoices arising 
from services performed on a reimbursable basis in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern 
India. The client rejected the claims and submitted counterclaims totalling approximately 76 billion Indian rupees (approximately 
£900 million based on the exchange rate as at 31 December 2016) for damages, including claims for revenue loss and loss of tax 
benefits due to delay in the execution of the project. The client also withheld payment of the Company’s invoices on account of 
liquidated damages for delay. Amec Foster Wheeler strongly disputes the client’s claims. 
An arbitration panel was formed in 2013 and divided the parties’ claims and counterclaims into two tracks. A number of hearings 
were held on the track 1 claims during 2014. A first partial award was made to Amec Foster Wheeler in March 2014, but the client 
petitioned the Delhi court for its annulment, which petition is still pending. In September 2015, the panel issued a further partial 
award on the track 1 claims, awarding Amec Foster Wheeler approximately £51 million on its invoice claims and dismissing the 
client’s counterclaim allocated to the track 1 proceedings. In February 2016, the client petitioned the Delhi court to set aside this 
award as well. The petition is pending. The hearing on the track 2 claims, which included the client’s main counterclaims, was held 
in February 2015. The panel’s partial award on the track 2 claims was made in September 2016. The client’s counterclaims were 
rejected almost in their entirety (except for two minor payments amounting to less than £300,000). The panel declared that the 
client is not entitled to collect liquidated damages for delay, or to apply rate discounts and that the client must pay all Amec Foster 
Wheeler invoices without any discount. The client has indicated that it will petition the Delhi court to set aside this award. Limited 
further proceedings in the arbitration are ongoing with respect to continuing invoice claim amounts in the track 1 proceedings 
as well as for interest and the costs of arbitration. Amec Foster Wheeler will continue to pursue the collection of unpaid invoices 
and enforcement of the awards made in its favour. As the project is nearing completion but remained in execution as of the end 
of 2016, the unpaid amount that Amec Foster Wheeler are seeking to collect has increased to the equivalent of approximately 
£60 million and may increase further should the client continue to withhold amounts from Amec Foster Wheeler’s invoices. 
Management have made appropriate allowances against these receivables.
Chemical Plant Litigation in the United States
In 2013, one of Foster Wheeler’s subsidiaries contracted to engineer, procure and construct a chemical plant for a client in T exas. 
In December 2015 the client partially terminated the contact and in September 2016, terminated the remainder of the contract 
and commenced a lawsuit in T exas against the subsidiary and also Amec Foster Wheeler plc, seeking damages for breach of 
contract and warranty, gross negligence, and fraud. The claim amount is unspecified but the client alleges that the projected cost 
for the assigned scope of work is approximately $700 million above the alleged estimate and that Foster Wheeler’s subsidiary’s 
delays have caused it to suffer continuing monthly damages of $25 million due to the fact that the facility is not complete and 
it is not able to sell the expected products from the facility. The client seeks recovery of actual and punitive damages, as well 
as the disgorgement of the full project fixed fee paid to Foster Wheeler’s subsidiary (approximately $66.5 million).
Amec Foster Wheeler believes the claims lack legal and factual merit. The estimate that Foster Wheeler’s subsidiary provided 
was in connection with the client’s initial request for a lump sum bid and highly conditioned. The contract that was ultimately 
signed, and which governs the dispute, is a reimbursable cost plus fixed fee contract, with no guaranteed price or schedule, 
wherein the client assumed joint responsibility for management of the work and development of the project schedule. Liability 
for consequential damages is barred, except in the case of wilful misconduct. Except for gross negligence, wilful misconduct, 
and warranty claims, Amec Foster Wheeler’s overall liability is capped at 10 percent of the contract price (or approximately 
$100 million). Amec Foster Wheeler has denied the claims and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit. Amec Foster Wheeler 
is in the early stages of the proceeding. There is no trial date and the matter is not expected to be called for trial until late 2018, 
at the earliest. As the lawsuit is in its early stages it would be premature to predict the ultimate outcome of the matter. Amec 
Foster Wheeler has taken provisions of $48m as of 31 December 2016 (2015: £$52m) on this project against disallowed costs 
and warranties, which includes $34m as part of the fair value exercise on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. 154
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
21 Provisions continued
Power Plant Arbitration – US
Foster Wheeler has been involved in arbitration arising from its role in the construction of a power plant in West Virginia, US. Foster 
Wheeler contracted with its client, Longview Power LLC (‘Longview’), the owner of the power plant, to supply the steam generation 
equipment. Separate contracts existed between Longview and Siemens Energy, Inc. (‘Siemens’) for the supply of the turbine, 
electricity generator and other plant equipment and with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc. (Kvaerner) for the erection 
of the plant.
Beginning in 2011, various claims and counterclaims were made between Foster Wheeler, Kvaerner, Siemens and Longview. 
In February 2014, Foster Wheeler reached a partial settlement with Longview. In December 2014, various settlement agreements 
were entered into involving the parties, leaving the claims between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner the only claims to be resolved. 
Kvaerner’s total claims against Foster Wheeler amounted to approximately US$190m in relation to compensation for alleged 
delays, disruptions, inefficiencies and extra work associated with the construction of the plant allegedly caused by Foster 
Wheeler’s performance under its steam generation equipment supply contract. Foster Wheeler claimed approximately US$26m 
from Kvaerner in relation to claims for extra work, delays, scope disputes, and improperly assessed delay liquidated damages, 
as well as the cost to perform certain ongoing rehabilitation work on the steam generation equipment due to erection failures 
by Kvaerner. Pursuant to the settlement agreements reached in December 2014, Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner exchanged parent 
guarantees, securing their respective claims against each other. Foster Wheeler’s parent guarantee was capped at US$58m. 
The arbitration hearing of the dispute between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner, conducted by the American Arbitration Association, 
occurred in early 2015. In October 2015, the three-arbitrator tribunal rejected Foster Wheeler’s claims in their entirety and  
awarded Kvaerner US$74m, including interest and arbitration costs. Kvaerner commenced an action in New Y ork state court  
to confirm the award. We opposed the action, seeking an order to vacate the award in whole or in part on various grounds.  
In early March 2016, the parties settled their dispute. We paid Kvaerner US$70m in full and final settlement of the claims.  
The parties exchanged releases and the court action was dismissed. 
Environmental risks
Certain of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, in particular the US and the EU, have environmental laws under which 
current and past owners or operators of property may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal or remediation of toxic 
or hazardous substances on or under their property, regardless of whether such materials were released in violation of law and 
whether the operator or owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. Largely as a consequence of the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group currently owns and operates, or owned and operated, industrial facilities. It is likely that, 
as a result of the Group’s current or former operations, hazardous substances have affected the property on which those facilities 
are or were situated. The Group have also received and may continue to receive claims pursuant to indemnity obligations from the 
present owners of facilities we have transferred, which claims may require us to incur costs for investigation and/or remediation. 
As at 31 December 2016, the Group held provisions totalling £35m (2015: £44m) for the estimated future environmental clean-up 
costs in relation to industrial facilities that it no longer operates. Whilst the timing of the related cash flows is typically uncertain, 
the Group expects that certain of its remediation obligations may continue for up to 60 years.
Indemnities and retained obligations
As described in note 27 , the Group agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and/or assets that were 
previously owned by the Group and were sold to them. As at 31 December 2016, we recognised indemnity provisions totalling 
£60m (2015: £78m). Indemnity provisions principally relate to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, and the 
Built Environment and other peripheral businesses that were sold in 2007 . During 2016, the Group recognised additional indemnity 
provisions of £23m in relation to businesses sold in previous years and released provisions of £36m that were no longer required 
following settlement of the underlying issues.
Property-related provisions
Property-related provisions related to dilapidations of leasehold buildings. On average these settle between one to four years 
following the end of the lease term. 
Other provisions
Other provisions include £2m (2015: £7m) in respect of the Group’s legal and constructive obligations to fund loss-making 
joint ventures and to meet its share of certain of their obligations, and insurance provisions of £25m (2015: £28m) relating to 
the potential liabilities in the Group’s captive insurance entity and provisions in relation to risks associated with insurance claims. 
These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease of former employees. These are expected to unwind 
over the next 20 years.
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 155
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
22 Share capital and reserves
Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 107 to 109.
Share capital
The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all 
respects. T o the Company’s knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company or on voting 
rights between holders of shares.
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £m
As at 1 January 2015 388,875,843 194
Issued during the year 4,255,970 3
As at 31 December 2015 393,131,813 197
Issued during the year − −
As at 31 December 2016 393,131,813 197
Reserves
As at 1 January 2016, there were 3,158,310 shares held in treasury (2015: 5,431,314). During the year there were no shares 
transferred to share scheme participants (2015: 2,273,004), leaving a balance held in treasury as at 31 December 2016 
of 3,158,310 (2015: 3,158,310). £35m (2015: £35m) has been deducted from equity in respect of these shares.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign operations, 
as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments that hedge the Company’s 
net investment in foreign subsidiaries, that have arisen since 1 January 2004, being the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
The merger reserve was created by the issue of new equity in relation to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG during the year 
ended 31 December 2014.
Share-based payments
Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings-related Share Option Schemes which 
are open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria. Grants of share options are made to participating 
employees that entitle them to buy shares in the Company normally after three years at up to 20% discount to the market price of 
the shares at the time of offer. In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, options are granted at a maximum discount of 15% 
to the share price at the time of grant and are normally exercisable after two years.
Under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of nil-cost options or 
restricted shares. For employees below board level, awards are split between a performance based element and a non-performance 
element. Awards are made in the form of nil-cost options other than in certain countries where they are made in the form of 
restricted shares. Awards to Executive Directors are as described in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 88.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards were made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted shares that 
are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period. 
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards were made to selected employees as restricted shares which vest in full after three years 
provided the employee has remained in continuous employment.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler’s Compensation and Executive Development Committee administered the Foster Wheeler 
AG Omnibus Incentive Plan for Foster Wheeler’s employees, non-employee directors and third-party service providers. 
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of AMEC shares were granted by AMEC in replacement 
of Foster Wheeler awards and the terms of those replacement awards are equivalent in all material respects to the terms of the 
Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan. All employees of Foster Wheeler and its subsidiaries and/or affiliates, its non-employee directors, 
and certain of its third-party service providers were eligible to participate in the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan. As at the date of 
acquisition, only Foster Wheeler options, Foster Wheeler RSUs and Foster Wheeler PRSUs were outstanding under the Foster 
Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the Group are predominantly equity settled and, other than in defined 
good leaver circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the Group at the time of vesting.
Our current practice is to satisfy awards vesting or options being exercised under the executive plans with market-purchased 
shares held in the Amec Foster Wheeler Employee Share T rust and to satisfy Sharesave options being exercised by the transfer 
of shares held in treasury. 156
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share-based payments continued
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme are as follows:
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
2016 
pence
Number of 
options 
2016
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
2015 
pence
Number of 
options 
2015
Outstanding on 1 January 775 8,170,379 819 7 ,711,995
Lapsed/cancelled 814 (3,084,357) 850 (1,920,215)
Exercised − − 675 (2,295,911)
Granted − − 683 4,674,510
Outstanding on 31 December 751 5,086,022 775 8,170,379
Exercisable on 31 December 829 265,055 863 373,627
No options were exercised during the year. The average share price for the year was 467 pence (2015: 780 pence).
Options outstanding on 31 December 2016 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
2016 
years
Number of 
options 
2016
Weighted 
average
 remaining 
contractual life 
2015 
years
Number of 
options 
2015
600.00 pence to 699.99 pence 2.0 2,897,637 3.0 3,965,570
700.00 pence to 799.99 pence 1.0 339,155 2.0 467 ,796
800.00 pence to 899.99 pence 0.6 1,848,258 1.3 2,710,501
Over 900.00 pence − 972 − 1,026,512
5,086,022 8,170,379
The numbers of shares held under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Foster 
Wheeler Omnibus Plan are as follows:
Number of 
shares 
2016
Number of 
shares 
2015
As at 1 January 6,192,922 6,717,237
Lapsed (2,353,640) (1,361,021)
Vested (890,078) (1,674,001)
Granted 4,748,075 2,510,707
As at 31 December 7,697,279 6,192,922
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 157
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share-based payments continued
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to the fair 
value of those instruments. For grants in either the current or preceding years, the pricing models used and inputs (on a weighted 
average basis where appropriate) into those models are as follows:
Savings-related Share Option Scheme 
(Black-Scholes model)
Long-T erm Incentive Plan 
(Monte Carlo model)
Performance 
Share Plan 
(Monte Carlo 
model) 
Restricted 
Share Plan 
(Monte Carlo 
model) 
Foster Wheeler 
Omnibus Plan
 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2014 2014
Weighted average fair value 
at measurement date 149p 198p 436p 789p 1,006p 949p 1,027p
Weighted average share 
price at measurement date 769p 1,014p 489p 938p 1,105p 1,082p 1,081p
Exercise price 683p 874p n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Expected share  
price volatility 28% 27% 38% 27% 26% n/a n/a
Option life 3.3 years 3.3 years 2.2 years 2.7 years 3.1 years 2.7 years n/a
Expected dividend yield 3.6% 3.5% n/a n/a n/a 3.5% 3.5%
Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 1.0% n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Comparator share  
price volatility n/a n/a 36% 32% 32% n/a n/a
Correlation between  
two companies in 
comparator group n/a n/a 40% 40% 50% n/a n/a
The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company’s share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the Long-T erm Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison of 
the total shareholder return of the Company with that of its comparators, achievement of targeted earnings per share growth, and, 
in respect of the 2016 award, a third performance measure relating to the implementation and execution of the Group’s strategy. 
The total shareholder return condition is a market based test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the 
award. There are no performance conditions attached to the Restricted Share Plan.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had issued shares awards to employees, non-employee directors and certain third parties 
under the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan. Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted in replacement of these Foster Wheeler awards. On acquisition awards of 2,400,766 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted. There are no performance conditions attached to these awards.
Dividends
The directors are not proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 giving a total dividend for  
the year of 7 .4 pence. In 2015 there was an interim dividend of 14.8 pence (2014: 14.8 pence) and a final dividend of 14.2 pence 
(2014: 28.5 pence), giving a total dividend of 29.0 pence (2014: 43.3 pence).
2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2014 
£m
Dividends charged to reserves and paid
Interim dividend in respect of 2015 of 14.8 pence (2015: interim dividend in respect of 
2014 of 14.8 pence; 2014: interim dividend in respect of 2013 of 13.5 pence) per share 58 56 40
Final dividend in respect of 2015 of 14.2 pence (2015: final dividend in respect of 2014 
of 28.5 pence; 2014: final dividend in respect of 2013 of 28.5 pence) per share 55 111 84
113 167 124
The amount waived by trustees of the Employee Share T rust in respect of the interim and final dividends was £nil  
(2015: £1m; 2014: £1m). 158
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
23 Analysis of net debt
As at 
1 January 
2016 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Lease 
inception 
£m
Exchange and 
other non-cash 
movements 
£m
Reclassification of 
net cash/(debt) of 
disposal groups 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2016 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 307 6 − 19 (46) 286
Bank deposits (less than three months) 33 23 − − − 56
Cash and cash equivalents 340 29 − 19 (46) 342
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 (1) − − − 22
Bank loans (1,264) 4 − (153) 25 (1,388)
Loan payable to joint venture − (2) − − − (2)
Fees capitalised against bank facilities − 18 − (3) − 15
Derivatives classified as net debt 14 (30) − 43 − 27
Finance leases (59) 10 (4) (5) 7 (51)
Net cash/(debt) of disposal groups − − − − 14 14
Net debt as at the end of the year (946) 28 (4) (99) − (1,021)
As at 
1 January 
2015 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange and 
other non-cash 
movements 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 377 (46) (24) 307
Bank deposits (less than three months) 118 (85) − 33
Cash and cash equivalents 495 (131) (24) 340
Bank deposits (more than three months) 21 2 − 23
Bank loans (1,267) 64 (61) (1,264)
Fees capitalised against bank facilities 9 3 (12) −
Derivatives classified as net debt − (12) 26 14
Finance leases (61) 11 (9) (59)
Net debt as at the end of the year (803) (63) (80) (946)
The fair value of bank loans is £1,388m (2015: £1,264m) compared to a carrying value of £1,388m (2015: £1,264m). The fair value 
of finance leases is £51m (2015: £59m) compared to a carrying value of £51m (2015: £59m).
The fair value of bank loans and finance leases is determined using observable market prices (level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 
‘Fair Value Measurement’).
Included within cash and cash equivalents are £54m (2015: £79m) of overdrafts which have been offset against £63m 
(2015: £82m) of cash balances as a legally enforceable offset agreement exists.
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2016 includes £66m (2015: £47m) that is held in countries from which prior 
approval is required to transfer funds abroad. There are restrictions on the use of £5m (2015: £9m) of cash held on behalf of joint 
venture arrangements and £28m (2015: £17m) held on behalf of customers and collateral against bank guarantees. In addition, 
there are restrictions on the use of a further £15m (2015: £16m) of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the 
Group’s captive insurance subsidiary to certain insurers.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 159
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
24 Assets held for sale
In March 2016, the Group announced its intention to reduce net debt via the disposal of non-core assets. Assets and liabilities 
expected to be disposed and which meet the definition of held for sale in line with IFRS 5 are presented as a disposal group. 
Actions to sell the entities within the disposal group have commenced and disposals are expected to complete within 12 months.
During the year the following disposal groups were classified as held for sale:
Disposal Group Classification Date classified as held for sale Date of disposal Location
Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd Equity Joint Venture H1 2016 N/A Korea
PetroPower Energia Limitada Equity Joint Venture H1 2016 7 December 2016 Chile
Amec Foster Wheeler Power SRL Subsidiary H1 2016 N/A Italy
Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited Subsidiary H2 2016 N/A Australia
GPG – Core Boiler Business Subsidiary H2 2016 N/A Global
The disposal of PetroPower Energia Limitada completed in December 2016 and Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited in January 2017 . 
Accordingly, the Group’s interest in The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd and Amec Foster Wheeler Power SRL, the GPG core boiler business 
and Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited are presented as held for sale as at 31 December 2016.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal groups are as follows:
2016 
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 47
Intangible assets 143
Interests in joint ventures 16
Deferred tax assets 6
T rade and other receivables 73
Inventories 4
Current tax receivable 1
Cash and cash equivalents 46
Assets classified as held for sale 336
Liabilities
T rade and other payables (132)
Current tax payable (3)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (32)
Derivative financial instruments (7)
Deferred tax liabilities (5)
Provisions (8)
Liabilities classified as held for sale (187)
Net assets directly associated with the disposal groups 149
The results of the assets held for sale for the period from classification as held for sale to 31 December is as follows:
2016 
£m
Revenue 11
Cost of sales and net operating expenses (1)
Profit before income tax 10
Income tax −
Profit after tax 10
On 3 August 2016, the Group signed a sale and purchase agreement relating to its interest in The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd.  
Cash proceeds of £30m were received on 2 December 2016, and are reported within current payables. The disposal remains 
subject to regulatory approval but it is expected to complete in 2017 .
An impairment loss of £26m writing down the carrying amount of the disposal group to its fair value less costs to sell has been 
included within the impairment charges recognised in the income statement. 160
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
25 Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisitions in 2016
£2m was paid in respect of businesses acquired in 2015 and prior years.
Acquisitions in 2015
On 5 October 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 49.9% shareholding in KROMAV Engenharia S.A., a company incorporated 
in Brazil, for a consideration of £3m. As a result of the transaction, the non-controlling interest released was £1m resulting in a 
charge of £4m recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Mandatory purchase of minority Foster Wheeler shareholders 
On 19 January 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler plc completed the squeeze-out merger under Swiss law (the ‘Squeeze-Out Merger’) 
of Foster Wheeler AG (‘Foster Wheeler’) through its wholly owned subsidiaries AMEC International Investments BV and A-FW 
International Investments GmbH.
All remaining Foster Wheeler shareholders received, for each Foster Wheeler share held, a combination of $16.00 in cash and 
either (i) 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler shares, if the shareholder’s address on the books and records of Foster Wheeler was 
outside the United States or (ii) 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler American depositary shares (‘ADSs’), if the shareholder’s address 
on the books and records of Foster Wheeler was in the United States.
The cash portion of the consideration was increased by $0.225 for each Amec Foster Wheeler share or Amec Foster Wheeler ADS 
received, in lieu of the Amec Foster Wheeler dividend of £0.148 (announced on 7 August 2014). This was calculated by converting 
the dividend amount to US$ (at the European Central Bank’s 5 January 2015 exchange rate of $1.5223 per £1.00).
In aggregate, Amec Foster Wheeler paid as consideration in the Squeeze-Out Merger £51m ($77m) in cash and issued 4,255,970 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares.
The purchase consideration was allocated as follows:
Recognised 
value 
£m
Assets acquired −
Liabilities assumed −
Net identifiable assets and liabilities −
Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity 75
Non-controlling interest acquired 10
85
Consideration
Shares issued 34
Cash paid on completion 51
85
Acquisitions in 2014
Foster Wheeler 
Background
On 6 October 2014, the Group launched a public tender offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG,  
the ultimate parent company of Foster Wheeler. Pursuant to the tender offer, which closed on 13 November 2014 (the acquisition 
date), the Group acquired 95.3 percent of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG. 
Consideration payable for the interests in Foster Wheeler acquired by the Group amounted to £1,915m (measured at fair value at 
the acquisition date), of which £979m was settled in cash, £919m was settled by the issue of ordinary shares and ADSs and £17m 
was settled by the grant of replacement share options and awards to Foster Wheeler employees. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 161
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
25 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
The purchase consideration was allocated as follows:
£m
Identifiable assets acquired
Property, plant and equipment 111
Identifiable intangible assets 742
Interests in joint ventures 73
Current tax receivable 13
Deferred tax assets 27
Inventories 11
T rade and other receivables 751
– Gross contractual amounts receivable 818
– Allowance for doubtful debts (67)
Derivative financial instruments (12)
Cash and cash equivalents 265
Liabilities assumed
Bank loans (39)
Finance lease obligations (32)
T rade and other payables (856)
Current tax (65)
Retirement benefit liabilities (72)
Deferred tax liabilities (113)
Provisions (592)
Net identifiable assets acquired 212
Non-controlling interests (23)
Goodwill 1,726
Consideration 1,915
Non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler were measured at their proportionate share of Foster Wheeler’s identifiable assets 
and liabilities at the acquisition date.
Goodwill of £1,726m was recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. Management considers that the goodwill is attributable 
to the future strategic growth opportunities arising from the acquisition, Foster Wheeler’s highly skilled, customer-oriented 
and collaborative assembled workforce, the significant cost synergies that are expected to result from the integration of Foster 
Wheeler with the Group’s existing operations, and the potential for tax synergies. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible 
for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler totalling £33m were recognised within administrative 
expenses during 2014. 
In the period from its acquisition to 31 December 2014, Foster Wheeler contributed £274m to the Group’s revenue and £1m to 
the Group’s trading profit. After amortisation, exceptional items and net asbestos-related items, Foster Wheeler generated a loss 
of £44m in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014.
Management estimated that if Foster Wheeler had been acquired on 1 January 2014, the Group’s revenue for the year would have 
been £1,814m higher than reported at £5,800m. Management was unable to estimate reliably what the Group’s profit or loss for 
the year would have been on this basis, principally because it is not practicable to retrospectively apply the significant purchase 
accounting adjustments that were made to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of Foster Wheeler at its acquisition 
date and the tax effects of those adjustments.
Changes to the provisional fair value allocation
As discussed above, during 2015 management completed its assessment of the fair values of Foster Wheeler’s assets and 
liabilities as at the acquisition date resulting in the recognition of additional goodwill of $245m. The most significant updates 
were as follows: 162
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
25 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
Longview
As previously disclosed, during 2015, the arbitration panel awarded Kvaerner approximately $74m (approximately £48m) 
in respect of the arbitration with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc arising from GPG’s role in the construction of the 
Longview power plant in West Virginia, US in 2011. As the contract was complete prior to the acquisition, this award has been fully 
reflected in the purchase price allocation.
Refinery project arbitration – India
As disclosed in the 2014 financial statements, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection 
of unpaid invoices in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India. Its client rejected the claim 
and submitted significant counterclaims. The provisional purchase price allocation included an allowance against the outstanding 
debts but, due to the ongoing risks and the passage of time, a further charge of £16m has been made. This represents full 
provision against the outstanding receivables.
Other project litigation
A provision of £33m has been established against costs expected to be disallowed and a potential alleged breach of warranty claim 
in respect of design work undertaken on a design, build and construct project based in the Southern US.
Management has performed a detailed review of the contracts in the GPG business and made provisions for defect rectification 
and damages claims totalling £19m across a number of contracts.
A number of smaller provisions (totalling £21m) have been established against specific contract risks.
Receivables and payables
Provision has been made against receivables and unbilled work in progress on a number of contracts (including £10m on 
one contract) that were outstanding as at the acquisition date and remained uncollected at the end of the hindsight period. 
Provision has also been made against an employment tax risk associated with a permanent establishment overseas.
Uncertain tax positions
Management has reviewed the ongoing tax positions of Foster Wheeler and increased the provisions for uncertain tax positions 
in a number of jurisdictions. The most significant increases withholding tax on potential deemed distributions.
Property, plant and equipment
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment has been reviewed resulting in a £9m write down of two properties to their 
expected market value.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax liabilities reduced by £23m. This movement includes a potential tax liability on the future unwind of an overseas 
branch, as well as the deferred tax impact of the additional adjustments to the purchase price offset by the impact of the 
finalisation of the intangible asset allocation. The recognition of deferred tax on the purchase price allocation is restricted  
as a result of uncertainty over future profits and capacity constraints.
Scopus
On 15 December 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Scopus Group (Holdings) Limited (Scopus) for £68m 
with £67m paid on completion and £1m deferred for one year. Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases in international oil and 
gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical 
and nuclear industries.
Goodwill of £35m was recognised on the acquisition which management considers is principally attributable to its skilled 
workforce which did not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset at the date of acquisition. This specialist expertise 
will complement Amec Foster Wheeler’s existing project delivery capability across the lifecycle of a project.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 163
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
25 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
Summary of financial effect
Purchase consideration was allocated as follows: 
£m
Intangible assets 31
T angible assets 1
T rade and other receivables 7
Cash and cash equivalents 3
T rade and other payables (3)
Deferred tax liability (6)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 33
Goodwill on acquisition 35
68
Consideration 
Cash – paid on completion 67
   – deferred 1
68
Scopus did not make a material contribution to the Group’s results for the year and would not have done so even if it had been 
acquired on 1 January 2014.
Disposals in 2016
On 7 December 2016, the sale to Energia Que Mueve A Chile (ENAP) of PetroPower Energia Limitada was completed.
The carrying value of the interests in joint ventures sold and profit on disposal in respect of the continuing operations were 
as follows:
£m
Cash consideration received 40
Interest in Joint Venture classified as held for sale (45)
Cumulative foreign exchange gains recycled from the translation reserve 10
Severance costs incurred as a result of the disposal (4)
Legal fees incurred and other related expenses (2)
Net loss on disposal (1)
26 Commitments
Operating lease commitments
The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
In one year or less 94 86
Between one and five years 225 224
Over five years 60 75
379 385
Amec Foster Wheeler enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires; leases for motor vehicles and office equipment 
with lease periods of two to five years; and longer-term property leases. None of the leases include any contingent rentals. 164
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
26 Commitments continued
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of property and deferred payment arrangements 
which are similar to finance leases for software. These leases have terms of renewal, but no purchase options or escalation 
clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. Future minimum lease payments under finance 
leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows:
2016 2015
Minimum 
payments 
£m
Present value 
of payments 
£m
Minimum 
payments 
£m
Present value 
of payments 
£m
In one year or less 15 12 6 4
Between one and five years 42 37 49 42
Over five years 10 9 15 13
T otal minimum lease payments 67 58 70 59
Less amounts representing finance charges (9) – (11) −
Present value of minimum lease payments 58 58 59 59
Included within the present value of minimum lease payments above is £7m relating to a finance lease classified within held 
for sale liabilities (2015: £nil).
27 Contingent liabilities 
Legal claims and actions
From time to time, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts. 
Such litigation includes claims or actions by and against the Group for cancelled contracts, for additional costs incurred in excess 
of contract provisions, as well as for back charges for alleged breaches of warranty and other contract commitments. We have 
recognised provisions for certain known or reasonably likely legal claims or actions against the Group. We do not expect known 
and reasonably likely legal claims or actions for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the 
Group’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Indemnities and retained obligations
We have agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and/or assets that were previously owned by the Group 
and were sold to them. Such indemnifications relate primarily to breach of covenants, breach of representations and warranties, 
as well as potential exposure for retained liabilities, environmental matters and third party claims for activities conducted by the 
Group prior to the sale of such businesses and/or asset. We have established provisions for those indemnities in respect of which 
we consider it probable that there will be a successful claim. We do not expect indemnities or retained obligations for which a 
provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Guarantees
During the year, one of the Group’s subsidiaries disposed of a refinery/electricity generation plant located in Chile. A condition 
of the disposal was that the subsidiary was required to sign an operation and maintenance contract with the purchaser. This has 
resulted in a number of performance obligations with respect to refinery output and electricity generation by the plant.
Mount Polley
The Mount Polley mine is owned and operated by Mount Polley Mining Corporation, a subsidiary of Imperial Metals Corporation, 
and is located near the town of Likely, British Columbia, Canada. On 4 August 2014, a tailings pond facility at the mine failed 
releasing large quantities of water and mine tailings into the local environment. The dam was in the process of being raised 
(as part of its annual raise) at the time of the failure. One of Amec Foster Wheeler’s subsidiaries, along with other parties, had 
various design and quality assurance responsibilities associated with the development of this facility. Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
subsidiary was providing engineering services at the time of the breach, but did not perform the original design.
An independent review panel, appointed by the government of British Columbia, issued a report on 30 January 2015 concluding 
that the cause of failure was shearing along a zone of weak soil along with other contributory factors. On 17 December 2015, the 
chief inspector of mines for British Columbia issued a report that for the most part agreed with the conclusions of the independent 
review panel. Whilst the chief inspector concluded that there were failings in the required standard of care of all of the engineers, 
he concluded that the responsibility for the breach lies primarily with the mine owner, Mount Polley Mining Corporation. He also 
concluded that there was no evidence of any significant contravention of regulatory requirements.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 165
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
27 Contingent liabilities continued
Mount Polley continued
On 4 July 2016, Mount Polley Mining Corporation and Imperial Metals Corporation filed suit against Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
subsidiary and others. The claim seeks CDN$3 million in costs payable to government agencies and unspecified damages for loss 
of profit, reconstruction costs and environmental remediation. Subsequent to this filing, several tourist operators and First Nations 
also filed suit alleging that they suffered damages as a result of the tailings facility failure. It is Amec Foster Wheeler management’s 
opinion that its employees performed in a professional manner consistent with the standard of care for a competent engineer 
on a project of this nature in British Columbia. In addition, the contracts between Amec Foster Wheeler’s subsidiary and Mount 
Polley Mining Corporation contain limitations of liability provisions that exclude claims for consequential damages and limit 
the subsidiary’s liability to Mount Polley Mining Corporation to the amount of professional fees charged, which were less than 
CDN$1 million.
Amec Foster Wheeler has retained outside counsel and filed a response to Mount Polley Mining Corporation’s civil claim on 
23 September 2016. Given the early stage of this matter, it is difficult to predict the likely outcome of this proceeding. Mindful 
of the foregoing caveat, it is Amec Foster Wheeler management’s opinion that it is probable that there will be an outflow in respect 
of this issue (with liability shared with the other parties), but it is probable that if there is an outflow to Mount Polley Mining 
Corporation, it will be limited to the prescribed contractual limitation of liability referenced above.
Investigations
Amec Foster Wheeler has received voluntary requests for information from, and continues to cooperate with, the SEC and the 
US Department of Justice (‘DOJ’) regarding the historical use of agents by Foster Wheeler, primarily in the Middle East, and certain 
of the Company’s other business counterparties in that region. In addition, the Company has provided information relating to the 
historical use of third parties by Foster Wheeler and certain of its operations to the DOJ and SEC in other regions. The Company 
has also made a disclosure to the UK Serious Fraud Office. Given the stage of these matters, it is not possible to estimate reliably 
what effect the outcome that any investigation or any regulatory determination may have on the Company.
Tax planning
The Group undertakes tax planning which is compliant with current legislation and accepted practice. Recent changes to the 
tax environment, including the OECDs project around Base Erosion and Profit Shifting have brought into question the legitimacy 
of tax planning previously undertaken by multinational entities. There have been several recent high profile tax cases against tax 
authorities and large groups. The European Commission continues formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax 
authorities in certain European countries comply with European Union rules, and has issued judgments in some cases which are 
being contested by the groups and the countries effected. We are monitoring the outcome of these cases in order to understand 
whether there is any risk to the Group. Based on the Group’s current assessment of such issues, it is too early to speculate on any 
areas of challenge and potential liabilities, and as a result, it is not currently considered probable that there will be an outflow in 
respect of these issues.
28 Related party transactions
During 2016 there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and subsidiary companies.
Transactions with the senior management group
During 2016, the senior management group consisted of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members and the presidents of the 
Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe, and the Global Power Group. 
The senior management group and immediate relatives controlled 0.20% of the voting rights of the Company as at 31 December 2016.
In addition to their salaries, the Company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and other senior managers and 
they receive share awards under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan. The Company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf 
of certain executive directors. Details of their compensation are as follows:
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 5 5
Pension costs − −
Equity-settled share-based payments 1 −
6 5 166
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
28 Related party transactions continued
Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures
The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows:
Value of transactions in the year Outstanding balance as at 31 December
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
Services received 1 1 – −
Services rendered 21 28 8 12
Provision of finance 9 − 24 17
Receipt of finance 2 − 2 −
During the year, a loan of £2m was advanced to the Group from an equity accounted joint venture at an interest rate of 4.35%.
In September 2012, the UK government’s Department for Business, Innovation and Skills announced a change to UK legislation 
with respect to the requirement for a UK company to be subject to annual audit. An additional audit exemption has been 
introduced, such that for a subsidiary of a parent established in a European Economic Area state, that subsidiary can be exempt 
from annual audit if certain conditions are met. The principal conditions are the requirement for the subsidiary’s shareholders 
to agree to the exemption and a guarantee to be issued to the subsidiary by the parent undertaking, guaranteeing all of the 
subsidiary’s outstanding liabilities at the year end, until they are satisfied in full.
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2016 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006,  
all of which are fully consolidated in these accounts: 
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited (Registered number: 6205760)
Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited (Registered number: 1580678)
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 07870120)
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4530056)
AMEC USA Finance Limited (Registered number: 5299446)
AMEC USA Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4041261)
AMEC USA Limited (Registered number: 4044800)
AMEC Wind Developments Limited (Registered number: 8781332)
Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7625013)
Atlantis Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 09302428)
Atlantis Hedge Co 2 Limited (Registered number: 09302562)
Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7285550)
Castlecary Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7611293)
Hilton Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7767187)
PI Energy & Emissions Limited (Registered number: SC209704)
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited (Registered number: 5318249)
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited (Registered number: 3863449)
29 Post balance sheet events
In January 2017 , the Company sold Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd., a specialist consultancy business based in Australia, to Jacobs 
Group (Australia) Pty Ltd for £21m. Aquenta contributed revenue of £27m and trading profit of £4m in 2016.
On 2 March 2017 , the Company signed an agreement to sell its core boiler business to Sumitomo Heavy Industries, Ltd for 
£137m. The core boiler business contributed revenues of £200m and trading profit of £25m. The sale is conditional on customary 
regulatory approvals in certain jurisdictions and is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2017 .
Also, on 2 March 2017 , the Group announced its intention to dispose of its nuclear business. The nuclear operations contributed 
revenue of £274m and trading profit of £16m in 2016.
T o ensure continued compliance with its financial covenants, the Company approached its banking group and on 10 April 2017 
successfully agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking facilities to 4.5:1 to provide additional headroom 
through to the reporting period ending 30 June 2018. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 167
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Note
2016
 £m
2015 
£m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 2 1 33
T angible assets 3 − 1
Investment in subsidiaries 4 3,359 4,219
3,360 4,253
Current assets
Debtors: including amounts falling due after one year of £2,442m (2015: £1,310m) 5 2,567 1,378
Cash at bank and in hand 54 41
2.621 1,419
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (1,467) (1,661)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 1,154 (242)
Total assets less current assets/(liabilities) 4,514 4,011
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 7 (3,117) (2,091)
Net assets 1,397 1,920
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8, 9 197 197
Share premium account 9 133 133
Capital redemption reserve 9 34 34
Merger reserve 9 33 540
Retained earnings
1
9 1,000 1,016
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,397 1,920
1 The company’s loss for the year was £418m (2015: £368m). 
The accounts on pages 167 to 175 were approved by the board of directors on 25 April 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
 
 
Jonathan Lewis Ian McHoul
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2016 168
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
For the year ended 31 December 2016
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Capital
 redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
As at 1 January 2016 197 133 540 34 1,016 1,920
Loss for the year − − − − (418) (418)
Total comprehensive loss for the year − − − − (418) (418)
T ransfer of impairment losses to merger 
reserve − − (507) − 507 −
Dividend − − − − (113) (113)
Equity-settled share-based payments − − − − 10 10
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the 
Performance Share Plan − − − − (2) (2)
As at 31 December 2016 197 133 33 34 1,000 1,397
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
As at 1 January 2015 194 101 877 34 1,198 2,404
Loss for the year − − − − (368) (368)
Total comprehensive loss for the year − − − − (368) (368)
T ransfer of impairment losses to merger 
reserve − − (337) − 337 –
Dividend − − − − (167) (167)
Equity-settled share-based payments − − − − 1 1
Utilisation of treasury shares − − − − 15 15
Shares issued 3 32 − − − 35
As at 31 December 2015 197 133 540 34 1,016 1,920
Company statement of changes in equity 169
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101) 
and under the historical cost convention, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account, as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:
 X the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ (details of the number and weighted-average 
exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of services received was determined)
 X the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
 X the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’
 X the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in respect of:
 – paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1
 – paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’
 – paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’
 X the requirements of the following paragraphs of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’:
 – 10(d) (statement of cash flows)
 – 16 (statement of compliance with all IFRSs) 
 – 38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements)
 – 38B-D (additional comparative information) 
 – 111 (cash flow statement information) 
 – 134-136 (capital management disclosures)
 X the requirements of IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’
 X the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ (requirement 
for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective)
 X the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (key management compensation)
 X the requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more 
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other 
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies 
and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from:
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
Determining whether the Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been impaired requires estimations of the investments’ 
recoverable amount. Where recoverable amount is based on value in use, these calculations require the entity to estimate 
the future cash flows expected to arise from the investments and suitable discount rates in order to calculate present values. 
The carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries at the balance sheet date was £3,359m (2015: £4,219m) with an impairment 
loss of £539m recognised in 2016 (2015: £351m).
Notes to the company accounts 170
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Accounting policies continued
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument 
and is as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currencies
T ransactions in a currency other than Sterling are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date and exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account in the year. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, 
from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2016 are as follows:
Software Three to seven years
Interest
Interest is recognised in profit or loss on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost less impairment losses. Where equity-settled share-based payments are granted to the employees 
of subsidiary companies, the fair value of the award is treated as a capital contribution by the Company and the investments in 
subsidiaries are adjusted to reflect this capital contribution.
Pensions
The Company participates in the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan (formerly the Amec Staff and Executive defined benefit 
pension schemes). The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Company. As there is no contractual 
agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost to individual Group entities, the Company has recognised 
a cost equal to the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Details of the defined benefit schemes can be found in note 14 of the consolidated accounts.
Contributions to the defined contribution schemes are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they become payable. 
Tangible assets
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, 
of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. The estimated useful lives as at 31 December 2016 are as follows:
Plant and equipment Three to five years
Remuneration of auditors
The detailed information concerning auditor’s remuneration is shown in note 4 of the consolidated accounts.
Share-based payments
There are share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster Wheeler 
shares; these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation model, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as a cost is adjusted to reflect 
the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all temporary differences between the treatment of certain items 
for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required 
by IAS 12 ‘Income T axes’ .
Notes to the company accounts continued 171
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
2 Intangible assets
Software 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2016 50
Additions 5
As at 31 December 2016 55
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2016 17
Impairment loss 31
Provided during the year 6
As at 31 December 2016 54
Net book value
As at 31 December 2016 1
As at 1 January 2016 33
3 T angible assets
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2016 4
Additions −
As at 31 December 2016 4
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2016 3
Provided during the year 1
As at 31 December 2016 4
Net book value
As at 31 December 2016 −
As at 1 January 2016 1 172
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
4 Investments (non-current)
Shares in 
subsidiaries 
£m
Amounts 
owed by 
subsidiaries 
£m
T otal 
investment in 
subsidiaries 
£m 
Cost
As at 1 January 2016 4,152 464 4,616
Additions 2,103 2 2,105
Disposals (2,819) (461) (3,280)
As at 31 December 2016 3,436 5 3,441
Provisions
As at 1 January 2016 397 − 397
Provided during the year 537 2 539
Disposals (854) − (854)
Reclassification (3) 3 −
As at 31 December 2016 77 5 82
Net book value
As at 31 December 2016 3,359 − 3,359
As at 1 January 2016 3,755 464 4,219
Group companies and their applicable registered offices are listed on pages 212 to 221.
5 Debtors
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 60 6
Derivative financial instruments 53 33
Corporation tax − 21
Prepayments and accrued income 12 8
125 68
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year
Derivative financial instruments 56 19
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 2,386 1,291
2,567 1,378
The deferred tax balance is analysed as follows:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Difference between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances − (1)
T ax losses − 1
− −
Notes to the company accounts continued 173
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Bank overdrafts 15 12
Bank and other loans 95 673
T rade creditors 45 42
Corporation T ax 1 −
Derivative financial instruments 54 33
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,257 901
1,467 1,661
On 1 March 2016, the Company entered into a new £1,700m syndicated credit facilities agreement comprising three tranches; 
a three-year £650m term loan (maturing 1 March 2019), a five-year £650m term loan (maturing 1 March 2021) and a five-year 
£400m revolving credit facility (maturing 1 March 2021). This new facility replaced the Company’s previous £377m revolving 
credit facility and the Foster Wheeler acquisition facility of $2.26bn.
At 31 December 2016, the Company had committed banking facilities of £1,661m (2015: £1,741m). As at 31 December 2016, 
the undrawn portion of the Company’s facilities was £300m.
7 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,784 1,509
Bank and other loans 1,276 563
Derivative financial instruments 57 19
3,117 2,091
8 Share capital
The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all 
respects. T o the Company’s knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company or on voting 
rights between holders of shares.
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 pence each 197 197
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £m
As at 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016 393,131,813 197
Share-based payment
Details of share-based payment schemes operated by the Company are provided in note 22 to the consolidated accounts. 174
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
9 Reserves
Movements in reserves are shown in the Company statement of changes in equity on page 168.
Details of dividends approved by the Company and paid during the year are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated accounts.
During 2012, Amec Foster Wheeler plc generated a significant profit from an internal restructuring. This becomes distributable 
as qualifying consideration is passed to Amec Foster Wheeler plc. As at 31 December 2016, £548m of reserves are considered 
to be distributable.
The Company’s loss for the year in 2016 was £418m (2015: £368m).
10 Staff costs and employee numbers 
 2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
Wages and salaries 23 19
Social security costs 2 2
Equity-settled share-based payments − (1)
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 1 −
Defined benefit pension scheme expense − 1
 26 21
 2016 
number
 2015 
number
The average number of people employed was as follows:
Administration 193 186
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 88.
Notes to the company accounts continued 175
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
11 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees and indemnities
Guarantees given by the Company in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries amounted to £nil as at 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil).
In addition, the Company is party to cross-guarantee arrangements relating to overdrafts for certain Group companies. 
The maximum gross exposure as at 31 December 2016 was £55m (2015: £79m).
The Company will guarantee the debts and liabilities of the following UK subsidiaries in accordance with Section 479C  
of the Companies Act 2006:
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited (Registered number: 6205760)
Amec Foster Wheeler Property And Overseas Investments Limited (Registered number: 1580678)
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 07870120)
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4530056)
AMEC USA Finance Limited (Registered number: 5299446)
AMEC USA Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4041261)
AMEC USA Limited (Registered number: 4044800)
AMEC Wind Developments Limited (Registered number: 8781332)
Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7625013)
Atlantis Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 09302428)
Atlantis Hedge Co 2 Limited (Registered number: 09302562)
Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7285550)
Castlecary Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7611293)
Hilton Wind Farm Limited (Registered number: 7767187)
PI Energy Emissions Limited (Registered number: SC209704)
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited (Registered number: 5318249)
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited (Registered number: 3863449)
The Company has assessed the probability of loss under these guarantees as remote.
12 Related party transactions
During the year the only related party transactions for which disclosure is required under FRS 101 ‘Financial Reporting Standard 
101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ were with the senior management group. As allowed by FRS 101, transactions with wholly 
owned subsidiary undertakings are not disclosed.
Transactions with the senior management group
The senior management group of the Company consists of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members.
The senior management group of the Company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.14% of the voting rights of the Company 
as at 31 December 2016.
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 88.  176
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Details of incorporation
Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company that is 
incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number 
01675285.
The Company’s registered office is situated at Booths Park, 
Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK.
The Company operates under English law.
The Company’s agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact 
address is 111 Eighth Avenue, New Y ork, New Y ork 10011, US.
Origins
Amec Foster Wheeler plc (as it is known today) was formed in 
1982, when Fairclough Construction merged with William Press 
Group. The Matthew Hall Group of Companies was acquired 
in 1988. As a business, we can trace our history back over 
150 years to the origins of these predecessor companies.
Subsequent transformation
In recent years, the Group’s activities have been transformed 
by exiting from civil construction and becoming a consultancy, 
engineering and project management business. We have 
achieved this transformation through a combination of organic 
growth, acquisitions and divestment of non-core activities. 
 X In 2000, we acquired AGRA Inc., a North American 
environmental, engineering and construction services 
company and Ogden Environmental and Energy Services Co. 
Inc., a US environmental consulting company.
 X In 2005, we acquired Paragon Engineering Services, Inc., 
a Houston-based oil and gas engineering services company 
and NNC Holdings Limited, a UK nuclear consultancy and 
engineering business.
 X Between 1997 and 2006, we bought and sold interests in 
SPIE, which provided electrical engineering, communications 
services and specialist activities in the energy and rail 
industries, predominantly in France. 
 X In 2007 , we sold our UK-based civil construction businesses.
 X In 2008, we acquired Geomatrix Consultants, Inc., a California-
based technical consulting and engineering firm; Rider Hunt 
International Limited, a project services company to the oil, 
gas, chemical, energy and process industries; and Bower 
Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited.
 X In 2008, we sold our wind developments business.
 X In 2009, we acquired GRD Limited, an engineering and project 
delivery company based in Perth, Australia, specialising in the 
design, procurement and construction of mineral projects.
 X In 2010, we acquired Entec Holdings Limited, a UK-based 
environmental and engineering consultancy company.
 X In 2011, we acquired MACTEC Inc., a US engineering and 
environmental services company; and QED International 
Limited, or qedi, an oil and gas completions and 
commissioning services company.
History and development
 X In 2012, we acquired Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants 
(UK) Limited, or ESRC, a UK-based nuclear technical services 
business, Unidel Group Pty Limited, or Unidel, a consulting, 
engineering and technical services company serving 
Australia’s energy, resources and infrastructure sectors 
and a 50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda, or KROMAV, 
a participant in the Brazilian oil and gas market, with an 
option to acquire the outstanding 50% stake.
 X In 2013, we acquired Automated Engineering Services Corp., 
a US design engineering nuclear services firm which provides 
support to existing nuclear utilities.
 X In November 2014, the Company acquired control of Foster 
Wheeler AG, a leading international engineering, construction 
and project management contractor and power equipment 
supplier, by way of a public tender offer. Foster Wheeler AG 
was a Swiss-registered company that was listed on NASDAQ 
in the US. At 31 December 2014, the Company owned 95.3% 
of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG. The remaining 
shares were acquired by way of a ‘squeeze-out merger’ during 
January 2015.
 X In December 2014, we acquired Scopus Group (Holdings) 
Limited (Scopus). Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with 
bases in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has around 
200 employees who provide specialist engineering services 
to the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear industries.
 X In 2015, we increased our stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda 
from 50% to 100%. In addition, we exercised our right to 
acquire the remaining 40% stake in S2V Consulting Pty Ltd, 
a company incorporated in Australia and providing specialised 
consulting services to our oil and gas customers including 
upstream/midstream, subsea and pipelines, onshore/offshore 
and production and processing. During December 2015, 
we also sold our interest in Project Management Holdings 
Limited, a company incorporated in Ireland and providing 
engineering, architecture, and project management and 
construction services internationally.
Developments during 2016 and 2017
During 2016, a disposal programme was put in place in order 
to dispose of a number of non-core businesses and assets. 
During 2016, the Company sold its 85% interest in PetroPower 
Energia Limitada, which was part of the Global Power Group. 
The Company also received £30m of proceeds in 2016 
from the sale of its 23% interest in Incheon Bridge Co, Ltd. 
This transaction has not yet completed and remains conditional 
on South Korean Government approval.
Also in the year, the Company signed an agreement to sell Amec 
Foster Wheeler Power s.r.l., which operates two wind farms in 
Italy and this transaction is expected to close in the second 
quarter of 2017 .
In January 2017 , the Company disposed of Aquenta Consulting 
Pty Ltd, a specialist consulting business based in Australia. 
In March 2017 , the Company signed an agreement to sell 
the Global Power Group’s core boiler business to Sumitomo 
Heavy Industries, Ltd, which, subject to customary regulatory 
approvals in certain jurisdictions, is expected to complete 
during the second quarter of 2017 .  177
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
We describe below those risks and uncertainties that we 
consider to be significant because their outcome may have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have not listed 
these risks and uncertainties in any particular order of priority. 
Other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to 
us, or that are known but not currently considered by us to 
be significant, could become apparent to us or change and 
therefore may ultimately have such material adverse effects. 
Adverse global economic, political or other macroeconomic 
developments in the markets and jurisdictions in which the 
Company operates may adversely affect the Company’s 
business, financial condition and results of operations
The Company derives the largest share of its revenue from 
the Oil, Gas & Chemicals (‘OG&C’) business line, which it 
expects to continue to be the case for the foreseeable future. 
In recent years, the oil and gas industry has faced a number 
of challenges, including continuing pressure on consumer 
demand, escalating costs and reduced oil and gas prices, 
as described in the risk factor entitled ‘Changes in the prices 
of commodities and other materials may adversely impact 
demand for the Company’s services’ below. Similar trends 
have also been experienced in the Mining industry. As a result 
of the continuing nature of these challenges, many oil and gas 
and mining companies have reduced, and may reduce further, 
their capital expenditure in response to financial and investor 
pressure, which has had and may continue to have a material 
adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
In other markets, such as Power & Process, spending 
by customers depends on cost developments for new 
technologies, support for government initiatives and 
the availability of funding for projects. In Environment & 
Infrastructure, spending by customers is dependent upon 
changing environmental regulations, such as emissions 
reductions regulations described in ‘The Company may 
be adversely impacted by regional, national and/or global 
requirements in respect of emissions reductions’ , as well 
as government spending on infrastructure projects, which 
may be influenced by budgetary constraints. The Company 
has experienced and may continue to experience increased 
competition for new contracts and some customers have 
also insisted on different, more onerous contract terms 
due to these conditions. 
Risk factors
The Company expects to continue to derive the majority of its 
revenue from its operations in the United Kingdom, the United 
States and Canada. Therefore, the Company may be particularly 
affected by political and economic conditions in these geographic 
regions, such as political uncertainty, energy prices, potential 
economic deterioration and the availability and cost of credit, 
and by political and economic conditions in other regions that 
affect the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada. 
The transition to a new presidential administration in the United 
States may cause uncertainty and unpredictability for a period 
of time which may impact confidence and spending levels. 
In addition, following the majority vote in June 2016 for the United 
Kingdom to leave the European Union, there is uncertainty as to 
the effects an exit may have on economic or market conditions 
in the United Kingdom, Europe or globally. 
The result of the UK general election on 8 June 2017 will also 
determine the stance Britain takes in its negotiations to leave 
the EU as well as the future of projects within the National 
Infrastructure Plan, which could create further uncertainty  
in UK projects. 
Such uncertainty has the potential to lead to decreased 
or delayed investments in projects in the United Kingdom. 
Prolonged uncertainty or a worsening of economic conditions 
in the United Kingdom could have a material adverse effect 
on the Company’s business, financial condition and results 
of operations. 
Adverse or volatile economic conditions may also impact liquidity 
and the availability of credit to the Company’s customers, as 
well as the demands of investors for greater returns in these 
markets, each of which may in turn influence the amount and 
timing of customer spending on capital investment and/ or asset 
maintenance and may result in delays or cancellation of projects. 
If the Company is unable to successfully anticipate changing 
economic and political conditions affecting the jurisdictions and 
markets in which it operates, it may be unable to effectively plan 
for, or respond to, those changes.
Changes in the prices of commodities and other materials 
may adversely impact demand for the Company’s service
Prices of commodities and other materials are volatile and 
influenced by a number of external factors, including the supply 
of, and demand for, the materials themselves, speculative 
activities by market participants, global political and economic 
conditions, the levels of production and the costs of exploring 
for, developing, producing, storing and delivering the materials. 
In particular, fluctuations in prices related to the oil and 
gas, metals, mining and minerals industries have adversely 
impacted the Company’s business since they have adversely 
affected customer spending. Fluctuations in prices have also 
adversely affected margins due to the reduced volume of work 
in the relevant industries and resulting increase in competition, 
which has negatively impacted margins for asset maintenance 
contracts, as well as for projects. During the year ended 
31 December 2016, the majority of the Company’s revenues 
were derived from OG&C and Mining. 178
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Oil prices have declined significantly since 2014, dropping  
below $26 per barrel in early 2016 before recovering somewhat.  
The reduction in oil prices has adversely impacted investment 
in both oil & gas production by driving companies to focus on 
ways in which they can be more capital efficient, and this may 
continue if oil prices remain low. For example, companies may 
choose to reduce overall levels of upstream and downstream 
capital expenditure and look at options to improve the efficiency 
of operating expenditure. In addition, low oil prices may 
also negatively affect the availability of funding for projects. 
Conversely, as oil prices recover, downstream oil and gas 
customers may reduce expenditure on projects as a result of 
increasing costs, which may negatively impact the Company 
as it seeks to grow its business in this segment. Fluctuations 
in the price of metals and minerals, such as gold and copper, 
have also impacted mining customer spending. Such declines 
in the levels of capital expenditure by mining customers as 
a result of a reduction in prices could negatively impact the 
Company’s operations. Any delay, deferral or size reduction in 
its customers’ projects may restrict the opportunities available 
to the Company for organic growth and the achievement of its 
targets. A sustained and significant adverse change in the prices 
of commodities and other materials could have a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
The Company is exposed to the risks associated with 
operating in developing markets
The Company expects that an increasing proportion of 
revenues in the future will be in developing markets. Operations 
in these markets are exposed to risks that may not be 
encountered in countries with well established economic and 
political systems, which include, to a greater or lesser extent, 
changes in governmental regulations, trade restrictions and 
laws, tariffs and other barriers, the potential for nationalisation 
of enterprises or government policies favouring local production 
or restricting foreign investment, renegotiation or nullification of 
existing agreements, fluctuations in interest rates and currency 
exchange rates, the introduction of exchange controls and other 
restrictions by these foreign governments, timeliness of client 
payments, differing protections for intellectual property and 
enforcement thereof and divergent environmental laws and 
regulations. The Company may also be subject to heightened 
levels of crime, corruption or arbitrary and/or inconsistent 
governmental actions. These risks may impact the Company’s 
ability to operate successfully in a given emerging market in 
which it does not have experience operating or may influence its 
decision to expand its operations into other emerging markets. 
Furthermore, some of these jurisdictions may have complex 
and, at times, immature legal and regulatory frameworks. 
Amec Foster Wheeler endeavours to conduct its business in 
accordance with the principles set forth in its Code of Business 
Conduct, and with its policies and procedures, and within the 
framework set by applicable regulatory requirements in each 
of its chosen markets and in the geographic regions in which 
it operates. However, if the Company does not comply with 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements, either as a result 
of the actions of its employees or the employees of the partners 
with whom the Company sometimes operates, this may lead to 
the loss of licences, cessations of business and/or potential civil 
and criminal liability for the Company and its management. 
In addition, political and social unrest, for example in the  
Middle East, has had, and may continue to have, a negative 
impact on existing and future opportunities in the region. 
Political, economic and social instability may impact the 
Company’s operations by hindering its ability to send 
personnel abroad, to hire and retain local personnel, to conduct 
its operations in the same manner that it would in other 
jurisdictions or by requiring it to exit unstable jurisdictions. 
The foregoing may result in higher costs and have a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition 
and results of operations. 
The Company’s future business performance will depend 
on the award of new contracts, which depends on factors 
not entirely within the Company’s control
A substantial portion of the Company’s operating revenues are 
derived from new contract awards or projects. It is generally 
difficult to predict whether and when contracts will be awarded 
due to the lengthy and complex bidding and selection process. 
This process is affected by a number of factors, such as 
market conditions, a bidder’s reputation and experience both 
in the market and with the customer, financing arrangements, 
governmental approvals and environmental authorisations. 
The Company may experience a loss of new business, and 
therefore a loss of market share, if it is unable to accurately 
assess these factors as part of its bid. The Company has 
also experienced competition in relation to tenders for new 
contracts on price and/or based on the greater perceived 
financial strength, resources, experience or technological 
advantages of its competitors. The Company competes 
with international, national and local engineering, project 
management and consultancy firms. The Company may have 
to agree to lower prices or less favourable contract terms for 
contracts under bid or risk losing a bid, or it may decide not 
to pursue a contract if the expected profit margins are below 
minimum acceptable margins based on an assessment of the 
project or if the contract terms are unacceptable, all of which 
could negatively impact the Company’s order book and future 
business performance.
The bidding costs associated with tendering for new contracts 
can be significant and may not necessarily result in the award 
of a new contract. These costs are not usually recoverable, even 
if the tender is won. Furthermore, if new contract awards are 
not received, if awards are delayed or there are modifications 
regarding the scope of the contract, the Company may incur 
additional costs reallocating staff in a timely manner or may 
be required to terminate excess staff. In addition, preparation 
of bids can divert significant management and operating 
resources away from other activities key to the running  
of the business.
Any of the above factors could impact the Company’s ability to 
win new contracts and the failure to do so could have a material 
adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results 
of operations. 
Risk factors continued 179
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery 
could result in damage to reputation and/or loss of repeat 
business, and potentially lead to disputes
Many of the contracts that the Company enters into with 
its customers are long-term and may contain liquidated 
damages clauses relating to on time delivery and/or liquidated 
damages relating to performance and/or liability in respect of 
unliquidated damages. A number of factors, including failure 
to follow best practice guidelines, could mean that projects 
are not delivered to time, cost, quality or appropriate health, 
safety and environmental standards and therefore do not meet 
customer expectations or the expectations of the relevant 
third party. Any failure to deliver in accordance with customer 
expectations could subject the Company to damages and/or 
reduce its margins on these contracts. Failure to meet customer 
expectations may also result in disputes or litigation, cancelled 
contracts, additional costs incurred in excess of current 
contract provisions, or back-charges for alleged breaches 
of warranty and other contract commitments. Damage to the 
Company’s reputation or loss of repeat business as a result of 
its failure to meet its customers’ expectations could negatively 
impact its ability to win contracts in the future. The occurrence 
of any of these events could have a material adverse effect 
on the Company’s business, financial condition and results 
of operations.
Lump sum contracts are subject to the risks associated 
with unanticipated modifications, technical problems 
and delays, which may have material negative financial 
consequences
The Company enters into reimbursable contracts (including 
target price contracts), in which it contracts either on the basis 
of actual costs plus a fee or multiplier or, especially in the oil 
and gas market, on the basis of a schedule of daily or hourly 
rates, and lump sum contracts, in which it contracts based 
upon specifications and other design information provided 
by the customer. Lump sum contracts have accounted for an 
increasing proportion of the Company’s revenue and order book 
and are expected to continue to grow in the medium term. 
Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable 
contracts because the selling price of the project is agreed 
based on estimates at the time the contractor enters into the 
contract and the contractor assumes a greater proportion of 
the risks associated with completing the project. In particular, 
in the engineering, procurement and construction (‘EPC’) 
contracts in which the Company engages, the contractor 
sometimes has to assume the risk of design changes for 
which there is no variation entitlement under the contract 
because the contractor has assumed responsibility for the 
engineering design development, for example in situations 
where contractual responsibility has to be accepted for a 
front end design undertaken by others. The Company would 
typically seek to review the front end engineering design 
prior to agreeing to an EPC price and schedule. There can 
be no assurance that the Company will have the opportunity 
to fully validate the front end design before fixing the price 
and schedule. There may also be unanticipated technical 
problems with the equipment being supplied or developed by 
the contractor, changes in the costs of components, materials 
or labour, difficulties in obtaining required governmental 
permits or approvals, changes in labour conditions and 
other unexpected delays or costs. If any of the Company’s 
contracts are subject to these changes or modifications, and 
if the Company is unable to obtain a variation of the existing 
contract, or is not sufficiently reimbursed for the costs incurred 
as a result of these changes or modifications, there could be 
a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
Long term contracts may be subject to early termination, 
variation or non renewal provisions
The Company enters into long term contracts with customers, 
which are performed over a period that may exceed two years. 
Such contracts may be terminated earlier than expected, 
either within the relevant notice periods or upon default 
or non performance by the Company, which may result in 
additional costs if adequate compensation is not received. 
It may be difficult to replace any lost contract with a new 
equally attractive contract, a new but less attractive contract, 
or at all. The Company’s contracts may be subject to variation 
by renegotiation or by requiring a different level of service to 
be provided. In some reimbursable contracts, customers may 
disagree with the statement showing the costs which have been 
incurred on a project. Such costs may be disallowed and so may 
not be recoverable. T o the extent that the Company experiences 
any of the foregoing risks, it may experience reduced 
profitability or losses. As a result, this could have a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
Projects included in the Company’s order book may be 
delayed or cancelled
The Company’s order book, at any specified date, consists of 
the Company’s share of the total remaining value of secured 
projects to be executed. Contracts are only included in the 
Company’s order book when they are signed or if they are due 
to be formally signed off within one month. Changes in project 
scope or schedule create uncertainty as to the portion of orders 
that can be performed or the amount of revenue that will be 
recognised in any given year. Customers may also not be able to 
secure approvals for their projects, which could result in a delay 
or cancellation of the proposed project. Even where a project 
proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties 
may default and fail to pay amounts owed or fail to comply with 
the indemnity obligations in a given contract. Furthermore, 
fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the value 
of the order book. As a result of these uncertainties, the 
order book may not be a reliable indicator of future operating 
revenues or profitability. Material delays, cancellations or 
payment defaults could have a material adverse effect on 
the Company’s business, financial condition and results 
of operations. 180
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Failure to successfully defend against claims made by 
project owners, suppliers or subcontractors, or failure to 
recover adequately on claims made against project owners, 
suppliers or subcontractors, could materially adversely 
affect the Company’s business, financial condition and 
results of operations
The Company’s projects involve complex designs and 
engineering, the procurement of equipment and supplies 
and construction/construction management. The Company 
may encounter difficulties related to designs or engineering, 
equipment and supply delivery, schedule changes and other 
factors, some of which are beyond its control that may 
affect its ability to complete the project in accordance with 
the original delivery schedule or to meet the contractual 
performance obligations.
The Company generally relies on equipment manufacturers, 
subcontractors and suppliers to assist with the completion of 
their contracts, and the Company will continue to rely on such 
parties to complete its contracts in the future. As such, claims 
involving project owners, suppliers and subcontractors and 
other counterparties may be brought against the Company 
and by the Company in connection with project contracts that 
had been previously entered into by the Company. Claims 
brought against the Company may include back charges for 
alleged defective or incomplete work, breaches of warranty, 
negligence and/or late completion of the project work. The 
claims and back charges can involve actual damages, as well 
as contractually agreed-upon liquidated sums. The Company 
may suffer losses on contracts if the amounts it is required to 
pay for subcontractor services exceed the original estimates. 
Claims brought by the Company against project owners may 
include claims for additional costs incurred in excess of current 
contract provisions arising out of project delays and changes 
in the previously agreed scope of work. Claims between the 
Company and its suppliers, subcontractors and vendors may 
include claims for non-performance, delayed performance 
or sub-standard performance like those described above. 
These project claims, if not resolved through negotiation, are 
often subject to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration 
proceedings, and it is often difficult to accurately predict when 
these claims will be fully resolved and what the ultimate cost 
will be. Costs and charges associated with claims could have 
a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial 
condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, the Company assumes the technical risk and 
associated warranty obligations for selected contracts and 
projects meaning that the Company must tailor products and 
systems to satisfy the technical requirements of a project even 
though, at the time the project is awarded, they may not have 
previously produced such a product or system. The Company, 
as part of its operations, provides process technology and may 
be required to assume risks associated with the performance 
of such technology. Warranty obligations in both reimbursable 
and lump sum contracts can range from re-performance 
of engineering services to modification or replacement of 
equipment. Breach of technical requirements and associated 
warranty obligations could have a material adverse effect 
on the Company’s business, financial condition and results 
of operations. 
The success of the Company’s projects depends 
substantially on the satisfactory performance by its 
partners of their contractual and other obligations
The Company has historically bid for contracts jointly with 
various partners, which are subject to inherent risks, such as 
differing opinions or views between partners, which may result 
in delayed decision making or a failure to agree on material 
issues. The Company expects to continue to enter into similar 
arrangements from time to time and as needed for contracts, 
thereby exposing it to such risks. In addition, from time to 
time, in order to establish or preserve a relationship, or to 
better ensure venture success, the Company may accept risks 
or responsibilities that are not necessarily proportionate to 
the reward it expects to receive. Although the Company may 
have decision making and audit rights in respect of its joint 
contractual arrangements, it typically will not wholly operate 
these ventures and therefore the Company may have limited 
control over decisions and actions, including internal controls 
and financial reporting.
The success of these contractual arrangements also depends, 
in large part, on the satisfactory performance by the Company’s 
partners of their contractual and other obligations, including 
their obligation to commit working capital, equity or security 
and to support their indemnification and other contractual 
obligations. If a partner fails to satisfactorily perform its 
obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, the 
parties may be unable to adequately perform or deliver their 
contracted services. Under these circumstances, the Company 
may be required to make additional investments and provide 
additional services to ensure the adequate performance and 
delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations 
could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, increased 
liabilities or significant losses with respect to the contract. In 
addition, a failure by a partner to comply with applicable laws, 
rules or regulations has in the past and could in the future 
negatively impact the Company’s reputation and business and, 
furthermore, could expose the Company to the risk of civil or 
criminal penalties, fines or the loss of licensing. In particular, 
the Company may decide to exit the arrangement on terms 
less favourable than its initial investment.
The occurrence of any of these events could have a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
Risk factors continued 181
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
If the Company is unable to execute its business strategy, 
its business, financial condition and results of operations 
could be adversely affected
Amec Foster Wheeler’s financial performance and future 
prospects depend significantly on its ability to successfully 
implement its transformation programme and growth strategy, 
both at a corporate level and for individual business lines. 
The success of Amec Foster Wheeler’s strategic delivery 
will rely on its ability to identify new opportunities and to 
generate sufficient customer interest for new offerings and 
in new segments and jurisdictions. This will be impacted by 
competition and, in particular, how Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
competitors respond to the Company’s refreshed business 
line strategies and existing market conditions. Furthermore, 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s ability to expand its existing offerings 
internationally will be subject to the risks of operating in new 
regions, and in particular in developing markets, as described 
in the risk factor entitled “The Company is exposed to the risks 
associated with operating in developing markets” . T ransfer of 
employees and compliance with regulation, among other things, 
will result in additional costs for the Company. 
The successful delivery of Amec Foster Wheeler’s corporate 
strategy is contingent on the Company’s ability to retain or 
attract employees with specific skill sets, as described in the 
risk factor entitled “The Company may lose key management 
or face difficulty in attracting and retaining appropriately 
skilled personnel” , to deliver efficient services to customers, 
meeting their expectations and demands and, in some specific 
instances, to expand the scope of work beyond what Amec 
Foster Wheeler has traditionally provided to its customers. 
This will, in part, require the development or introduction 
of new technological offerings or the establishment of new 
partnerships with industry participants, such as technology 
owners or EPC contractors. There can be no assurances that 
new offerings will be implemented in a timely manner or at all, 
and any delay may result in Amec Foster Wheeler incurring 
additional costs. There can also be no assurances that new 
partnerships will develop as expected, which may impact Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s ability to deliver certain services to customers. 
Part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s strategy will also entail building 
the capacity and headcount of its India Operations. The 
Company expects that these operations will enable it to more 
efficiently and effectively deliver projects to its customers 
across all markets. Failure to do so may impact Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s ability to compete on new bids, as well as its ability  
to deliver projects in line with customer expectations. 
In the event that Amec Foster Wheeler is unable to achieve 
the anticipated benefits of its strategic plan, this could have 
a material adverse effect on its growth prospects and future 
profitability. In addition, depending on changing market, 
operational and financial conditions and management’s future 
expectations, the Company may decide to alter or discontinue 
certain aspects of its stated strategy.
Implementation of Amec Foster Wheeler’s new 
organisational model involves numerous challenges that 
may be more time-consuming and costly than expected,  
or may not achieve the expected results
Amec Foster Wheeler has recently reorganised its 
organisational model along four market facing business lines 
in order to better align its business to meet customer needs 
and increase efficiency. A significant amount of management’s 
time has been and will be dedicated to the reorganisation and 
this may impact their ability to run the business effectively. 
In addition, it is possible that the reorganisation may result in 
turnover of key personnel and the management team may be 
required to spend additional time and money hiring suitable 
replacements. Uncertainty arising from the reorganisation 
could also result in decreased productivity by Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s employees, which in turn could negatively impact 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s ability to deliver projects to the required 
timeframe or quality and could have a negative impact on the 
Company’s reputation.
Furthermore, as part of the reorganisation Amec Foster Wheeler 
identified approximately £100 million of net annualised cost 
savings, primarily through a reduction in headcount, along 
with associated property and personnel costs. Such actions 
may lead to employee dissatisfaction, which could impact the 
Company’s ability to meet its obligations under its contracts 
and manage its operations efficiently, and may also negatively 
impact the Company’s ability to attract individuals to fill 
key roles. T o the extent that these measures take longer 
than expected to implement, this may negatively impact 
the Company’s ability to achieve its targeted cost savings 
and the Company may be required to incur additional costs. 
Furthermore, such headcount reductions carry the risk of legal 
actions taken by employees who believe they have been unfairly 
or wrongfully terminated. Legal actions could result in additional 
costs being incurred by the Company. 182
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The Company is subject to risks associated with divesting 
non-core businesses and assets
The Company may face risks arising out of its ongoing portfolio 
review. In particular, the Company may be unable to find 
purchasers for assets or businesses to be disposed, and the 
Company may not be able to meet the targets associated with 
its disposal programme. For example, it has taken longer than 
expected to execute the sale of the Global Power Group and, 
although the sale of the circulating fluidised bed boiler business 
is expected to close in the second quarter of 2017 , the Company 
is still in discussions on the sale of the remaining portion of the 
business. Activities arising from the ongoing portfolio review 
and any subsequent disposals will require additional time of key 
management, as well as additional financial resources. T o the 
extent that the Company is unable to proceed with the portfolio 
review and any disposals in the timeframe that it expects, or 
further management or other resources are required to carry 
out those activities, it may have a negative financial impact 
on the Company.
The Company remains at risk of potential litigation and 
business claims in relation to divested and non-core businesses 
where it has provided warranties and/or indemnities to the 
purchaser or has continuing obligations, such as to carry out 
environmental remediation. Where appropriate, the Company 
has made provision for these obligations, but it is possible that 
the actual costs incurred in settling any claims will materially 
exceed those provisions. Claims that may arise in connection 
with such obligations and liabilities may divert the Company’s 
management and may result in additional financial resources 
being incurred, and could have a material adverse effect 
on the Company’s business, financial condition and results 
of operations.
A major environmental or health and safety incident could 
lead to reputational damage and potential liabilities
The Company is involved in activities and environments that 
can be dangerous and that have the potential to cause serious 
injury to personnel or damage to property or the environment. 
The Company’s projects are complex and place employees 
and others near large equipment, dangerous processes, highly 
regulated materials or in remote and challenging environments. 
The Company is responsible for the safety and security of its 
employees travelling on company business and while working 
at project sites, and of third party personnel while working 
at project sites under the supervision of the Company, and, 
accordingly, must implement safety procedures. Failure 
to comply with such procedures may cause the Company 
to be subject to losses and liability under client contracts 
or statutory regulations.
Should significant environmental damage occur, either as a 
result of actions by the Company or by third parties, this could 
have a negative impact in the markets in which the Company 
operates. Any failure in health and safety performance or a 
major environmental incident is likely to result in additional 
costs in terms of potential liabilities or remediation costs 
incurred as a result. Such a failure could generate significant 
adverse publicity, result in employee turnover and damage the 
Company’s reputation, which may adversely impact its ability 
to win new business, which, in turn, could have a material 
adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results 
of operations.
Failure to comply with health, safety and environmental 
laws could have a material adverse effect on the business, 
financial condition and results of operations of the 
Company
The Company is subject to numerous laws, regulations and 
policies concerning the protection of health, safety and the 
environment, such as those concerning the use and production 
of waste and by products considered to be hazardous under 
the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in 
which it operates, including nuclear and low level radioactive 
materials, the remediation of environmental contamination, 
waste water and waste disposal or that otherwise relate to 
environmental protection. Failure to comply with such laws, 
regulations and policies could potentially lead to reputational 
damage, fines, litigation and claims for compensation, which 
can be substantial. Non-compliance may also result in the 
withdrawal or suspension of licences and permits, or the 
Company may be forced to undertake extensive remedial clean 
up action or to pay for government ordered remedial clean up 
actions, even in cases where such hazards have been caused 
by third parties. The Company may also be subject to liabilities 
for environmental contamination as an owner or operator 
(or former owner or operator) of a facility or as a generator 
of hazardous substances without regard to negligence or 
fault. The Company could also be exposed to risks associated 
with the proper storage and decommissioning of radioactive 
materials and the impact of nuclear regulation. As part of any 
contract involving work or services at or in connection with 
nuclear facilities, the Company typically seeks an indemnity 
in respect of nuclear liability from its customers. Where an 
indemnity is not provided, international nuclear conventions, 
such as the Paris Convention and the Vienna Convention, 
protect the Company against liability, provided that the 
Company’s contracting entity is registered in a country which 
is a signatory of the relevant convention. However, an incident 
which results in a breach of nuclear regulation, including 
contamination, may still result in reputational damage for 
the Company. In cases where the Company’s customers are 
not prepared to provide an indemnity of this nature, and if no 
protection is provided by local legislation and/or international 
convention, the Company may be required to bear the cost of 
such liabilities in addition to any reputational damage.
Changes in environmental laws and regulations, remediation 
obligations, enforcement actions, stricter interpretations of 
existing requirements, future discovery of contamination or 
claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources 
or the environment could result in unanticipated material costs 
and liabilities. There can be no assurance that the Company will 
not incur significant additional costs in the future or be subject 
to further liabilities in relation to its operations. The Company 
is also required to comply with environmental and engineering 
licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which 
it currently operates. Failure to do so could lead to fines, 
disgorgement of profits, withdrawal or suspension of licence 
or other penalties. The occurrence of any of these events could 
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
Risk factors continued 183
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
If the actual number and/or cost to Amec Foster Wheeler 
of resolving asbestos-related claims is higher than 
expected, there may be an adverse effect on its cash flows 
and its results to the extent that the additional cost is not 
covered by insurance, or expected insurance recoveries are 
not, in fact, realised
Certain of Amec Foster Wheeler’s subsidiaries have been named 
as defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and 
out of court administrative claims in which the plaintiffs claim 
damages for bodily injury or death alleged to have arisen from 
exposure to asbestos, primarily in connection with asbestos 
placed by others on steam generating units and auxiliary 
equipment allegedly assembled, installed and/or sold by those 
subsidiaries. In the United States, certain former Foster Wheeler 
subsidiaries have received claims alleging personal injuries due 
to contracting work performed by them and occasionally from 
exposure to asbestos-containing components installed in their 
steam generating units and auxiliary equipment. The Company 
expects that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in 
additional and/or similar suits, and that new claims will be filed 
in the future. Whilst some of these claims have been, and are 
expected to be, made in the United Kingdom, the majority have 
been, and are expected to be, made in the United States.
The Company has provided for the estimated indemnity 
amounts and defence costs that it expects to incur in relation to 
open and expected future asbestos-related claims in each year 
in the period to 2050. The Company has also recognised the 
estimated future recoveries under its insurance arrangements 
against the costs of resolving these claims.
Several factors, including differences in how claims are 
evaluated and external events affecting the quantity and types 
of asbestos claims, could result in the cost of current asbestos 
claims and the number and cost of future asbestos claims being 
substantially higher than previously estimated. The timing of 
payment of such claims could also be sooner than expected 
and the duration of the payment period for asbestos liabilities 
could be longer than previously estimated.
It is possible that the actual number of future claims brought 
against the Company and the cost of resolving pending and 
future claims could be substantially higher than expected due 
to a number of factors, which include:
 X an increase in the rate at which new claims are filed and 
increases in the number of new claimants;
 X adverse changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered 
by the claimants;
 X adverse changes in the mix of claimants making allegations;
 X increases in indemnity payments or defence costs associated 
with asbestos claims;
 X decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero 
indemnity payments;
 X indemnity payments being required to be made sooner 
than expected;
 X adverse fluctuations in the discount rate (e.g., the 30 Y ear US 
T reasury Rate) used to discount the provision for asbestos-
related claims and related insurance recoveries; 
 X adverse changes to forecasting, estimation or valuation 
assumptions or methodologies (whether related to potential 
liabilities, claims and/or associated costs);
 X payment of damages in amounts greater than expected; or
 X adverse changes in legislative or judicial standards governing 
the filing, handling or resolution of asbestos-related claims.
Whilst certain of these claims are covered by insurance, the 
settlements that the Company made with its insurers were 
sometimes for fixed monetary amounts and/or provide cover 
only for claims made before a specified future date. Accordingly, 
a future increase in Amec Foster Wheeler’s asbestos-related 
liabilities would not result in an equivalent increase in the 
amount recoverable from those insurers. It is also possible  
that insurance recoveries may not be realised in full and on time 
or at all, due to insurer insolvency or for some other reason.  
T o the extent that any defence and/or indemnity costs 
incurred by Amec Foster Wheeler for open and expected future 
asbestos-related claims are not covered by insurance proceeds, 
it would be responsible for the payment of those costs, which 
would adversely affect its cash flows.
If further provisions are necessary to sufficiently cover future 
asbestos related liability, this could have a material adverse 
effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and 
results of operations.
The Company may be adversely impacted by regional, 
national and/or global requirements in respect of 
emissions reductions
International agreements, national laws, state laws and various 
regulatory schemes that limit or otherwise regulate emissions 
measuring and control of air pollutants and greenhouse 
gases are under consideration by different governments 
and governmental entities. Increasingly stringent regulatory 
requirements in the area of air pollution control and greenhouse 
gases may be imposed in the future. For example, in 2015 the 
United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris (‘COP21’) 
established a new framework for achieving reduced emissions 
levels, which in turn means lower fossil fuel consumption. 
Such regulations may negatively impact client investments 
in capital projects in the Company’s markets. For example, it 
is anticipated that, following COP21, the oil and gas industry 
will be negatively impacted in a number of ways. In particular, 
exploration may decline which would in turn lead to a significant 
reduction in capital expenditure by the Company’s customers. 
Furthermore, involvement in markets which are perceived as 
being high in carbon emissions may negatively impact Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s ability to grow its business and market its 
services in the renewables and ‘low carbon’ markets. The 
occurrence of any of these events could have a materially 
adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition 
and results of operations. 184
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The Company may lose key management or face difficulty 
in attracting and retaining appropriately skilled personnel
The Company’s future success is dependent on its ability to 
attract and retain key management and suitably qualified 
people to execute its projects, such as qualified engineering 
managers and lead engineers, project managers and other 
highly skilled personnel for their new and ongoing businesses 
and projects. In some of the markets in which the Company 
operates, there is still a scarcity of resources for key positions 
and ongoing competition for suitably qualified and experienced 
personnel from other companies and organisations. 
While the Company may have appropriately qualified and 
experienced personnel, it may find it difficult to move them 
between projects and regions and this could impact its 
ability to meet obligations under its contracts. In addition, in 
certain jurisdictions, the Company may be required to meet 
employment or ownership targets for local and/or historically 
disadvantaged populations. In addition, Amec Foster Wheeler 
may be unable to provide compensation to such individuals 
at the same level as its competitors, which may put it at a 
competitive disadvantage.
Senior management has contributed to the Company’s 
ability to obtain, generate, manage and develop customer 
and revenue opportunities. There can be no assurances that 
such individuals will remain following the reorganisation of 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s business. Prolonged absences by or 
shortages of key personnel and difficulties in relocating the 
Company’s personnel could adversely affect the Company’s 
ability to implement its strategy and manage its operations 
efficiently, which could have a material adverse effect on its 
business, financial condition and results of operations. See the 
risk factor entitled “Implementation of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
new organisational model involves numerous challenges that 
may be more time-consuming and costly than expected, 
or may not achieve the expected results” above. 
Failure or security breaches of the Company’s information 
technology (‘IT’) systems and/or data security may result 
in losses
The Company is dependent on the efficient operation of its IT 
systems and its use of internal and client data. Such systems, 
including those provided by third party service providers, may 
fail and/or sensitive data held by them may be lost.
Information and communication systems by their nature 
are susceptible to internal and external security breaches, 
including computer hacker and cyber-terrorist breaches, 
wilful breaches by employees and employees succumbing 
to criminal scamming from external sources, and can fail or 
become unavailable for a significant period of time. A significant 
performance failure of Amec Foster Wheeler’s IT systems could 
lead to loss of control over critical business, project information, 
client and Company information and/or systems (such as 
design tools, contract costs, invoicing, payroll management 
and/or internal reporting), resulting in an adverse impact on the 
ability to operate effectively or to fulfil contractual obligations. 
Such failure may, in turn, lead to a loss of customers, revenue 
and profitability, the incurring of significant remedial costs 
and reputational harm. 
The Company’s operations are especially dependent on the use 
of internal data and customer data. The Company has incurred, 
and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with mandatory 
privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by 
law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations 
relating to the collection, use and security of personal 
information data. Failure to comply with such data privacy 
laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, claims and 
reputational damage. Additionally, if data security controls fail, 
there is a risk that the Company will unintentionally disclose 
protected, sensitive or personal data, including important 
intellectual property, which could lead to the violation of client 
confidentiality agreements, reputational harm and the loss of 
critical data, and which in turn could lead to fines and/or claims.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect 
on the Company’s business, financial condition and results 
of operations. 
Failure to adequately defend intellectual property rights or 
third-party claims of intellectual property rights violation 
could result in a loss of future business to competitors 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s intellectual property consists mainly  
of trademarks in some of the jurisdictions in which it operates 
and limited patented technology. The Company has relied  
on a variety of laws and contractual restrictions to protect  
its intellectual property rights, including patent protection,  
laws governing trade secrets and unfair competition and  
non-disclosure and confidentiality provisions. 
The Company protects its intellectual property using any 
available legal means, including, where necessary, pursuing 
legal action. However, these means may not adequately protect 
the Company’s rights or permit the Company to gain or keep 
any competitive advantage. The Company may be required 
to defend claims of patent infringement, infringement of 
third-party proprietary rights or breach of confidence, and its 
success within the Company’s historic markets will depend on 
its ability to do so. Any claims, even if they are without merit, 
may be burdensome, expensive and time consuming to defend, 
subject the Company to damages, cause it to cease making, 
using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed 
intellectual property, require it to redesign its products, divert 
management time and attention and/or require it to enter into 
costly royalty or licensing agreements, in each case which could 
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
Risk factors continued 185
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Failure to comply with anti corruption laws and 
regulations, economic sanction programmes or other 
laws and regulations may result in the Company becoming 
subject to fines or penalties and the disruption of its 
business activities
Many of the countries in which the Company operates have 
anti corruption laws and regulations that restrict the offer or 
payment of anything of value to government officials or other 
persons with the intent of gaining business or favourable 
government action. The Company is subject to these laws and 
regulations, including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
of 1977 and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Additionally, economic 
sanctions programmes, including those administered by 
the United Nations, the European Union and the US Office 
of Foreign Asset Control, restrict the Company’s business 
dealings with certain sanctioned countries. Many of these 
regulations and sanctions programmes establish record 
keeping obligations.
The Company is exposed to the risk of violating anti corruption 
laws and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries 
where it or its partners operate. Some of the locations in which 
the Company currently operates lack a developed legal system 
and have high levels of corruption. 
Whilst the Company mandates compliance with relevant 
policies, laws and regulations (including anti-corruption laws), 
and has implemented procedures and controls to monitor 
internal and external compliance, there can be no assurance 
that the Company’s policies and procedures will be followed 
at all times or will effectively detect and/or prevent violations 
of the applicable laws or other fraudulent activity by one or 
more of its employees, consultants, subcontractors, agents or 
partners. In addition, the Company may also be deemed to be 
responsible or face civil or criminal liability (including penalties 
or other fines) as a result of historical matters related to 
previously acquired companies. 
Violations of anti corruption laws and sanctions regulations are 
punishable by civil penalties, including fines, disgorgement of 
profits, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, 
debarment from government contracts (and termination of 
existing contracts) and revocations or restrictions of licences, 
as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. The quantum of 
any fines levied is difficult to predict and may be material. 
In addition, any major violations or failure to comply with 
corporate governance best practices could have a significant 
impact on the Company’s reputation, including by way of 
shareholder activism, and, consequently, on its ability to win 
future business. Should any of the above occur, it could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial 
condition and results of operations.
The Company is exposed to funding risks in relation  
to its defined benefit pension schemes
The Company operates a number of defined benefit pension 
schemes, where careful judgement is required in determining 
the assumptions for salary escalation (for those plans where 
benefits are linked to future salaries), pension increases, 
discount rate, inflation, investment return and member 
longevity. The Company expects to continue to operate 
these schemes, although the most significant schemes 
are now closed to future accrual. Based on the Company’s 
current assumptions, it expects to be able to fund its ongoing 
pension liabilities without seeking recourse to additional 
external financing. Actual results could differ from the 
assumptions made. 
A prolonged period of lower than expected asset returns and/
or unexpected increases in longevity could create or worsen 
a funding shortfall in one or more of the schemes, in which 
circumstances, the Company may agree, or be required, to 
make additional cash contributions to the schemes to eliminate 
the funding shortfall. If significant, such additional contributions 
may constrain the Company’s ability to invest in acquisitions or 
capital expenditure, thereby adversely impacting growth and 
profitability. In addition, in certain limited circumstances, the 
Company may be required to contribute significant additional 
amounts to its UK pension schemes, either as a result of 
actions by the Pensions Regulator in the United Kingdom to 
impose financial support directions or contribution notices, 
or by the trustees of the Company’s defined benefit schemes, 
for example, if the trustees take a more prudent approach to 
deficit recovery payments or if the trustees were to determine 
that a portion of any proceeds from a disposal or capital raising 
should be used to support the pension fund, which could 
thereby also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s 
financial condition and results of operations.
Adverse changes in macroeconomic, market and 
other conditions could result in the impairment of the 
Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets and may 
affect the Company’s distributable reserves
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more often if 
an event or circumstance indicates that it may be impaired. 
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever 
there is an indication of impairment. An impairment test is 
an assessment of whether the carrying amount of an asset 
can be supported by the net present value of the future cash 
flows that are expected to be delivered from it, either by the 
Company in its business or from sale. An impairment test 
requires management to make certain critical assumptions, 
including future sales volumes, profit margins and long-term 
growth rates and to determine an appropriate discount rate to 
apply to the estimated cash flows. Other factors that may affect 
revenue and profitability (for example, intensifying competition, 
pricing pressures, regulatory changes and other industry 
developments) are also considered. Discount rates are based 
on current yields on government bonds, the level of which may 
change substantially from period to period and which may be 
affected by political and economic developments which are 
beyond the Company’s control.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying value of the 
asset is not supported by the net present value of the cash 
flows expected to be derived from it. Whilst an impairment 
loss does not in itself affect cash flows, it may be an indication 
that future cash flows will decline. Moreover, any significant 
impairment in the carrying value of goodwill may indicate 
an associated impairment in the related investment held by 
the parent company. No assurance can be given that any 
such future impairment loss would not affect the Company’s 
distributable reserves and, therefore, its ability to pay dividends 
to its shareholders. 186
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
External events beyond the Company’s control could have 
a negative impact on its operations or reputation
The Company’s operations may be interrupted by a significant 
external event beyond its control, including a fire, flood, natural 
disaster, pandemic or political or social unrest. Such external 
events pose a risk to Amec Foster Wheeler’s employees and 
its business infrastructure and a prolonged disruption to its 
operations could negatively impact its ability to deliver projects 
on time or at all. A failure to meet customer expectations 
on project delivery could result in damage to Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s reputation. Whilst the Company has implemented 
emergency preparedness procedures, there can be no 
assurance that the Company’s policies and procedures will 
be followed at all times or ensure an effective and/or timely 
response to an event. The occurrence of any such harm or any 
disruptions to the Company’s business could have a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
The Company is exposed to certain tax risks
The Company undertakes tax planning that management 
believes is compliant with legislation and accepted practice. 
However, recent changes to the tax environment have brought 
into question the legitimacy of tax planning previously 
undertaken by multinational entities, and in particular, there 
have been several recent tax cases against tax authorities and 
large groups. Changes to tax legislation or the tax authorities’ 
view that the Company’s tax planning is compliant could have 
a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial 
condition and results of operations. For further detail, see 
note 1 on page 121.
The Company may also be negatively impacted by increases 
in its effective tax rate. The effective tax rate of Amec Foster 
Wheeler can fluctuate significantly from period to period as 
a result of changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their 
interpretation, of any country in which it operates, the varying 
mix of income earned in the jurisdictions in which it operates, 
the realisability of deferred tax assets, including the inability 
to recognise a tax benefit for losses generated by certain 
unprofitable operations, cash repatriation decisions, changes 
in uncertain tax positions and the final outcome of tax audits 
and related litigation. An increase in the Company’s effective 
tax rate could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s 
business, financial condition and results of operations.
It can be difficult or expensive to obtain insurance 
coverage and there can be no assurance that sufficient 
coverage will be secured or maintained
Amec Foster Wheeler maintains commercial insurance in 
amounts that are believed by the respective entities to be 
appropriate against risks commonly insured against by 
similar businesses. However, there can be no assurance that 
the Company will be able to obtain similar levels of cover on 
acceptable terms going forward or at all. In addition, even with 
such insurance in place, the risk remains that the Company 
may incur liabilities to clients and other third parties which 
exceed the limits of such insurance cover or are not covered 
by it. If any of the Company’s insurers fail, refuse to renew or 
revoke coverage or otherwise cannot satisfy their insurance 
requirements to the Company, then the overall risk exposure 
and operational expenses of the Company could increase 
and the Company’s business operations could be disrupted, 
which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s 
business, financial condition and results of operations.
Fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively  
impact the Company
The primary impact of fluctuations in exchange rates for the 
Company is translational (i.e. the translation of foreign assets 
and liabilities into pounds sterling for reporting purposes). 
The Company presents its financial statements in pounds 
sterling and has a significant portion of euro, Canadian dollar 
and US dollar denominated assets, liabilities and earnings as 
a result of the significant assets and revenues of the Company 
across Europe and North America. Consequently, any change 
in exchange rates between the euro, Canadian dollar and 
US dollar, on the one hand, and the pound sterling, on the 
other hand, could affect the Company’s consolidated income 
statement and balance sheet when translated for reporting 
purposes. In addition, since a significant portion of the 
Company’s order book is denominated in currencies other than 
pounds sterling, currency fluctuations may also affect its order 
book, making it a less reliable indicator of future revenues. 
T ransaction risk arises when future commercial transactions 
or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency 
that is not the entity’s functional currency. In the ordinary 
course of business, Amec Foster Wheeler hedges the risk of 
foreign currency exposure by way of forward foreign exchange 
contracts. Such hedging transactions do not, however, eliminate 
the exchange rate risk entirely and may not be fully, or at all, 
effective. Defaults by the other party to a hedging transaction 
can result in losses in the hedging transaction. Moreover, 
hedging transactions are entered into based on assumptions 
which may prove to be incorrect and hedging activities involve 
the risk of an imperfect correlation between the hedging 
instrument and the asset being hedged, which could result in 
losses both on the hedging transaction and on the instrument 
being hedged. Use of hedging activities may not prevent 
significant losses and could increase losses. 
Risk factors continued 187
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
A further weakening of the pound sterling may impact 
the Company’s overall liquidity as its facilities are sterling 
denominated. The Company will continue to hedge its 
exposure to currency transaction risk and will look to hedge 
its exposure to foreign currency cash flows through the use of 
foreign currency debt and forward foreign exchange contracts, 
thereby exposing it to the risks associated with hedging 
activities. If these risks are not effectively managed, there 
could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
The uncertainties about the effects of the recommended 
all share offer for Amec Foster Wheeler plc by John Wood 
Group (the Offer) could have a materially adverse effect  
on the Company
Uncertainty about the effects of the Offer, including effects 
on employees, host governments, partners, contractors, 
regulators, suppliers and customers, could have a material 
adverse effect on the business, results of operations and 
financial condition of the Company. These uncertainties  
could cause:
 X parties that have business or other relationships with the 
Company to defer the consummation of other transactions 
or other decisions concerning the business of the Company or 
to seek to change their existing business or other relationships 
with the Company
 X our prospective customers to decline or delay entering into 
new agreements or purchasing our services which could 
cause our future revenues to materially decline or any 
anticipated increases in revenues to be lower than expected, 
ultimately impacting our results of operations and cash flows
 X the attention of our management and our employees to be 
diverted from day-to-day operations as they focus on the 
requirements of the Offer
 X our ability to attract new employees and retain our existing 
employees to be impaired by uncertainties associated with  
the Offer, and we may be required to incur substantial costs  
to recruit replacements for lost personnel
In addition, our costs and expenses related to the transaction 
(including legal, accounting and certain financial advisory fees 
and expenses) will be required to be paid even if the transaction 
is not consummated.
The occurrence of any of these events individually or in 
combination could have a material adverse effect on our results 
of operations and our share price. 188
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
We assess the financial performance of our businesses using a variety of measures. Certain of these measures are particularly 
important and we have termed them ‘key performance indicators’ . We refer to these measures in the strategic report and use 
them in presentations to investors. In this section, we explain the relevance to us of each of these measures and show how they 
are calculated.
Some of these measures are non-IFRS measures because they exclude amounts that are included in, or include amounts that are 
excluded from, the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS, or are calculated using 
financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with IFRS. We do not regard these non-IFRS measures as a substitute for, 
or superior to, the equivalent measures calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS and it should be noted that they may 
not be comparable with similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Profitability measures
Management uses three measures of profitability that are not recognised measures under IFRS: trading profit, trading margin 
and adjusted profit before tax. Each of these measures is based on an IFRS measure of profit but excludes specific items whose 
inclusion in the IFRS measure hinders the comparison of the trading performance of our businesses from one period to another, 
with each other or with those of our competitors. 
Management has identified the following specific items that are excluded in arriving at these non-IFRS measures: exceptional 
items; the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets; and asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries). 
Exceptional items are items of income and expense that are material by their size, incidence or nature and may include, but 
are not restricted to: acquisition-related costs; restructuring costs; gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets; and gains 
and losses on the disposal or closure of businesses. Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs (including external 
advisory, legal, valuation and other professional fees and attributable internal costs), the amortisation of acquisition-related 
facility fees, payments to selling shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent 
consideration. Exceptional items that were recognised in continuing operations are analysed in note 5 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
T rading profit, trading margin and adjusted profit before tax exclude items that can have a significant effect on the Group’s profit 
or loss and should, therefore, be used in conjunction with, and not as a substitute for, the equivalent IFRS measures. Management 
compensates for these limitations by separately monitoring the items that are excluded from the equivalent IFRS measures in 
calculating these non-IFRS measures. 
T rading profit
T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense excluding exceptional items; the amortisation and impairment of 
intangible assets; and asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries). T rading profit includes the Group’s share of the trading 
profit of joint ventures.
T rading profit is the measure used by management to assess the trading performance of the Group’s individual businesses and is the 
measure of segment profit that we present under IFRS. T rading profit is a non-IFRS measure when presented on a consolidated basis.
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Continuing operations 
(Loss)/profit before net financing expense (482) (205) 148
Intangibles amortisation and impairment 655 444 49
Net asbestos-related (income)/costs (4) (13) 8
Exceptional items 131 108 94
Share of trading profit of joint ventures 18 40 22
T rading profit 318 374 321
T rading margin
T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage of revenue.
T rading margin is a non-IFRS measure that is used by management to measure the success of our businesses in managing their 
cost base and improving profitability.
£m unless stated otherwise 2016 2015 2014
Continuing operations 
Revenue 5,440 5,455 3,993
T rading profit 318 374 321
T rading margin 5.8% 6.9% 8.0%
P erformance measures 189
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Adjusted profit before tax
Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax on the results  
of joint ventures. 
Adjusted profit before tax is a non-IFRS measure that is used by management to assess the trend in the Group’s overall profitability. 
2016
 £m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Continuing operations 
(Loss)/profit before tax (542) (235) 155
Intangibles amortisation and impairment 655 444 49
Net asbestos-related costs/(income) 4 (6) 9
Exceptional items 133 121 98
Share of income tax of joint ventures 4 10 6
Adjusted profit before tax 254 334 317
Cash flow measures
T rading cash flow
T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related 
payments (net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit contributions and amounts recognised 
in trading profit, legacy settlements and discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on working capital, 
but including dividends received from joint ventures.
T rading cash flow is a non-IFRS measure which is an indicator of the Group’s ability to generate cash from its continuing operations 
before taking into account exceptional items and the servicing of long-term obligations and the settlement of legacy issues.
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash generated from operations 170 220 200
Net asbestos-related payments 21 22 5
Excess of pension contributions over amounts recognised in trading profit 4 3 2
Cash outflow on exceptional items 82 72 58
Legacy settlements and discontinued operations 88 36 9
Currency translation differences (25) (19) (5)
Write off of finance arrangement fees – 12 –
Dividends received from joint ventures 35 42 14
T rading cash flow 375 388 283
Cash conversion
Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage of trading profit. Cash conversion is a non-IFRS measure 
that we use as a measure of the efficiency of our businesses in converting their trading results into cash.
£m unless stated otherwise 2016 2015 2014
T rading cash flow 375 388 283
T rading profit 318 374 321
Cash conversion 118% 104% 88% 190
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Other measures
Underlying change in revenue 
Management uses the underlying change in revenue to measure the organic growth of our businesses relative to each other,  
to our markets and to our competitors. 
We define the underlying change as the year-on-year change excluding the effect of, acquisitions and disposals of businesses  
and currency exchange rate movements.
Underlying change – 2016 compared with 2015
 
2015 
£m
Currency 
translation
 £m
Underlying 
change 
£m
2016 
£m 
Underlying 
change 
%
Continuing operations 
Americas 2,646 306 (436) 2,516 -15%
NECIS 1,492 7 (2) 1,497 –
AMEASE 1,050 115 (63) 1,102 -5%
GPG 364 41 1 406 –
Investment Services 15 1 – 16 –
Intercompany eliminations (112) – 15 (97) –
5,455 470 (485) 5,440 -8%
Adjusted diluted EPS
Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items, the 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), 
and the tax effect of those items, divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares. 
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations is an indicator of the underlying trend in the Group’s ability to generate 
earnings and may be useful to investors in assessing the value of the Company’s ordinary shares (for example, by way of price 
earnings multiples). 
Whilst IFRS does not define any adjusted EPS measures, the presentation of such measures is permitted in financial statements 
prepared in accordance with IFRS. Accordingly, reconciliations of adjusted diluted EPS to diluted EPS from continuing operations 
for each period presented are included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
Dividend cover
Dividend cover is a non-IFRS measure that represents adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations as a multiple of the 
dividend per ordinary share. 
Whilst dividend cover is an indicator of the sustainability of future dividend payments in the context of the Group’s underlying 
trading performance, we can only pay dividends to the extent of the Company’s accumulated distributable reserves. 
2016 2015 2014
Dividend per ordinary share 7.4p 29.0p 43.3p
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations 50.4p 67.7p 79.5p
Dividend cover 6.8x 2.3x 1.8x
Order book
Our order book represents the total remaining value of secured projects to be executed up to any break point in the relevant 
contracts. Contracts are included in our order book only when they are signed and we do not include contracts won by joint ventures. 
Our order book and order intake are significant indicators of our future revenues. As at 31 December 2016, our order book was 
£5.8bn (2015: £6.6bn). We discuss significant recent contract wins in the strategic report on page 24.
P erformance measures continued 191
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Reported under IFRS
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,455 3,993 +37%
(Loss)/profit before net 
financing expense (205) 148 –
(Loss)/profit before tax (235) 155 –
Cash flow from operations 220 200 +10%
Diluted earnings per share (66.1)p 35.1p –
Dividend per share 29.0p
1
43.3p -33%
1 Includes the proposed final dividend for 2015 of 14.2p per ordinary share.
Adjusted measures
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
7
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,455 3,993 +37% -7%
T rading profit
1
374 321 -19%
T rading margin
2
 6.9% 8.0% -110bps
Adjusted profit  
before tax
3
334 317 +5%
T rading cash flow
4
388 283 +37%
Cash conversion
5
104% 88%
Adjusted diluted  
earnings per share
6
67.7p 79.5p -15%
1  T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense before the 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs 
(net of insurance recoveries) and exceptional items, but including the 
Group’s share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
2  T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage  
of revenue.
3  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional 
items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, asbestos-
related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the 
Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
4  T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before 
cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related payments 
(net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit 
contributions over amounts recognised in trading profit, legacy settlements 
and discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on 
working capital, but including dividends received from joint ventures.
5  Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage  
of trading profit.
6  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year  
from continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation  
of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense  
(net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items,  
divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares.
7  Underlying change excludes the effect of flow-through procurement, 
acquisitions and disposals of businesses and currency exchange 
rate movements.
Prior year operating results
Revenue
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, revenue 
for the period at £5,455m was 37% higher than last year 
(2014: £3,993m). Following its acquisition in November 2014, 
Foster Wheeler contributed £274m to the Group’s revenue 
in 2014.
Revenue increased by £462m in the Americas, by £199m 
in NECIS and £534m in AMEASE, and in addition there was 
a full year’s revenue in the Global Power Group of £364m 
(2014: £53m).
On a pro-forma basis and excluding the effect of currency 
movements and bolt-on acquisitions, underlying revenue 
decreased by 7%. Underlying revenue from E&I was up 14% 
underpinned by growth in US government work and clean 
energy was up 2%, but oil & gas was down 8% with mining 
and GPG down 24% and 20% respectively.
Scope revenue at £5,176m was 6% lower than last year 
(2014: £5,493m). This includes scope revenue of £2,577m  
in the Americas, £1,448m for NECIS and £884m for AMEASE. 
Seasonality
The Group’s revenue is generally higher in the second half of 
the year, principally because weather conditions in the northern 
hemisphere are typically more conducive to project activity. 
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses were £872m (2014: £354m), including 
exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and impairment and 
asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries) of £538m 
(2014: £135m).
Administrative expenses before intangibles amortisation 
and impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items 
increased by £115m following the Foster Wheeler acquisition, 
the impact of which was partly offset by the impact of cost 
savings achieved to date.
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs of operating central 
corporate functions and certain regional overheads, were £23m 
higher at £54m (2014: £31m) reflecting the enlarged group.
(Loss)/profit before net financing expense
There was a loss before net financing expense of £205m 
(2014: profit of £148m) as the profit generated by Foster 
Wheeler has been offset by an impairment charge of £308m 
in the Global Power Group business and higher intangible 
amortisation resulting from the intangible assets recognised 
on the acquisitions of Foster Wheeler and Scopus in 2014. 192
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise goodwill and identifiable 
intangible assets that were recognised in relation to acquired 
businesses. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an 
annual impairment test.
The results of the Global Power Group for 2015 and forecasts 
for 2016 and beyond are well down on earlier expectations 
giving rise to an impairment in goodwill of £308m. In addition, 
there has been a £7m impairment to the order backlog 
intangible asset arising on the Foster Wheeler acquisition. 
No impairments were recognised in 2014.
Intangibles amortisation was £129m (2014: £49m) reflecting 
the full-year amortisation of intangible assets recognised on the 
acquisitions of Foster Wheeler and Scopus completed in 2014.
Exceptional and asbestos-related items
Net exceptional and asbestos-related costs totalling £115m 
(2014: £107m) were recognised in arriving at profit before tax 
from continuing operations, as follows: 
 X costs of £97m relating to the integration of Foster Wheeler 
and AMEC (including internal staff costs associated with 
identifying and achieving cost synergies)
 X a £5m loss incurred following an unauthorised payment 
made from the Australian business and not expected to be 
recovered
 X £13m amortisation of facility fees associated with the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler
 X during the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group recognised 
net asbestos-related income of £6m (2014: costs of £9m) 
in profit before net financing expense, which related to the 
movement in the discount rate applied to the net asbestos-
related liabilities assumed on the acquisition of Foster 
Wheeler of £5m and experiential gains of £9m as the liability 
is reassessed on an annual basis. In addition, there was an 
asbestos-related interest expense of £7m related to the 
unwinding of the discount applied to the liability and costs 
of £1m associated with managing the liability
Trading profit and trading margin
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying
change
Revenue
1
 5,455 3,993 +37% -7%
(Loss)/profit before net 
financing expense (205) 148
Amortisation and 
impairment of 
intangibles 444 49
Net asbestos-related 
(income)/ costs (13) 8
Exceptional items 108 94
Share of trading profit 
of joint ventures 40 22
T rading profit
1
 374 321 +17% -20%
T rading margin
1
6.9% 8.0% -110bps -100bps
Order book £6.6bn £6.3bn +5%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190).
T rading profit increased by 17% to £374m (2014: £321m). 
T rading margin decreased by 110 basis points to 6.9%  
(2014: 8.0%). 
On a proforma basis and excluding the effect of currency 
movements and bolt on acquisitions, trading profit was £83m 
lower than 2014 with reductions in the Americas and NECIS 
partly offset by growth in AMEASE. Within the Americas, trading 
profit fell by 36% on an underlying basis, as a result of pricing 
pressure in the oil & gas market and trading margin was down 
by 350 basis points compared with 2014, due to an increased 
proportion of EPC in our scope, particularly in downstream  
oil & gas and clean energy.
Within NECIS, trading profit decreased by 5% but trading 
margin was 9.0%, up 100 basis points compared with 2014,  
with less procurement, favourable contract settlements and 
cost savings initiatives boosting the margin.
In AMEASE trading profit rose by 18%, reflecting higher 
contributions from oil & gas and E&I. T rading margin was 
6.5%, up 130 basis points compared with 2014, due to 
the early benefits of cost saving initiatives and favourable 
contract settlements.
Prior year operating results continued 193
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Net financing expense 
The net financing expense was £58m (2014: £5m). Of this, 
expenses of £20m (2014: £5m) have been presented separately 
on the income statement relating to £13m amortisation of the 
facility fees associated with the Foster Wheeler acquisition 
and £7m (2014: £1m) due to the unwinding of the discount 
on asbestos-related liabilities (net of insurance recoveries).
Of the remaining £38m there was bank interest payable of £31m 
(2014: £7m), net foreign exchange losses of £1m (2014: £nil), 
and a net interest expense on pension assets and liabilities 
of £2m (2014: income of £1m) and other costs classified 
as financing of £4m (2014: £1m).
A net currency exchange loss of £3m (2014: £4m) was 
recognised in the translation reserve in respect of foreign 
currency borrowings and derivatives held in designated net 
investment hedging relationships.
Share of results of joint ventures
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ profit for the year was 
£28m (2014: £12m).
(Loss)/profit before tax 
Loss before tax was £235m (2014: profit of £155m) 
after intangibles amortisation and impairment of £444m  
(2014: £49m), exceptional and asbestos-related items of £115m 
(2014: £107m) and the Group’s share of joint ventures’ tax 
expense of £10m (2014: £6m).
Adjusted profit before tax was 5% higher at £334m  
(2014: £317m).
Taxation
Our tax policy is to manage our obligations in compliance with 
all relevant tax laws, disclosure requirements and regulations. 
We seek to ensure that our approach to tax and the tax payments 
that we make in all territories in which we have operations are 
fully consistent with local requirements, taking into account 
available tax incentives and allowances, and are aligned with 
the group’s wider business strategy. We seek to develop good, 
open working relationships with tax authorities and to engage 
with them proactively, recognising that tax legislation can be 
complex and may be subject to differing interpretations.
The group’s effective tax rate on continuing operations 
(including its share of joint ventures’ income tax expense 
but before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and 
impairment and asbestos-related items) reduced to 22.0% 
(2014: 23.0%).
We expect the effective tax rate to remain below 25%.
During 2015, there was a tax credit on exceptional items 
of £18m (2014: tax credit of £6m), and a tax credit of £27m 
on intangibles amortisation and impairment (2014: £12m).
The group’s share of joint ventures’ income tax expense 
was £10m (2014: £6m).
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations
The loss for the year from continuing operations was £253m 
(2014: profit of £106m) after intangibles amortisation and 
impairment of £444m (2014: £49m), the net asbestos-related 
income of £6m (2014: expense of £9m), net exceptional items 
of £121m (2014: £98m), and an income tax credit on those 
items of £45m (2014: charge of £18m).
Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations was  
7% higher at £261m (2014: £244m).
Non-controlling interests
During 2015, there was a loss of £1m attributable to non-
controlling interests (2014: loss of £3m).
Earnings per share
The diluted loss per share was (67 .2) p (2014: EPS 26.5p), 
comprising a loss per share of (66.1p) (2014: EPS 35.1p) from 
continuing operations and a loss of (1.1)p (2014: 8.6p) from 
discontinued operations.
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations was 67 .7p 
(2014: 79.5p), the reduction being due to the decline in the 
profit for the year from continuing operations and the increase 
in the number of shares in issue as a consequence of the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Dividend
The board recommends a final dividend of 14.2p per share, 
which, together with the interim dividend of 14.8p per share, 
results in a total dividend of 29.0p per share (2014: 43.3p), 
a reduction of 33%. Subject to approval by shareholders at 
the AGM on 27 April 2016, the final dividend will be payable 
on 4 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 27 May 2016.
Dividend cover for 2015 is 2.3 times (2014: 1.8 times) based 
on adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations. 
As announced in November 2015, it is the current intention of 
the board that ordinary dividends in 2016 will be approximately 
half that declared in 2014, with approximately one-third paid at 
the interim, and two-thirds as a final dividend. 194
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Results by operating segment  
(presented on a proforma basis)
Americas
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 2,646 2,705 -2% -3%
Profit before net 
financing expense 94
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 46
– Exceptional items 22
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures (1)
T rading profit
1
 161 258 -38% -36%
T rading margin
1
6.1% 9.6% -350 bps
Order book £2.0bn £2.0bn –
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190).
Revenue in Americas was £2,646m (2014: £2,705m), a 
decrease of 2%. Excluding the effect of bolt-on acquisitions 
and currency movements, underlying revenue was down 3%. 
Growth in underlying revenue in the downstream oil & gas,  
clean energy and E&I, was offset by declines in upstream  
oil & gas and mining.
T rading profit fell by 38% to £161m (2014: £258m), as a result 
of pricing pressure in the oil & gas market. T rading margin was 
6.1%, down by 350 basis points compared with 2014, due to 
an increased proportion of EPC in our scope, particularly in 
downstream oil & gas and clean energy.
Northern Europe and CIS (NECIS)
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,492 1,705 -12% -13%
Profit before net 
financing expense 60
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 41
– Exceptional items 13
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 20
T rading profit
1
134 137 -2% -5%
T rading margin
1
9.0% 8.0% +100bps
Order book £2.4bn £2.3bn +4%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190).
Revenue in NECIS fell by 12% to £1,492m (2014: £1,705m), 
primarily due to a downturn in oil & gas project activity. 
Excluding the effect of bolt-on acquisitions and currency 
movements, underlying revenue was also down 13%.
T rading profit decreased by 2% to £134m (2014: £137m). 
T rading margin was 9.0%, up 100 basis points compared with 
2014. Less procurement, favourable contract settlements and 
cost savings initiatives boosting the margin.
Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe (AMEASE)
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,050 1,031 +2% +2%
Profit before net 
financing expense 13
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 23
– Exceptional items 28
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 4
T rading profit
1
68 53 +27% +18%
T rading margin
1
6.5% 5.2% +130bps
Order book £1.8bn £1.6bn +6%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190). 
Revenue in AMEASE was up 2% year on year at £1,050m 
(2014: £1,031m), driven by an increase in US government work 
and reduction in mining work. Excluding the effect of bolt-on 
acquisitions and currency movements, underlying revenue 
was up 2%.
T rading profit rose by 27% to £68m (2014: £53m), reflecting 
higher contributions from oil & gas and E&I. T rading margin 
was 6.5%, up 130 basis points compared with 2014, due to 
the early benefits of cost saving initiatives and favourable 
contract settlements.
Prior year operating results continued 195
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Global Power Group
£m unless stated 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 364 454 -20% -20%
Profit before net 
financing expense (302)
–  Int angible s 
amortisation and 
impairment 334
– Exceptional items 4
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 15
T rading profit
1
51 69 -26% -31%
T rading margin
1
14.0% 15.2% -120bps
Order book £0.4bn £0.4bn –
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190). 
Revenues in GPG fell by 20% to £364m (2014: £454m), 
primarily driven by a decline in project activity. On an underlying 
basis, revenue was also down 20%.
T rading profit fell by 26% to £51m (2014: £69m). T rading margin 
was 14.0%, down 120 basis points, driven by pricing pressure 
in weak market conditions and lower resource utilisation, and 
reflecting the non-recurrence of £20m one-off income from 
a license settlement in 2014
Investment Services
During the periods under review, Investment Services 
principally comprised the Incheon Bridge PPP project in Korea 
and the Lancashire Waste project (which the group exited 
in 2014), the Group’s insurance captive, the Group’s wind 
development activities and a range of other non-core activities.
Revenue in Investment Services was £15m (2014: £6m). 
Investment Services made a profit before net financing expense 
of £10m (2014: loss of £16m), after deducting an exceptional 
loss on disposal of businesses of £2m (2014: £21m). T rading 
profit was £14m (2014: £9m) of which £2m (2014: £3m) was 
derived from joint ventures.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and 
retained obligations of businesses sold in prior years, together 
with the UK conventional power business that was classified 
as a discontinued operation during 2013.
Discontinued operations generated a trading loss before  
tax of £6m (2014: loss of £10m) and after a tax credit of  
£1m (2014: £2m) generated a loss for the year of £5m 
(2014: loss of £8m). During 2014, negative revenue of £13m 
was recognised due to the settlement of final accounts and 
additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK 
conventional power business.
Discontinued operations included a profit on disposals of 
£1m (2014: loss £23m) arising from movements in indemnity 
provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in prior 
years. In 2014, the loss on disposals included a provision of 
£11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to 
a contract completed by the built environment business which 
was sold in 2007 .
Discontinued operations generated an overall loss for the year 
of £4m (2014: £27m). 196
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Our website
Our website, amecfw.com, is the best source of useful,  
up-to-date information about Amec Foster Wheeler and its 
activities, including annual reports, AGM documents and other 
shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange can 
be found on our website and you can arrange to receive email 
alerts of such announcements.
Information made available on our website, or on other websites 
mentioned in this annual report, is not, and should not be 
considered as being, part of or incorporated into this annual 
report or our annual report on Form 20-F.
Financial calendar
The financial calendar for 2017 is as follows:
Annual General Meeting
1
2 June 2017
Half-year 2017 results issued 10 August 2017
Full-year 2017 results issued March 2018
2017 annual report published
2
March 2018
1  Information on the Company’s AGM is provided in the governance report  
on page 89.
2  Our annual report will be filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and periodic 
results announcements will be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K.
Where they have not yet been determined, the exact dates  
of the above events will be finalised as the year progresses  
and can be found on our website.
Share price
The latest price of the Company’s shares can be found on  
our website and may also be obtained from the London Stock 
Exchange’s website, www.londonstockexchange.com (in both 
cases the live share price is updated with a 15-minute delay).
Dividends
We usually announce our interim dividend for the year with 
our half-year results in August and it is paid in the following 
January. The board has decided to suspend dividend payments, 
including the final dividend for 31 December 2016, until the 
Company is generating sustainable free cash flow. 
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building 
society account and can also be paid in local currency in 
certain overseas territories. Shareholders should contact 
the Company’s registrars to take advantage of these facilities.
We have a DRIP to allow shareholders to acquire more 
of the Company’s shares rather than receive cash dividends. 
The DRIP is only available to shareholders in certain countries. 
Y ou can find out more on our website or by contacting the 
Company’s registrars.
Registrars
The Company’s registrars are Capita Asset Services.  
They maintain the shareholder register on our behalf and 
handle all administration related to it. They should be your first 
port of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding 
in Amec Foster Wheeler. 
For DRIP , electronic communications and general enquiries
Email shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Website www.capitaassetservices.com
Postal address Capita Asset Services 
   The Registry 
   34 Beckenham Road 
   Beckenham 
   Kent BR3 4TU 
   United Kingdom
T elephone
1
 UK  0871 664 0300
2
 
   Others +44 20 8639 3399
Payment of dividends overseas
T elephone
1
 +44 20 8639 3405 
Email ips@capita.co.uk
1  Lines open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday  
(excluding public holidays).
2  Calls cost 12 pence per minute plus your phone company’s access 
charge. Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable 
International rate.
Electronic shareholder communication
The majority of our shareholders now receive information from 
us electronically. If you have elected to do so and have provided 
an email address, you will receive an email from us whenever 
any new shareholder information is published. If you have not 
provided an email address, you will be sent a letter that includes 
details of where the information can be found on our website.
Y ou can register for electronic shareholder communication  
and also manage your personal shareholding online at  
www.capitashareportal.com. Y ou will need your Investor Code 
(IVC) which can be found on your proxy card, share certificate 
or dividend tax voucher.
Printed copies of the annual report
Shareholders may receive a printed copy of the Company’s 
latest annual report on request by writing to our registered 
office or by contacting us on +1 908 730 4000.
Unauthorised brokers (boiler room scams)
Shareholders are advised to be wary if they receive any 
unsolicited calls or correspondence making claims of highly 
profitable investment opportunities. T ypically these investments 
turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist. Such 
approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and 
individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or offers to buy 
shares from a source that is unknown to you, we recommend 
that you obtain the name of the person and organisation 
that has contacted you and check whether they are properly 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority by visiting its 
website at www.fca.org.uk/register.
If you think that you have been approached by an unauthorised 
organisation, you are advised to contact the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s consumer helpline on +44 (0)800 111 6768 or email 
consumer.queries@fca.org.uk.
Information for shareholders 197
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
American Depositary Shares 
ADSs and ADRs
The Company’s ordinary shares are traded in the form of 
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) on the NYSE. Each ADS 
represents one ordinary share.
The ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts 
(ADRs) issued by Deutsche Bank T rust Company Americas as 
Depositary under a deposit agreement dated 2 October 2014. 
The ADRs are issued in respect of ordinary shares deposited 
with Deutsche Bank AG, as custodian for the Depositary.
ADSs may be held directly by having an ADR (a certificate 
evidencing a specific number of ADSs) registered in your 
name or by holding ADSs in the Direct Registration System, 
or indirectly through a broker or other financial institution.  
If you hold ADSs directly, you are an ADS holder. The Company’s 
ADSs are issued through the Direct Registration System unless 
the investor specifically requests to receive certificated ADRs.
A registered holder is one whose name appears on the books of 
the Depositary. The registered holder is considered the owner of 
record. A beneficial holder is one whose holdings are registered 
in a name other than their own, such as the name of a broker, 
bank or nominee.
ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct 
the Depositary on the exercise of voting rights relative to the 
number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs. 
Role of the Depositary
The Depositary performs the following roles for ADS holders:
 X distributes company circulars and documents in relation 
to general meetings of the Company (including the AGM)
 X distributes dividends in US dollars
 X facilitates the voting process and the exercise of voting rights 
of ADS holders at any general meeting of the Company
 X issues and cancels the Company’s ADSs
 X acts as the stock transfer agent
 X records and maintains the register of ADS holders
The Company provides to the Depositary all notices of 
meetings of the Company’s shareholders and other reports 
and communications that are made available to the Company’s 
shareholders. The Depositary makes such notices, reports and 
communications available for inspection by recorded holders of 
ADSs and sends voting instruction forms by post to all recorded 
holders of ADSs.
Investors who are not registered with the Depositary because 
their ADRs are held through a nominee account may need to 
make arrangements with their nominee if they wish to receive 
such documents and to be able to exercise their vote through 
the Depositary at general meetings of the Company. 
ADS holders may receive a printed copy of the Company’s  
latest annual report on request by writing to our registered 
office or by contacting us on +1 908 730 4000. 
Dividends
The Depositary will pay to ADS holders cash dividends or other 
distributions it or the custodian receives on the Company’s 
shares after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders 
will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of 
the Company’s shares the ADSs represent at the record date 
(which will be as close as practicable to the record date for the 
Company’s ordinary shares) set by the Depositary with respect 
to the ADSs.
The Depositary will usually convert any cash dividend or other 
cash distribution on the Company’s shares or any net proceeds 
from the sale of any ordinary shares, rights, securities or other 
entitlements into US dollars. Before making a distribution to 
ADS holders, any taxes or other governmental charges that 
must be paid, together with the fees and expenses of the 
Depositary, will be deducted.
ADS enquiries
All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment  
of dividends should be addressed to the Depositary:
Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services 
American Stock T ransfer & T rust Company 
Operations Center 
6201 15th Avenue 
Brooklyn, NY 11219, US.
Email:  db@amstock.com 
T oll-free number:  (866) 249 2593  
(if calling from within the US) 
Direct dial:  +1 718 921 8124  
(if calling from outside the US)
DB Global Direct
US residents may enrol in DB Global Direct, enabling them to 
invest directly in the Company’s ADSs with reduced brokerage 
commissions and service costs. Registered ADS holders may 
reinvest all or a portion of their dividends in the Company’s 
ADSs through DB Global Direct.
For further information on DB Global Direct, please contact 
Deutsche Bank (as above) or visit www.adr.db.com.
ADS price
The latest price of the Company’s ADSs can be found on  
our website and may also be obtained from the NYSE’s website, 
www.nyse.com (in both cases the live ADS price is updated with 
a 15-minute delay). 
Other information 198
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Fees payable by ADS holders
ADS holders are required to pay certain service fees to the 
Depositary.
The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of 
ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering 
ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries 
acting for them. The Depositary collects fees for making 
distributions to investors, including payment of dividends 
by the Company, by deducting those fees from the amounts 
distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property 
to pay the fees. The Depositary may collect its annual fee for 
depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by 
directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system 
accounts of participants acting from them. The Depositary may 
generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees 
for those services are paid.
Service Fees
T o any person to whom ADSs are issued 
or to any person to whom a distribution 
is made in respect of ADSs pursuant to 
share dividends or other free distributions 
of shares, bonus distributions, stock 
splits or other distributions (except where 
converted to cash) 
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS issued
Cancellation of ADSs (including in the case 
of termination of the deposit agreement)
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS cancelled
Distribution of cash dividends Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Distribution of cash entitlements (other 
than cash dividends) and/or cash 
proceeds, including proceeds from the sale 
of rights, securities and other entitlements 
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise 
of rights
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Depositary services Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held on 
the applicable 
record date(s) 
established by  
the Depositary
Other information continued
ADS holders are also responsible for paying certain fees and 
expenses incurred by the Depositary such as: 
 X fees for the transfer and registration of the Company’s shares 
charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the shares in 
the UK
 X expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into 
US dollars 
 X expenses for cable, telex, fax and electronic transmission 
and for delivery of securities
Since the Company’s ADSs were first issued in November 2014, 
a fee of $0.01 per ADS has been levied on the 2014 and 2015 
dividends paid during 2015 and 2016 respectively, and on the 
2016 interim dividend that was paid in January 2017 . 
Fees paid by the Depositary to the Company
The Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company for a 
portion of certain expenses the Company incurs that are related 
to establishment and maintenance of the ADR programme, 
including, but not limited to, investor relations expenses and 
expenses associated with being a company listed in the US. 
There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the 
Depositary will reimburse the Company. Further, the Depositary 
has agreed to reimburse the Company with certain fees payable 
to the Depositary by ADS holders.
On 2 November 2016, the Company received approximately 
US$300,000 (approximately £250,657) from the Depositary by 
way of reimbursement of costs incurred during the second year 
of the ADR programme. The reimbursement in 2015, in respect 
of the first year of the ADR programme, which commenced on 
2 October 2014 amounted to US$1.79m (approximately £1.2m). 
The payment reduced in line with the overall size and level of 
activity of the ADR programme.
Share capital
As permitted by English law, the Company has no authorised 
share capital. The Company’s share capital may be increased, 
consolidated or sub-divided by ordinary resolution at a general 
meeting of the Company. 
As at 10 April 2017 , the Company’s issued share capital was 
£196,565,906.50 divided into 393,131,813 ordinary shares of 
50 pence each. Of this number, 3,158,310 ordinary shares were 
registered as treasury shares, leaving a balance of 389,973,503 
ordinary shares with voting rights.
All of the Company’s ordinary shares are fully paid or were 
issued as fully paid. Accordingly, no further contribution of 
capital may be required by the Company from the holders 
of those shares. 199
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Company has neither authorised nor issued any conditional 
share capital and has not issued convertible or exchangeable 
bonds, warrants or other securities granting rights to the 
Company’s shares, other than securities granted to directors, 
senior management and employees under the Company’s 
share-based compensation plans. Information on these plans 
is provided in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
As at 10 April 2017 , there were 4,515,854 share options 
outstanding under the Company’s UK and International SAYE 
schemes and 6,486,075 shares reserved for share awards under 
the Company’s share-based compensation plans (in relation 
to which 791,482 shares were held in the Company’s Employee 
Share T rust). Under the terms of the T rust Deed discretion is 
given to the T rustee to vote or abstain from voting shares in 
the Employee Share T rust as it sees fit.
The Articles authorise the Company to purchase its own 
shares. A resolution passed at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting on 27 April 2016 provided the directors with the 
authority to purchase up 38,997 ,350 of the Company’s ordinary 
shares in the market, such authority to expire at the end of 
the Company’s next AGM or 1 June 2017 , whichever is earlier. 
A resolution will be proposed at the Company’s AGM in June 
2017 to extend the authority of the directors to make market 
purchases of up to 10% of the Company’s ordinary shares 
within prescribed limits. The Company may repurchase shares 
only if the shares are fully paid and out of distributable profits 
or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose 
of the repurchase. The UKLA requires that purchase of 15% 
or more of any class of the Company’s share capital must 
be by way of a tender offer to all shareholders of that class.
The Company may reduce its share capital, share 
premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other 
undistributable reserve only by special resolution of its 
shareholders and having obtained the consent of the High 
Court of Justice in England and Wales.
Markets
The primary trading market for the Company’s ordinary shares 
is the London Stock Exchange, on which they have been listed 
since the Company’s formation in 1982. The Company has a 
premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and its ordinary 
shares are admitted to the main market. The Company’s SEDOL 
number is 0028262 (ISIS Code GB0000282623) and its 
trading symbol is AMFW.
As at 10 April 2017 , the Company’s total market capitalisation 
was approximately £2.2bn and it was a constituent of  
The Financial Times Stock Exchange 250 Index (FTSE 250).
Since November 2014, the Company’s ordinary shares have 
been traded in the form of ADSs on the NYSE. The Company’s 
CUSIP code is 00167X205 (ISIN Code US00167X2053) and  
its ticker symbol is AMFW.
Share price history 
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the highest and 
lowest middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary 
shares on the London Stock Exchange and the highest and 
lowest sales price of its ADSs on the NYSE were as follows: 
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
Y ear ended 31 December High Low High Low
2012 11.72 9.23 n/a n/a
2013 12.07 9.66 n/a n/a
2014 12.62 7.89 16.97 14.47
2015 10.03 3.80 14.83 5.72
2016 6.31 3.22 7.82 4.57
Source: Factset
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
Quarter High Low High Low
2015
First quarter 10.03 7.75 14.83 11.75
Second quarter 9.89 8.16 14.75 12.74
Third quarter 8.60 6.86 13.29 10.49
Fourth quarter 8.44 3.80 12.75 5.72
2016
First quarter 5.13 3.22 7 .33 4.57
Second quarter 5.20 3.53 7 .53 5.34
Third quarter 5.96 4.14 7.82 5.35
Fourth quarter 6.31 3.96 7.70 4.96
2017
First quarter 6.01 4.24 6.78 5.31
Second quarter
1
5.72 5.28 7.07 6.51
Source: Factset
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
Month High Low High Low
September 2016 5.96 5.27 7.82 6.85
October 2016 6.31 4.37 7.70 5.38
November 2016 4.58 3.96 5.68 4.96
December 2016 4.79 4.32 5.87 5.47
January 2017 5.06 4.42 6.10 5.51
February 2017 4.77 4.24 5.92 5.34
March 2017 6.01 4.31 6.78 5.31
April 2017
1
5.72 5.28 7.07 6.51
Source: Factset
1 Up to and including 10 April 2017 .
  200
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Shareholdings
As at 10 April 2017 , 9,796,771 ADSs equivalent to 2.5% of 
the number of the Company’s ordinary shares in issue were 
outstanding and were held by 1,252 registered holders.
As at 10 April 2017 , 138,332 ordinary shares were held by 344 
registered holders with a registered address in the US. Since 
certain of the ordinary shares were registered in the names 
of nominees, the number of shareholders with a registered 
address in the US may not be representative of the number of 
beneficial owners of ordinary shares who are resident in the US. 
In accordance with the DTRs of the UKLA, major shareholders 
are considered to be those that have a beneficial interest in 3% 
or more of the Company’s issued ordinary shares. 
On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and 
T ransparency Rules (DTR 5) and other notifications received by 
the Company from shareholders, shareholdings of 3% or more 
of the voting rights in the Company were as follows:
Percentage of voting rights held
As at 31 December 2016 2015 2014 2013
Artisan Partners 
Limited Partnership n/a n/a n/a 5.20%
Mondrian Investment 
Partners Limited 5.28% 5.28% 5.28% 5.15%
BlackRock, Inc. 5.01% 5.63% 5.01% n/a
Franklin T empleton 
Institutional, LLC 9.96% 5.05% n/a n/a
Since 31 December 2016, pursuant to DTR 5, the following 
notifications were received by the Company: 
 X Franklin T empleton Institutional, LLC notified their interest 
in 10.03% of the voting rights 9 February 2017 and that 
their interest had fallen to 9.97% of the voting rights 
on 24 March 2017 .
 X BlackRock, Inc. notified that their interest had fallen below 
5% of the voting rights on 27 February 2017 , that their interest 
reached 5.02% of the voting rights on 6 March 2017 and that 
their interest had fallen below 5% of the voting rights on  
20 March 2017 .
 X On 23 March 2017 , Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 
notified their interest in 10.2% of the voting rights. 
Otherwise, there were no notifications received under DTR 5 
between 31 December 2016 and 10 April 2017 . The shareholding 
percentages reflect the Company’s issued share capital at the 
time of the notifications. 
Each of the Company’s ordinary shares, including those held by 
major shareholders, carries equal voting rights. The Company is 
not, to the best of its knowledge, directly or indirectly controlled.
Other information continued
Purchase of ordinary shares
During 2016, the Company did not purchase any of its own 
shares in the market and no purchases of the Company’s 
shares were made by trustees of the Company’s employee 
share schemes.
Options and awards made under the Company’s employee 
share schemes that were exercised or vested during 2016 were 
satisfied by the trustee of the relevant scheme. No shares were 
transferred out of treasury because no Sharesave options were 
exercised. Details of the Company’s employee share schemes 
are set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Articles of Association 
We summarise below certain provisions of the Articles 
and applicable English law. The summary is qualified in its 
entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the 
Articles. Please refer to documents on display on page 209 for 
information on where copies of the Articles can be obtained.
In the following description, a ‘shareholder’ is the person 
registered in the Company’s register of members as the holder 
of a share or shares.
Principal objects
The Articles of Association do not restrict the Company’s 
objects or purposes.
Directors
The board
Under the Articles, the board shall consist of not less than three 
nor more than 15 directors, who shall manage the business and 
affairs of the Company subject to the requirements of English 
law, the Articles and any resolutions of shareholders. 
Appointment, retirement and re-election
Directors may be appointed by the board at any time.  
Any director appointed since the last AGM holds office only until 
the conclusion of the next AGM and then shall be eligible for 
election by shareholders. 
Under the Articles, all directors retire by rotation and are 
eligible for re-election every three years. However, in line with 
the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
each of the directors who wishes to continue in office, and 
is considered eligible by the board, actually offers himself or 
herself for re-election at every AGM. 
Under the Articles, there are no age limits relating to a person’s 
qualification to hold office as a director. 201
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Restrictions on voting
Under the Articles, a director may not vote in respect of any 
contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he or 
she, or any person connected with him or her, has any material 
interest other than by virtue of that person’s interests in the 
Company’s ordinary shares or other securities. However, this 
restriction on voting does not apply to proposals:
 X giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security  
or indemnity in respect of obligation incurred at the request  
of or for the benefit of the Company
 X giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director 
or a third party in respect of obligations of the Company 
for which the director has assumed responsibility under 
an indemnity or guarantee
 X relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the 
director is entitled to participate as a holder of shares or other 
securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities
 X concerning any other company in which the director (together 
with any connected person) is a shareholder or an officer or 
is otherwise interested, provided that the director (together 
with any connected person) is not interested in 1% or more of 
any class of such other company’s equity share capital or the 
voting rights available to its shareholders
 X relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which 
the director will share equally with other employees 
 X relating to any insurance that the Company purchases  
or renews for its directors or any group of people  
including directors
Compensation awarded to the executive directors is determined 
by the remuneration committee.
A director shall not vote nor be counted in any quorum present 
at a general meeting of the Company’s shareholders in relation 
to a resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Borrowing powers
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the 
Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the 
borrowings of the Company and its subsidiaries may not exceed 
two times the ‘adjusted capital and reserves’ (as defined in 
the Articles).
Shareholding requirements
Directors are not required under the Articles to hold any shares 
of the Company as qualification to act as a director.
Any director who is not a shareholder is entitled to attend and 
speak at general meetings of the shareholders. 
Rights attaching to ordinary shares
In accordance with English law, the Company’s ordinary shares 
rank equally in all respects.
Dividends
The Company’s ordinary shares carry the right to receive 
dividends and distributions that have been declared by 
the Company. Except in relation to dividends that have 
been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, 
ordinary shareholders have no rights to share in the profits 
of the Company. 
English law requires that dividends are paid only out of profits 
available for distribution, as determined in accordance with 
UK GAAP and by the Companies Act 2006, and additionally 
restricts a public company from making a distribution if 
that would reduce the net assets of the company below the 
aggregate amount of its called-up share capital and certain 
undistributable reserves.
Dividends are proposed by the directors. Dividends are 
declared following approval by ordinary resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders at a general meeting of the Company. 
Shareholders may not declare a dividend in excess of the 
amount proposed by the directors. The directors may declare 
and pay interim dividends if they believe that the Company’s 
financial position justifies such payments.
Any unclaimed dividend may be invested or otherwise applied 
for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed. 
Any dividend that remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date 
on which it was declared, or became due for payment, shall be 
forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
If authorised by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the 
directors may offer to shareholders the right to elect to receive 
a dividend, in whole or in part, by way of an allotment of new 
ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
Voting rights 
Holders of the Company’s ordinary shares have the right to 
receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings 
of the Company.
Any shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the 
meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any  
of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
Voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a 
poll is duly demanded and held. Under English law, shareholders 
of a public company are not permitted to pass resolutions by 
written consent.
On a show of hands, each shareholder who is present in  
person at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number  
of shares held.  202
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or  
by proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by him.  
A poll may be demanded by the following:
 X the chairman of the meeting; or
 X not less than three members present or by proxy entitled  
to vote; or
 X a member or members present in person or by proxy and 
representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights  
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting; or
 X a member or members present in person or by proxy and 
holding shares in the Company conferring a right to vote at the 
meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been 
paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid 
up on all the shares conferring that right
Unless the directors determine otherwise, if any sum remains 
unpaid in relation to a member’s shareholding, that member  
is not entitled to vote in relation to that holding.
Rights in a winding up
If the Company is liquidated (whether the liquidation is 
voluntary or court-supervised), the liquidator is obliged to 
realise the assets of the Company to its creditors and, subject 
to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares that 
may be in issue at the time, any surplus would be distributed to 
the ordinary shareholders according to the amounts paid up on 
the shares held by them.
Pre-emption rights 
English law provides for statutory pre-emption rights that 
apply on an allotment of equity securities (which include the 
Company’s ordinary shares or securities convertible into the 
Company’s ordinary shares). 
Pre-emption rights can be disapplied by a special resolution 
passed by shareholders at a general meeting. Such a resolution 
was passed at the Company’s 2016 annual general meeting 
on 27 April 2016 and provides the directors with the authority 
to allot equity securities or grant rights to subscribe for or 
to convert any security to shares up to a nominal amount of 
£64,345,628, of which up to £19,498,675 could be allotted 
for cash without offering the shares to existing shareholders, 
such authority to expire at the end of the Company’s next AGM 
thereafter or 1 June 2017 , if earlier. Resolutions will be proposed 
at the Company’s forthcoming AGM to extend this authority to 
the end of the AGM in 2018 or 2 June 2018, whichever is earlier.
Variation of rights
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into 
different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class can 
only be changed either:
 X with the written consent of the holders of three-quarters in 
nominal value of the issued shares of that class (excluding 
shares held as treasury shares); or
 X with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate 
meeting of the holders of the shares of that class
The rights attached to any class of shares are not, unless 
otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue, deemed 
to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking 
equally with them.
General meetings
An AGM of the Company must be held each calendar year 
and within a period of six months of the day following the 
Company’s accounting reference date (which is 31 December).
Otherwise, the directors may call a general meeting whenever 
they think fit or where required to do so by shareholders holding 
at least 10% of the voting rights of the paid-up capital of the 
Company carrying voting rights (excluding shares held as 
treasury shares). 
General meetings may be held at such place, date and time 
as may be decided by the directors. 
An AGM must be convened by giving not less than 21 days’ 
notice. Other general meetings must also be convened by giving 
not less than 21 days’ notice unless shareholder approval has 
been given for such meetings to be convened on giving only  
14 days’ notice (such approval has been given by the Company’s 
shareholders and is effective until the next AGM when it is 
proposed that it should be renewed).
For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled 
to attend or vote at a meeting, and how many votes such 
persons may cast, the Company must specify in the notice 
of the meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time 
fixed for the meeting, by which a person must be entered 
on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote 
at the meeting.
No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless 
a quorum is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to 
business. T wo shareholders present in person or by proxy shall 
be a quorum.
The directors may require attendees to submit to searches 
or put in place such arrangements or restrictions as they think 
fit to ensure the safety and security of attendees at a general 
meeting. Any member, proxy or other person who fails to 
comply with such arrangements or restrictions may be refused 
entry to, or removed from, the general meeting.
Other information continued 203
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Limitations on voting and shareholding
Neither English law nor the Articles impose any limitation on  
the rights of non-UK residents or foreign shareholders to own 
the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs, including the rights  
to hold or exercise voting rights on those shares or ADSs.
Disclosure of interests in the Company’s ordinary shares
Under the DTRs, a person is required to notify the Company in 
writing within two days of becoming aware that the voting rights 
which he holds as a shareholder or through his direct or indirect 
holding of financial instruments reaches or exceeds 3% of the 
voting rights in the Company and reaches, exceeds or falls 
below each 1% threshold thereafter.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may send a 
notice to any person whom it knows or believes to be interested 
in the Company’s shares requiring such person to confirm 
whether he has such an interest and, if so, the details of the 
interest and any other interest in the Company’s shares of 
which he is aware. 
Under the DTRs, ‘persons discharging managerial 
responsibilities’ (primarily directors and some senior 
executives) and their connected persons are required to notify 
the Company in writing of the occurrence of all transactions 
conducted on their own account in the Company’s shares, or 
derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those 
shares no later than close of UK business on the business day 
after the day on which the transaction occurred. 
Mandatory bids
The Articles contain no provisions that would have an effect 
of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of 
the Company. 
However, under the UK City Code on T akeovers & Mergers, if an 
acquisition of the Company’s shares increases the aggregate 
holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying 
30% or more of the voting rights in the Company, the acquirer 
and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties, 
would be required (except with the consent of the Panel on 
T akeovers & Mergers) to make a cash offer for the remainder of 
the Company’s shares at a price not less than the highest price 
paid for the Company’s shares by the acquirer or its concert 
parties during the previous 12 months. Such an offer would also 
be triggered by any acquisition of shares by a person holding 
(together with its concert parties) shares carrying between 
30% and 50% of the voting rights in the Company if the effect 
of such acquisition were to increase that person’s percentage  
of the voting rights.
Amendments
Under English law, the Company’s shareholders may, by special 
resolution, alter, delete, substitute, amend or add to the Articles. 
The directors are not authorised to change the Articles.
Material contracts 
During the last two years, the Group entered into the following 
material contracts (other than contracts entered into in the 
ordinary course of business):
Agreements with Amec Foster Wheeler directors
Each of our executive directors has a service agreement 
and each non-executive Director has a letter of appointment. 
Amec Foster Wheeler entered into letters of appointment with 
Bob Card and Roy Franklin regarding their appointments as 
non-executive directors of Amec Foster Wheeler plc effective 
1 March 2017 and 1 January 2016, respectively. A modification, 
in the form of a side letter, was made to Ian McHoul’s service 
agreement reflecting the remuneration arrangements that 
applied during his appointment as interim CEO from 17 January 
2016 to 1 June 2016. In addition, Amec Foster Wheeler entered 
into a service agreement with Jon Lewis in respect of his 
appointment as Chief Executive Officer effective 1 June 2016.  
A contract of employment governed the employment 
relationship between the Company and Jon Lewis from  
18 May 2016 to 31 May 2016, during which time he undertook 
preparatory work prior to assuming executive office.
Credit facility agreement
In March 2016, the Group cancelled its $2,260m credit facility 
agreement (as amended and restated) with Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch International Limited as facility agent and Bank 
of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Bank of T okyo 
Mitsubishi UF J, Ltd., Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank 
of Scotland plc as original lenders together with the £377m 
revolving credit facility (as amended and restated) dated  
July 2012. These were replaced with a £650m term loan with  
a 3-year maturity, a £650m term loan with a 5-year maturity 
and a five-year £400m revolving credit facility (as amended) 
dated 1 March 2016, between, amongst others, the Company 
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited as 
facility agent. Further details of the terms and conditions 
of the credit facility agreement are set out in note 19 to 
the consolidated financial statements. 204
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Agreement to sell core boiler business within GPG
On 2 March 2017 , the Company signed an agreement to sell the 
Global Power Group’s core boiler business to Sumitomo Heavy 
Industries, Ltd for £137m. The sale is conditional on customary 
regulatory approvals in certain jurisdictions and is expected 
to complete during the second quarter of 2017 . As part of this 
transaction, the Group’s North American aftermarket services 
business is being retained.
The Group’s core boiler business designs, manufactures and 
installs circulating fluidised bed boilers which burn a variety 
of fuels in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner 
and are employed in power generation plants.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting 
security holders 
There are currently no UK government laws, decrees or 
regulations that restrict or affect the export or import of 
capital or that affect the payment of dividends, interest or 
other payments to non-UK resident holders of the Company’s 
securities, except for certain restrictions imposed from time 
to time against the government or residents of certain countries 
subject to EU economic sanctions or those sanctions adopted 
by the UK government which implement resolutions of the 
Security Council of the United Nations. 
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or 
under the Articles, restricting the right of non-UK residents 
to hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of the Company’s 
ordinary shares, except that where any overseas shareholder 
has not provided a UK address for the service of notices, the 
Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other 
document to an overseas address. It is, however, the Company’s 
current practice to send every notice or other document to all 
shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register 
of members, with the exception of details of the Company’s 
DRIP , which are not sent to shareholders with recorded 
addresses in the US or Canada.
Taxation information for US holders 
Background
A summary is provided below of the material US federal income 
tax and UK tax consequences for a US holder (defined below) 
of owning or disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs of the 
Company. This section addresses only the tax position of a US 
holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
This section does not consider the provisions of the US Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘IRC’) known as the 
Medicare Contribution tax or the alternative minimum tax and 
does not address state, local, foreign or other US federal tax 
laws (such as the estate or gift tax). In addition, this section 
does not address the tax consequences for holders subject  
to other special rules, such as:
 X financial institutions
 X insurance companies
 X dealers and traders in securities who use a mark-to-market 
method of tax accounting
 X persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, 
conversion or other integrated transaction or wash sale or 
persons entering into a constructive sale with respect to the 
ordinary shares or ADSs
 X persons whose functional currency for US federal income  
tax purposes is not the US dollar
 X entities or arrangements classified as partnerships for  
US federal income tax purposes
 X persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs in individual 
retirement accounts or other tax-deferred accounts
 X persons who have ceased to be US citizens or lawful 
permanent residents of the US
 X tax-exempt organisations
 X persons who acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant 
to the exercise of employee stock options or otherwise in 
connection with employment; or 
 X persons who, directly, indirectly, or by attribution own  
10% or more of the Company’s voting stock
Except where expressly stated to the contrary, this section 
does not deal with the position of a US holder who is resident 
or domiciled in the UK for UK tax purposes or who is subject 
to UK taxation on income or capital gains by virtue of carrying 
on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, 
agency or permanent establishment to which ordinary shares 
or ADSs are attributable, i.e. those who are referred to below  
as trading in the UK.
Other information continued 205
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
As used herein, a ‘US Holder’ is a person who, for the purposes 
of US federal income tax and UK tax, is a beneficial holder of 
ordinary shares or ADSs and is:
 X a citizen or individual resident of the US
 X a corporation (or other entity taxable as a corporation) 
created or organised in or under the laws of the US or any 
political subdivision thereof
 X an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax 
regardless of its source
 X a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over 
the trust’s administration and one or more US persons are 
authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust; or
 X a trust that has validly elected to be treated as a domestic 
trust for US federal income tax purposes
This section is based on the IRC, its legislative history, existing 
and proposed regulations, published rulings and court 
decisions, and on UK tax laws and the published practice of 
HMRC, all as at 25 March 2015. These laws, and that practice, 
are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section is further based in part upon the representations of 
the Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit 
agreement and any related agreement will be performed in 
accordance with its terms. For US federal income tax purposes, 
the owner of ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated 
as the owner of the underlying shares represented by those 
ADSs. For UK tax purposes, it is likely that HMRC will also regard 
holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of the ordinary shares 
represented by those ADSs.
Generally, exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for 
ordinary shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or 
UK taxation on capital gains, although UK stamp duty reserve 
tax may arise as described below.
The US T reasury has expressed concerns that parties to 
whom ADRs are pre-released may be taking actions that are 
inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by US 
Holders of ADSs. Such actions would also be inconsistent with 
the claiming of the preferential rates of tax, described below, 
for qualified dividend income. Accordingly, the availability 
of preferential rates of tax for qualified dividend income 
could be affected by actions taken by parties to whom ADRs 
are pre-released.
The following discussion assumes that the Company is not, and 
will not become, a PFIC. We outline below the consequences for 
US Holders should the Company become a PFIC in the future.
Investors should consult their own tax advisers regarding 
the US federal, state, and local, the UK and other tax 
consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares 
or ADSs of the Company in their particular circumstances.
T axation of dividends 
UK taxation
Under current UK tax law, the Company is not required 
to withhold tax at source from its dividend payments.
A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and who is not trading in the UK will generally not be liable for 
UK taxation on dividends received in respect of the Company’s 
ADSs or ordinary shares.
US federal income taxation
A US Holder is subject to US federal income tax on the gross 
amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its current 
or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for US 
federal income tax purposes). Distributions in excess of the 
Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits will 
be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US Holder’s 
basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain. 
Because the Company has not historically maintained, and 
does not currently maintain, books in accordance with US tax 
principles, the Company does not expect to be in a position 
to determine whether any distribution will be in excess of the 
Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits as 
determined for US federal income tax purposes. As a result, the 
Company expects that the amounts distributed will be reported 
to the IRS as dividends.
Subject to applicable limitations, dividends paid to certain 
non-corporate US Holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may 
be taxable at the favourable tax rates applicable to long-term 
capital gain if the dividends constitute qualified dividend 
income. A US Holder will be eligible for these rates only if it has 
held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during 
the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend 
date. The Company expects that the dividends paid by the 
Company with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will 
constitute qualified dividend income. US Holders should consult 
their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject 
to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these 
favourable rates.
Dividends must be included in income when the US Holder, 
in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, 
actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be 
eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed 
to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other 
US corporations. For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, 
dividends paid by the Company will be income from a source 
outside the US. 206
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling will be 
the US dollar value of the sterling payments made, determined 
at the spot sterling/US dollar exchange rate on the date the 
dividend is included in income for federal income tax purposes, 
regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into 
US dollars. If the dividend is converted into US dollars on 
that date, a US Holder should not be required to recognise a 
foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income. 
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency fluctuations 
during the period from the date the dividend payment is 
included in income to the date the payment is converted into  
US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss from 
sources within the US.
T axation of capital gains
UK taxation
A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and who is not trading in the UK will not generally be liable for 
UK taxation on capital gains, or eligible for relief for allowable 
losses, realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of the 
Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs. A US Holder who is an 
individual and has temporarily ceased to be a resident in the 
UK or has been temporarily treated as non-resident in the UK 
for UK tax purposes for a period of not more than five years 
and who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs 
during that period may, for the year of assessment when the 
individual becomes resident again in the UK, be liable for UK tax 
on capital gains (subject to any available exemption or relief), 
notwithstanding the fact that the individual was not treated 
as resident in the UK at the time of the sale or other disposal.
US federal income taxation
A US Holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares 
or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal 
income tax purposes equal to the difference, if any, between 
the amount realised on the sale or other disposal and the 
adjusted tax basis of the securities. Any capital gain or loss 
will be a long-term capital gain or loss where the holder has 
held the securities for more than one year. The capital gain or 
loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the 
US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. The deductibility 
of capital losses is subject to limitations.
PFIC status
Management believes that the Company was not a PFIC for  
US federal income tax purposes for its taxable year ended  
31 December 2016. Management reviews the Company’s PFIC 
status annually and it is subject to change. 
If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC, any gain realised 
on the sale or other disposal of the Company’s ordinary 
shares or ADSs would, in general, not be treated as capital 
gain. Instead, any gain would be treated as if the US Holder 
had realised the gain rateably over the period during which the 
ordinary shares or ADSs were held. Any gain that is allocated 
to the taxable year of the disposal, and to any taxable year 
before the Company became a PFIC, would be taxed as ordinary 
income. Any gain allocated to each other taxable year would 
be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for the taxable year 
to which the gain was allocated and an interest charge in 
respect of the tax attributable to each such year would also 
apply. Similar rules would apply to any ‘excess distribution’ 
(as determined for US federal income tax purposes) received on 
the ordinary shares or ADSs. The preferential rates for qualified 
dividend income received by certain non-corporate US Holders 
would not apply to dividends received in any year in which the 
Company was a PFIC or in any year immediately following a 
year in which the Company was a PFIC.
If the Company was to be treated as a PFIC certain elections 
may be available to US Holders that would result in alternative 
treatments of the ordinary shares or ADSs. If the Company were 
to be treated as a PFIC in any taxable year in which a US Holder 
held ordinary shares or ADSs, the holder may be required to file 
annual reports with the IRS containing such information as may 
be required by the US T reasury Department.
Inheritance and estate taxes
UK inheritance tax may apply to a deemed transfer which 
occurs on death, and to gifts to individuals within the seven 
years preceding death. For UK inheritance tax purposes, a 
transfer of shares at less than full market value may be treated 
as a gift and particular rules apply where the donor reserves or 
retains some benefit in the shares. Special UK inheritance tax 
rules also apply to companies and to trustees of settlements.
An individual who is neither domiciled nor deemed domiciled 
in the UK is only chargeable to UK inheritance tax to the extent 
the individual owns assets situated in the UK. Whilst UK tax law 
is unclear as to whether the Company’s ADSs are considered 
to be situated in the UK for inheritance tax purposes, HMRC 
is likely to take the view that they, as well as the Company’s 
ordinary shares, are situated in the UK.
Other information continued 207
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
However, HMRC considers that the US/UK Double T axation 
Convention on Estate and Gift T ax applies to inheritance tax. 
Consequently, a US Holder who is domiciled in the US for 
the purposes of the US/UK Double T axation Convention and 
is not for such purposes a UK national will not be subject to 
UK inheritance tax on their death or on a lifetime transfer of 
the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs, provided that any 
applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the 
ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property 
of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in 
the UK or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance 
of independent personal services. Where the ordinary shares 
or ADSs have been placed into trust by a settlor, they may 
be subject to UK inheritance tax, unless, when the trust was 
created, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not 
a UK national.
A UK national who is domiciled in the US will be subject to both 
UK inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled 
to a credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of the 
Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability 
to UK inheritance tax. Similarly, a US citizen who is domiciled 
or deemed domiciled in the UK will be entitled to a credit 
for UK inheritance tax charged in respect of the Company’s 
ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability for US 
federal estate tax. 
US information reporting and back-up withholding
Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US Holder  
with respect to the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs  
by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be reported 
to the IRS and to the US Holder as may be required under 
applicable regulations. 
Unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient, back-up 
withholding tax may apply to these payments if the US Holder 
fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number or 
certification of exempt status or fails to comply with applicable 
certification requirements. 
Any back-up withholding tax deducted may be credited  
against the US Holder’s US federal income tax liability, and, 
where the back-up withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, 
the US Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing  
the appropriate refund claim with the IRS.
Foreign financial asset reporting
US taxpayers that own certain foreign financial assets, including 
debt and equity of foreign entities, with an aggregate value 
in excess of US$50,000 at the end of the taxable year or 
US$75,000 at any time during the taxable year (or, for certain 
individuals living outside the US and married individuals filing 
joint returns, certain higher thresholds) may be required to file 
an information report with respect to such assets with their  
US federal income tax returns. 
The Company’s ADSs or ordinary shares constitute foreign 
financial assets subject to these requirements unless they 
are held in an account at a financial institution (in which case 
the account may still be reportable if maintained by a foreign 
financial institution). 
UK stamp duty and SDRT
UK stamp duty is charged on certain documents, including 
instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary 
shares. T ransfers of ordinary shares are generally subject to  
UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration 
(rounded up to the nearest £5).
SDRT is charged where there is an unconditional agreement 
to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money 
or money’s worth. SDRT is generally charged at the rate of 0.5% 
of the agreed consideration (rounded up to the nearest penny). 
The charge to SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already 
paid will be refunded, if within six years of the unconditional 
agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HMRC 
and the appropriate stamp duty paid. 
Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on any purchase 
or transfer of the Company’s ADSs, provided that the ADSs and 
any separate instrument or written agreement to transfer are 
executed and remain at all times outside the UK. 
UK legislation does, however, provide for stamp duty or SDRT 
to be charged at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of 
the consideration (or, in some circumstances, the value of the 
shares concerned) on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares 
to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance 
service (or their nominees or agents) for the conversion into 
ADRs. In accordance with the deposit agreement, any tax or 
duty payable on deposits of ordinary shares by the Depositary 
or by the custodian of the Depositary will be typically charged  
to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits. 208
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Following litigation on the subject, HMRC has accepted that  
it will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% SDRT charge when new 
shares are issued to a clearance service or depositary receipt 
system on the basis that the charge is not compatible with  
EU law. In HMRC’s view, however, the 1.5% SDRT or stamp duty 
charge will continue to apply to transfers of shares into  
a clearance service or depositary receipt system unless they  
are an integral part of the issue of share capital. HMRC’s view  
is currently being challenged in further litigation. 
Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on a transfer of 
ordinary shares where no beneficial interest passes, including 
the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary 
to a holder of the Company’s ADSs.
Foreign currency translation 
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the average 
exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar, calculated by 
using the average of the exchange rates at the close of business 
in London on the last trading day of each month in the period, 
were as follows:
Y ear ended 31 December £1=US$
2012 1.59
2013 1.57
2014 1.65
2015 1.52
2016 1.36
For the periods indicated in the table below, the high and low 
exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar were as follows: 
£1=US$
Month High Low
September 2016 1.3437 1.2967
October 2016 1.2841 1.2117
November 2016 1.2599 1.2241
December 2016 1.2732 1.2224
January 2017 1.2630 1.2043
February 2017 1.2652 1.2380
March 2017 1.2553 1.2152
April 2017
1
1.2486 1.2372
1 Up to and including 10 April 2017 .
At the close of business in London on 10 April 2017 ,  
the sterling/US dollar exchange rate was £1=US$1.2410.
Other information continued
Historic dividend per share
Y ear ended 31 December £ US$
2011 30.5p [47.4c]
2012 36.5p [59.3c]
2013 42.0p [69.6c]
2014 43.3p [67 .5c]
2015 29.0p [42.7c]
The dividend disclosed in cents were calculated at the following 
year end exchange rates:
31 December 2015 – 1.4739 
31 December 2014 – 1.5593 
31 December 2013 – 1.6563 
31 December 2012 – 1.6255 
31 December 2011 – 1.5541
This represents an estimate and no representation can be made 
that the dividend could have been converted into US dollars 
at this rate, and as a result these figures have been included 
in square brackets in the table above.
Recommended All-Share Offer from John Wood Group
In March 2017 , John Wood Group announced a recommended  
all-share offer for the entire share capital of the Company. 
Under the terms of the offer, each shareholder of the Company 
will receive 0.75 new John Wood Group shares for every one 
share held, valuing each share in the Company at approximately  
£5.64 (representing a premium of approximately 28.7% 
to the prior 30 trading day volume weighted average price). 
Significant differences between corporate governance 
practices and NYSE listing standards 
Background
Our corporate governance practices are designed to be 
compliant with the principles and provisions specified by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Our statement of compliance with 
the principles and provisions of the Code is set out on page 46.
We have also adopted the corporate governance requirements 
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related listing 
standards of the NYSE, to the extent that they are applicable 
to a foreign private issuer. We disclose below the significant 
differences between our corporate governance practices and 
those that are required of US companies that are listed on 
the NYSE.  209
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Corporate governance guidelines
The Code contains a series of principles and provisions. It is not, 
however, mandatory for companies to follow these principles. 
Instead, companies must disclose how they have applied 
them and, if applicable, must disclose and explain the reasons 
for any areas of non-compliance. By comparison, the NYSE 
listing standards require US companies to adopt and disclose 
corporate governance guidelines.
Independence 
Different tests of independence for directors are applied under 
the Code and the NYSE listing standards. The board has carried 
out an assessment based on the independence requirements  
of the Code and has determined that, in its judgement, each  
of the non-executive directors except Kent Masters, on account 
of his previous employment by Foster Wheeler, is independent 
within the meaning of those requirements. As the Company  
is a foreign private issuer, the board is not required to take into 
consideration the definition of independence set out in the 
NYSE’s listing standards. 
Committees
NYSE listing standards require US companies to have a 
nominating/corporate governance committee, an audit 
committee and a compensation committee, each composed 
entirely of independent directors. Each of these committees 
is required to have a written charter which addresses 
the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and the 
compensation committee must have sole authority and 
adequate funding to engage compensation consultants, 
independent legal counsel and other external advisers.
We have terms of reference for our nominations committee, 
audit committee and remuneration committee, each of which 
complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for 
inspection on our website. Whilst these terms of reference are 
generally consistent with the requirements of the NYSE listing 
rules, they may not address all aspects of those rules. 
NYSE listing standards specify that the nominating/corporate 
governance committee is responsible for identifying individuals 
qualified to become members of the board and to recommend 
to the board a set of corporate governance principles.  
The Code requires companies to have a nominations committee 
but does not require a corporate governance committee.  
Our nominations committee is concerned only with the 
membership of the board. Corporate governance issues  
are discussed and decided upon at meetings of the board.
NYSE listing standards require the audit committee to  
comprise at least three independent directors. Whilst our  
Audit Committee comprises independent non-executive 
directors (and currently has five members), it should be noted 
that only two members of the committee need be present for 
there to be a quorum. 
Compliance certification
NYSE rules require that the Chief Executive Officer of a US 
company must certify to the NYSE each year that he or she is 
not aware of any violation by the Company of any of the NYSE’s 
corporate governance listing standards. As the Company 
is a foreign private issuer, the Chief Executive Officer is not 
required to make this certification. However, the Chief Executive 
Officer is required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing if 
any of the Company’s executive officers become aware of 
any non-compliance with those NYSE corporate governance 
listing standards that are applicable to the Company. 
Documents on display
The Company is subject to the information requirements of 
the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign 
private issuers. In accordance with these requirements, the 
Company files an annual report on Form 20-F and other related 
documents with the SEC. Certain other announcements made 
by the Company are furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. 
Information submitted by the Company to the SEC may be 
inspected at the SEC’s public reference rooms located at 
100 F Street NE, Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the 
operation of the public reference room can be obtained by 
calling the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy  
on +1 800 732 0330. 
Y ou may also access information submitted by the Company  
to the SEC through the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. 210
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Cross reference to F orm 20-F
Item Form 20–F caption Location in this document Page
1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers Not applicable n/a
2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable n/a
3 Key information
A – Selected financial data Five-year record 222
Other information 197-209
Performance highlights 1
B – Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable n/a
C – Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable n/a
 D – Risk Factors Risk factors 177-187
4 Information on the Company
A – History and development of the Company History and development 176
Note 25 – Acquisitions and disposals 160-163
Other information – Recommended all-share offer 
from John Wood Group 
208
B – Business overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance 2-5
Financial review 34-45
Our business model 6-7
Principal risks and uncertainties 28-32
Risk factors 177-187
C – Organisational structure Related undertakings 212-221
 D – Property, plant and equipment Financial review – Property, plant and equipment 42
4A Unresolved staff comments None
5 Operating and financial review and prospects
A – Operating results Financial review 34-45
Note 2 – Segmental analysis of continuing operations 122-123
Principal risks and uncertainties – Principal business 
and strategic risks
29-31
Note 19 – Capital and financial risk management 146-150
B – Liquidity and capital resources Financial review – Liquidity and capital resources 40
Note 19 – Capital and financial risk management 146-150
Note 23 – Analysis of net debt 158
Note 29 – Post balance sheet events 166
C – Research and development, patents, licences etc Financial review – Research and development 42
D – T rend information Our markets 14-15
Chief Executive Officer’s statement – Outlook 11
Financial review 34-45
Performance measures – order book 190
E – Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review – Off-balance sheet arrangements 45
F – T abular disclosure of contractual obligations Note 26 – Commitments 163-164
Financial review – Post-retirement benefits 42
Financial review 34-45
G – Safe harbor Forward-looking statements 224
H – Non-GAAP financial measures Performance measures 188-190
6 Directors, senior management and employees
A – Directors and senior management Our board of directors 47-49
Our Executive committee 61-62
B – Compensation Directors’ remuneration report 74-88
C – Board practices Our board of directors 47-49
Directors’ remuneration report – Remuneration policy 83-88
Audit committee 65-69
Remuneration committee 72-73
D – Employees Note 6 – Staff costs and employee numbers 
– continuing operations
127
E – Share ownership Directors’ remuneration report 74-88
 Note 22 – Share capital and reserves 155-157
 – Share-based payments
7 Major shareholders and related party transactions
A – Major shareholders Directors’ report – Major interest in shares 91
Other information – Shareholdings 200
B – Related party transactions Note 28 – Related party transactions 165-166
 C – Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable n/a 211
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Item Form 20–F caption Location in this document Page
8 Financial information
A – Consolidated financial statements and other Consolidated financial statements 104-166
financial information Report of independent registered public 103
accounting firm
– Legal proceedings Note 21 – Provisions 151-154
Note 27 – Contingent liabilities 164-165
– Dividends Note 22 – Share capital and reserves – Dividends 157
B – Significant changes Note 29 – Post balance sheet events 166
9 The offer and listing
A – Offer and listing details Other information – Share price history 199
B – Plan of distribution Not applicable n/a
C – Markets Other information – Markets 199
D – Selling shareholders Not applicable n/a
E – Dilution Not applicable n/a
 F – Expenses of the issue Not applicable n/a
10 Additional information
A – Share capital Not applicable n/a
B – Memorandum and articles of association History and development 176
Other information – Articles of Association 200-203
C – Material contracts Other information – Material contracts 203-204
D – Exchange controls Other information – Exchange controls and other 
limitations affecting security holders
204
E – T axation Other information – T axation information  
for US Holders
205-208
F – Dividends and paying agents Not applicable n/a
G – Statement by experts Not applicable n/a
H – Documents on display Other information – Documents on display 209
 I – Subsidiary information Not applicable n/a
11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Note 19 – Capital and financial risk management 146-150
12 Description of securities other than equity securities
A – Debt securities Not applicable n/a
B – Warrants and rights Not applicable n/a
C – Other securities Not applicable n/a
 D – American depositary shares Other information – American Depositary Shares 197-198
13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies Not applicable n/a
14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders Not applicable n/a
and use of proceeds
15 Controls and procedures Accountability – Risk management and internal 
control systems
64
Report of independent public accounting firm  
on internal control over financial reporting
102
16A Audit committee financial expert Audit committee – Members 66
16B Code of ethics Leadership and effectiveness  
– Board role and responsibilities
51
16C Principal accountant fees and services Audit committee – External audit 68-69
16D Exemptions from the listing standards for audit committees Not applicable n/a
16E Purchase of equity securities Other information – Purchase of ordinary shares 200
16F Change in registrant’s certifying accountant Not applicable n/a
16G Corporate governance Other information – Significant differences between 
corporate governance practices and NYSE listing 
standards
208-209
16H Mine safety disclosure Not applicable n/a
17 Financial statements Report of independent registered public accounting 
firm on internal control over financial reporting 
102
Note 1 – Significant accounting policies 112-121
18 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 104-166
19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC 212
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Related undertakings
as at 31 December 2016
We set out below details of all the Company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. Except where indicated, all subsidiaries 
listed below are wholly owned and carry on their activities principally in their countries of incorporation. Except where marked with an 
asterisk
†
, the Company’s shareholdings are held indirectly through subsidiaries and the shares are held in the form of ordinary shares 
or common stock, except where indicated otherwise. All of the active subsidiaries are included in the consolidation. Decisions made 
in the joint ventures concerning operating and financial policies essential to the activities and performance of the company are made 
in accordance with the relevant joint venture agreement. 
Subsidiaries
Name % interest Address
Argentina
AGRA Argentina S.A. 100 25 de Mayo 596, piso 8º, C1002ABL, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Foster Wheeler E&C Argentina S.A. 100 Paraguay 1866, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Australia
AMEC Australia Finance Company Pty Ltd 100
(#)(xviii)
Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
AMEC Australia Finance No. 2 Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
AMEC Australia T reasury Company Pty Ltd 100 407 Royal Parade, Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia
AMEC Australia T reasury LP 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Holding Company Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Holdings Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure Pty Ltd 100
(x)(xii)
Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Amec Foster Wheeler Zektin Architecture Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Amec Foster Wheeler Zektin Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
AMEC Minproc Projects (New Zealand) Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
AMEC Zektin Group Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd 100
(#)(xii)
Level 10, 67 Albert Avenue, Chatswood, NSW, 2067 , Australia
Burman Griffiths Holdings Pty Ltd 100 Level 10, 67 Albert Avenue, Chatswood, NSW, 2067 , Australia
Burman Griffiths Pty Ltd 100 Level 10, 67 Albert Avenue, Chatswood, NSW, 2067 , Australia
Foster Wheeler (QLD) Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Foster Wheeler (WA) Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Geosafe Australia Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Global Carbon Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRA T echnology Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Asia Holdings Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Asia Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Developments Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD ESAP Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Investments Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD New Zealand Pty Ltd 100
(#)(xviii)
Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Normet Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Oil & Gas Pty Ltd 100
(vii)
Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Renewables Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
GRD Waste Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
KEC International Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Kirfield Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Macraes New Zealand Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Minproc Engineers Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Minproc Group Superannuation Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Minproc Overseas Projects Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Minproc Projects (Ghana) Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Minproc T echnology Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Octagon International Properties Pty Ltd 100
(vii)
Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Qedi Completions & Commissioning Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Rider Hunt International (WA) Pty Ltd 100 Level 10, 67 Albert Avenue, Chatswood, NSW, 2067 , Australia
S2V Consulting Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
South Shore Nominees Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
T erra Nova T echnologies Australia Pty Ltd 100 Level 7 , 197 St Georges T errace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
Azerbaijan
AMEC Limited Liability Company 100 AZ1010, Baku City Sabail District, Nizami 90A, Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Montreal Engineering (Overseas) Limited 100 c/o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, Ontario, L6H 6X7 , Canada 
Bermuda
AMEC (Bermuda) Limited 100 Canon’s Court, 22 Victoria Street, (PO Box HM 1179), Hamilton, HM EX, 
Bermuda
Atlantic Services Limited 100 Canon’s Court, 22 Victoria Street, (PO Box HM 1179), Hamilton, HM EX, 
Bermuda
Foster Wheeler Holdings Ltd. 100
(#)(xviii)
Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda
Foster Wheeler Ltd. 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM-11, Bermuda
FW European E & C Ltd. 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM-11, Bermuda
FW Management Operations, Ltd. 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM-11, Bermuda
Y ork Jersey Liability Ltd. 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM-11, Bermuda 213
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name % interest Address
Brazil
AMEC do Brasil Participações Ltda 100
(xvii)
Rua Quitanda 50, 15th floor, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, CEP 20011-030, Brazil
Amec Foster Wheeler America Latina, Ltda. 100 Centro Empresarial Ribeirao Office T ower, Av. Braz Olaia Acosta, 727 - 18 
andar - Sl. 1810, Cep. 14026-404 - Jd. California, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil
Amec Foster Wheeler Brasil S.A. 100 Rua Quitanda 50, 15th floor, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, CEP 20011-030, Brazil
AMEC Petroleo e Gas Limitada 100
(xvii)
Rua Quitanda 50, 15th floor, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, CEP 20011-030, Brazil
AMEC Projetos e Consultoria Ltda 100 Rua Professor Moraes No. 476, Loja 5, Sobreloja, Bairro Funcionarios, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 30150-370, Brazil
British Virgin Islands
MDM Engineering Group Limited 100 Commerce House, Wickhams Cay 1, P .O. Box 3140, Road T own, T ortola,  
British Virgin Islands
Brunei Darussalam
Amec Foster Wheeler (B) SDN BHD 99 Unit No.s 406A-410A, Wisma Jaya, Jalan Pemancha, Bandar Seri Begawan 
BS8811, Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
AMEC Minproc Bulgaria EOOD 100 7th Floor, 9-11 Maria Louisa Blvd, Vazrazhdane District, Sofia 1301, Bulgaria
Cameroon
Amec Foster Wheeler Cameroun SARL 100 Cap Limboh, Limbe, BP1280, Cameroon
Canada
418750 Alberta Inc. 100 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
AFW Canada Investments Limited 100 Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5, Canada
AFW Canadian Holdco Inc. 100 Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5, Canada
AMEC BDR Limited 100
(vii)(viii)
900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
AMEC Canada Finance ULC 100 111, Dunsmuir St., Vancouver, BC, V6B 5W3, Canada
AMEC Canada Holdings Inc. 100
(vii)(viii)
Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5, Canada
AMEC Earth & Environmental Limited 100
(#)(vii)
801, 900, 6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited 100
(#)(vii) (viii)
2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7 , Canada
Amec Foster Wheeler Canada Ltd. 100
(vii)
4945 Richard Road SW, Westmount Corporate Campus, Building 1, Suite 200, 
Calgary, AB, T3E 6L1, Canada
Amec Foster Wheeler Inc. 100
(viii)
2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7 , Canada
Amec Foster Wheeler NCL Limited 100 700 University Avenue, 4th floor, T oronto, ON, M5G 1X6, Canada
AMEC Geomatics Limited 49
(vii)
900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
100
(viii)
AMEC Infrastructure Limited 100 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
AMEC NSS Limited 100 700 University Avenue, 4th floor, T oronto, ON, M5G 1X6, Canada
AMEC South America Limited 100
(vii)
2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7 , Canada
Campro AGRA Limited 100 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
CK T emple Holdings Ltd. 100
(vii)(ix) (xi)
900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
Howe AGRA Limited 100 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
MASA Ventures Limited 100 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
QEDI Commissioning and Completions (Canada) Limited 100 Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5, Canada
Rider Hunt International (Alberta) Inc. 100
(#)(xvi)
900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada
Cayman Islands
FW Chile Holdings Ltd. 100 Codan T rust Company (Cayman) Limited, Cricket Square, Hutchins Drive,  
PO Box 2681, George T own, KY1-1111, Cayman Islands
Chile
AMEC CADE Ingeniería y Desarrollo De Proyectos Limitada 100 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
AMEC Chile Ingeniería y Construcción Limitada 100 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Amec Foster Wheeler International Ingenieria y 
Construcción Limitada
100 Av. Apoquindo 3846, piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, 7550123, Chile
Amec Foster Wheeler T alcahuano, Operaciónes y 
Mantenciones Limitada
100 Camino A Ramuntcho 3230, Sector 4 Esquinas, T alcahuano, Chile
Foster Wheeler Chile, S.A. 100 Av. Apoquindo 3486, 7° piso, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile
T erra Nova T echnologies Chile Limitada 100 Av. Apoquindo 3846, piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, 7550123, Chile
China
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Management (Shanghai) 
Company Limited
100 8th Floor, UC T ower, 500 Fu Shan Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Construction Design 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
100 Room 401, Floor 4, No, 120 Qixia Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Consulting 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd
100 Room 204, Building 1, No. 1287 , Shangcheng Road, Pudong New District, 
Shanghai, China
Amec Foster Wheeler International T rading (Shanghai) 
Company Limited
100 Wai Gao Qiao Free T rade Zone, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, PR China
Colombia
Amec Foster Wheeler Colombia SAS 100 Calle 110 No. 9-25, Offices 515 and 516, Bogotá, Colombia
Cyprus
AMEC Overseas (Cyprus) Limited 100 1, Lampousas Street, 1095 Nicosia, Cyprus
Czech Republic
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Czech Republic, a.s. 100 Krenova 58, Brno, 60200, Czech Republic
Amec Foster Wheeler s.r.o. 100 Krenova 58, Brno, 60200, Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
MDM Engineering SPRL 100 32 Avenue 3Z, Commune de Kasuku, Ville de Kindu,  
Democratic Republic of Congo 214
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Related undertakings continued
As at 31 December 2016
Name % interest Address
Egypt
Foster Wheeler Petroleum Services S.A.E. 100 Al-Amerya General Free Zone, Alexandria, Egypt
England & Wales
AFW E&C Holdings Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AFW Finance 2 Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AFW Finance 3 Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AFW Hungary Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AFW Investments 2 Limited 100
(#)(xvi)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AFW Investments Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC (AGL) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC (BCS) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC (F.C.G.) Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC (MH1992) Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC (MHL) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC (WSL) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC BKW Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Bravo Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Building Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Canada Limited(*) 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Capital Projects Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Civil Engineering Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Construction Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Design and Management Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Engineering Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Executive Pensions T rustee Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Facilities Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Focus Pensions T rustee Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler (Holdings) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Earth and Environmental (UK) 
Limited
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure UK 
Limited
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Group Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler International Holdings Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler International Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Holdings Limited 100
(vii)(viii) (ix)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear International Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear UK Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments 
Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Global Renewables UK Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Infrastructure Services Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Investments Europe Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Manufacturing and Services Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Mechanical and Electrical Services Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Mining Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Minproc UK Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Nominees Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Nuclear M & O Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Nuclear Overseas Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Nuclear Projects Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Offshore Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Offshore Services Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Process and Energy International Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Process and Energy Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Project Investments Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Services Limited
†
100
(#)(xvi)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Spareco (12) Limited 100
(#)(xvi)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Spareco (14) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Staff Pensions T rustee Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC T rustees Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC USA Finance Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC USA Holdings Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC USA Limited 100
(#)(xvi)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Utilities Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
AMEC Wind Developments Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Amplemark Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 215
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name % interest Address
Applied Environmental Research Centre Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Atlantis Hedge Co 1 Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Atlantis Hedge Co 2 Limited
†
100
(#)(vi)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Attric Ltd 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Business Consultancy Group Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Castlecary Wind Farm Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants (UK) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Entec Holdings Limited 100
(#)(vii) (viii)
(ix)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Entec Investments Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler (G.B.) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler (London) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler (Process Plants) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler E&C Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler Environmental (UK) Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler Europe 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler Management Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler Petroleum Development Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Foster Wheeler World Services Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
FW Chile Holdings 2 Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
FW Investments Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Hilton Wind Farm Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
IDC Property Investments Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
MDM UK Finance Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Metal and Pipeline Endurance Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
National Nuclear Corporation Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Press Construction Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Primat Recruitment Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Process Industries Agency Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Process Plants Suppliers Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Rider Hunt International Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Sigma 2 AFW Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Specialist Equipment Solutions Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
The IDC Group Limited
†
100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
T ray (UK) Limited 100
(#)(xvi)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
T ray Field Services Limited 100 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
William Ellis (Etchingham) Limited
†
100
(#)(xvi)
Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Finland
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia Oy 100 Metsänneidonkuja 8, P .O.Box 7 , Espoo, 02130, Finland
France
Amec Foster Wheeler France S.A. 100 92 Quai De Bercy, 75012 Paris, France
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear France SAS 100 Immeuble Horizon Sainte Victoire, Bâtiment A, 970 rue René Descartes, 
13857 Aix-en-Provence cedex 3, France
Germany
Amec Foster Wheeler E & I GmbH 100 Solmsstrabe 2-22, Frankfurt/Main, 60486, Germany
Amec Foster Wheeler Energie GmbH 100 Peterstrasse 120, Krefeld, 47798, Germany
Bauunternehmung Kittelberger GmbH 100 Von-Miller-Strasse 13, 67661 Kaiserslautern, Germany
KIG Immobilien Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 100 Ferdinand-Lassalle-Strasse 1, 04109 Leipzig, Germany
KIG Immobiliengesellschaft mbH & Co. KG 100 Ferdinand-Lassalle-Strasse 1, 04109 Leipzig, Germany
Ghana
Amec Foster Wheeler & BBS Limited 80 No 4 Momotsa Avenue, Behind All Saints Anglican Church, Adabraka, Accra, 
Ghana
Amec Foster Wheeler Operations Ghana Limited 100 3rd Floor T eachers Hall Complex, Education Loop, Off Barnes Road,  
PO Box 1632, Accra, Ghana
Gibraltar
Foster Wheeler (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited 100
(#)(xviii)
Suite 1, Burns House, 19 T own Range, Gibraltar
Greece
Foster Wheeler Hellas Engineering and Construction 
Societe Anonyme
100 21 Elvetias Street, (First Floor), Agia Paraskevi, 153 42, Greece
Guatemala
AMEC Guatemala Engineering and Consulting, Sociedad 
Anonima
99.96 Consortium-Rodriguez, Archila, Castellanos, Solares & Aguilar, S.C., 
Guatemala
Guernsey
AMEC Operations Limited 100 22 Havilland Street, St Peter Port, GY1 2QB, Guernsey
Hong Kong
AMEC Asia Pacific Limited 99 5008, 50th Floor, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong
AMEC Engineering Limited 100 5008, 50th Floor, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Group Asia Limited 100 Level 2, Neich T ower, 128 Gloucester Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong 216
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Related undertakings continued
As at 31 December 2016
Name % interest Address
Hungary
FW Hungary Licensing Limited Liability Company 100 Krisztina korut 2-4. I. em. 17 , Budapest, 1122, Hungary
India
Amec Foster Wheeler India Private Limited 100 6th Floor, Zenith Building, Ascendas IT Park, CSIR Road, T aramani,  
Chennai 600 113, India
Indonesia
PT AGRA Monenco 100 c/o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, Ontario, L6H 6X7 , Canada
PT Amec Foster Wheeler Indonesia 84.62
(vii)
Perkantoran Pulo mas Blok VII No. 2, Jl Perintis Kemerdekaan, Pulo Gadung, 
Jakarta, Timur, Indonesia
PT Foster Wheeler O&G Indonesia 90 Perkantoran Pulo mas Blok VII No.2, Jl. Perintis Kemerdekaan, Pulo Gadung, 
Jakarta Timur 13260, Indonesia
PT Simons International Indonesia 100 c/o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, Ontario, L6H 6X7 , Canada
Iraq
T ouchstone General Contracting, Engineering Consultancy 
and Project Management LLC
100 Flat no. 23A, 3rd Floor, near Kahramana Square Anbar Building,  
District no. 903, Hay Al Karada, Baghdad, Iraq
Italy
Amec Foster Wheeler Global E&C S.r.l. 100 Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico, 20094, Italy
Amec Foster Wheeler Italiana S.r.l. 100 Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico, 20094, Italy
Amec Foster Wheeler Power S.r.l. 100
(xvii)
Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico, 20094, Italy
FW TURNA S.r.l. 100 Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico, 20094, Italy
Jamaica
Monenco Jamaica Limited(*) 100 c/o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, Ontario, L6H 6X7 , Canada
Japan
Amec Foster Wheeler Asia K.K. 100 Shiba International Law Offices, 1-3-4-5F Atago, Minatoku, T okyo, 105-0002, 
Japan
Jersey
AMEC Canada Investments Company Limited 100 95/97 Halkett Place, St Helier, JE1 1BX, Jersey
AMEC Nuclear Consultants International Limited 100 95/97 Halkett Place, St Helier, JE1 1BX, Jersey
Kazakhstan
AMEC Limited Liability Partnership 100 78A Azattyk Avenue, Atyrau, 060005, Kazakhstan
Foster Wheeler Kazakhstan LLP 100 App. 27 , h. 64, Bostandykskiy district, Abaya Ave., Almaty City, Kazakhstan
QED International (Kazakhstan) Limited Liability 
Partnership
100 78, “A” Azattyk avenue, Atyrau 060005, Kazakhstan
Korea
AMEC Korea Limited 100 KT Building 11F, 14 Y eouidaero, Y oungdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07320, Korea
Kuwait
AMEC Kuwait Project Management and Contracting 
Company W .L.L.
49 2nd Floor, Al Mutawa Building, Ahmed Al Jaber Street, Sharq, Kuwait City
Liberia
Amec Foster Wheeler Liberia Inc 100 King Plaza, 2nd-4th Floors, Broad Street, Monrovia 10, Liberia
Luxembourg
AFW Luxembourg 1 S.a.r.l 100 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882, Luxembourg 
AFW Luxembourg 2 S.a.r.l 100 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882, Luxembourg 
Financial Services S.à r.l. 100 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882, Luxembourg 
FW Europe Financial Holdings S.à r.l. 100 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882, Luxembourg 
FW Holdings S.à r.l. 100 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882, Luxembourg 
FW Investment Holdings S.à r.l. 100
(#)(viii)
5, rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882, Luxembourg 
Malaysia
AMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 100 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No. 1, Leboh Ampang, 
Kuala Lumpur, 50100, Malaysia
Amec Foster Wheeler OPE Sdn. Bhd. 100
(#)(xviii)
12th Floor, West Block, Wisma Selangor Dredging, 142-C Jalan Ampang,  
Kuala Lumpur, 50450, Malaysia
AMEC Holdings (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 100 12th Floor, West Block, Wisma Selangor Dredging, 142-C Jalan Ampang,  
Kuala Lumpur, 50450, Malaysia
AMEC Oil Gas and Process Sdn Bhd 100 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No. 1, Leboh Ampang, 
Kuala Lumpur, 50100, Malaysia
AMEC Process & Energy Sdn Bhd 100 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No. 1, Leboh Ampang, 
Kuala Lumpur, 50100, Malaysia
Foster Wheeler (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 100
(vii) (viii)
Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No. 1, Leboh Ampang, 
Kuala Lumpur, 50100, Malaysia
Foster Wheeler E&C (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 70 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No. 1, Leboh Ampang, 
Kuala Lumpur, 50100, Malaysia
Rider Hunt International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 100 Level 7 , Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 
Damansara Heights, Kuala Lumpur, 50490, Malaysia
Mauritius
MDM Engineering Investments Ltd 100 1st Floor, Felix House, 24 Dr Joseph Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
MDM Engineering Projects Ltd 100 1st Floor, Felix House, 24 Dr Joseph Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
P .E. Consultants, Inc. 100
(vii) (viii)
St James Court-Suite 308, St Denis Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
QED International Ltd 100 C/o Appleby Management (Mauritius) Ltd, 11th Floor, Medine Mews,  
La Chaussée Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
Mexico
AGRA Ambiental S.A. de C.V. 100
(viii)
c/o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, Ontario, L6H 6X7 , Canada
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 100
(vii)
Av. Vasconcelos 453, Colonia del Valle 66220 Nuevo Leon, Monterrey 
(Estados Unidos de México), Mexico 217
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name % interest Address
Amec Foster Wheeler Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 100
(ii)(iii) (iv)(v)
c/o Carlos Salazar, 2333 Oriente, Col. Obrera, Monterrrey, Nuevo Leon, 
64010, Mexico
AYMEC de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 100
(xiii)(xiv)
453 Planta Alta Del Valle, San Pedro Garza Garcia, Nuevo Leon 66220, Mexico
Exergy Engineering Services, S.A. de C.V. 100 David Alfaro Siqueiros 104 piso 2, Col. Valle Oriente, San Pedro Garza Garcia, 
Nuevo Leon, CP . 66269, Mexico
Exergy Engineering, S.A. de C.V. 100 David Alfaro Siqueiros 104 piso 2, Col. Valle Oriente, San Pedro Garza Garcia, 
Nuevo Leon, CP . 66269, Mexico
Foster Wheeler Constructors de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 100 699 15th Street, 6th Avenue, Agua Prieta, Sonora, Mexico
Global Mining Projects and Engineering, S.A. de C.V. 100 Calle Coronado 124, Zona centro, Chihuahau, Chihuahua, 31000, Mexico
MACTEC Mexico S.A. de C.V. 100 Sanchez-Mejorada, Velasco y Ribe, Paseo de la Reforma 450,  
Lomas de Chapultepec, 11000 Mexico
Mongolia
AMEC LLC 100 Suite 403, 4th Floor New Century Plaza, Chinggis Avenue, Sukhbaatar 
District, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
Mozambique
Amec Foster Wheeler Mozambique Limitada 100
(xvii)
Maputo Cidade, Distrito Urbano 1, Bairro Sommerschield II, Av. Julius Nyerere, 
nº 3412, Maputo, Mozambique
Netherlands
AMEC GRD SA B.V. 100 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands
AMEC Holland B.V. 100 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands
AMEC International Investments B.V. 100 Meander 251, Arnhem, 6825 MC, Netherlands
AMEC Investments B.V. 100 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands
Foster Wheeler Continental B.V. 100 Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW Amsterdam, Netherlands
Foster Wheeler Europe B.V. 100 Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW Amsterdam, Netherlands
FW Energie B.V. 100 Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW Amsterdam, Netherlands
FW Europe B.V. 100 Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW Amsterdam, Netherlands
PI Group B.V. 100 Parallelweg 124 - 05, Beverwijk, 1948 NN, Netherlands
PI TMC B. V . 100 Parallelweg 124 - 05, Beverwijk, 1948 NN, Netherlands
New Zealand
AMEC New Zealand Limited 100 c/o KPMG, 18 Viaduct Harbour Avenue, Maritime Square, Auckland,  
New Zealand
Aquenta Consulting (NZ) Limited 100 22 Customs Street, Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Nicaragua
MACTEC Engineering and Consulting, Sociedad Anonima 
(Nicaragua)(*)
98 Consortium – T aboada & Asociados, Del Hospital Militar, 1 Cuadra al Lago, 
Managua, Nicaragua
Nigeria
AMEC Contractors (W/A) Limited 100 13A AJ Marinho Drive, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria
AMEC King Wilkinson (Nigeria) Limited 100 No 3, Hospital Road, PO Box 9289, Lagos, Nigeria
AMEC Offshore (Nigeria) Limited 75 18th Floor, Western House, 8/10 Broad Street, Lagos, Nigeria
Foster Wheeler (Nigeria) Limited 100 1 Murtala Muhammed Drive, (Formerly Bank Road), Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria
Foster Wheeler Environmental Company Nigeria Limited 87 c/o Nwokedi & Co., 21 Ajasa Street, Onikan, Nigeria
Monenco Nigeria Limited 60 Ebani House (Marina side), 62 Marina, Lagos, Nigeria
Peru
Amec Foster Wheeler (Perú) S.A. 100 Calle Las Begonias 441, Piso 8, San Isidro, Lima, 27 , Peru
Philippines
Foster Wheeler (Philippines) Corporation 100 7/F PDCP Bank Centre,Herrera St., Corner Alfaro St., Salcedo Village,  
Makati City, Philippines
Puerto Rico
AMEC E&E Caribe, LLP 98 14th Floor, 250 Munoz Rivera Avenue, American International Plaza, San Juan, 
00918, Puerto Rico
Poland
Amec Foster Wheeler Consulting Poland Sp. z o.o. 100 Ul.Chmielna 85/87 , Warsaw, 00-805, Poland
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia Polska Sp. z o.o. 100 Ul.Chmielna 85/87 , Warsaw, 00-805, Poland
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Fakop Sp. z o.o. 22.7
(xiv)
Ul. Staszica 31, Sosnowiec, 41-200, Poland
50
(xv)
63.56
(xiii)
Romania
AMEC Environment & Infrastructure SRL 100 2 Monumentului Street, 2nd Floor, Apt 6, 2nd District, Code 020689, 
Bucharest, Romania
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear RO SRL 100 Str. Grigore Alexandrescu 59, Etaj 2 (second floor), Sector 1, Bucharest, 
Romania
AMEC Operations S.R.L 100 Rooms 1 and 2, 2nd Floor, No. 59 Strada Grigore Alexandrescu, Sector 1, 
Bucharest 010623, Romania
Russian Federation
AMEC Eurasia Limited 100 Novy Arbat, 11 bld., 1 Moscow, Russian Federation
OOO Amec Foster Wheeler 100
(xvii)
Office E-100, Park Place, 113/1, Leninsky Prospekt, 117198, Moscow,  
Russian Federation
OOO Foster Wheeler Energia 100 c/o ZAO Konsu M, Sadovnicheskaya naberezhnaya, 79, Moscow, 115035, 
Russian Federation
Scotland
AMEC Construction Scotland Limited
†
100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
AMEC Offshore Developments Limited
†
100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Ingen Holdings Limited 100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland 218
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Related undertakings continued
As at 31 December 2016
Name % interest Address
Ingen-Ideas Limited 100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
James Scott Engineering Group Limited
†
100
(#)(i)
Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
James Scott Limited 100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Performance Improvements (PI) Group Limited 100
(vii)(ix)
Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Performance Improvements (PI) Limited 100
(vii)(ix)
Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
PI Energy & Emissions Limited 100
(vii)(viii)
Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
PI Gas T urbines Limited 100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
QED International (UK) Limited 100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Scopus Engineering Holdings Ltd 100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Scopus Engineering Limited 100 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Scopus Group (Holdings) Limited 100
(vii)(viii) (ix)
Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Singapore
Amec Foster Wheeler Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 100 One Marina Boulevard #28-00, 018989, Singapore
AMEC Global Resources Pte Limited 100
(vii)(viii) (ix)
991E Alexandra Road, #01 - 25, 119973, Singapore
AMEC Global Services Pte Ltd. 100 991E Alexandra Road, #01 - 25, 119973, Singapore
Foster Wheeler Eastern Private Limited 100 1 Marina Boulevard, #28-00, 018989, Singapore
OPE O&G Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 100 1 Marina Boulevard, #28-00, 018989, Singapore
Rider Hunt International (Singapore) Pte Limited 100 24 Raffles Place, #24-03 Clifford Centre, 048621, Singapore
Simons Pacific Services Pte Ltd. 100 #27-01 Millenia T ower, 1 T emasek Ave, 039192, Singapore
Slovakia
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Slovakia s.r.o. 100 Piestanska 3, T rnava, 917 01, Slovakia
South Africa
Amec Foster Wheeler Properties (Pty) Limited 100
(#)(viii)
Second Road, Halfway House, P . O. Box 76, Midrand 1685, South Africa
Amec Foster Wheeler South Africa (PTY) Limited 70
(vii)
Second Road, Halfway House, P . O. Box 76, Midrand 1685, South Africa
AMEC Minproc (Proprietary) Limited 100 2 Eglin Road, Sunninghill, 2157 , South Africa
MDM T echnical Africa (Pty) Ltd 100
(vii)
Zeelie Office Park, 381 Ontdekkers Road, Floida Park Ext 3, Roodepoort, 1709, 
South Africa
Mossel Bay Energy IPP (proprietary) Limited (RF) 90 Second Road, Halfway House, P . O. Box 76, Midrand 1685, South Africa
Nuclear Consultants International (Proprietary) Limited 84.9 Nr 5, 5th Ave, Melkbos Strand, Cape T own, 7441, South Africa
Spain
Amec Foster Wheeler Energia, S.L.U. 100 Calle Gabriel Garcia Marquez, no 2, Parque Empresarial Madrid,  
28232 Las Rozas, Madrid, Spain
Amec Foster Wheeler Iberia S.L.U. 100 Calle Gabriel Garcia Marquez, no 2, Parque Empresarial Madrid,  
28232 Las Rozas, Madrid, Spain
Conequip, S.A. 100 Calle Gabriel Garcia Marquez, no 2, Parque Empresarial Madrid,  
28232 Las Rozas, Madrid, Spain
Sweden
Amec Foster Wheeler Energi Aktiebolag 100 Box 6071 (Lindövägen 75), Norrkoping, 600 06, Sweden
Switzerland
A-FW International Investments GmbH 100
(xvii)
c/o Intertrust Services (Schweiz) AG, Alpenstrasse 15, 6300, Zug, Zug, 
Switzerland
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering AG 100 Lohweg 6, 4054 Basel, Switzerland
Foster Wheeler Management AG 100 Rue Philippe-Plantamour 18-20, c/o Intertrust (Suisse) SA, 1201 Geneve, 
Switzerland
FW Financial Holdings GmbH 100 c/o BDS Consulting AG, Vordergrasse 3, Schaffhausen, 8200, Switzerland
Tanzania
MDM Projects-T anzania Limited 100 11th Floor, PPF T owers, Gardens Avenue / Ohio Street, Dar es Salaam, 
T anzania
Thailand
Amec Foster Wheeler Service (Thailand) Limited 100 No. 689 Bhiraj T ower at EmQuartier, 20th Floor, Sukhumvit Road, Khwaeng 
Klongton Nuea, Khet Wattana, Bangkok, 10110, Thailand
Foster Wheeler (Thailand) Limited 100 53 T alaythong T ower, 1st Floor, Moo 9, Sukhumvit Road, T ambol T ungsukhla, 
Amphur Sriracha, Chonburi, 20230, Thailand
SIE Siam Limited 100 91/17 Soi Wattananivet 4, Suthisarnvinijchai Road, Khwaeng Samsennok, 
Khet Huaykwang, Bangkok Metropolis, Thailand
Simons International Engineering Ltd. 100 91/17 Soi Wattananivet 4, Suthisarnvinijchai Road, Khwaeng Samsennok, 
Khet Huaykwang, Bangkok Metropolis, Thailand
Turkey
Amec Foster Wheeler Bimas Birlesik Insaat ve Muhendislik 
A.S.
100 Sari Kanarya Sok. 22, Y olbulan Plaza No. 22 B Blok K 8-9-10, Kozyatagi 
Istanbul, 81090, T urkey
United Arab Emirates
AMEC Growth Regions Support FZ LLC 100 41st Floor, Business Central T owers, Dubai, UAE
Attric International FZ LLE 100 Fujairah T ower, Fujairah, Creative City – Media Free Zone, UAE
QED International FZ LLC 100 Knowledge Village, Alsufouh Road, Dubai, UAE
United States
4900 Singleton, L.P . 100 400 North St. Paul, Dallas, TX, 75201, USA
AGRA Foundations, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AGRA Holdings, Inc. 100 701 S. Carson Street, Suite 200, Carson City, NV, 89701, USA
AMEC Architectural, Inc. 100 511 Congress Street, Ste. 200, Portland, ME, 04101, USA
AMEC Civil, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AMEC Construction Management, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AMEC Developments, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AMEC Earth & Environmental LLP 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA 219
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name % interest Address
AMEC Engineering and Consulting of Michigan, Inc. 100 46850 Magellan, Suite 190, Novi, MI, 48377 , USA
Amec Foster Wheeler AES, Inc. 100 208, 1855, South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Cook, IL, 60604, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Arabia Ltd. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Constructors, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler E&C Services, Inc. 100 1979 Lakeside Parkway, Suite 400, T ucker, GA, 30084, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure, Inc. 100
(#)(xvi)
701 S. Carson Street, Suite 200, Carson City, NV, 89701, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Industrial Power Company, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Kamtech, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Martinez, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler North America Corp. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Oil & Gas, Inc. 100
(vii) (xvi)
1999 Bryan Street, Ste. 900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Power and Environmental Equipment 
Company, Inc.
100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Systems, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Programs, Inc. 100 2475 Northwinds Parkway, #200-260, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler USA Corporation 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Amec Foster Wheeler Ventures, Inc. 100 1200, South Pine Island Road, Plantation, FL, 33324, USA
AMEC Holdings, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AMEC Industrial Programs, LLC 100 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, USA
AMEC Massachusetts, Inc. 100 Suite 700, 155 Federal Street, Boston, MA, 02110, USA
AMEC Michigan, Inc. 100 40600 Ann Arbor Road E, Suite 201, Plymouth, MI, 48170-4675, USA
AMEC Newco LLC 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AMEC North Carolina, Inc. 100 225, Hillsborough Street, Raleigh, NC, 27603, USA
AMEC Oil & Gas World Services, Inc. 100 1999 Bryan Street, Ste. 900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, USA
AMEC USA HOLDCO LLC 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AMEC USA Holdings, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
AMEC USA Investments LLC 100
(#)(xvi)
Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Barsotti’s Inc. 100 Perryville Corporate Park, 53 Frontage Road, PO Box 9000, Hampton, NJ, 
08827-90000, USA
Camden County Energy Recovery Corp. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Energia Holdings, LLC 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Equipment Consultants, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Andes, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Asia Limited 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Avon, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Development Corporation 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Energy Corporation 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Energy Manufacturing, Inc. 100 Perryville Corporate Park, 53 Frontage Road, PO Box 9000, Hampton, NJ, 
08827-90000, USA
Foster Wheeler Environmental Corporation 100 1999 Bryan Street, Ste. 900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, USA
Foster Wheeler Finance LLC 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Hydrox, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Intercontinental Corporation 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler International Corporation 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler LLC 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Maintenance, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Operations, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Real Estate Development Corp. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Realty Services, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Santiago, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler US Power Group Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Foster Wheeler Zack, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
FWPS Specialty Products, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Graf-Wulff US Corp. 100 Perryville Corporate Park, 53 Frontage Road, Hampton, NJ, 08827-9000, USA
King Wilkinson, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
MACTEC Architectural Services, Inc. 100 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, USA
MACTEC Constructors, Inc. 100 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, USA
MACTEC Consulting, LLC 100 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, USA
MACTEC E&C International, Inc. 100 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, USA
MACTEC E&C, LLC 100 1675 Broadway, Suite 1200, Denver, CO, 80202, USA
MACTEC Environmental Consultants, Inc. 100 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, USA
Martinez Cogen Limited Partnership 99 Perryville Corporate Park, 53 Frontage Road, Hampton, NJ, 08827-9000, USA
MASA Ventures, Inc. 100 1675, 1200, Broadway, Denver, CO, 80202, USA
MDIC Inc. 100 2730, Suite 100, Gateway Oaks Drive, Sacramento, Sacramento, CA, 95833, 
USA
NexDSS, Inc. 100 1075 Big Shanty Rd NW, Ste. 100, Kennesaw, GA, 30144, USA
Operations Analysis, Inc. 100 300 East Pine Street, Seattle, WA, 98122, USA
Perryville Corporate Park Condominium Association, Inc. 66.66 Corporation Service Company, 830 Bear T avern Road, West T renton, Mercer, 
NJ, 08628, USA
Process Consultants, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
QED International LLC 100 1999 Bryan Street, Ste. 900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, USA
Rider Hunt International (USA) Inc. 100 1999 Bryan Street, Ste. 900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, USA 220
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Name % interest Address
Sehold, Inc. 100 1979 Lakeside Parkway, Suite 400, T ucker, GA, 30084, USA
Simons-Eastern Consultants, Inc. 100 1201 Peachtree Street NE, Atlanta, GA, 30361, USA
T erra Nova T echnologies, Inc. 100 818 West Seventh Street, Ste. 930, Los Angeles, CA, 90017 , USA
Thelco Co. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
T ray, Inc. 100 Corporation T rust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, USA
Venezuela
Amec Foster Wheeler Venezuela, C.A. 100 Avenida Francisco de Miranda, T orre Cavendes, Piso 9, Ofic 903, Caracas, 
Venezuela
Vietnam
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Vietnam Limited Liability 
Company
100 Suite 706-708, Central Building, 31 Hai Ba T rung, T rang Tien Ward,  
Hoan Kiem District, Hanoi, Vietnam
Joint ventures
Name % interest Address 
Angola
Paragon Angola Engenharia e Serviços, Limitada 60 Largo do Pescador no 8, IIha de Luanda, Luanda, Angola
Australia
Clough AMEC Pty Ltd 50 Level 12, 58 Mounts Bay Road, Perth, 6000, Australia
Azerbaijan
Socar-Foster Wheeler Engineering LLC 35 88A Zardaby Avenue,Baku, Azerbaijan
Brazil
COPEL-AMEC S/C Ltda.(*) 47.5 Rua Carneiro Lobo, No. 468, conjuntos 1301 a 1303, Centro Empresarial 
Champs Elysees, Curitiba, State of Parana, Brazil
Canada
ABV Consultants Ltd. 50 Suite 2300, Bentall 5, 550 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2B5, Canada
AMEC Black & McDonald Limited 50 11 Frazee Avenue, Dartmouth, NS, B3B 1Z4, Canada
SSBV Consultants Inc. 33.33 1200 Waterfront Centre, 200 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 3L6, Canada
T eshmont Consultants Inc. 50 1190 Waverley Street, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 0P4, Canada
Chile
CEJV Ingeniería y Construcción Limitada 50 Av. Isidora Goyenechea 2800, Floor 32, Las Condes, Santiago, 7550647 , Chile
Consorcio AMEC CADE / PSI Consultores Limitada 50 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Consorcio Consultor Systra / Cade Idepe / Geoconsult 
Limitada
40 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Consorcio de Ingeniería Geoconsult Cade Idepe Limitada 50 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Consorcio de Ingeniería Systra Cade Idepe Limitada 50 Av. Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile
Consorcio TNT Vial y Vives D Chile Limitada 50 Ave. Santa Maria 2810, Providencia, Santiago, Chile
Construcciòn e Ingenierìa Chile FI Limitada 50 Avenida Andrés Bello 2711, Piso 22 - Comuna Las Condens, Santiago, Chile
Construcciòn e Ingenieria FIM Chile,Limitada 33.33 Avenida Santa Maria 2810, Comuna de Providencia, Santiago, Chile
China
Amec Foster Wheeler Power Machinery Company Limited 52 No.1, Fuhui Road, Xinhui District, Jiangmen City, Guangdong Province, China
Foster Wheeler (Hebei) Engineering Design Co., Ltd. 49 CEFOC Information Mansion, Zhongshan West Road No. 356, Shijiazhuang, 
China
SZPE Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Co., Ltd 50 No. 143 Jinyi Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai, 200540, China
England & Wales
ACM Health Solutions Limited 33.33 Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR, England
F. & N.E. Limited 50 Croft Road, Crossflatts, Bingley, West Y orkshire, BD16 2UA, England
F. & N.E. (1990) Limited 50 Croft Road, Crossflatts, Bingley, West Y orkshire, BD16 2UA, England
Fast Reactor T echnology Limited 51 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
GENII Engineering & T echnology T raining Limited 20 Unit 1 Joseph Noble Road, Lillyhall Industrial Estate, Lillyhall, Workington, 
Cumbria, CA14 4JX, England
Nuclear Management Partners Limited 36 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Nucleus T raining Limited 20 Unit 1 Joseph Noble Road, Lillyhall Industrial Estate, Lillyhall, Workington, 
Cumbria, CA14 4JX, England
PWR Power Projects Limited 50 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
Road Management Services (A13) Holdings Limited 25 Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR, England
Road Management Services (A13) plc 25 Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR, England
South Kensington Developments Limited 50 Portland House, Bickenhill Lane, Solihull, Birmingham, B37 7BQ, England
UK Nuclear Restoration Limited 50 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England
France
Momentum SNC 33.33 70 Boulevard de Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France
India
Isgec Foster Wheeler Boilers Private Limited 49 Radaur Road, Y amunanagar 135001, Haryana, India
Italy
Centro Energia Ferrara S.r.l. 41.65 Via Andrea Doria 41/G, Roma, 00192, Italy
Centro Energia T everola S.r.l. 41.65 Via Andrea Doria 41/G, Roma, 00192, Italy
Lomellina Energia S.r.l. 39.2 Vecchia Strada Vicinale per Vigevano, Parona, Pavia, 27020, Italy
MF Waste S.r.l. 49 Via XXV Aprile, 18, Rovato, 25038, Italy
Voreas S.r.l. 50 Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico, Milan, 20094, Italy
Korea
AMEC Partners Korea Limited 54 KT Building 11F, 14 Y eouidaero, Y oungdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07320, Korea
Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd 23 3, Incheondaegyo Expressway, Jung-gu, Incheon, Korea
Related undertakings continued
As at 31 December 2016 221
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Name % interest Address 
Malaysia
AMEC Larastia Sdn. Bhd. 49 No.8.03, 8th Floor, Plaza First Nationwide, 161, Jalan T un H.S.Lee,  
50000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Mexico
AFWA DUBA Salina Cruz, S. de R.L. de C.V. 50 Carlos Salazar, #2333, Colonia Obrera, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico
Netherlands
Runway Omega B.V. 50 Kosterijland 20, 3981 AJ, Bunnik, Netherlands
New Zealand
Beca AMEC Limited 50 Ground Floor, Beca House, 21 Pitt Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Oman
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Consultancy LLC 60 PO Box 1469, Postal Code 133, Al-Khuwair, Sultanate of Oman
Qatar
AMEC Black Cat LLC 49 5th Floor Al Aqaria T ower, Building No. 34, Museum Street, Old Salata Area, 
Street 970, Zone 18, P .O Box No. 24523 Doha, Qatar
Saudi Arabia
AMEC BKW Arabia Limited 50 Al Rushaid Petroleum Investment Co. Building, Prince Hamoud Street,  
PO Box 31685 – Al Khobar 31952, Saudi Arabia
Amec Foster Wheeler Energy and Partners Engineering 
Company
50 Karawan T owers, South Block, King Faisal Road, Al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia
King Wilkinson (Saudi Arabia) Limited 50 Kanoo Airline Centre Building, King Abdul Aziz Street, PO Box 1110,  
Al Khobar – 31952, Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Lewis Wind Power Holdings Limited 50 EDF Energy, GSO Business Park, East Kilbride, G74 5PG, Scotland
Northern Integrated Services Limited
†
50 Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, Scotland, AB11 6EQ
OS Marine Access UK Ltd 50 Annan House, Palmerston Road, Aberdeen, AB11 5QP , Scotland
Sigma 3 (North Sea) Limited 33.33 Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland
Stornoway Wind Farm Limited 50 EDF Energy, GSO Business Park, East Kilbride, G74 5PG, Scotland
Uisenis Power Limited 50 EDF Energy, GSO Business Park, East Kilbride, G74 5PG, Scotland
Singapore
AFWDEC Engineering and Construction Pte. Ltd. 50 1 Marina Boulevard, #28-00, One Marina Boulevard, 018989, Singapore
Clough AMEC SEA Pte Ltd. 50 991E Alexandra Road, #01-25, 119973, Singapore
Spain
Isolux Monenco Medio Ambiente S.A. 49 Calle Juan Bravo, 3-C, Madrid, 28006, Spain
United Arab Emirates
Foster Wheeler Kentz Energy Services DMCC 50 PO Box 26593, Unit 3601, Tiffany T ower, Cluster W, Jumeirah Lakes T owers, 
Dubai, UAE
Foster Wheeler Kentz Oil & Gas Services DMCC 50 Unit No: 2H-05-230 Jewellery & Gemplex 2, Plot No: DMCC-PH2-J&GPlexS 
Jewellery & Gemplex, Dubai, UAE
United States
AMEC – Merrick Joint Venture, LLC 60 Suite 100, 780 Vista Blvd., Sparks, NV, 89434, USA
AMEC – SAI Joint Venture, LLC 50 701 S. Carson Street, Suite 200, Carson City, NV, 89701, USA
Boldt AMEC LLC 40 2525 North Roemer Road, Appleton, WI, 54912, USA
Core T ech - Amec Foster Wheeler, LLC 50 Suite 180, 751 Arbor Way, Blue Bell, PA, 19422-1951, USA
FluorAMEC, LLC 49 2711 Centerville Rd., Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle, DE, 19808, USA
FLUOR AMEC II, LLC 45 100 Fluor Daniel Drive, Greenville, SC, 29607-2770, USA
Nan - Amec Foster Wheeler, LLC 50 98-1238 Kaahumanu St., Suite 400, Pearl City, HI, 96782, USA
NorthEast Power Alliance, LLC 47 874 Walker Road, Suite C, Dover, Kent, DE, 19904, USA
Venezuela
OTEPI Foster Wheeler, S.A. 50 Zona Rental Universidad Metropolitana, Edificio Otepi, T errazas del Avila, 
Caracas 1070, Edo Miranda, Venezuela
Associates
Name % interest Address
Canada
T eshmont Consultants LP 30 1190 Waverley Street, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 0P4, Canada
T eshmont GP Inc. 30 1190 Waverley Street, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 0P4, Canada
Iran
Foster Wheeler Adibi Engineering 45
(viii)
9th Floor Aluminumm Building, Avenue Shah, T ehran, Iran
Oman
AMEC Al T urki LLC 35 c/o Al Alawi, Mansoor Jamal & Co., Muscat International Centre,  
Mezzanine Floor, Muttrah Business District, P .O. Box 686 Ruwi, Oman
Notes
(i) Cumulative Preference (viii) Class of B (xv) Group III
(ii) Class I Series A (ix) Class of C (xvi) Preference
(iii) Class I Series B (x) Class of D (xvii) Quotas
(iv) Class II Series A1 (xi) Class of E (xviii) Redeemable Preference/Redeemable
(v) Class II Series B1 (xii) Class of Z (#) Ordinary shares exist (in addition to other share classes)
(vi) Class A, B, C, D, E, F, G Redeemable Preference shares (xiii) Group I † Directly held by Amec Foster Wheeler plc
(vii) Class of A (xiv) Group II (*) In liquidation 222
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Five-year record (unaudited)
Consolidated income statement data
Y ear ended 31 December
£m unless stated 2016 2015 2014
 
2013
Restated
1
 
2012
Continuing operations
Revenue 5,440 5,455 3,993 3,974 4,088
Adjusted profit before tax
2
254 334 317 332 327
Exceptional items (133) (121) (98) (25) (24)
Amortisation and impairment (655) (444) (49) (47) (44)
Net asbestos-related income/(expense) (4) 6 (9) – –
Share of tax of joint ventures (4) (10) (6) (5) (5)
Profit before tax (542) (235) 155 255 254
Income tax 16 (18) (49) (69) (47)
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations (526) (253) 106 186 207
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 12 (4) (27) (8) 2
(Loss)/profit for the year (514) (257) 79 178 209
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share
Continuing operations:
– Basic (138.9)p (66.1)p 36.1p 63.8p 65.2p
– Adjusted diluted
3
50.4p 67.7p 79.5p 87 .2p 78.6p
T otal operations:
– Basic (135.6)p (67 .2)p 27 .2p 61.1p 65.8p
– Diluted (135.6)p (67 .2)p 26.5p 59.8p 64.6p
Dividends per ordinary share 7.4p 29.0p 43.3p 42.0p 36.5p
Dividend cover
4
6.8x 2.3x 1.8x 2.1x 2.2x
Consolidated balance sheet data
As at 31 December
£m unless stated 2016 2015
Restated
1  
2014 2013 2012
Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,675 3,025 3,443 907 969
Other non-current assets 432 675 599 253 245
Current assets 2,164 1,872 2,023 1,224 1,304
Total assets 5,271 5,572 6,065 2,384 2,518
Current liabilities (1,878) (2,261) (2,292) (1,004) (1,151)
Non-current liabilities (2,368) (1,703) (1,777) (256) (284)
Net assets 1,025 1,608 1,996 1,124 1,083
Share capital 197 197 194 152 154
Other reserves 817 1,402 1,780 970 925
Equity attributable to holders of the parent 1,014 1,599 1,974 1,122 1,079
Non-controlling interests 11 9 22 2 4
Total equity 1,025 1,608 1,996 1,124 1,083
Number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 393 393 389 304 308
Net working capital (118) (77) (75) 99 54
Net (debt)/cash (1,021) (946) (803) 121 99
1  The selected financial data set out above has been extracted from the consolidated financial statements for the relevant year prepared in accordance  
with IFRS except that the income statement data for 2012 has been restated to reflect the reclassification in 2013 of the UK conventional power business  
as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ . The 2014 balance sheet was restated following the completion  
of the fair value assessment on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
2  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and assets held  
for sale, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
3  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation and impairment  
of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items, divided by the diluted 
number of ordinary shares. 
4 Dividend cover represents the dividend per ordinary share as a multiple of adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. 223
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Glossary
ADSs American Depositary Shares, evidenced 
by ADRs, the form in which the 
Company’s ordinary shares are traded 
on the NYSE 
ADRs American Depositary Receipts, issued 
in respect of ordinary shares deposited 
with State Street Bank & T rust Company, 
as custodian for the Depositary
AGM Annual General Meeting of the 
Company’s shareholders
AMEC used for convenience to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries prior  
to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, 
unless the context requires otherwise 
Amec Foster Wheeler used for convenience to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries, unless 
the context requires otherwise
the Articles the Company’s Articles of Association, 
which set out the Company’s 
constitution
Basis point one hundredth of one percentage point
the board the collective term for the executive and 
non-executive directors of the Company 
CEO Chief Executive Officer 
CFO Chief Financial Officer
the Code the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the FRC (formerly the 
Combined Code)
the Companies Act 
2006
the Companies Act 2006 UK,  
as amended from time to time
the Company Amec Foster Wheeler plc,  
formerly AMEC plc
the Depositary Deutsche Bank T rust Company 
Americas, the Depositary for the 
Company’s ADR programme 
Downstream the refining or processing of crude  
oil into finished fuel products
the DRIP the Dividend Re-Investment Plan 
operated by the Company
the DTRs the Disclosure & T ransparency Rules  
of the UKLA 
E&C Engineering & Construction
E&I Environment & Infrastructure
EPC Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction (conducted on a fixed 
price basis)
EPCM Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction Management (conducted 
on a cost-reimbursable basis)
the EU the European Union
Euro or € the common currency used in the 
majority of the member countries  
of the EU
the FCA the UK Financial Conduct Authority
Foster Wheeler used for convenience to refer to Foster 
Wheeler AG and its subsidiaries, unless 
the context requires otherwise
the FRC the UK Financial Reporting Council 
GPG the Global Power Group, one of the 
Group’s business units
the Group the Company and its subsidiaries
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs,  
the UK taxation authority
HVEC High Value Execution Centre
the IASB the International Accounting  
Standards Board
IFRS International Financial Reporting 
Standards, comprising accounting 
standards issued by the IASB
the IRC the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
as amended
the IRS the Internal Revenue Service,  
the US taxation authority
John Wood Group John Wood Group PLC
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate, a 
benchmark interest rate for instruments 
of the specified currency and maturity
NASDAQ the National Association of Securities 
Dealers Automated Quotations
the NYSE the New Y ork Stock Exchange
a PFIC a Passive Foreign Investment Company 
for US federal income tax purposes
Pound sterling, £, 
pence or p
the currency of the UK
SDRT Stamp Duty Reserve T ax
the SEC the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission
SOX the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland
UK GAAP accounting practice generally accepted 
in the UK
UKLA UK Listing Authority
Upstream the exploration, production and 
transportation of oil and gas
US the United States of America
US dollars, US $,  
cents or c
the currency of the US
US GAAP accounting principles generally 
accepted in the US 224
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
F orward-looking statements
This annual report contains a number of ‘forward-looking 
statements’ with respect to the Group’s financial condition, 
results of operations and certain of the Group’s plans and 
objectives.
In particular, such forward-looking statements include 
statements with respect to: 
 X our expectations regarding the Group’s financial and operating 
performance, including statements contained within the 
strategic report on pages 1 to 45 of this document, including 
the Outlook statement on page 45, and the performance of 
joint ventures and newly-acquired businesses 
 X intentions and expectations regarding the contracts entered 
into by the Group or by third parties, including new services, 
such as the supply of consultancy, engineering and project 
management services
 X expectations regarding the global economy and the Group’s 
operating environment, including future market conditions 
and trends
 X revenue and growth expected from Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
business and its expectations with respect to long-term 
shareholder value growth
 X our ability to acquire new contracts, expected growth 
prospects and growth in our customer base generally
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, 
identified by their use of a date in the future or such words 
as ‘will’ , ‘anticipates’ , ‘aims’ , ‘could’ , ‘may’ , ‘should’ , ‘expects’ , 
‘believes’ , ‘intends’ , ‘plans’ or ‘targets’ or similar expressions. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently 
predictive, speculative and involve known and unknown risks 
and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number 
of factors that could cause actual results, performance and 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors 
include, but are not limited to, the following:
 X macro-economic developments in the markets and 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including 
fluctuations in exchange rates
 X changes in the prices of commodities and other materials 
which may impact demand for the Group’s services
 X the Group’s exposure to the risks associated with operating  
in developing markets
 X the ability to win new contracts
 X the failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery, 
which could result in damage to reputation and/or loss of 
repeat business and potentially lead to litigation
 X lump-sum contracts, which are subject to the risks  
associated with unanticipated modifications, technical 
problems and delays
 X the successful execution of the Group’s new strategy  
and implementation of its new organisational model
 X the inability to divest non-core businesses and assets  
in line with the Group’s disposal programme
 X the loss of senior management or difficulty in attracting  
and retaining appropriately skilled personnel
 X the failure to comply with health, safety and environmental 
laws
 X the failure or security breaches of its information technology 
systems and/or data security
A review of the reasons why actual results, performance 
and developments may differ materially from the expectations 
disclosed or implied within forward-looking statements can 
be found under the heading ‘Risk factors’ on pages 177 to 187 
of this document. Accordingly, readers should not place undue 
reliance on forward-looking statements. 
Any forward-looking statements in this annual report speak 
only as at the date of this annual report and both these and 
subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements 
attributable to the Group or any persons acting on its behalf 
are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred 
to above. No assurances can be given that the forward-looking 
statements in this document will be realised and actual events 
or results may be materially different. Subject to compliance 
with applicable law and regulations, the Company does not 
intend to update these forward-looking statements and does 
not undertake any obligation to do so. This report is printed using vegetable-based inks by CPI Colour, a carbon 
neutral registered printing company. CPI Colour is also certified to ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001, and holds the FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) Chain of Custody. 
This report is printed on Olin Smooth Absolute White, a paper produced from 
100% ECF (elemental chlorine free) wood pulps from well managed forests  
certified in accordance with the rules of the FSC®. The producing mill is  
certified to ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Langsford +44 (0) 20 7378 1457 www.langsford.co.uk Amec Foster Wheeler plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Registered office
Booths Park 
Chelford Road 
Knutsford 
Cheshire  
WA16 8QZ 
UK
Head office
Old Change House 
128 Queen Victoria Street 
London 
EC4V 4BJ 
UK
T elephone: +44 (0) 20 7429 7500
www.amecfw.com
