 Annual Report  
2013 4  |  Overview Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
3 Introduction
4 Financial highlights
5 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief executive officer’s review
9 Strategic report
29 Directors’ and committee reports
 30  Board of directors
 32  Report of the directors
 37  Directors’ responsibility statement
 38  Corporate governance report
 46  Directors’ remuneration report
 59  Audit and risk committee report
62   Independent auditor’s report 
65 Financial statements
 66   Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
 67   Consolidated and parent Company  
balance sheet
 68   Consolidated and parent Company 
statement of changes in equity
 69   Consolidated and parent Company  
statement of cash flows
 70  Notes to the financial statements
98 Shareholder information
100 Glossary Introduction  |  5 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
This has been a transformational 
year for Arrow Global, starting 
with the launch of our £220 million 
senior secured notes in January, 
followed by our successful IPO 
in October and ultimately the 
achievement of our targets  
for the year. 6  |  Financial highlights Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
120-month gross ERC (£m)
A glossary of terms can be found on pages 100-102.
Underlying net income (£m)
FINANCIAL  
HIGHLIGHTS
£47.5m £105.2m
£15.1m
£42m
Cash position 2013
(£9.6m 2012)
Net assets 2013
(£12.6m 2012)
Underlying basic and diluted 
earnings per share (“EPS”) 2013
(8p 2012)
16
p
£101.3m
£220m
Core cash collections (£m) Profit attributable to 
shareholders 2013
(£9.4m 2012)
Underlying return  
on equity (“ROE”) 2013
(13.9% 2012)
Internal rate of return 
(“IRR”) vintage
(23.2% 2012)
Financial Ombudsman Service 
(“FOS”) complaints remain low  
per million accounts (13 per 1m 2012)
Successful completion of the  
IPO in October, raising net 
proceeds of:
Portfolio purchases for the year 
(in line with £100m 2013 target)
2010A 2011A 2012A 2013
189
£m
441
551.3
650.3
2010A 2011A 2012A 2013
(2.1)
£m
6.4
11.1
25.2
Successful placing of senior secured notes to the value of:
22.2
%
17
 
13.8
2010 2011 2012 2013
£m
44.3
61.9
89.6
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
2010 2011 2012 2013
25.6
£m
68.2
88.7
127.8
26.5
%
per 1m 
accounts Chairman’s statement  |  7
Arrow Global Group PLC had a transformational year in 2013, 
most clearly illustrated by the launch of our £220 million senior 
secured notes in January and successful initial public offering 
on the London Stock Exchange in October. This past year also 
marked the start of my service as chairman of the Group.  
I am pleased to be a part of this dynamic and innovative group 
of people, without whom the achievement of recent major 
milestones – and more – would not have been possible.
I’d like to thank Sir George Mathewson, who stepped down as chairman of the board in 
2013 after four years of guiding the business through its critical growth and development 
phase, which provided the platform for our future as a publicly traded company.  
Sir George remains in the service of the Group as a non-executive director and the  
senior independent director, and we are grateful to him for his continuing commitment 
and guidance.
We also welcomed a new board of directors in 2013. Each member brings a unique skillset 
which strengthens the business’ platform and base of expertise. Welcome to Iain Cornish, 
Ian Gascoigne, Gillian Key-Vice, Lindsey McMurray and Robin Phipps as non-executive 
directors, who join our executive directors Tom Drury, Zachary Lewy and Rob Memmott.
The team remains committed to consistently delivering against our vision and strategy, 
and to creating sustainable returns for shareholders while continuing to serve our 
customers, creditors and other stakeholders in a responsible, market leading manner.
The year ahead will see the regulation of the industry migrate to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (“FCA”). We welcome this shift and believe it provides the correct framework 
for the industry. Most importantly, it will result in greater consistency for customers, 
as buyers join creditors in the same regulatory regime. We are well progressed in 
our internal readiness programme, and look forward to continuing our fundamental 
commitment to high conduct standards within the governance of the FCA.
One of my first tasks as chairman has been to ensure we have an appropriate corporate 
governance structure, as outlined on pages 38-45 of this report, in place for life as a listed 
company to enable us to successfully deliver our objectives. As part of our initial duties 
within this framework, my fellow members of the board and I confirm that the annual 
report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and 
business model of the Company.
With that, we look forward to welcoming our shareholders to our first annual general 
meeting on 28 May 2014 in Manchester.
Jonathan Bloomer
Chairman 
4 March 2014
Chairman’s statement
Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013 8  |  Chief executive officer’s review Arrow Global Group PLC |  Annual Report 2013
I am pleased to report that in addition to raising both debt 
and equity in the public markets in 2013, our business once 
again posted strong results within what remains a competitive 
market landscape. We acquired debt portfolios for an aggregate 
purchase price of £101.3 million, at an overall target net internal 
rate of return (“IRR”) of 22% for the 2013 vintage. Following these 
acquisitions, the face value of total assets under management 
increased to £9.6 billion, including purchased portfolios of £7.2 
billion, and the expected cumulative unlevered return on our 
portfolios stood at 26.3%. We maintained an adjusted EBITDA 
ratio of 70.1%, with underlying profits of £25.2 million. Within 
the new capital structure, post IPO underlying return on equity 
(“ROE”) was 26.5%.
Looking forward, our strategy remains to grow the business whilst maintaining a strong 
focus on underwriting discipline and portfolio returns. We will therefore focus principally 
on earnings per share (“EPS”) growth and ROE as the key financial measures by which we 
will manage the business.
The business’ strong performance was a reflection of our focus on executing against 
our vision, to be the leading data driven debt purchaser, and our strategy, to grow by 
leveraging our sophisticated data-driven business model and leading position in growing 
markets, via the following strategic objectives:
1.  Establish Arrow Global as the most respected debt purchaser, with a leading 
position in compliance, risk management and treating customers fairly. 
  During the year, we made significant progress in implementing a three lines of 
defence risk framework, and we expect to be in a strong position for entry to the FCA 
regulatory framework in 2014. Our Financial Ombudsman Service (“FOS”) complaints 
remain amongst the lowest in the industry, at 17 per one million accounts.
2. Grow the business while maintaining rigorous underwriting discipline. 
  In a competitive UK market, we were able to use the breadth of our origination 
channels and the flexibility of our business model to purchase the portfolios offering 
the best returns. This is reflected in the achievement of both our purchasing and 
returns targets.
3. Optimise cost to collect while maintaining a flexible cost base. 
  Despite purchasing across a broader range of asset classes, we managed to  
improve the cost to collect ratio, to 21.9% of collections (2012: 22.1%).
4.  Continue to utilise our data capability to invest in portfolios underpinned  
by paying accounts, with the opportunity to convert non-paying accounts. 
  Approximately 76% of our investment in 2013 was in paying accounts, with further 
enhancements to our data assets made during the year, including both the expansion 
of our Proprietary Collections Bureau (“PCB”) and the sourcing of raw data from a 
second credit bureau.
Chief executive officer’s review Chief executive officer’s review  |  9 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
5. Maintain a prudent balance sheet. 
 Net debt to adjusted EBITDA stood at 2.0x at 31 December 2013, with significant  
 facility headroom.
6. Maintain a leading position in financial services in the UK and Portugal. 
  In October, we were ranked first in the 2013 OC&C Credit Management and Debt 
Collection Index of all European debt purchase and collections companies.
7.  Pursue a disciplined approach to expanding into new asset classes  
and geographies.
  During the year, we extended our presence in the UK student loans and second lien 
mortgage markets, following successful pilots in previous periods. In addition, we 
advanced our market research and pipeline development in new geographies.
 Underlying this strong performance is our commitment to working with customers to 
understand their circumstances and establish long term affordable repayment plans  
that allow them to restore their financial standing at a rate that meets their needs.  
This approach reflects the principles of the Lending Standards Board and the Office of 
Fair Trading Guidelines, and is further reinforced by our own research conducted during 
the year with Bristol University into barriers to engagement. This research highlighted the 
positive impact that a responsible creditor can play in securing customer engagement, 
and we are planning significant further enhancements to our customers’ experience in 
2014 as a result.
 As part of our continuing commitment to place the customer at the heart of the 
business, we launched our new branding in October. I believe our updated and refreshed 
brand better reflects who we are as a business, and is more approachable for customers. 
As part of the rebranding exercise, we developed enhanced values for the business, 
which I think speak volumes about who we are as a team, and what we aspire to:  
respect, integrity, transparency, energy and innovation. 
We turn our attention to 2014 with a solid platform for future growth. We see a 
strong pipeline of portfolio acquisition opportunities ahead, albeit against continued 
competition within the UK market. Critical to our continued success is our talented team, 
all of whom are key to the implementation of our business strategy; with their continued 
dedication and skills, the coming year promises to be a fruitful one for the business.
Tom Drury
Chief executive officer 
4 March 2014
 
“Looking forward, our 
strategy is to grow  
the business whilst 
maintaining a strong 
focus on underwriting 
discipline and portfolio 
returns.”   Strategic report
Arrow Global is a regulated business that uses 
proprietary data and analytics capabilities to 
acquire and manage defaulted consumer debt 
portfolios from financial institutions and other 
credit providers. 12  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
The directors, in preparing the strategic 
report, have complied with section 414c 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Arrow Global Group PLC ((“the Company”) and its subsidiaries, 
together (“the Group”)) is one of the UK’s largest and 
fastest growing providers of debt purchase and receivables 
management solutions. The Group is a regulated business that 
uses its proprietary data and analytics capabilities to acquire 
and manage defaulted consumer debt portfolios from financial 
institutions and other credit providers. As at 31 December 2013, 
the Group had purchased loan portfolios with a face value of 
£7.2 billion across 5.1 million customer accounts (2012: £5.9 billion 
across 3.6 million customer accounts).
Background and industry context
Credit defaults are a structural part of the consumer credit market, as debt originators 
tend to design their loan pricing models and underwriting criteria assuming a certain 
level of default. The resulting rate of default in the UK has been, on average, between 
3-6% per annum.
Customers with defaulted debt come from a range of backgrounds and income brackets, 
but the majority have, at some point, been granted credit by a mainstream lender and 
subsequently defaulted on that agreement. Customers have an incentive to repay 
defaulted loans, as it can help them improve their credit profile and regain control of 
their finances.
Debt sale developed in the UK in the 1990s as a method for creditors to manage 
defaulted loans. It accelerates capital release for debts that are already fully or heavily 
provisioned for, and allows creditors to focus on their core specialties. The scale, 
flexibility and long-term outlook of leading debt purchasers makes them well placed  
to manage defaulted accounts. 
Business overview
At the point of purchase, defaulted consumer accounts typically comprise a high 
proportion of missing or erroneous data, also known as distressed data. There are  
a number of contributing factors that lead to distressed data, including the absence  
of a single national identity system, customers moving frequently, creditor IT  
system migrations and poor information gathering at the point of account origination.  
These factors often create out of date contact details and incorrect customer information. 
Against this backdrop, following account acquisition, we seek to repair missing and 
erroneous customer data in order to:
• find customers 
• accurately assess their circumstances 
• offer a sustainable and affordable repayment solution, often over a long period 
• determine an economical servicing strategy for a variety of defaulted debts.
Our focus is on loan balance repayment; we do not charge interest or penalties on 
defaulted accounts.
We believe that getting the data right is crucial, as it helps to improve the customer 
experience, reduce underwriting risk and improve pricing, drive stronger cash collections 
and improve operational efficiency.
A data driven business model Strategic report  |  13 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
We have therefore created the following data driven business model:
Origination
We have established 
relationships with creditors 
throughout the consumer and 
commercial credit industry, 
leading to repeat business  
with a core group of creditors.
Robust governance and 
independent review characterise 
the underwriting process, 
while highly accurate portfolio 
collection estimates enable 
competitive pricing and strong 
unlevered returns.
Post purchase, we seek to build 
consolidated customer profiles 
through our data models to 
better understand and serve 
customers. These profiles are 
constantly updated to reflect 
current customer circumstances.
We work with a carefully selected 
and monitored network of 
specialist third parties who 
manage customer accounts on 
our behalf. Our panel approach 
ensures customers are looked 
after by organisations most 
suited to assisting in light of each 
individual’s circumstances.
Figure 1
Data enabler
Our model is built around using data and analytics to understand customer circumstances 
and create the most appropriate long-term solutions for customers.
Supported by circa 16 million PCB records, including 5.1 million Arrow Global accounts
67
%
of portfolio purchases in 2013 were 
via existing creditor relationships
103
%
collected against original 
pre-acquisition underwriting 
projections
£1.1bn
Customers with a current face 
value of £1.1 billion paid Arrow 
Global between October and  
December 2013
17 /1m
Low complaint ratio of 17 FOS 
complaints per million accounts
Underwriting Portfolio management Panel management 14  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
THE GROUP’S KEY STRENGTHS
We operate in structurally high growth markets 
Debt purchase provides a sustainable solution for creditors facing increasing regulatory 
capital and liquidity requirements. As a result, creditors are increasingly selling debts 
earlier in the defaulted lifecycle.
Recently, more than £10 billion of defaulted unsecured consumer debts have been 
created in the UK each year. This debt is sold at a discount, resulting in a defaulted 
debt purchase market of £861 million in 2012. This market is forecast to increase at a 
compounding growth rate of circa 12% per year, from approximately £950 million in  
2013 to approximately £1.5 billion in 2017, measured by purchase price (source: OC&C). 
Many other European markets are also exhibiting strong growth in debt sales.
Well positioned as one of the market leaders
We have established relationships with leading debt sellers, a strong compliance track 
record and the scale to acquire large portfolios. The business is one of the leading 
consumer debt purchasers in both the UK and Portugal, with more than £7.2 billion  
of assets (by face value) purchased since inception (92% by purchase price in the UK).
Our business model is underpinned by leading data and analytics capabilities
Our innovative and sophisticated data analysis tools, in particular the creation of a 
single customer view reflecting current circumstances and contact details, help us to 
understand customers’ individual circumstances and assist in establishing affordable, 
sustainable and appropriate repayment plans. 
The PCB, developed with Experian, is our latest data innovation. As at 31 December 2013, 
we had 16 million records in the PCB, which relate to 6.7 million unique individuals. The 
chart in figure 3 shows the strength of our data assets relative to original creditors and 
other debt purchasers in the UK.
Over a seven year period, we target an unlevered net IRR of 20%. We evaluate potential 
portfolio purchases over seven and ten year time periods. 
Our illustrative seven year economics are as follows:
Face value of purchased balances owed 100
Price paid for the portfolio 7
Gross cash collections (84 months) 14
Gross cash-on-cash multiple (84 months) 2x
Cost-to-collect ratio 22%
Net cash collections (84 months) 10.9
Net cash-on-cash multiple (84 months) 1.6x
Unlevered net IRR (84 months) 220%
We agree affordable and sustainable payment plans with customers, resulting in long term 
annuity like cash flows
Gross collections divided by purchase price
We purchase portfolios at a significant discount to face value, typically 7p in the £1
We pay our panel of specialist third party agencies to perform final collection activity -  
cost is largely variable
Gross collection net of data and collection costs
Net cash collections divided by purchase price
Our target vintage returns on investment
Illustrative economics (£m) 
Figure 2 Strategic report  |  15 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Established origination
We enjoy strong relationships with leading debt sellers, and consider our reputation, 
particularly for compliance, to be the foundation of these close relationships. 
Furthermore, we believe we are well positioned in a debt purchase industry where large 
debt sellers increasingly seek to sell portfolios to a select few trusted partners with scale. 
Highly cash generative business delivering attractive returns
For the year ended 31 December 2013, we generated cash from operations of 
£83.7 million (£89.5 million underlying). Adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation (“adjusted EBITDA”) is our proxy for free cash flow. For 
the year to 31 December 2013, the ratio between adjusted EBITDA of £89.6 million and 
underlying cash generated by operations of £89.5 million was 100%. The adjusted EBITDA 
ratio for the year was 70.1%, meaning for every £1, we converted 70p into free cash flow.
Earnings visibility supported by value embedded in existing assets
The Group has significant value and predictable future cash flows embedded in existing 
portfolios, with £650.3 million of expected cash flow over the next ten years from existing 
assets as of 31 December 2013.
The Group’s cash flow profile is stable and predictable, with approximately 74% of cash 
collected from existing portfolios in the year ended 31 December 2013 derived from 
small, regular, annuity-like payment arrangements.
Prudent balance sheet
Long term funding and capital structure are important parts of our business model. At 31 
December 2013, our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.0x. We have implemented long 
term funding, with maturity of the revolving credit facility in 2018 and the senior secured 
notes in 2020.
Given the business’ low fixed cost base, the discretionary nature of portfolio investments 
and our long term funding structure, we have significant control over liquidity and leverage.
Figure 3 Figure 4
Value embedded in the back book as at December 2013
Supported by strong data analytical tools and highly skilled employees
Increasing sophistication of data technology 
Account information only
Large internal  
customer database
Proprietary 
collections bureau
In-house proprietary algorithms
‘Off-the-shelf’ data sets and  
trace products
Raw credit bureau data access
Single customer view
‘Premier 
league’
Proprietary to 
Arrow Global
Originators
Experienced  
debt purchasers
Yearly recovery of the ERC (£m)
£m
84 months
£564.3m £86.0m
120 months
150
150
50
100
Y1 Y2 Y3 Y4 Y5 Y6 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10
(£650.3 million over ten years) Inside Arrow Global:
Data and  
analytics
“  We strive to identify  
the right solution in  
each instance.”
I joined Arrow Global three years ago and have had direct 
experience and involvement in the growth and development 
of the business, specifically in data and analytics. Data is  
key and we use data from multiple sources. The more  
data we have, the more we understand the customer.  
In analytics, we create customer profiles and work out the 
most appropriate journey for each customer based on  
their circumstances.
It is a big responsibility, and it is also hugely rewarding. Every 
decision we make has a direct consequence for both the 
customer and the business. We need to understand what these 
consequences mean, and how they’re going to affect each person’s 
life. It’s important to say that we really do care – what is good for 
the customer is also good for the business, so we strive to identify 
the right solution in each instance. This approach is reflected in the 
analytics team by the fact that we all talk about our customers as 
individuals, not data sets.
Being positive is very important as it enables us to turn any situation 
into a good situation, allowing us to be proactive rather than 
reactive. Understanding the customer is key to this and helps to 
make balanced decisions which work for both the customer and 
the Company. Strategic report  |  17 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
A wealth of management experience and highly skilled staff
The directors’ biographies on page 31 illustrate the diversity of experience on the 
board. More broadly, approximately 73% of our workforce has a degree qualification, 
and approximately 32% has a postgraduate or professional qualification. We also have a 
rigorous and selective recruitment, training and retention strategy in order to maintain 
high standards. 
Approximately 73% of 
our workforce has a 
degree qualification 
and approximately 32% 
has a postgraduate or 
professional qualification.
Ability to utilise our flexible business model to deliver growth at attractive returns
We regularly review opportunities arising in the broader debt purchase market, including 
new jurisdictions and asset classes, and we have demonstrated an ability to expand into 
different types of consumer credit, such as student loans and second lien mortgages. 
Our model of outsourcing collections to specialist third parties on a variable cost basis 
enables us to respond quickly to market conditions, purchasing in the asset classes and 
from the sources of supply which have the greatest expected returns.
In addition, under our asset management arrangements, we also manage loan portfolios 
on behalf of creditors. This provides the Group with an additional source of revenue, 
without the need for capital expenditure, and also provides access to potential additional 
opportunities for portfolio purchases.
Figure 5 *The board has not identified any additional senior management as defined by the Companies Act 2006
39% Female
61% Male
Staff split  
(excluding directors)
Director split* Staff by age at 31 December 2013 
(excluding directors)
47% Up to 30
 35%   31-40
14%  41-50
4% 51+
2 (20%) Female
8 (80%) Male 18  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
RISK 
Principal risks and uncertainties
We have an enterprise-wide risk framework in place, which sits alongside the strategic 
business plan and is designed to support the identification, assessment, management 
and control of material risks that threaten the achievement of our business objectives. 
Risks are categorised as: strategic risk, conduct risk, operational risk, financial risk and 
investment risk.
Risk Definition Effect on the Group Approach
Strategic risk Risk to earnings arising from changes in the  
business environment and from adverse business 
decisions, improper implementation of decisions  
or lack of responsiveness to changes in the 
business environment
Economic risk: the Group’s growth strategy is  
based on the future purchase of, and collection 
from, distressed loan portfolios. Changes in 
economic conditions could impact the ability to 
collect from portfolios, or the amount of debt 
portfolios that are sold
The Group is exposed to Eurozone economic 
uncertainty through its Portuguese debt portfolios
Reputational risk: negative attention and news 
regarding the debt collection industry and individual 
debt collectors may have a negative impact on 
ability to acquire portfolios and a customer’s 
willingness to pay the debt that the Group acquires
Management ensure that all portfolios are purchased 
at an appropriate price, and we also build strong 
relationships with our creditor client base in order to 
mitigate such risks
Appropriate currency liquidity management and 
scenario planning is in place
We manage this risk through compliance and industry 
best practice collection approaches
Conduct risk Risk of inappropriate strategy, systems, behaviour, 
or processes leads to poor and/or unfair customer 
outcomes or customer detriment
Any action which leads to poor and/or unfair 
customer outcomes or customer detriment goes 
against our core values and could also lead to 
regulatory censure, financial loss and reputational/
brand damage
Conduct risk and treating customers fairly (“TCF”) 
are at the heart of our third party management 
framework. All employees and third parties acting on 
our behalf receive TCF training
Operational risk Risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, people and systems or from 
external events
Regulatory risk: risk of failing to comply with the 
legal and regulatory requirements applying to 
business arrangements and activities, for example 
data protection regulation
Legal risk: risk of documentation deficiencies within 
purchased portfolios that are unable to be mitigated 
through contract and/or warranties
We are reliant on a panel of third party partners to 
manage customer accounts and collect outstanding 
debts. Should third party debt servicers experience 
sustained business interruption or are subject to 
takeover by an unfriendly competitor firm we could 
suffer financial loss
We are also reliant on IT systems for data 
management and analysis
Failure to comply with relevant regulation could 
result in the suspension or termination of our ability 
to conduct business and could lead to regulatory 
censure and financial loss
Exposure to remediation cost and cases pursued  
by claims management companies
We have an overarching third party management 
framework focused on compliance, performance, 
resilience and customer outcomes. All new third party 
panel members are both rigorously checked to ensure 
they conform to our compliance and quality standards, 
and monitored on a regular basis. Our third party panel 
is diversified to ensure that we do not become reliant 
on one third party debt servicer
IT systems are regularly backed up and are managed 
through a tight set of quality and security policies, 
supported by a robust disaster recovery plan
We employ industry specialists to monitor the 
latest regulations and update our internal policies 
accordingly. Where required we take external 
specialist advice. We also engage in regular training 
and assurance activity to ensure compliance with 
internal policies
Due diligence is undertaken on prospective investment 
purchases to identify potential documentation 
weaknesses. Legal team involvement in all purchases  
and external legal advice is taken where required
Financial risk Market risk: the risk of losses in portfolios due to 
changes in foreign exchange rates and the level of 
interest rates 
Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group is unable to 
meet its obligations as they fall due
Credit risk: risk to earnings or capital arising when a 
counter party defaults on its contractual obligations, 
including failure to perform obligations in a timely 
manner
Tax risk: tax compliance risks arise from the complex 
nature of tax legislation and practice
The Group’s financial risk management strategy 
is based upon sound economic objectives and 
corporate practices. The main financial risks 
concern the availability of funds to meet obligations 
as they fall due (liquidity risk) and movements in 
foreign exchange rates (foreign exchange risk)
Liquidity risk is managed through maintenance of a 
flexible cost base and establishment of borrowing 
facilities. We are highly cash generative and portfolio 
investment is discretionary
Foreign exchange risk is managed on a Group level 
through the use of forward contracts and daily 
monitoring of currency fluctuations
Management mitigate interest rate risk using  
swap contracts
The Group engages tax specialists to advise the 
Group regarding its tax compliance obligations and 
the application of tax legislation and practice to the 
transactions and activities undertaken by the Group 
The Group’s risk management policies on foreign 
exchange, interest rates, credit risk and market risk is 
explained in more detail within note 23
Investment risk The risk of returns adverse to forecast as a result 
of inadequate portfolio purchase analysis and 
consequent mispricing
The statistical models and analytics used, including 
the calculation of estimated remaining collections 
(“ERC”), may prove to be inaccurate, which could 
lead to poor decision making and the Group may  
fail to achieve its anticipated recoveries
Rigorous change controls are in place prior  
to any new data influencing our decision making model, 
and due diligence and executive review is carried out 
prior to investment. Portfolio performance is monitored 
by senior management Inside Arrow Global:
Underwriting
“ ...you only have to walk 
around to sense the 
entrepreneurial,  
dynamic atmosphere.”
I joined Arrow Global almost four years ago, evaluating and 
pricing portfolios. It’s been quite a journey. When I started, 
there were around 30 or 40 people in the company – now  
it’s about 120. We’ve gone from a start-up to one of the  
market leaders in what seems like the blink of an eye. But 
one thing that’s stayed the same throughout is our culture – 
you only have to walk around to sense the entrepreneurial, 
dynamic atmosphere.
The underwriting team is responsible for analysing and modelling 
potential portfolio purchase opportunities to determine whether 
they fit with our business, together with projected performance. 
We are continually working to evolve the pricing models and 
techniques that we use. While our track record in forecasting to 
date is very good, the increasing breadth and depth of our data 
assets is allowing us to further narrow underwriting variance.  
We work closely with the operations team throughout this process.  
It’s vital to make sure that all areas of the business are closely 
aligned from the outset of our involvement in a particular portfolio.
Having grown to become a PLC, we still retain our energy. It’s about 
having fresh ideas and finding ways to actually implement them – 
right now, we see particularly exciting growth opportunities in new 
asset classes and new geographies. 20  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Three lines of defence model
We have designed a typical financial services three lines of defence model to manage risk 
in line with the FCA’s expectations. Risk is owned by management and integrated within 
business processes, and there are supporting arrangements to ensure independent risk 
expertise and assurance is available through a chief risk officer, who reports directly to 
the audit and risk committee.
Continuous monitoring of risk
We have a continuous process for monitoring risk; the heads of each business unit 
control individual risk registers, which are reviewed and updated on a monthly basis and 
are reported to the quarterly audit and risk committee meetings. During the year, the risk 
structure was further enhanced through the appointment of a chief risk officer. 
Risk awareness and management is an integral part of all employees’ roles and 
responsibilities, and employees are supported through briefings, training, testing and 
surveys. The Group envisages further investment in its risk management framework, 
such as the implementation of an internal audit function in 2014. In addition, creditors 
undertake frequent audits of the Group to satisfy their own risk management models.
A CULTURE OF COMPLIANCE AND INNOVATION
We are proud of our track record of leading industry efforts to improve standards by 
proactively engaging with industry bodies and regulators, with whom we work closely  
to ensure we meet industry best practice.
Supplier assurance 
framework
We have developed a customised supplier management framework to manage performance, compliance and interaction with third parties.  
Assurance oversight is a key part of this process - findings, impacts and recommendations are regulary monitored.
The Continuous 
Improvement Programme 
(“CIP”)
The CIP accreditation, established by the Debt Buyers and Sellers Group (“DBSG”) in partnership with PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”), has been reviewed  
by the Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”) and Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”). The CIP verifies members’ compliance with an extensive set of 
industry standards and legislation. Our internal compliance policies and procedures helped to provide a blueprint for this first industry-wide audit system. 
We received a passing level or above in all control parameters, without any recommendation requirements.
Proprietary Collections 
Bureau (“PCB”)
The PCB is a data matching tool designed by Arrow Global and Experian to address key issues in the collections marketplace. A UK industry first,  
we believe the PCB has helped to improve the way the sector manages relationships between customers and creditors. Without careful coordination 
during the data matching process, a customer's creditors could appoint multiple third parties to pursue multiple debts from an individual. Data matching 
helps to avoid such issues, and we therefore consider the PCB to be an important compliance tool.
Customer engagement We recently piloted the Welcome Programme, which focuses initial interaction with customers on working together to fully understand customer  
needs and circumstances through their eyes. This approach enables us to continually improve account management and provide an enhanced customer 
experience, which we believe increases the likelihood of customers choosing to repay their debt. The Welcome Programme will be fully implemented 
in 2014. We have also implemented a number of pilots to signpost our most vulnerable customers to free third party debt advisors such as Payplan and 
StepChange Debt Charity.
Research We commissioned the Personal Finance Research Centre at the University of Bristol, along with the Royal College of Psychiatrists and Plymouth Focus 
Advice Centre, to research motivations and barriers to engagement in the consumer debt marketplace. The research found that customers want creditors 
to demonstrate empathy and provide practical help in working towards a solution appropriate for both creditor and customer. This approach encourages 
customer engagement because it helps promote trust and gives customers the opportunity to regain financial control. We are currently embedding key 
learnings from this research into our business practices in order to enhance our customer engagement efforts.
Internal staff training Through our risk and compliance training programme, we ensure every employee has an appropriate awareness and understanding of their compliance 
responsibilities. This programme uses a range of approaches, including classroom and computer-based training designed to target content appropriately 
and, where needed, to formally test employee knowledge and award accreditation.
Industry forums The Group executives are active in trade associations, namely the Finance and Leasing Association and the Credit Services Association (“CSA”).  
The executives represent the CSA in certain industry forums, including the Nationwide Future of Debt forum, which is dedicated to improving the  
debt management framework, and the Steering Committee On Reciprocity, which is responsible for developing data sharing rules. Three lines of defence model
Strategic report  |  21 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Second line responsibilities
  Oversight and challenge to the first  
line of defence 
  Provision and maintenance of policies, 
frameworks, training, tools and analysis
Third line responsibilities
  Provision of independent assurance to the 
executive leadership and the board over 
first and second lines of defence
First line of defence
The board
Second line of defence Third line of defence
Board and risk management 
committees
Risk and compliance 
management function
Audit committee
Internal audit (outsourced)  
– to be implemented in 2014
First line responsibilities
  Ensure effective risk and control 
environment and a risk aware culture
  Ongoing assessment and reporting 
on risk exposures
  Ensure compliance with risk policies 
and manage risks within appetite
Figure 6
Servicer panel
Business units 
Performance management and 
portfolio management teams
Technical support
Finance  
Legal
General support
IT/HR/marketing 22  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
In 2013, we continued our commitment to supporting our local community through a 
number of in-house initiatives, including volunteering and fundraising activities. Many 
of our colleagues are active participants in local community organisations, both in and 
out of Company time. The Company-sponsored Arrow Global Engage programme, run 
for and by employees, encourages colleagues to spend Company time volunteering for 
a charity or community project throughout the year. To date, Arrow Global Engage has 
supported a number of community-based initiatives, such as a budgeting workshop for 
young people and assembling Christmas care packages for underprivileged families.  
We have raised money through our fundraising activities, such as abseiling, the 10K Great 
Manchester Run, the Cheshire Cat cycling race and the Three Peaks Challenge, with all 
funds raised by employees for our chosen charities matched by the business.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
As a provider of debt purchase and receivables management solutions, our 
environmental impact is considered to be minimal. The impacts have been considered 
more thoroughly in the report of the directors on pages 35-36.
HUMAN RIGHTS
The Group’s activities are carried out in developed countries that have strong legislation 
governing human rights. The Group complies with applicable legislation in the countries 
in which it operates. Strategic report  |  23 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Strategy Approach 2013 performance and key performance indicators
Establish Arrow Global as 
the most respected debt 
purchaser, with a leading 
position in compliance, risk 
management and treating 
customers fairly
Compliance, risk management and treating customers fairly are at the 
core of our business culture and operations. As an important partner to 
major financial institutions, a reputation for consistency and leadership in 
these areas is critical to maintaining our position on debt sellers’ preferred 
purchasing panels. Additionally, these same elements play an important 
role in reinforcing our position as a sustainable business recognised as 
performing an important role in the broader credit system
•  Low level of complaints, with an average of 17 FOS complaints per 1 million 
accounts in the year (2012: 13)
•  CIP self assessment completed and externally reviewed by PwC; we passed 
all areas with no recommendations
•  Commissioned research with Bristol University into the motivations and 
barriers to engagement in the consumer debt marketplace
Grow the business while 
maintaining rigorous 
underwriting discipline
In 2013, we aimed to invest approximately £100 million, with future 
purchases in excess of industry growth, while maintaining net IRR at or 
better than 20% across each vintage
• Adjusted EBITDA of £89.6 million, up 44.7% (2012: £61.9 million)
• Core collections of £127 .8 million, up 44.1% (2012: £88.7 million)
• Performance relative to underwriting of 103%
• Expected net IRR of 26.3%
•  Profit attributable to shareholders growth of 60.6% and net underlying 
income growth of 126.4% contributing to an underlying EPS of 16p
• Underlying return on equity of 26.5%
Optimise cost to collect 
while maintaining a flexible 
cost base
We use our data and analytical capabilities to help determine the most 
appropriate long term solution for each customer based on their 
circumstances. Furthermore, we work with a panel of specialist third 
parties, which both enables us to provide tailored account management 
and results in a flexible cost base
•  Cost to collect ratio of 21.9%, a slight improvement on 2012 ratio of 22.1%
•  Adjusted EBITDA ratio of 70.1%, a slight improvement on 2012 ratio of 69.8%
Continue to utilise our 
data capability to invest in 
portfolios underpinned by 
paying accounts, with the 
opportunity to convert non-
paying accounts
We seek to acquire portfolios that include both paying and non-paying 
accounts. Paying accounts reflect a number of monthly payments that 
provide a basis from which we can project future cash flows and hence 
are lower risk. Post-purchase, we use our data capabilities to segment 
customer accounts and manage them appropriately to encourage 
long term, sustainable relationships that work for both parties. Analytics 
also enable us to proactively identify and manage changes in customer 
circumstances that may influence monthly payments
Purchases for the year to 31 December 2013:
Maintain a prudent  
balance sheet 
Funding and capital structure are important parts of our business 
model. We aim to create value for our shareholders by targeting returns 
on portfolio purchases of approximately 20% net IRR. We also seek to 
establish the right balance of debt within our capital structure, and target 
net debt to be less than 2.5 x adjusted EBITDA 
• We have the following resources available as at 31 December 2013:
 – a strong cash position of £47 .5 million
 – an undrawn revolving credit facility (“RCF”) of £55 million
• Loan to value (“LTV”) ratio of 31.6%
• Net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.0x
Maintain a leading position 
in financial services in the UK 
and Portugal
We have established, long term relationships with creditors, many of 
whom are leading financial services institutions, and we consistently win 
repeat business with a core group of creditors
• 50+ creditor client relationships
•  Ranked first in the 2013 OC&C Credit Management and Debt  
Collection Index
•  £101.3 million portfolio purchases for the year, with a face value  
of £1,370 million
Pursue a disciplined 
approach to expanding 
into new asset classes and 
geographies
The flexibility of our outsourced model – characterised by our 
engagement with carefully selected and monitored third party partners 
– allows us to move into new asset classes and geographies with reduced 
risk and investment requirements compared to debt purchasers 
operating an in-house collections model
•  Further investment in the student loans market through a consortium 
portfolio purchase
•  Entered the second lien mortgages market
•  Having successfully replicated the business model in Portugal, we are 
currently working towards moving into a new geography in 2014
BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES
Our vision is to be the leading data-driven debt purchaser. Our strategy is to grow by 
leveraging our sophisticated data-driven business model and leading position in growing 
markets via the following:
Accounts Face value Purchase price 
per £
% of investment
Paying £322m 23.9p 76%
Non-paying £1,048m 2.3p 24%
Total £1,370m 7.4p 100% REVIEW OF THE YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 2013
2013 was a landmark year in the history of Arrow Global. January 2013 saw the successful 
placing of £220 million senior secured notes with a maturity of 2020. This was subsequently 
followed by the successful completion of the IPO in October 2013, raising net proceeds  
of £42 million and securing our admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange.  
The listing process also saw the establishment of a new board with a wealth of diverse 
business experience that will enhance and strengthen the business going forward.
Portfolio acquisitions
During 2013, we acquired debt portfolios with a face value of £1,370 million for a purchase 
price of £101.3 million, in line with our target spend for the year of £100 million. This 
equated to an average purchase price of 7.4p, underpinned by 76% of paying accounts. 
We target a net IRR of greater than 20% over a seven year period. For the year to 31 
December 2013, the expected net IRR for this vintage was 22%. In line with our strategy, 
following pilot investments in 2012, we further expanded into two new asset classes, 
student loans and second liens, in 2013.
These acquisitions, net of amortisation, have increased the balance sheet value of our 
purchased loan portfolios to £273.9 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £208.2 million).  
As at 31 December 2013, the total face value of assets under management was £9.6 billion, 
including purchased portfolios of £7.2 billion across 5.1 million customer accounts.
Collections
Core collections increased to £127.8 million (2012: £88.7 million), reflecting the increase  
in our portfolio asset base. Collections continue to perform in line with expectations 
and, at 31 December 2013, were cumulatively 103% of our original underwriting forecast. 
During the year, 74% of cash collections came from regular small payments, with an 
average monthly payment of £27, reflecting our focus on working with customers to 
create long term sustainable payment plans.
24  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Key results as of and year to 31-Dec-13  
£m
31-Dec-12  
£m
Purchases of loan portfolios * 101.3 83.9
Face value of portfolios acquired (billion) 7.2 5.9
Number of accounts (‘000) 5,109 3,562
Core collections 127.8 88.7
Collection cost ratio (%) 21.9% 22.1%
Adjusted EBITDA 89.6 61.9
Adjusted EBITDA ratio 70.1% 69.8%
Underlying net income 25.2 11.1
84-month ERC 564.3 464.4
120-month ERC 650.3 551.3
Net debt 178.3 90.4
Underlying basic and diluted EPS (£) 0.16 0.08
Underlying ROE (%) 26.5% 13.9%
Net assets 105.2 12.6
* Includes £0.5 million of student loan investments held as loan notes Inside Arrow Global:
Collections
“  It’s all about having 
shared goals, 
mutual respect and  
robust processes.”
I’ve been part of Arrow Global for two and a half years now.  
I believe the key to our business’ success is our collaborative 
approach with our external network, with the common  
focus of achieving the best outcome for our customers.  
It’s all about having shared goals, mutual respect and  
robust processes.
Following the work of our analytics team, we partner with a 
panel of third parties to manage customer accounts. Our team 
identifies the best third party for each customer, depending on 
customer circumstances. Then we closely monitor performance 
to ensure that the relationship puts the customer first and  
works smoothly.
We have a conduct risk framework in place to ensure respect 
and fair treatment. However, it’s the relationship between us and 
our partners that is critical. We collaborate closely, sitting down 
together regularly to review account management plans and 
agree next steps.
I often do account reviews where I track a customer journey from 
our first involvement to the final outcome. I get to see every 
stage and I’m always impressed by everyone’s input. That is what 
is so refreshing and rewarding about working here – we all strive 
to achieve the best possible outcome for both the customer and 
the business. 26  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Collection costs
We continue to use our data capabilities and benefits from our outsourced model 
to maintain collection cost efficiency. During the year, there was an improvement in 
the collection cost ratio, to 21.9% (2012: 22.1%). In addition, we extended our strategic 
relationship with Experian to 2023 and invested in a new raw data bureau feed. 
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA is our proxy for free cash flow. During the year, adjusted EBITDA 
increased by £27.6 million (44.7%) to £89.6 million (2012: £61.9 million). This was mainly 
driven by an increase in core collections net of collection costs. The adjusted EBITDA 
ratio improved to 70.1% (2012: 69.8%). The Group had cash generated from operations 
of £83.7 million in 2013. Excluding operating exceptional items with a cash impact, 
underlying cash generated from operations was £89.5 million, which is consistent with 
our adjusted EBITDA.
Underlying net income
Underlying net income increased 127.0% from £11.1 million to £25.2 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2013. This was largely driven by increased underlying operating profit 
of £19.6 million, due to a rise in income from purchased portfolios, offset by an increase in 
the underlying tax charge of £5.4 million.
Portfolio overview
Our 120-month ERC – our expected collections from our back book – has increased by 
£99.0 million from 2012 to £650.3 million. The ERC is underpinned by paying accounts 
that have a face value of £1.1 billion, which represents 1.7x 120-month ERC cover. As at 31 
December 2013, we estimate the amount we would need to invest over the next year to 
maintain our current ERC level is circa £47 million.
The below table illustrates the returns on portfolios by vintage:
 
Vintage
Purchase 
price £m
Collections 
to date £m
120-month 
ERC £m
Total estimated 
collections £m
Pre-2010 43.3 84.9 53.8 138.7
2010 30.1 53.9 54.0 107.9
2011 110.2 120.0 200.2 320.2
2012 83.8 46.8 150.0 196.8
2013 101.3 32.6 192.3 224.9
Total 368.7 338.2 650.3 988.5 Strategic report  |  27 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
 
Vintage
Purchase 
price £m
Face value 
acquired £m
Price  
per £
84-month 
net IRR*
120-month 
net IRR*
Pre-2010 43.3 1,200.7 4p 26.8% 29.3%
2010 30.1 1,375.9 2p 38.9% 40.5%
2011 110.2 2,371.7 5p 28.5% 31.0%
2012 83.8 924.1 9p 23.2% 25.7%
2013 101.3 1,370.4 7p 22.2% 25.0%
Total 368.7 7,242.8 5p 26.3% 28.8%
*  A portfolio’s internal rate of return calculated using expected net core collections for the next 84/120-months, 
subsequent to the date of purchase of the loan portfolio adjusted regularly in line with gross ERC
Cumulatively, net IRR over all portfolios is expected to be 26.3% on an 84-month basis 
as shown below. All vintages are expected to perform better than the target rate of 20%, 
while recent vintages reflect a higher proportion of paying accounts and, therefore, a 
lower IRR.
Funding, net debt and net assets
In January, we issued £220 million senior secured notes with a maturity of 2020, and we 
raised net proceeds of £42 million as part of the IPO in October 2013. We successfully 
increased our 2018 RCF to £55 million, which remained undrawn as at 31 December 2013. 
As at 31 December 2013, we had cash and RCF resources of £102.5 million available.
Net debt at 31 December 2013 was £178.3 million, being 2.0 x adjusted EBITDA and a net 
debt/84-month ERC loan to value ratio of 31.6%, which is significantly below our financial 
covenants of 75%. 
Net assets increased £92.6 million during the year, reflecting the current capital structure 
and retained profit for the year.
Shareholder returns
Underlying basic and diluted EPS for the year was 16p, and underlying ROE was 26.5%.  
We expect to pay our first interim dividend in 2014, which will be announced in our  
half year results.  28  |  Strategic report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
External factor Overview Our approach
Regulation and 
compliance
The industry is undergoing a number of regulatory changes affecting 
both our business and our network of third party partners. In particular, 
the regulation of consumer credit businesses in the UK will transfer 
from the OFT to the FCA in April 2014. This will make the regulation 
and supervision of consumer credit-related activities in the UK the 
responsibility of the FCA.
It is likely that the regulatory requirements applicable to the consumer 
debt purchase and collection industry will increase, reflecting the new 
regulatory framework and the fact that the FCA’s supervisory and 
enforcement powers are substantially greater than the OFT’s previous 
powers. In addition, it is likely that the compliance framework that will 
be needed to satisfy the FCA requirements will demand additional 
investment and resources in our compliance and governance framework.
Our current risk management framework is being further developed to both 
align with industry best practice and meet the expectations of the FCA.
A new committee structure has been formed, which includes the addition of 
high profile and experienced industry leaders to the board.
The risk function has been enhanced by the appointment of a chief risk 
officer, and further recruitment is underway. The organisational structure 
and operational model has been redesigned around a three lines of defence 
model and is currently in transition.
Our application for interim permissions has been accepted and we are 
confident of being able to apply for full FCA authorisation from mid 2014.  
We expect to be invited by the FCA to apply later in 2014 or early 2015.
Market External research shows that the UK debt market is expected to grow at 
circa 12% annually and reach circa £1.5 billion in 2017 .
We aim to retain strong relationships with existing creditors, heightened 
by the expected reduction in panel sizes as noted below. Our outsourced 
business model allows us to take advantage of new opportunities in new asset 
classes, deploying capital where risk and return are optimal and enhancing 
our share of the available market.
Panel sizes We believe that debt sellers have become more discriminating in their 
choice of purchaser, illustrated by some larger creditors reducing the 
size of their purchasing panels. Debt sellers are consolidating their panels 
around a few trusted debt purchasers with scale, sophisticated data 
capabilities and a strong track record for compliance.
We have transacted with over 50 creditors, and have repeatedly won business 
with a core group. Our track record and reputation for data analytics and 
compliance have enabled us to both maintain strong relationships with 
existing creditor clients and proactively build new ones, thus securing our 
position on purchasing panels. Members of our senior team – including the 
chief executive, chief investment officer, founder and commercial director 
– are focused on cultivating and maintaining these relationships, and have 
an extensive contact network and connections resulting from many years of 
experience in the industry.
Pricing We expect the supply of debt portfolios to increase. From 2012, the 
profile of the portfolios being sold has been fresher (i.e. the time  
elapsed since default is reducing) and include a higher proportion  
of paying accounts. We expect this trend to continue. For better 
performing portfolios and those tendered through an auction,  
we expect increased competition. 
Through our diversified origination capabilities – via our extensive network 
and ability to operate in a range of asset classes – we will continue to seek 
a high proportion of off market/bilateral negotiated investments (41% 
of invested capital in 2013 was off market). We expect to invest in a new 
geography in 2014, further enhancing our capability to deploy capital in assets 
that meet our vintage return target.
OUTLOOK
There are a number of external factors which, we believe, will shape the coming year  
for our business and the industry as a whole:
We believe the business has a robust pipeline of portfolio acquisition opportunities,  
and, whilst the market remains competitive, we believe the outlook remains strong. 
Approved by the board of directors on 4 March 2014, signed and authorised for issue  
on its behalf by:
Tom Drury 
Chief executive officer Inside Arrow Global:
Customer focus
Since I joined Arrow Global three and a half years ago, I’ve 
worked in a number of roles and been able to see how the 
company works from different perspectives. Having come 
from a retail background, I had some customer experience 
when I started. I’ve been able to build on that experience to 
develop the relationships that are so important to the way 
our business works.
My team bridges the gap between the creditors who sell us 
portfolios and the third party partners who have direct contact 
with our customers. We ensure that any customer queries are 
resolved as quickly and efficiently as possible. We treat all our 
customers on a case-by-case basis, which is particularly  
important for our vulnerable and potentially vulnerable 
customers. We need to make sure that all customers are  
treated fairly and get a fair resolution.
The stronger the relationship I have with the creditor, the more 
efficient I can be at addressing a customer’s concerns. We always 
aim for a first time resolution, and focus on ensuring that the 
customer receives a satisfactory response. This philosophy is at 
the heart of our work – we all recognise that what is good for  
the customer is also good for the business.
“  We need to make sure  
that all customers are 
treated fairly and get  
a fair resolution.”  Directors’ and 
committee reports
30 Board of directors
32 Report of the directors
37 Directors’ responsibility statement
38 Corporate governance report
46 Directors’ remuneration report
59 Audit and risk committee report 32  |  Board of directors Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Board of directors
1
4 3 5
2
6
8 9 10
7 Board of directors  |  33 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
1  Jonathan Bloomer
Non-executive chairman, age 59
Appointment: 5 October 2013 
Experience: Currently chairman of the 
Employee Benefit business of Jardine 
Lloyd Thompson PLC and a member  
of the code committee of the Takeover 
Panel. His previous positions include 
chief executive of Prudential PLC, senior 
independent director of Hargreaves 
Lansdown PLC, chairman of the audit 
committee of Autonomy PLC, chairman of 
the Practitioner Panel of the FSA and board 
membership of the Geneva Association.
Committee membership: Remuneration 
committee, nomination committee (chair) 
2  Tom Drury
Chief executive officer, age 52
Appointment: 5 October 2013 
Experience: 17 years executive leadership 
experience. Joined Arrow Global from 
Shanks Group PLC in 2011, where he served 
as group chief executive from 2007. 
Previous roles include managing director 
of Vertex Data Science Limited for 11 years, 
on the board of United Utilities from 2005 
to 2007 and management consultant at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
3  Rob Memmott
Chief financial officer, age 41
Appointment: 14 August 2013 
Experience: 12 years experience as a chief 
financial officer and 17 years experience in 
senior financial leadership roles. Previous 
roles included chief financial officer for 
Leeds Bradford International Airport Limited 
and Servisair and finance director for Alfred 
McAlpine. He qualified as a chartered 
accountant with KPMG in Manchester. 
Committee membership:  
Disclosure committee 
4  Zachary Lewy
Founder and executive director, age 39
Appointment: 5 October 2013
Experience: 15 years of executive 
experience in debt purchase, debt 
collections and contact centre management. 
Prior to founding Arrow Global in 2005, 
he worked at Vertex Data Science Limited 
in various roles including corporate 
development director and president of 
Vertex North America and was also the  
co-founder and executive director of 7C 
Limited, which was sold to Vertex in 2002. 
He currently serves as a board member 
of the Credit Services Association, and 
previously served as chairman of the Debt 
Buyers and Sellers Group.
5  Sir George Mathewson
Non-executive director and senior 
independent director, age 73
Appointment: 5 October 2013
Experience: Joined 3i Group PLC in 1972 
and served as chief executive officer at 
the Scottish Development Agency from 
1981. He joined The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Group PLC in 1987 , and was subsequently 
appointed group chief executive officer in 
1992, executive deputy chairman in 2000 
and chairman in 2001. He also served as the 
president of the International Monetary 
Conference. In 1999, he was knighted in 
the New Year honours list for services to 
economic development and banking.  
He holds several other board positions  
in the UK and US.
Committee membership: Audit and risk 
committee, remuneration committee
6  Iain Cornish
Non-executive director, age 53
Appointment: 15 October 2013
Experience: 19 years to 2011 at Yorkshire 
Building Society, including eight years as 
chief executive officer. Iain is currently an 
independent non-executive director of  
the Prudential Regulatory Authority and  
St James’ Place Wealth Management.  
He was previously non-executive 
director of Vanquis Bank, chairman of the 
Practitioner Panel of the FSA and of the 
Building Societies Association and executive 
committee member of the Council of 
Mortgage Lenders.
Committee membership: Audit and risk 
committee (chair), disclosure committee 
(chair), nomination committee
7  Ian Gascoigne
Non-executive director, age 32
Appointment: 25 November 2013
Experience: Partner of SOF Investments 
Limited and has six years of experience 
in private equity investing with SOF 
Investments and RBS Equity Finance.  
He is an economist by background and 
prior to joining RBS worked at OC&C 
Strategy Consultants. He is also currently  
a non-executive director of several other  
SOF investments.
8  Gillian Key-Vice
Non-executive director, age 60
Appointment: 28 October 2013 
Experience: Held a number of roles at 
Experian between 2001 and 2013, including 
most recently the head of regulatory 
developments for EMEA, and was also vice 
president of the Association of Consumer 
Credit Information Suppliers, the European 
trade body for credit reference agencies. 
Previously worked in senior management 
at the Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest. 
She is a fellow of the Institute of Credit 
Management and is currently a director  
of GKV Limited.
Committee membership:
Audit and risk committee
9  Lindsey McMurray
Non-executive director, age 43
Appointment: 15 August 2013
Experience: Managing partner of SOF 
Investments Limited and has 15 years of 
experience as a private equity investor.  
At Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) she led a  
£1.1 billion private equity fund for seven 
years. Prior to her time at RBS she was a 
partner at Cabot Square Capital, Limited. 
for six years. She is also currently a non-
executive director of several other RBS 
Special Opportunities Fund investments, 
and is a non-executive director of 
Intermediate Capital Group PLC.
Committee membership: Remuneration 
committee, nomination committee
10  Robin Phipps
Non-executive director, age 63
Appointment: 5 October 2013
Experience: 25 years to 2007 at Legal & 
General PLC, working as group executive 
director for the UK business and in a wide 
range of other senior positions, including 
group director of sales and marketing, 
group director of retail, managing director 
of customer services and director of 
information technology. He is currently 
a non-executive director of Resolution 
Limited, Friends Life Group PLC, Partnership 
Assurance Group PLC and IFG Group PLC.
Committee membership:
Remuneration committee (chair) 34  |  Report of the directors Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the 
Group, together with the financial statements and auditor’s 
report, for the year ended 31 December 2013. The corporate 
governance report set out on pages 38-45 forms part of this 
report. The Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in note 22.
Results and going concern
The Group’s results are discussed in the financial highlights, chairman’s statement, chief 
executive officer’s review and strategic report on pages 4, 5, 6 and 9 respectively, which 
are incorporated into this report by reference.
Consideration of going concern can be seen on page 75. After making appropriate 
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
will be able to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, owing to the 
fact that forecasts show sufficient resources are available throughout the period under 
review. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
the annual financial statements.
Fair, balanced and understandable
As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), the directors confirm 
that they consider that this annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable to enable the assessment of the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
The board came to this view following a rigorous review process throughout the 
production schedule. The annual report is drafted by appropriate members of the 
reporting and leadership teams and is co-ordinated by the senior communications and 
marketing manager to ensure consistency. A series of planned reviews are undertaken 
by the reporting team, leadership team and directors in advance of final consideration by 
the board. The annual report is reviewed by the audit and risk committee.
Dividends
In line with the prospectus, associated with the IPO in October, the directors do not 
recommend the payment of a dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2013 
(2012: £nil).
Share capital
As at 31 December 2013, the Company had 174.4 million ordinary shares in issue, of one 
class, with a nominal value of 1p each. Details of the Company share capital and changes 
during the year can be seen in note 19, and details on capital risk management can be 
seen in note 23. On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, each member 
present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shall have one vote and, on a poll, 
every member shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. There are no issued 
shares in the Company with special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Report of the directors Report of the directors  |  35 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Purchase of own shares
During the year and prior to the IPO, the Company re-acquired 155 ordinary shares of 1p 
each via an employee benefit trust, which represented 0.9% of the shares at the time of 
repurchase. These converted into 5,060,073 ordinary shares of 1p each on the IPO. The 
reacquired shares have been consolidated into the results of the Group and deducted 
from equity in line with IAS 32: Financial Instructions Presentation. These were included 
within an independent employee benefit trust for future benefit to employees of the 
Group. Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the Arrow Global Group PLC employee 
benefit trust. Details of awards made during the year from selling the shares held by the 
trust can be seen on page 94.
Transfer of securities
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares, limitations on the holding of shares or 
requirements to obtain prior approval of the Company, or of other holders of securities 
in the Company, to a transfer of shares, except as laid out below. 
As part of the IPO, certain of the directors agreed not to sell or dispose of any shares in 
the Company for a period of 24 months from the date of the IPO, save with the written 
consent of the Global Coordinator, Goldman Sachs.
The board may decline to register a transfer of any share which is not fully paid. 
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances 
set out in the uncertificated securities rules (as defined in the articles of association) and 
where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the 
uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four. The board may decline to register 
a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: (i) is duly stamped or 
certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be exempt from stamp 
duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the 
right to transfer as the board may reasonably require; (ii) is in respect of only one class 
of share; and (iii) if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees. 
Further, the board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share where the 
transfer is requested by a person with more than a 0.25% interest in the issued share 
capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares) if such a person has been served with 
a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning 
interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless 
the transfer is shown to the board to be pursuant to an arm’s length sale (as defined in 
the articles of association). 
The articles of association also contain certain restrictions on transfer which are designed 
to ensure that the assets of the Company are not deemed to constitute ‘plan assets’ 
within the meaning of the Plan Asset Regulations (as defined in the articles of association) 
because the directors have been advised that this could result in the Company 
becoming subject to certain onerous obligations under US law. Accordingly, the articles 
of association provide that the board may refuse to register a transfer of shares, or 
compulsorily require the transfer of shares, where a transfer of shares, or continued 
holding of shares, would cause, or is likely to cause (i) the assets of the Company to be 
considered ‘plan assets’ under the Plan Asset Regulations or (ii) the Company to suffer 
any pecuniary disadvantage, including any excise tax, penalties or liabilities, under ERISA 
or the IR Code (each as defined in the articles of association). 36  |  Report of the directors Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Directors 
Biographical details of the directors of the Company during the year and to the date  
of this report can be seen on page 31, except for Malcolm Jackson, who ceased to be  
a director of the Company with effect from 25 November 2013.
The directors are aware of the retirement by rotation provisions in the Code that apply  
to FTSE 350 companies, and have adopted these provisions. All directors offer 
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming first annual general meeting.
Directors’ interests
The directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2013 are  
set out on pages 54-55.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors on terms consistent with 
the applicable statutory provisions. Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the 
purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in force during  
the course of the year, and remain in force at the date of this report.
Interim report
Current regulations permit the Company not to send copies of its interim reports to 
shareholders. Furthermore, the 2014 interim results will not be sent to shareholders. 
Interim results and other information about the Company will be available on the 
Company’s website at www.arrowglobalir.net
Electronic and website communication with shareholders
The Company’s articles of association permit electronic communication with 
shareholders as provided in the Companies Act 2006. The Company shall be seeking 
authority from its shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting to implement 
electronic communication with its shareholders. If so authorised, it is intended that  
the 2014 annual report will be distributed electronically and via the Company’s website.
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees, and uses 
a number of ways to engage with the team on matters that impact them and the 
performance of the Group. These include regular Company wide update meetings and 
email communication, the distribution of a weekly newsletter, focus group meetings, 
No shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company and there are 
no restrictions on voting rights except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect 
of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid. There are no known 
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or voting rights and no known arrangements under which financial rights are 
held by a person other than the holders of the shares.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 25 February 2014, the following interests amounting to 3% or more in the 
Company’s shares had been notified to the Company:
Shareholder Holding % of total ordinary shares
RBS Asset Management Limited 41,712,398 23.91%
Schroder Investment Management 18,705,645 10.72%
Tom Drury 8,775,144 5.03%
Zachary Lewy 7,449,733 4.27%
BlackRock 5,617,987 3.22% Report of the directors  |  37 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Scope Type Reportable items
1 Direct emissions from sources owned by the Company Air conditioning and refrigeration leaks*
2 Indirect energy consumed but not owned by the Company Electricity usage
3 Other indirect emissions not included in scope two Business travel
* Considered under the screening method with an estimated 5% leakage
annual employee surveys and regular Company wide business update meetings and 
workshops. Our people managers carry out monthly one-to-one meetings with their 
direct reports, and the senior management team has an open door policy which  
allows all employees to discuss any concerns or new initiatives. The Group also has  
a whistleblowing policy available on the employee intranet, and employees are made 
aware of this through regular training.
Disabled persons
The Company adopts a consistent, non-discriminatory approach to all applicants, with 
due regard to their skills and abilities. In the event of an employee becoming disabled, 
every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Company continues and 
that appropriate training is arranged where necessary. It is the policy of the Company 
that training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as 
possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Environmental policy
Due to the nature of business activities, the Group’s environmental impact is considered 
minimal. An environmental policy is in place to increase employee awareness of 
environmental issues and complies with all relevant regulatory requirements. The Group’s 
environmental impacts are through resource use and business travel. Key areas of the 
policy addressing the business’ environmental impact are as follows:
•  Minimising paper usage and the purchase of recycled paper and packaging  
where possible
• Energy efficient office products
• Recycling office waste 
• Increased use of video and conference calls
• Supporting cycling to work through a cycle to work scheme.
Carbon reporting - methodology
We have followed the requirements of the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition) and the Carbon Trust conversion factors to measure 
and report greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the disclosure requirements in Part 7  
of the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013.  
The financial control method, which captures the sources that fall within our 
consolidated financial statements, has been used. Although we operate an outsourced 
model working with partners, these partners do not work exclusively for the Group 
and therefore it is not deemed appropriate to include emissions outside of the Group 
consolidated financial statements. The reporting period aligns to the financial period (i.e. 
the year to 31 December 2013) and the Group’s carbon reporting falls under three scopes: 38  |  Report of the directors Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Whilst we consider our carbon emissions to be low, the main area we can control is business 
travel, and we will continue to make employees aware of environmental impacts.
Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of the financial statements 
confirms that: 
1.  so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and
2.  the director has taken all steps he ought to have taken as a director to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor  
is aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions  
of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor
Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as independent auditor to the Company and 
to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 
forthcoming annual general meeting.
Annual general meeting
The forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company will take place at The Midland 
Hotel, Peter Street, Manchester M60 2DS on Wednesday, 28 May 2014 at 14:00. Notice of 
the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, which includes the business to 
be transacted and resolutions to be considered at the meeting, appear in the document 
accompanying this report and accounts.
By order of the board:
Stewart Hamilton
Company secretary 
4 March 2014 
Scope CO
2
 emissions  
(tonnes) per annum
1 0.9
2 54.4
Total scope 1 and 2 55.3
3 28.2
Total 83.5
Tonne of CO2e per employee (using average number of employees for the year) 0.77
Activities that the Group was responsible for led to 83.5 tonnes of annual CO2 emissions 
in 2013 as documented below: Directors’ responsibilities statement  |  39 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law, the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the 
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the 
parent Company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU. Under company 
law, the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS 
are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
•  the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and
•  the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the board: 
Tom Drury     Rob Memmott 
Chief executive officer    Chief financial officer 
4 March 2014    4 March 2014
Directors’ responsibilities statement 40  |  Corporate governance report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Compliance statement
This corporate governance report, together with the reports of the audit and 
risk committee, nomination committee, disclosure committee and the directors’ 
remuneration report, provide a description of how the main principles of the Code 
published by the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) in September 2012, have  
been applied by the Company in 2013. The Code is available on the FRC website  
at www.frc.org.uk.
Following the IPO, the Company was in compliance with the relevant provisions of the 
Code with the exception of Code provision A.4.2, which requires the chairman to hold 
a meeting with the non-executives without the executives present. This meeting took 
place in January 2014 as it was not possible, due to time constraints, to hold this meeting 
earlier. A meeting of the non-executives led by the senior independent director (“SID”) 
to appraise my performance without me being present, will take place in the first half of 
2014. I was appointed shortly before the IPO and therefore a meeting in 2013 would have 
been inappropriate and, in any event, not strictly required by the Code.
Other than above, the Company does and intends to continue to comply with the 
requirements of the Code, which sets out standards of good practice in relation to 
board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with 
shareholders. 
The board comprises ten members, including me, as chairman, three executive directors 
(Tom Drury, Rob Memmott and Zachary Lewy), four independent non-executive 
directors (Sir George Mathewson, Iain Cornish, Gillian Key-Vice and Robin Phipps) 
and two non-executive directors (Lindsey McMurray and Ian Gascoigne) who are not 
regarded as independent as they are representative directors nominated by RBS Asset 
Management Limited (acting as manager of the RBS Special Opportunities Fund) (the 
“major shareholder”) (see page 44 for details of the Relationship Agreement). The board 
regarded me, as chairman, as independent upon my appointment, and considers that  
I continue to meet the independence criteria. 
Sir George Mathewson is the Company’s SID. The board is satisfied that Sir George is 
independent in character and judgement and with skills and experience that make him 
well suited to the role. 
Where a company is outside the FTSE 350, the Code recommends that the board of 
directors comprises at least two ‘independent’ non-executive directors. The Company 
(being outside the FTSE 350) currently has five independent non-executive directors, 
including me as chairman, and therefore complies with the recommendations of the Code. 
Additional remuneration was paid to Gillian Key-Vice, an independent non-executive 
director, for carrying out services for the Company through her consultancy company. 
This remuneration was not significant compared with her overall remuneration and the 
board considers her to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
Biographical details of all the directors are set on page 31. The board has adopted the provision 
regarding the annual re-election of all directors at the first annual general meeting.
Corporate governance report Corporate governance report  |  41 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Shareholder, bondholder and revolving credit facility provider engagement
The board considers that active dialogue with its shareholders, bondholders and 
revolving credit facility providers to be vital to the success of the business. Further details 
regarding these engagements are set out on page 44. 
Jonathan Bloomer
Non-executive chairman   
4 March 2014
LEADERSHIP 
The board
The board is responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the long term success of the 
Company, its strategy, values and governance. The board maintains a formal schedule of 
matters for consideration, which include: 
• establishing long term strategic objectives
• approving annual operating and capital budgets
• reviewing business performance
• overseeing the Company’s risk management and internal control systems
• reviewing corporate governance arrangements 
• approving shareholder return policy
•  ensuring appropriate resources are in place to enable the Company to meet   
its objectives
• ensuring appropriate oversight of portfolio investments.
Attendance
The board held two scheduled meetings in 2013 since the IPO. Details of board and 
committee attendances by all directors who held office during the year are set out below:
Director Main board  
(2 meetings)
Audit and risk committee 
(1 meeting)
Jonathan Bloomer  
(from 5 October 2013) 
2/2 n/a
Tom Drury 
(from 5 October 2013)
2/2 n/a
Rob Memmott 
(from 14 August 2013)
2/2 n/a
Zachary Lewy 
(from 5 October 2013)
2/2 n/a
Sir George Mathewson 
(from 5 October 2013)
2/2 1/1
Iain Cornish 
(from 15 October 2013)
2/2 1/1
Ian Gascoigne  
(from 25 November 2013)
0/0 n/a
Malcolm Jackson 
(from 15 August until 25 November 2013)
1/2 n/a
Gillian Key Vice  
(from 28 October 2013)
2/2 n/a
Lindsey McMurray 
(from 15 August 2013)
2/2 n/a
Robin Phipps 
(from 5 October 2013)
2/2 n/a
The information set out above relates to the period from 11 October 2013 (the date that the Company was admitted to the 
premium listing segment of the official list of the UK Listing Authority and, as such, the date from which date the Company 
was required to comply with the provisions of the Code) until 31 December 2013. 42  |  Corporate governance report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
The remuneration, nomination and disclosure committees were established  
following the IPO. Going forward, the above meetings will be held each calendar year. 
The disclosure committee will be held as required.
Chairman and chief executive officer
The positions of the chairman and chief executive officer are held by separate individuals, 
and the board has clearly defined their responsibilities. The chairman is primarily 
responsible for the effective working of the board and ensuring that each director, 
particularly the non executive directors, is able to make an effective contribution.  
The chief executive officer has responsibility for operational matters, which includes  
the implementation of the Group strategy and policies approved by the board. 
Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods of three years, subject to shareholder 
approval. Terms in excess of six years are subject to a more rigorous review. The non-
executive directors will meet periodically without the executive directors present. 
Recruitment of directors
Executive search firms are appointed on an as needed basis. Heidrick & Struggles were 
retained in relation to the appointment of the chairman, Jonathan Bloomer, as well as 
the non-executive directors, Iain Cornish, Gillian Key-Vice and Robin Phipps. This firm  
has no other connection with the Company. 
Diversity
In line with proposals outlined in Lord Davies report ’Women on Boards: February 2011’, 
the Company has a 20% (two female directors out of ten) female representation on the 
board. This is close to the 25% target for 2015 established by Lord Davies. As and when 
board appointments arise, we will look to follow the procedures recommended by the 
Lord Davies report and by the Code.
Diversity Scheduled attendence
80% Male
20%   Female
0
2
4
6
8
10
Board Audit and risk Renumeration Nomination Corporate governance report  |  43 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
EFFECTIVENESS
Time commitment 
The individual letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment for  
non-executive directors and are available for inspection at our registered office.  
Other significant commitments are disclosed to the board on each occasion that these 
commitments change. Undertakings are given that non-executive directors will have 
sufficient time to meet requirements of the role. Details of the chairman’s and other 
directors’ commitments can be seen in the director biographies on page 31.
Continued professional development undertaken during the year
New appointments to the board generally have previous experience as a director of 
a listed company. Training is offered to all new directors as necessary. The chairman, 
together with the chief executive officer and company secretary, ensure new directors 
receive a full, formal and tailored induction upon joining the board, including full briefing 
packs. As part of their tailored induction programme, the chairman and new non-
executive directors met with key advisors and members of the executive committee 
team. Mr Bloomer spent time in the London and Manchester offices following his 
appointment. Ongoing training will be provided during the year. 
Major shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet newly appointed non-executive 
directors should they express a desire to do so.
Access to independent advice
An approved procedure for all directors to take independent professional advice, at the 
Company’s expense, is in place. The committees are provided with sufficient resources, 
including the ability to appoint external advisors when they deem it appropriate to call 
upon a particular resource. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and are 
entitled to rely on the impartial and independent nature of such advice and services. 
The company secretary is responsible to the board for both the proper administration 
of procedures and arrangements established by the board for the conduct of its own 
business, and the Company’s compliance with internal and external rules and regulations. 
The board receives agendas and supporting papers well in advance of board meetings.
Evaluation of the board and committees
The board undertook a process of self-evaluation of its performance during the year. 
A questionnaire was issued to board members for review and completion, and was 
subsequently submitted to the chairman, who will review the responses with individual 
directors in early 2014. The process will be expanded later in 2014. The chairman intends 
to carry out an internal evaluation of the board (including sub-committees and individual 
board members) early in 2014, which will involve a series of one-to-one discussions 
between the chairman and board members. This will enable the board to confirm that 
its performance, as well as the contribution of each of the executive and non-executive 
directors, demonstrates commitment to their respective roles and that the board 
members’ respective skills complement each other and enhance the overall operation  
of the board.  44  |  Corporate governance report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
ACCOUNTABILITY
Adequacy of risk management and internal control systems
The board complies with this Code provision in line with the guidance published by 
the FRC, ‘Internal Guide: Guidance for Directors’ (formerly known as the Turnbull 
Guidance). In this context, the board undertakes a regular review of the Group’s systems 
of internal control (which includes financial, operational and compliance controls and 
risk management). The board is responsible for the Group’s systems of internal control. 
Risk management is designed to mitigate risks, but it does not eliminate all risks. The 
board has approved an appropriate suite of policies on internal control, and seeks regular 
assurance that it is able to satisfy itself that the systems of internal control are effective 
in managing risks in the manner in which it has approved. During the year, the board 
carried out a review of key risks affecting the business, which are documented on page 16 
of the strategic report. The following activities are considered to cover the most critical 
business processes and associated risks:
•  A disciplined underwriting process, overseen by the investment committee (which 
includes the chairman, executive directors and a representative from the major 
shareholder), whose function is to ensure an objective, rigorous and consistent 
approach to pricing and due diligence. The processes and controls are documented in 
an underwriting process manual.
•  A strong risk and compliance framework is embedded across the business via the audit 
and risk committee, executive and management teams, and supported by the risk 
management framework and maintenance of the Group and departmental risk registers.
•  Regular monitoring of portfolio performance, overseen by the portfolio review 
committee, which considers actual versus forecast results at an individual 
portfolio level, re-forecasts cash flows on a quarterly basis, reviews the continued 
appropriateness of the IRR, signs off the latest ERC forecast, assesses the carrying  
value of the portfolio assets and reviews revenue recognition.
•  Internal controls exist over all key processes of the Group that have an impact on 
the financial results. Full documentation of these processes is well progressed via 
the Group accounting manual and other departmental manuals, and new processes 
are documented as business need arises. The committee has not identified or been 
advised of any material failing or weakness deemed to be significant.
Comprehensive reporting to the board on the above activities takes place throughout 
the year.
Non-audit services provided by the auditor
The provision of non-audit services by the external auditor (note 8, page 79) is monitored 
throughout the year and, since the IPO, a specific policy is being developed, which will be 
adopted in early 2014. The committee recognises that the non-audit fees were significant 
in 2013. Major contributors to these fees are in relation to one off projects, namely the 
issuance of senior secured notes in January 2013 and the IPO in October 2013. 
In both instances, other providers were considered, however it was felt that Deloitte 
were best positioned to provide the services required, from their knowledge gained as 
external auditor, without compromising independence. The committee is mindful that 
these were one off exceptional items and aim to maintain a lower level of non-audit fees 
going forward.
The committee has concluded that the provision of non-audit services to date has not 
compromised auditor independence and objectivity. Future non-audit services will be 
undertaken in line with the non-audit services policy being approved by the committee, 
taking into account ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by 
the external auditors. This includes the rotation of senior partners and professional staff 
and the involvement of additional partners and specialists to carry out reviews of the 
work performed and to advise where necessary. All non-audit services performed for 
the Group by the external auditors in 2013 have been undertaken by teams independent 
from the audit team, with confirmation by the audit engagement partner that these 
services did not impair audit independence. Corporate governance report  |  45 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Internal audit function
The audit and risk committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the 
effectiveness of internal audit activities. There is currently no internal audit function. 
However, the audit and risk committee approved the proposal to appoint an outsourced 
internal audit provider. A request for proposal process has commenced; it is anticipated 
that a firm will be selected in the first half of 2014.
Conflicts of interests
Company policy requires that if a director becomes aware that they have a direct or 
indirect interest in an existing or proposed transaction with the Company, they should 
notify the board at the next board meeting or by providing a written declaration. 
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes in such interests. Ian Gascoigne 
recused himself from a meeting of the investment committee on a transaction 
including one of the major shareholder’s portfolio companies. See also the related party 
transactions note 21. 
Approving significant transactions and investment decisions
The business acquires non-performing loan portfolios as part of its ordinary course 
of business. The Group applies a multi-stage approach to its underwriting and pricing 
process, with the aim of achieving attractive adjusted returns, based on the Group’s 
underwriting models, analytical processes and servicing strategies. 
The origination team reviews approximately 100 transactions per year, with circa 25 
completed transactions. Transactions range from repeat transactions with creditors and 
asset classes familiar to the Group, through to more complex consortium trades with 
special purpose vehicle structures. 
An authority matrix sets out the delegated authority to the investment committee 
and executive committee. The board retains authority for any new asset classes or 
geography, complex deals over £10 million and any transaction over £20 million. 
Based upon recent performance, the board will be asked to consider circa four to five 
transactions per annum. 
Bribery Act compliance
The Company has an anti-bribery policy that is available on the Company’s intranet and 
website and is in line with Ministry of Justice (“MOJ”) Guidelines. The policy contains 
a gifts and hospitality procedure and prohibits facilitation payments. Adequate and 
regular training on the policy and the principles outlined therein, is provided to staff and 
directors. The Company considers it to have adequate procedures within the meaning 
of the MOJ Guidelines. The chief risk officer has primary and day to day responsibility 
for implementing this policy, while the Company’s chief financial officer has ultimate 
responsibility to the board for compliance with the policy.
REMUNERATION
In line with the Code and the Directors’ Remuneration Disclosure Regulations 2013, 
details on remuneration, including the policy report to be approved at the annual 
general meeting and the annual report on remuneration, can be seen on pages 46-58. 46  |  Corporate governance report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Relationship with the major shareholder
The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement with the major shareholder on  
7 October 2013 in order to regulate the relationship between the two companies following 
the IPO (the “Relationship Agreement”). Under the Relationship Agreement, the major 
shareholder has the authority to nominate directors for appointment to the board and its 
committees, with the number of nominees permitted varying in accordance with the size 
of the major shareholder’s shareholding. RBS Asset Management Limited, the manager of 
the major shareholder, has accordingly nominated Lindsey McMurray and Ian Gascoigne 
(both of SOF Investments Limited, the advisor to RBS Asset Management Limited) as 
representative directors of the major shareholder. 
Dialogue with shareholders, bondholders and revolving credit facility providers
Following meetings or telephone conversations with brokers, the chairman 
communicates to the entire board the views of shareholders, bond holders and revolving 
credit facility providers (“key stakeholders”). The chief executive officer and the chief 
financial officer regularly speak and meet with key stakeholders. The chairman is available 
to discuss governance and strategy with key stakeholders. Non-executive directors and 
the SID have the opportunity to attend meetings with key stakeholders and would attend 
if requested. 
Following the announcement of the preliminary and interim results and the executive 
directors’ presentations to analysts and shareholders, the board will receive a report 
on institutional feedback, prepared by the Company’s advisors. The chief executive 
officer and the chief financial officer will also verbally report on their meetings with 
shareholders. Copies of analysts’ and brokers’ briefings will be circulated to the board.
Annual general meeting
The annual general meeting is an opportunity for all shareholders to both vote on 
resolutions put forward and ask the board any questions they may have. The notice of 
meeting and annual report will be sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting. 
Separate votes will be held for each proposed resolution and a proxy count will be given 
in each case. The proxy forms will provide a ‘vote withheld’ option. The chairmen of the 
audit and risk, remuneration and nomination committees attend and are available to 
answer questions.
DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE
The disclosure committee was set up shortly after IPO, and is made up of one non-
executive director, Iain Cornish, who chairs the committee, and one executive director, 
Rob Memmott, the chief financial officer. The disclosure committee will meet at such 
times as may be necessary or appropriate. 
The disclosure committee is responsible for monitoring, evaluating and enhancing 
disclosure controls and procedures of the Group. In particular, responsibilities set out 
in the terms of reference include identification of inside information and maintenance 
of insider lists, the design, implementation and evaluation of disclosure procedures and 
the resolution of any questions concerning the materiality of certain information. The 
disclosure committee is also required to help the Company and the Group to make 
timely and accurate disclosure of all information where disclosure is required to meet 
legal and regulatory obligations. 
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE
Details regarding the audit and risk committee and its responsibilities can be seen on 
pages 59-60. Corporate governance report  |  47 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The nomination committee is responsible for considering and making recommendations 
to the board in respect of appointments to the board, the board committees and 
the chairmanship of the board committees. It is also responsible for keeping the 
structure, size and composition of the board under regular review, and for making 
recommendations to the board with regard to any changes necessary. Furthermore, the 
nomination committee is required to ensure that the evaluation of the board is externally 
facilitated at least every three years should the Company become a FTSE 350 member. 
Diversity, whether in terms of skill, knowledge, experience or gender, is considered 
by the nomination committee when reviewing board composition and making 
recommendations for board appointments.
The Code recommends that a majority of the members of the nomination committee 
should be independent non-executive directors. The committee should be chaired by 
the chairman of the board or an independent non-executive director. The nomination 
committee is chaired by the chairman, Jonathan Bloomer, who was regarded as 
independent on appointment, and also comprises an independent non-executive 
director, Iain Cornish, and one representative director, Lindsey McMurray. The chairman 
will not chair the committee when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the 
chairmanship. There is compliance with the Code on this committee’s composition. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Details on the remuneration committee and its responsibilities can be seen on  
pages 47 and 57.
The terms of reference for the audit and risk committee, remuneration committee and 
nomination committee can be found on the Group’s website (www.arrowglobalir.net).
By order of the board:
Stewart Hamilton
Company secretary 
4 March 2014 48  |  Directors’ remuneration report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
ANNUAL STATEMENT
It is with pleasure that I write to you as the first chair of the remuneration committee  
of the Group since it became publicly listed through an IPO in October 2013.
The year ended 31 December 2013 has seen the Group make solid progress  
in a competitive environment.
The following key decisions have been made concerning the executive  
directors’ remuneration:
•  Salaries have been increased to reflect market conditions as set out in the annual 
report on remuneration
•  Cash bonuses for the 2013 financial year representing 100% of salary will be paid to 
each of Mr Drury, Mr Memmott and Mr Lewy. The Group intends to operate a bonus 
deferral plan for the 2014 financial year. This will deliver 67% of bonus awards as cash 
and 33% as shares vesting after three years. The bonus objectives for 2014 are detailed 
further in this report
•  Long term incentive awards with a market value of 150% of salary will be awarded to 
each of Mr Drury, Mr Memmott and Mr Lewy following the announcement of the 
Group’s full year results. These awards are in the form of performance shares vesting 
after three years subject to the attainment of EPS and relative TSR targets. 
Arrow Global always operated a ‘pay for performance’ remuneration philosophy prior 
to the IPO, and that philosophy will now continue under public ownership, as outlined 
further in this report. 
This report is prepared in accordance with the new regulations for directors’ 
remuneration reporting. As such, the remainder of the report is split into two sections: 
a forward looking remuneration policy, and an annual report on remuneration, which 
describes how the directors were paid in 2013. The remuneration policy will be tabled at 
the forthcoming annual general meeting for a binding vote, with an advisory vote on the 
annual report on remuneration.
Robin Phipps
Chairman of the remuneration committee 
4 March 2014 
Directors’ remuneration report Directors’ remuneration report  |  49 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
The directors’ remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (SI Number 
2008/4110), the Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority,  
the Code and best practice guidelines. 
REMUNERATION POLICY
Responsibilities and objectives
The remuneration committee is responsible to the board of directors for determining 
a remuneration policy for executive directors, together with the specific terms and 
conditions of employment of each individual director, and for reviewing the overall policy 
for executive remuneration. In summary, the objective of the remuneration policy is to 
enable the Group to offer a package of rewards that is aligned with the strategy for the 
business by:
• being competitive but not excessive by reference to pay levels in comparable groups
• taking into account the individual contribution and performance of each executive
• reflecting the performance of the business against its financial and strategic objectives
• not encouraging excessive risk taking
•  aligning the interests of executives with shareholders by ensuring that a significant 
proportion of remuneration is performance related and delivered in shares. The 
executive directors are expected to build up and retain legal share ownership 
equivalent to at least 100% of salary (150% for the chief executive officer).
This remuneration policy is intended to take effect from the date on which the resolution 
to approve the policy is passed.
Consideration of remuneration of employees generally
When determining the remuneration arrangements for executive directors, the 
remuneration committee takes into consideration, as a matter of course, the pay and 
conditions of employees throughout the Group. In particular, the remuneration committee 
is kept informed of salary increases for the general employee population, the overall spend 
on annual bonus and participation levels in the annual bonus and share plans. 
No consultation with employees takes place in relation to determining the directors’ 
remuneration policy, although the Group has various ways of engaging with its 
employees collectively as teams and one to one, and the board receives updates and 
feedback on employee engagement. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The remuneration committee is committed to an open and transparent dialogue 
with shareholders on the issues of executive remuneration. Where appropriate, the 
committee will actively engage with shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, 
seeking views which may be taken into account when making any decisions about 
changes to directors’ remuneration policy. The remuneration committee chairman 
is available to answer questions at the annual general meeting. In view of the recent 
dialogue with shareholders as part of the IPO, it was not felt necessary to consult further 
with shareholders in the formulation of this policy.  50  |  Directors’ remuneration report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Remuneration structure – executive directors
The following table sets out the elements which are included in the remuneration 
package for executive directors from the date the policy is approved by shareholders  
and explains how each element of the package operates:
Element and link to 
business strategy
Operation Applicable performance measures and maximum opportunity
Salaries
Provides core remuneration 
for the role at a level to 
recruit and retain executive 
directors with the required 
skills and experience
•  Positioned within a broad range around the mid-market level  
for the role
•  Paid monthly and reviewed annually
•  The current salaries of the executive directors are set out in the  
annual remuneration report
•  Base salaries are reviewed annually, though not necessarily increased, 
having regard to market conditions, benchmark data and other relevant 
factors such as pay increases for the Group’s employees, internal relativities 
and individual performance
•  The maximum annual salary increase will not normally exceed the average 
increase which applies across the wider workforce. Larger increases may be 
awarded in certain circumstances including, but not limited to:
 - increase in scope or responsibilities of the role
 - to apply salary progression for a newly appointed director
 -  where the director’s salary has fallen significantly below the  
market conditions
Benefits
Provide a competitive 
benefits package at a level to 
recruit and retain executive 
directors with the required 
skills and experience
•  Typically comprises private medical and dental cover, life insurance  
and permanent health insurance
•  Reviewed from time to time to ensure market competitive and  
meet operational needs of the business. Benefits may be extended  
in certain circumstances (such as relocation expenses)
•  Access to flexible benefits on same basis as the wider workforce
• None
•  The cost of providing benefits is borne by the Group and varies from time 
to time
Pension
Provide a competitive level  
of long-term retirement 
saving for executives
•  Contribution into self-invested personal pensions or monthly  
cash allowance in lieu of pension
•  Up to 18% contributions or cash allowance provided, but currently set  
at 15% for 2014
•  Only basic salary is pensionable
Annual bonus
Reward achievement  
of annual objectives whilst 
encouraging a long-term 
focus through the use  
of deferred shares via  
the deferred share bonus  
plan (“DSBP”)
•  Performance targets set annually
•  Pay outs determined by remuneration committee following  
the financial year end
•  Up to 50% of net bonus deferred into shares for three years via the 
DSBP , subject to continued employment during the vesting period
•  Clawback provisions apply (see page 49)
•  Maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of annual base salary
•  Split between financial and strategic performance measures in support  
of business strategy
•  Majority of bonus based on financial measures
•  Bonus for achieving threshold financial performance target is 20% of the 
maximum opportunity for that element
•  Strategic targets are equally weighted and are absolute
Long term incentive  
plans (“LTIP”)
Reward the achievement 
of long term objectives; 
promotes retention and 
aligns interests of executives 
with those of shareholders
•  Nil cost share options, conditional awards or restricted shares  
can be awarded
•  Three year vesting period subject to performance conditions
•  LTIP awards normally granted post announcement of preliminary/ 
interim results
•  Where exceptional circumstances exist, the committee has  
overriding discretion
•  Clawback provisions apply (see page 49)
•  Maximum award of 200% of annual base salary. First awards anticipated  
to be 150% of annual base salary
•  Discretion of remuneration committee to grant in excess of 200% salary 
in exceptional circumstances
•  Performance targets based on financial measures, such as EPS growth  
and TSR
•  25% of award vests for threshold performance rising to 100% for  
maximum performance
Share incentive plan 
(“SIP”)
HMRC requires participation 
on an all-employee basis. 
Promotes alignment with 
shareholders across Group’s 
entire employee base
•  HMRC approved plan of free, partnership or matching shares
•  Minimum three year vesting period
•  Open to all employees generally
•  No performance targets
•  Maximum awards and matching share ratio aligned to HMRC limits Directors’ remuneration report  |  51 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
Salaries
Salary positioning takes into account the complexity of the role and performance of the 
individual, overall corporate performance, movements in the employment market and 
the general economic environment. They should be sufficiently competitive to enable 
recruitment and reward of executives of a suitable calibre for the role and duties required. 
Setting salaries within a range provides the remuneration committee with flexibility to 
take account of experience and performance and to recruit new hires. It also recognises 
the limitations of market data by not targeting a specific statistical point.
Base salaries are reviewed annually, though not necessarily increased, having regard to 
market conditions, benchmark data and other relevant factors, such as pay increases for 
the Group’s employees, internal relativities and individual performance. The committee 
is mindful of institutional investors’ concerns on the upward ratchet of base salaries and 
does not consider benchmark data in isolation.
Annual bonus
A new annual bonus scheme will be operated for the Group’s 2014 financial year, split 
between financial and strategic measures. The precise choice of measures and the 
weightings between them will be reviewed by the committee year on year. Financial 
measures are currently related to profit before tax goals, and strategic measures relate 
to goals concerning the direction of the business. This ensures an appropriate balance 
between achievement of financial goals and strategic objectives. Performance targets 
will be set at the beginning of each year, and bonus pay outs are determined by the 
remuneration committee after the year end, based on performance against targets.
For the 2014 financial year and onwards, up to 50% of any net bonus will be delivered as 
deferred shares for three years and subject to forfeiture during that period via the DSBP, 
with the balance paid in cash.
All cash bonuses paid are subject to potential clawback, at the committee’s discretion, 
for a period of three years where there are exceptional circumstances, such as a material 
misstatement of the published results of the Group, any error in the calculation of any 
performance condition linked to the calculation of a bonus, or gross misconduct. There 
are similar clawback provisions relating to the operation of the DSBP.
Long-term incentives
It is currently intended that grants under the LTIP will be made annually to the executive 
directors. Performance is based on financial performance targets, such as EPS growth 
and total shareholder return measured over three years.
The committee will review these performance conditions when determining LTIP awards 
in each year, in order to reflect changes in the outlook of the sector and the Group, and 
to ensure that the targets remain challenging. There are proposals by the committee to 
review the overall LTIP scheme and assess the potential of alternative or complementary 
incentive schemes for the senior management in the future.
Performance measures are set in line with the key drivers of sustainable performance. 
Targets are set by the committee at the start of the performance period, taking into 
account external advice on market and best practice. Performance is assessed at the end 
of the relevant period to determine the extent to which awards may vest. The committee 
also monitors progress against targets throughout the period.
The LTIP includes a clawback facility where, at the discretion of the committee, during 
a three year period, shares acquired through vesting or where held by the participant 
can be transferred to the Group or the employee benefit trust where there has been a 
material inaccuracy or misleading results, or there has been a loss to the Group’s business 
which could have been reasonably risk managed by the participant. In addition, clawback 
may take place where there is conduct, capability or performance of a participant which 
would make such transfer appropriate, or where the committee deems there to be 
exceptional circumstances which appear relevant to such a transfer. 29%
52  |  Directors’ remuneration report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Differences between remuneration policy for executive directors  
and employees generally
The remuneration policy applied to the most senior executives in the Group is similar 
to the policy for the executive directors in that a significant element of remuneration 
is dependant on Group and individual performance. The key principles for the 
remuneration policy are applied consistently across the Group below executive director 
level taking into account seniority and local market practice. 
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy 
The chart above illustrates the total remuneration, in line with the remuneration policy, 
that could arise for each executive director under three different performance levels.  
The figures are calculated as follows:
•  Fixed pay is basic salary and pension benefits as at 1 March 2014, plus the value of  
benefits based on 2013 figures
•  Annual variable remuneration is the annual bonus including any deferred bonus  
going forward
• Long term variable remuneration represents the potential value of the LTIP going forward
•  On target performance is the level required to deliver 50% of the maximum annual  
bonus (62.5% of salary) and 50% of the maximum LTIP (75% of salary)
•  Maximum performance would result in the maximum annual bonus (125% of salary)  
and full vesting of the LTIP (150% of salary).
Discretion
The committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out elsewhere in this report. 
In addition, the committee may exercise operational and administrative discretions under 
the relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules. 
The committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative 
matters where it would be, in the opinion of the committee, disproportionate to seek or 
await shareholder approval.
  Fixed pay         Annual bonus         Long term incentives
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy
£0
£600
£400
£200
£800
£1,000
£1,200
£1,400
Minimum In line  
with expectations
Maximum Minimum In line  
with expectations
Maximum Minimum In line  
with expectations
Maximum
Tom Drury 
Chief executive officer 
£000
Rob Memmott 
Chief financial officer 
£000
Zachary Lewy 
Founder and executive director 
£000
£382 £835 £1,289 £300 £658 £1,015 £325 £710 £1,095
100% 46%
25%
38%
32%
30%
100% 46%
29%
32%
100% 46%
25%
29%
38%
32%
30%
38%
30%
25% Directors’ remuneration report  |  53 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Emergency discretion
The Group operates in a highly regulated environment. There may be circumstances 
in which the Group is required to make awards or payments in a different manner than 
envisaged under the policy (for example in the form of different vehicles or according to 
a different deferral schedule) in order to comply with changes in regulation or legislation. 
In such circumstances, and if in the opinion of the committee it is disproportionate or 
impractical to seek or await prior shareholder approval, then such awards or payments 
may be made to meet the changes in regulation or legislation. 
In genuinely extreme and unforeseen circumstances, or as required to comply with 
applicable legislation or regulation, it may be necessary for the committee to exercise 
discretion to make awards or payments that are outside the approved policy.
Any exercise of discretion will be clearly disclosed and explained in the annual report 
on remuneration and, in significant areas of exercise of discretion, shareholders would 
normally be consulted and, where considered necessary, separate shareholder approval 
would be sought.
Executive director service contracts
Each executive director has been appointed under a service contract which is terminable 
on 12 months’ notice by either the Company or the director. Contracts are available 
for inspection at our registered office. Contracts may be terminated immediately with 
payments in lieu of notice being paid in phased instalments and reduced by amounts 
earned from alternative remunerative positions obtained during the notice period.
Termination policy
Notice period/pay in lieu •  Rolling contracts with 12 month notice periods
•  Payment in lieu of notice at Group discretion – monthly installments with 
appropriate reductions for mitigation. Payment calculated by reference to base 
salary and the cost to Group of providing contractual benefits (including pension 
contributions/cash in lieu of pension contributions), but excludes bonus
Long-term incentives •  Lapse on cessation of employment, unless ‘good leaver’ circumstances (ill health, 
injury, disability, retirement, transfer of employing company or undertaking, 
redundancy or at the discretion of the remuneration committee)
•  If good leaver, generally award to vest on normal vesting date following application 
of performance targets at a pro-rata reduction for proportion of vesting period 
elapsed unless exceptional circumstances considered
Annual bonus •  No bonus payable (unless special circumstance exists) if under notice at  
payment date
Deferred share 
bonus awards
•  Lapse on cessation of employment, unless good leaver
•  If good leaver, generally vest on normal vesting date unless exceptional 
circumstances considered
Where deemed suitable, the committee reserves the right to agree additional exit 
payments where they are in the best interests of the Group and shareholders and 
reflecting the directors’ contractual and legal rights. Any discretion exercised by the 
committee would be reported to shareholders in the subsequent annual report. The 
Group, in any settlement agreement recording the terms of the termination, may include 
provisions as to out placement counselling, the payment of the director’s reasonable 
legal costs up to an agreed amount and other reasonable payments of a similar nature.
Non-executive directors receive no payments for loss of office. 54  |  Directors’ remuneration report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Approach to recruitment remuneration
Where a new executive director is appointed, the principles outlined above in relation to 
the structure, components and maximum opportunities of the existing executive directors’ 
remuneration package and service contract terms will also apply to any newly appointed 
director. Salaries for new hires will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Group’s 
intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role. Existing incentive arrangements 
will be used where possible and guaranteed bonuses will not be offered. The level of pay will 
be what is necessary but not excessive to recruit the new executive director.
The remuneration committee will have the discretion to determine additional 
remuneration which constitutes compensation for the forfeiture of awards under 
variable remuneration arrangements with any previous employer on a like-for-like 
basis (comparable time horizon, value and subject to performance conditions) and/
or any additional remuneration relating to relocation or similar expenses. Similarly, the 
remuneration committee will have discretion to retain existing contractual arrangements 
for employees who are internally promoted to board level. In addition, in exceptional 
circumstances, the remuneration committee reserves the right to grant additional 
remuneration which it feels is appropriate, taking into account the specific circumstances 
of the individual in order to facilitate such recruitment, provided that the total variable 
pay (excluding any buy-out awards) for the first year will not exceed 400% of salary  
(i.e. 75% above maximum in the policy table). 
Fees for newly appointed non-executive directors will be determined in line with the 
policy set out below.
Components and structure of remuneration - non-executive directors
The board reviews non-executive directors’ fees periodically in the light of fees payable 
in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction 
of high calibre individuals as non-executive directors. This table sets out the elements 
which are included in the remuneration package for non-executive directors and 
explains how they operate:
Element and purpose Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity
Fees 
To attract and retain high calibre  
non-executive directors by offering 
competitive fees
• Per annum basis
•  Additional fees may be paid to reflect extra responsibilities such as 
committee chairman or SID
•  With the agreement of the chairman of the Group, non-executive 
directors can carry out specific project work for the Group on fees 
to be agreed
Reviewed periodically to comparable companys’ pay
Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment
The terms of appointment of independent non-executive directors (including the 
chairman) are contained in letters of appointment rather than under service contracts. 
The duration of the appointment is usually three years, and it is anticipated that the 
period will be extended for a second term of three years with the agreement of the 
board and the non-executive director, although a reappointment is not automatic.  
Either party may terminate on one month’s written notice. The appointment of  
non-executive directors nominated by the major shareholder may be terminated  
in accordance with the provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
The reappointment of all non-executive directors is subject to election by the Group’s 
shareholders at the first annual general meeting, and re-election at any subsequent 
annual general meeting where they are due for re-election. Directors’ remuneration report  |  55 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration (audited information)
Details of the executive directors’ remuneration since their appointment to the Company 
(Rob Memmott on 14 August 2013, Tom Drury and Zachary Lewy from the IPO on 11 
October 2013) to 31 December 2013 are as follows:
Director Salary and 
fees
1
  
£000
Taxable 
benefits
2
 
£000
Performance-related 
bonus
3
 
£000
Vesting 
remuneration
4
 
£000
Pension-related 
benefits
5 
£000
Total compensation  
 
£000
Tom Drury 84 1 69 - - 154
Rob Memmott 87 - 80 1,876 5 2,094
Zachary Lewy 63 2 55 - 5 125
Total 234 3 204 1,876 10 2,327
1.  Mr Drury receives a monthly cash allowance in lieu of participation in a pension 
arrangement, included as salary 
2.  Private medical and dental cover through Bupa (Mr Drury and Mr Memmott) and 
Aetna (Mr Lewy)
3.  The bonus in respect of 2013 was paid in cash in March 2014 and was based on a broad 
assessment of the executive directors’ performance by the remuneration committee. 
The maximum bonus percentages were capped at 125% of salary with actual bonuses 
paid being 100% of salary in respect of each of the executive directors. As set out in 
the IPO prospectus, the bonus in respect of 2013 was based on a broad assessment of 
executive director performance by the committee, when the Group was not listed for 
the majority of the period. The figures in the table represent the proportion of bonus 
relating to the time period mentioned above the table. The bonus in respect of 2014 
will be based on the new scheme outlined in the remuneration policy 
4.  On IPO, Initial Share Option Plan (“ISOP”) options were granted to and exercised by  
Mr Memmott over 1,676,562 ordinary shares in the Company. 915,266 vested and were 
sold immediately to cover his tax liability and national insurance contributions arising 
on exercise. The balance of 761,296 shares are restricted shares for a period of two 
years following the IPO conditional on continued employment
5.  Mr Memmott and Mr Lewy receive a monthly contribution from the Group into a  
self-invested pension plan
6.  In addition to his duties for the Group, Mr Lewy serves as a non-executive director for 
English National Ballet School Limited, and as a board member of the Credit Services 
Association (“CSA”), having previously served as non-executive chairman of the 
Debt Buyers and Sellers Group of the CSA. No remuneration for these positions was 
received in 2013 by him or the Group 56  |  Directors’ remuneration report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Director Salary and fees  
 
£000
Taxable  
benefits 
£000
Performance 
related bonus 
£000
Vesting 
renumeration  
£000
Pension-related 
benefits 
£000
Total  
compensation  
£000
Jonathan Bloomer 40 - - - - 40
Sir George Mathewson 13 - - - - 13
Iain Cornish 13 - - - - 13
Gillian Key-Vice 9 - - - - 9
Robin Phipps 13 - - - - 13
Total 88 - - - - 88
Lindsey McMurray, Ian Gascoigne and Malcolm Jackson are not remunerated by the Company, but fees are paid to RBS Asset Management Limited. Gillian Key-Vice’s consultancy company 
charged the Group for consultancy work; see note 21 to the financial statements for further information.
Non-executive directors’ remuneration (audited information)
Details of the non-executive directors’ remuneration from the IPO to 31 December 2013  
are as follows:
The non-executive directors were paid a standard fee of £45,000 per annum, with further 
fees of £7,500 per annum being paid for additional responsibilities such as committee 
chair and SID. The non-executive chairman’s fee is £160,000 per annum. These fees were 
paid pro rata for 2013 following the IPO. Malcolm Jackson resigned as a director on 25 
November 2013 and was replaced by Ian Gascoigne.
Payments to past directors for loss of office
There were no payments to past directors or payments for loss of office during 2013.
Directors’ shareholdings (audited information)
As set out in the remuneration policy, the remuneration committee encourages share 
ownership by the executive directors in order to align their interests with those of 
shareholders. It does this by ensuring that a significant proportion of remuneration  
is delivered in shares (as well as being subject to performance conditions).
The executive directors are expected to retain legal share ownership equivalent to 
at least 100% of salary (150% for the chief executive officer). Those guidelines were 
exceeded at 31 December 2013:
Director Shareholding
2 
(number of shares)
Tom Drury 8,775,144
Rob Memmott 2,989,360
1
Zachary Lewy 7,449,733
1  Includes holding of restricted shares under ISOP as detailed on page 53
2    None of the executive directors hold, LTIP, SIP or DSBP awards as at 31 December 2013.  Directors’ remuneration report  |  57 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Non-executive directors’ shareholdings (audited information)
Director Shareholding
 
as
 
at 31
 
December 2013 
(number of shares)
Jonathan Bloomer 24,391
Sir George Mathewson 2,544,633
Iain Cornish -
Ian Gascoigne -
Malcolm Jackson
1
-
Gillian Key-Vice 6,357
Lindsey McMurray -
Robin Phipps 24,391
1  Resigned from the board on 25 November 2013
There were no changes in the above interests between 31 December 2013 and 3 March 2014.
Chief executive officer disclosures
The table below shows how the percentage change in the chief executive officer’s salary, 
benefits and bonus between 2012 and 2013 compares with the percentage change in the 
average of each of those components of pay for the workforce as a whole.
% change in 
salary and fees
% change in  
taxable 
benifits
% change in  
performance 
related bonus
Chief executive officer 3% - (1%)
Workforce 4% - 3%
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with 
distributions to shareholders.
Total  
employee 
remuneration 
£000
Shareholder 
distributions 
 
£000
2013 14,118* -
2012 6,102 -
Difference 8,016 -
* £6,112,000 of the 2013 balance is in relation to exceptional items as discussed in note 9 58  |  Directors’ remuneration report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
TSR performance
The Company has only existed as a publicly traded company since October 2013.  
The graph below shows TSR performance through the remainder of 2013 versus the  
FTSE Small Cap Index, as the committee has selected this given that the Company  
was a member of this group during the period under review: 
The table below sets out the total pay of the chief executive officer since the IPO  
on 11 October 2013.
Period Chief executive 
officer  
name 
£000
Chief executive 
officer  
pay 
£000
Chief executive 
officer  
bonus* 
£000
Chief executive 
officer LTIP* 
Vesting 
£000
2013 Tom Drury 84 69 -
*The salary and bonus figures relate to the salary paid and bonus earned from the IPO to 31 December 2013
The Company was only established shortly before the IPO and therefore information  
for prior years does not exist. 
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014
The remuneration arrangements for 2014 will be implemented in line with the policy 
section of this report as follows:
Base salaries
Base salaries will be increased by to reflect market conditions. The new salaries will be 
effective from 1 March 2014 and will be as follows:
Director Base salary as at 
1 January 2014 
£000
Base salary from 
1 March 2014 
£000
% increase 
 
£000
Tom Drury 310 330 6%
Rob Memmott 250 260 4%
Zachary Lewy 250 280 12%
In addition, the Group pension contributions to Mr Memmott and Mr Lewy and cash in lieu of pension allowance to Mr Drury were increased to 15% from 1 March 2014 to reflect  
market conditions. 
  Arrow Global Group     
   FTSE Small Cap  
(excluding investment trusts)
Total shareholder return from October 2013
135
130
125
120
115
110
105
100
95
90
10 July 2013 31 December 2013 Directors’ remuneration report  |  59 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Annual bonus
The maximum bonus opportunities and the performance measures and weightings for 
2014 will be as follows:
Director Maximum 
opportunity 
%
Profit before  
tax 
%
Strategic  
measures 
%
Tom Drury 125 75 25
Rob Memmott 125 75 25
Zachary Lewy 125 75 25
The above percentages straight line vest between each point for each performance metric. 
The directors consider the targets under the annual bonus plan to be commercially 
sensitive because of the information that this provides to the Group’s competitors. 
Targets will be disclosed after the end of the financial year, in the 2014 annual report on 
remuneration. 33% of any net bonus for 2014 will be deferred into shares under the DSBP.
LTIP
LTIP awards will be made to executive directors over shares with a market value of 150% 
of their base salaries. The awards will be subject to the performance conditions set out  
in the table below.
Measure Weighting Vesting level Performance  
target
Growth in EPS 75% Threshold 
Maximum
25
100
10% per annum
20% per annum
TSR relative to FTSE 350 25% Threshold 
Maximum
25
100
Median
Upper quartile
In each case, performance will be measured over three years with straight line vesting between each point for each performance metric.
In calculating TSR, a three month average is used at both the start and the end of the performance period to ensure that the calculation is not impacted by potential volatility arising from 
day to day share price fluctuations. The TSR data and relative positioning will be independently verified.
The remuneration committee
The remuneration committee during the year consisted of three non-executive 
directors, who are each considered independent under the Code, namely Robin Phipps 
as chair, Sir George Mathewson, Jonathan Bloomer, and one non-independent non-
executive, Lindsey McMurray. Although not deemed independent within the meaning 
of the Code, Ms McMurray’s position, representing the major shareholder, provides a 
strong interest in challenging and scrutinising management. The Company complies 
with the recommendations of the Code concerning the number of independent  
non-executive directors that the remuneration committee should have. 60  |  Directors’ remuneration report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Advisors
The remuneration committee and the Group received advice in the run up to the IPO 
from New Bridge Street (“NBS”), who are independent remuneration consultants. NBS is 
a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited (the parent company of NBS and part of AON PLC). 
NBS were appointed following a tender process involving the Group’s major shareholder. 
Their fees were capped at £40,000 plus VAT. Aon Hewitt Limited does not provide any 
other services to the Group or the major shareholder. The committee is satisfied that 
their independence was not compromised in providing these services. In addition, as 
part of the IPO, the Group instructed Slaughter and May solicitors to provide technical 
advice and drafting in relation to the various share plans introduced. They do not provide 
any other services to the Group apart from legal services and their fees in relation to the 
share plan work were part of the overall IPO advisor budget.
The remuneration committee and the Group received independent advice post 31 
December 2013 from PwC, who are independent remuneration consultants and currently 
are providing no other services to the Group. PwC were appointed by the remuneration 
committee in order to provide advice in relation to the preparation of this report.  
The remuneration committee intends to carry out a tender process to appoint 
independent remuneration consultants in 2014. 
Statement of shareholder voting
This is the first remuneration report since the IPO and will be voted upon at the 2014 
annual general meeting.
By order of the board:
Robin Phipps
Chairman of the remuneration committee 
4 March 2014
  Audit and risk committee report  |  61 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Audit and risk committee report 
The committee has responsibility for the monitoring of the 
financial integrity of the financial statements of the Group and 
the involvement of the Group’s external auditor in that process. 
It focuses in particular on compliance with accounting policies 
and ensuring the maintenance of an effective system of internal 
financial control. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing  
and approving the annual report remains with the board.  
The committee is also responsible for advising the board  
on the Company’s overall risk appetite and strategy. 
The committee reviews the Group’s risk assessment processes and methodology and 
its capability for identifying and managing new risk, alongside advising on proposed 
transactions and reviewing reports on material breaches of risk limits.
The audit and risk committee will normally meet four times a year at the appropriate 
times in the financial reporting and audit cycle, and at such other times as required.
The terms of reference of the committee cover issues such as membership and the 
frequency of meetings, together with the requirements of any quorum for, and the  
right to attend, meetings. The categories of responsibility of the committee covered  
in the terms of reference are: external audit, internal audit, financial reporting, narrative 
reporting, internal controls and risk management. The terms of reference also set out  
the authority of the committee to carry out its responsibilities. 
The Code recommends that, for companies outside the FTSE 350, the audit and risk 
committee comprises at least two members who are independent non-executive 
directors and includes one member with recent and relevant financial experience.  
The committee comprises three members who are independent non-executive 
directors – Iain Cornish (chair), Sir George Mathewson and Gillian Key-Vice (appointed 
31 January 2014) – and therefore satisfies the Code’s requirements. Iain Cornish has 
recent and relevant financial experience, having held senior positions at Yorkshire 
Building Society until his retirement in 2011, as well as a number of other non-executive 
directorships as outlined on page 31.
Work of the committee 
During the period under review, the following work was carried out:
• monitoring the financial reporting process
• considering the appropriateness of accounting policies
•  reviewing interim and annual results and reports to shareholders including  
significant financial reporting judgments
•  following consultation with the board, instigating the appointment of an external 
professional service firm to carry out an internal audit function, as there was no  
such function
• reporting to the board on how the external auditor has discharged their responsibilities
•  reviewing reports from, and consulting with, the external auditor, monitoring their 
independence and effectiveness and recommending their re-appointment 
• holding private meetings with the external auditor
• reviewing risk management and internal control systems 62  |  Independent auditor’s report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
• developing a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor
• approval of the whisteblowers’ policy
•  providing advice to the board on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy
• reviewing restructuring accounting
• reviewing employee benefit trust accounting
• approving the year end audit plan. 
Significant areas
Significant areas considered by the committee and discussed with the external auditor 
during the year were:
Value of portfolio assets:
•  The portfolios are reviewed by management for any possible indications of impairment 
or enhancement at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 39 – Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The committee, together with the 
external auditor, considered the value of the loan portfolio by reference to a cash flow 
model. Management’s key assumptions were examined carefully by the committee, 
including the profile of expected future cash collection based on the Group’s historical 
collection experience and changes in collection strategies. 
Revenue recognition:
•  The effective interest rate (“EIR”) is determined as at the time of purchase of the loan 
portfolio and then reassessed and adjusted up to 12 months after the purchase of the 
loan portfolio to reflect refinements made to estimates of future cash flows based 
on enhanced data and analysis considered during that time period. The committee 
considered the EIR of all portfolios and the judgments made by management relating 
to the expected life and related cash flows. The committee, together with the external 
auditor, considered the robustness of the EIRs which were found to be acceptable.
Accounting for material, complex transactions:
•  The Group is increasingly purchasing portfolios in different asset classes and 
geographies, which can lead to new and sometimes complex transactions and 
accounting. The buying process is a multi-stage approach. The underwriting process 
includes a four stage approval, or gate, process before presentation of the investment 
memorandum to the investment committee. The committee then determines 
whether to recommend the purchase to the board (when material or complex) in 
advance of submission of a final bid. Other complex accounting in the year was in 
connection with the restructuring of the Group. Where accounting during the year 
was complicated, the finance team was brought into the process early and accounting 
papers were produced and disclosed for discussion and approval by the audit and risk 
committee and external auditor. Independent auditor’s report  |  63 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
External auditor
The committee carried out the following in relation to the external auditor:
•  Considered and approved the proposed materiality and audit plan prepared by the 
external auditor
•  Monitored the independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the 
external audit process.
Having considered Deloitte LLP’s independence, compliance with regulatory and ethical 
standards, and assessed its objectivity, the committee unanimously recommended to 
the board that a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Group’s external 
auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting.
The Committee recognises that for the year under review, the non-audit fees are high  
for the reasons explained on page 42. The committee aim to maintain non-audit fees at  
a lower level going forward.
The present external auditor was appointed in 2009. The audit engagement partner 
responsible for the Group audit is due for rotation after the current year audit in line with 
ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices Board. Should the Group become a 
member of the FTSE 350, the external audit contract would be tendered in line with the 
notes on best practice for audit tendering published by the FRC in July 2013 and also in 
accordance with the Code.
The committee notes that the length of tenure of auditors has been a topic of much 
debate recently. It is mindful of the Code requirement that, for FTSE 350 members, 
the external audit contract should be put out for tender every ten years and that even 
though the company is not yet a member of the FTSE 350, voluntary compliance with 
this aspect of the Code represents best practice. FRC arrangements for audit tendering 
do not discount tendering more frequently especially when aligning the tender with the 
audit partner rotation. Given the required rotation of the audit partner at Deloitte LLP in 
the coming year, the recent IPO of the Company, compliance on a voluntary basis with 
the tender provisions in the Code and the need to review the level of non-audit fees 
going forward, the committee intends to conduct a tender of the audit contract during 
the course of 2014.
Iain Cornish
Chairman of the audit and risk committee 
4 March 2014 64  |  Independent auditor’s report Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Opinion on financial 
statements of Arrow Global 
Group PLC
In our opinion:
•  The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•  The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
•  The parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union  
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006;
•  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the 
Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 27 . 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and,  
as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement contained within the report of the directors and on page 32 that the Group 
is a going concern. We confirm that:
•  We have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate; 
•  We have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of 
material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described overleaf are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources 
in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ARROW GLOBAL GROUP PLC
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Loan portfolio impairment reviews
The assessment of the carrying value of a purchased loan portfolio is complex and  
requires management to make significant judgments regarding expectations of  
future cash flows. The carrying value of the asset is material, as can be seen in note 14  
to the financial statements.
The carrying value of the loan portfolio is calculated by reference to an ERC cash flow 
model. We considered the appropriateness of management’s key assumptions used in 
the impairment calculations for loans and receivables, in particular the profile of expected 
future cash collection. This involved analysis of the Group’s historical collection experience 
and the Group’s historical accuracy of forecasting cash flows, the predicted impact of 
changes in collection strategies including, where relevant, the past track record of those 
changes, taking into account the age and composition of the underlying portfolio. We 
evaluated management’s model for mechanical accuracy, involving a Deloitte credit 
risk specialist to assist in our benchmarking of the effectiveness of the model and key 
assumptions upon which the model depends, notably the length of time over which cash 
flows are expected and the treatment of early settlements.
Revenue recognition including setting the EIR
The application of the requirement in IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ (“IAS 39”) to recognise 
income on loans and receivables using an EIR method leads to complexity in the valuation 
of revenue recognised. Setting the EIR requires management to make significant 
judgements relating to the expected life and related cash flows for each loan as set out in 
the critical judgements and uncertainties section of the accounting policies on page 76.
We tested the determination of new EIRs by comparing the discount rates set at the 
acquisition of a portfolio to those used in the initial pricing of the transaction established 
by the Group’s investment committee and we independently recalculate the discount rate 
based on the expected cash flows established. For established portfolios, we recalculated 
the revenue based on the EIR set at acquisition date. We recalculated the amortisation 
of the portfolio assets by evaluating whether cash collections were allocated to specific 
portfolios accurately. Total cash receipts were compared to the bank statements as a  
proof in total.
Accounting for material, complex transactions
The Group’s portfolio acquisition strategy results in significant transactions being entered 
into through the year. The commercial arrangements may give rise to accounting 
complexities when determining the flow of risks and rewards and the timing of changes  
in control. 
For each material one-off transaction, we obtained and evaluated management’s 
accounting papers and the related key legal documentation. We independently evaluated, 
based on the facts available, whether the recognition (or de-recognition) criteria were met 
and when revenue should accrue to the Group. We considered the presence of contingent 
clauses and through corroborative enquiry we determined the probability  
of such contingencies arising.
Accounting for the restructuring of the Group
As a result of the IPO, a number of restructuring steps were undertaken, primarily to 
establish a new PLC parent company domiciled in the UK. The accounting entries 
established are material and are not in the normal course of business and as a result we 
consider there to be an increased risk of material misstatement. This is outlined further in 
the discussion of significant issues considered by the audit and risk committee on page 60.
We have considered the accounting paper which sets out the entries recorded and the 
rationale to support such entries. We have obtained the documentation which sets out 
the key terms of the new shareholdings established through the restructuring. We have 
held discussions directly with the Group’s legal advisors to understand the legal steps. 
We considered the impact on the accounting, for example whether the acquisition is 
accounted for at book value or fair value under company law and the impact on the 
associated tax reliefs taken. We also involved Deloitte tax specialists in the review of the 
documentation and the accounting papers to establish the appropriateness of the tax 
reliefs applied.
The audit and risk committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 60.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or 
disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters. Independent auditor’s report  |  65 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 
knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.3 million, calculated as 5% of adjusted profit before taxation. The statutory profit before tax balance 
has been adjusted to add back the cancellation fee of the revolving credit facility and the costs associated with the issuance of senior secured notes, 
both of which are for one off, non-recurring items. 
We agreed with the audit and risk committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of £25,000, as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the audit and risk committee on disclosure 
matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of 
our audit
Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at the principal location from which all of the Group’s operations are directed. Our Group 
audit scope includes the audit of the consolidation and the main operating components which cover 100% of the Group’s principal trading activities 
in the UK and in Portugal. Statutory audits were performed for subsidiaries and the statutory audits were executed at levels of materiality applicable to 
each individual entity which were lower than group materiality. 
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  The part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
•  The information given in the strategic report and the report to the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations 
received and accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
•  Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
•  The parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been made or 
the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. Under the Listing Rules, we 
are required to review certain elements of the directors’ remuneration report. We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate governance report Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the corporate governance report relating to the Company’s compliance with nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate governance code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other 
information in the  
annual report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
•  Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
•  Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
•  O t he r w i se m i s l e a d i ng .
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the 
directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses 
those matters that we communicated to the audit and risk committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not 
identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we 
read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
David Heaton (senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Manchester, United Kingdom 
4 March 2014  Financial statements
66  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
67  Consolidated and parent Company 
balance sheet
68  Consolidated and parent Company 
statement of changes in equity
69  Consolidated and parent Company 
statement of cash flows
70 Notes to the financial statement 68  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2013
 
 
 
 
 
Note
Year ended 
31 December 
2013 
underlying 
 
£000
Exceptional 
items  
2013
£000
Year ended 
31 December 
2013 
including 
exceptionals 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 
2012 
underlying 
 
£000
Exceptional 
items  
2012
£000
Year ended 
31 December 
2012 
including 
exceptionals 
£000
Continuing operations
Revenue
Income from purchased loan portfolios 14 87,330 - 87,330 62,261 - 62,261
Portfolio write up 6, 14 4,843 - 4,843 1,241 - 1,241
Profit on portfolio and loan note sales 1,132 - 1,132 520 - 520
93,305 - 93,305 64,022 - 64,022
Income from asset management 1,392 - 1,392 1,818 - 1,818
Total revenue 94,697 - 94,697 65,840 - 65,840
Operating expenses
Collection activity costs (27,994) - (27,994) (19,645) - (19,645)
Professional fees and services 10 (1,733) - (1,733) (3,162) (1,386) (4,548)
Other operating expenses 9 (12,159) (8,600) (20,759) (9,817) (493) (10,310)
Total operating expenses (41,886) (8,600) (50,486) (32,624) (1,879) (34,503)
Operating profit 52,811 (8,600) 44,211 33,216 (1,879) 31,337
Finance income and costs 7 (19,302) (3,916) (23,218) (19,189) - (19,189)
Profit before tax 33,509 (12,516) (20,993) 14,027 (1,879) 12,148
Taxation charge on ordinary activities 11 (8,350) 2,468 (5,882) (2,913) 177 (2,736)
Profit for the year attributable 
 to equity shareholders
25,159 (10,048) 15,111 11,114 (1,702) 9,412
Other comprehensive income: foreign 
exchange translation difference arising  
on revaluation of foreign operations  
(which may be reclassified subsequently  
to profit or loss)
1 - 1 133 - 133
Total comprehensive income for the 
year attributable to equity shareholders
25,160 (10,048) 15,112 11,247 (1,702) 9,545
Basic and diluted EPS (£) 26 0.16 0.10 0.08 0.07
Adjusted EPS (£) 26 0.17 0.11 0.19 0.18 Financial statements  |  69 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Consolidated and parent Company balance sheets 
As at 31 December 2013
 
 
Assets
 
 
Note
Group 
31 December 2013 
£000
Group 
31 December 2012 
£000
Company 
31 December 2013 
£000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 3,444 3,723 -
Property, plant & equipment 13 259 252 -
Purchased loan portfolios 14 211,787 163,079 -
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 22 - - 307,500
Loan notes 14 1,668 - -
Deferred tax asset 12 9 -
Total non-current assets 217,170 167,063 307,500
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 47,520 9,610 77
Other receivables 15 11,701 7,187 49,456
Purchased loan portfolios 14 62,145 45,092 -
Total current assets 121,366 61,889 49,533
Total purchased loan portfolios  273,932 208,171 -
Total assets 338,536 228,952 357,033
Equity
Share capital 19 1,744 1,351 1,744
Share premium 19 347,436 275,623 347,436
Retained earnings 33,841 12,868 6,373
Other reserves (277,848) (277,287) (562)
Total equity attributable to shareholders 105,173 12,555 354,991
Liabilities 
Non-current liabilities
Loans 25 - 206,585 -
Senior secured notes 25 211,920 - -
Deferred tax liability 11,17 2,646 - -
Total non-current liabilities 214,566 206,585 -
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 13,022 9,812 2,042
Senior secured notes 25 5,775 - -
Total current liabilities 18,797 9,812 2,042
Total liabilities 233,363 216,397 2,042
Total equity and liabilities 338,536 228,952 357,033
The Company was incorporated as a private limited company on 14 August 2013, and subsequently re-registered as a public limited 
company on 26 September 2013. Accordingly there is no 2012 comparative Company balance sheet. 
See the statement of changes in equity for additional impact to the Group 2012 balance sheet.
Approved by the board of directors on 4 March 2014, signed and authorised for issue on its behalf by:
Rob Memmott
Chief financial officer  
Company number: 08649661 70  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Consolidated and parent Company statement of changes in equity  
For the year ended 31 December 2013
Group Ordinary 
shares* 
£000
Share  
premium 
£000
Retained 
earnings 
£000
Own share 
reserve** 
£000
Translation 
reserve ** 
£000
Merger  
reserve ** 
£000
Total 
 
£000
Balance at 31 December 2011 1,351 275,623 3,456 - (459) (276,961) 3,010
Profit for the year - - 9,412 - - - 9,412
Exchange differences - - - - 133 - 133
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 9,412 - 133 - 9,545
Balance at 31 December 2012 1,351 275,623 12,868 - (326) (276,961) 12,555
Profit for the year - - 15,111 - - - 15,111
Exchange differences - - - - 1 - 1
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 15,111 - 1 - 15,112
Issue of shares on debt conversion 149 30,377 - - - - 30,526
Issue of shares at IPO (net of costs) 244 41,436 - - - - 41,680
Repurchase of own shares - - - (1,430) - - (1,430)
Sale of own shares - - 1,501 868 - - 2,369
Share-based payments - - 4,361 - - - 4,361
Balance at 31 December 2013 1,744 347,436 33,841 (562) (325) (276,961) 105,173
Any exchange differences are recycled to the statement of comprehensive income.
The numbers have been prepared on the basis of being continuation accounts as described in the general information on page 70. The shares in place as at the IPO were converted into 
new shares of 1p each. The transactions occurring during the year have been calculated based on the new share value, which accordingly back dates the values to 31 December 2011.
Company Ordinary  
shares* 
£000
Share  
premium 
£000
Retained 
earnings 
£000
Own share 
reserve 
£000
Total 
 
£000
Profit for the year - - 511 - 511
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 511 - 511
Issue of shares 1,744 347,436 - - 349,180
Repurchase of own shares - - - (1,430) (1,430)
Sale of own shares - - 1,501 868 2,369
Share-based payments - - 4,361 - 4,361
Balance at 31 December 2013 1,744 347,436 6,373 (562) 354,991 
* See note 19 for details on the composition of ordinary shares
** Other reserves total £277,848 deficit (2012: £277,287 deficit)
Own share reserve
The own share reserve comprises the cost of the Company’s ordinary shares held by the Group. At 31 December 2013, the Group held 251,572 ordinary shares of 1p each,  
held in an employee benefit trust. This represents 0.1% of the Company share capital at 31 December 2013. Financial statements  |  71 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Consolidated and parent Company statement of cash flows  
For the year ended 31 December 2013
Cash flows from operating activities  Group year ended  
31 December 2013 
£000
Group year ended  
31 December 2012 
£000
Company year ended  
31 December 2013 
£000
Adjusted for:
Profit before tax 20,993 12,148 705
Collections in the year 127,840 88,720 -
Income from purchased loan portfolios (87,330) (62,261) -
Portfolio write up (4,843) (1,241) -
Proceeds from disposal of purchased loan portfolios 2,474 1,137 -
Profit on disposal of purchased loan portfolios (1,132) (520) -
Amortisation of legal acquisition fees on portfolios and financing costs 4,554 230 -
Depreciation and amortisation 752 835 -
Goodwill impairment (exceptional non cash item) 2,309 - -
Increase in rolled up interest on shareholders’ loans 1,291 14,882 -
Increase in rolled up interest on non-controlling interest loans 30 349 -
Increase in interest on secured loan notes 15,978 - -
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (23) 348 -
(Gain)/loss on fair values on derivatives (815) 424 -
Equity settled share-based payment expenses 4,361 - 4,361
Cash from secured loan notes from third party 100 - -
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 86,539 55,051 5,066
Increase in other receivables (4,701) (1,602) -
Increase in amounts due from subsidiary undertakings - - (48,128)
Increase in trade and other payables 1,820 31 520
Payment of deferred consideration - (1,065) -
Cash generated by/(used in) operations 83,658 52,415 (42,542)
Income taxes and overseas taxation paid (4,269) (3,173) -
Net cash flow from operating activities before purchases of  
loan portfolios and loan notes
 
79,389
 
49,242
 
(42,542)
Purchases of purchased loan portfolios (84,308) (84,431) -
Purchases of loan notes (1,798) - -
Net cash used in operating activities (6,717) (35,189) (42,542)
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (143) (40) -
Purchase of intangible assets (341) (679) -
Repurchase of own shares (1,430) - (1,430)
Sale of own shares 2,369 - 2,369
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (17,826) - -
Net cash (used in)/generated by investing activities (17,371) (719) 939
Financing activities
Proceeds of issued share capital 41,680 - 41,680
Proceeds from additional loans 6,884 92,921 -
Proceeds from senior notes (net of fees) 210,626 - -
Repayment of interest on senior notes (10,202) - -
Repayment of bank loan (106,859) (53,814) -
Repayment of shareholders’ loans (77,350) - -
Repayment of non-controlling interest loans (2,650) - -
Net cash flow generated by financing activities 62,129 39,107 41,680
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 38,041 3,199 77
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 9,610 6,440 -
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (131) (29) -
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 47,520 9,610 77 72  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Arrow Global Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and Wales and is the ultimate parent company of the Group.  
The address of the registered office is presented on page 98. The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because  
that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
The Company was incorporated as a private limited company on 14 August 2013. On 26 September 2013, the Company was re-
registered as a public limited company and its name changed from Arrow Global Group Limited to Arrow Global Group PLC. 
The Company acquired by way of share for share exchange the entire issued share capital of Arrow Global One Limited, which in 
turn had acquired by way of share for share exchange the entire issued share capital of Arrow Global Guernsey Holdings Limited (the 
previous ultimate holding company of the Group) on 7 October 2013 as part of a restructure of the Group. The terms of the restructure 
required the principles of merger accounting for group reconstructions to be applied to the accounts.
The adoption of merger accounting presents the Company as if it had always been the parent undertaking of the Group. As the 
Company was not incorporated until 14 August 2013, the consolidated results and details of the financial position prior to this date 
reflect those presented previously as the results and financial position of Arrow Global Guernsey Holdings Limited, the former parent 
of the Group, except that they have been restated in that the share capital of Arrow Global Guernsey Holdings Limited has been 
reclassified and a merger reserve recognised as if the share capital for the prior years reflected the Company’s shares issued as part  
of the reconstruction.
Under IFRS, the Group reconstruction is treated as a common control transaction, for which there is no specific accounting guidance. 
Consequently the board of directors have had regard to the guidance in IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates 
and Errors’ on the selection of accounting policies and have adopted merger accounting in accordance with the provisions of Financial 
Reporting Standard 6 in the United Kingdom.
The Company became listed on the London Stock Exchange on 11 October 2013 as part of an IPO. The Company’s subsidiaries,  
both direct and indirect, at this date (the Group) are listed in note 22.
Through its subsidiary companies, the Group acquires certain pools of semi-performing and/or charged-off consumer loans pursuant 
to the terms of each specific purchase agreement. The Group enters into contractual servicing agreements with other third parties to 
collect the receivables, to administer and disburse the proceeds of the receivables.
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use 
in the EU, and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IFRS Regulation. The accounting policies have been applied consistently in the 
current and prior periods. 
2. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the year beginning  
1 January 2013. 
IFRS 7 (amendment) ‘Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ amended the required disclosures to include 
information that will enable users of an entity’s financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements, 
including rights of set-off associated with the entity’s recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities, on the entity’s 
financial position. The amendment does not have a significant impact on profit or loss, financial position, or cash flows.
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurements’ defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (i.e. an exit price), sets out a single IFRS framework for 
measuring fair value, and requires disclosures about fair value measurements. The Group’s financial statements include appropriate 
disclosure. The quantitative impact is not material. 
IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee Benefits’ revises several areas of IAS 19 to improve the transparency of financial reporting for employee 
benefits, particularly in respect of defined benefit schemes. The changes have no impact on the financial statements.
Improvements 2011 ‘Annual Improvements to IFRS: 2009-2011 Cycle’ sets out amendments to IFRSs and the related bases for 
conclusions and guidance made during the International Accounting Standards Board’s Annual Improvements process. The 
amendments did not impact the financial statements. 
The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted 
by the Group: Financial statements  |  73 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
2. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS CONTINUED
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. 
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s accounting for 
its financial assets. This IFRS is to be applied by the Group when it has EU endorsement. The Group is in the process of assessing the 
potential impact of this Standard on its consolidated financial statements but it is not expected to have a material impact on the 
financial statements.
IAS 32 (amendment) ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ added application guidance to IAS 32 to address inconsistencies 
identified in applying some of the offsetting criteria. These amendments are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014. 
The following standards are not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements:
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’
• IAS 27 (revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’
• IAS 28 (revised) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFR. The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance 
with IFR adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with EU IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared under the historical cost convention other than the fair value of derivative 
contracts and the amortised cost value of portfolio assets.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the ompany and entities controlled by the Company  
(its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December 2013 and comparative period. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are 
made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. All intra-
Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group 
in exchange for control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions 
for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) 
that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, ‘Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’, which are 
recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. 
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the total consideration transferred for an acquired entity and the Group’s interest in the fair value of 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed of that entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset 
at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGU”) expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. CGU to 
which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently whenever there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired by comparing the carrying amount of the CGU, including goodwill, with the recoverable amount of the CGU.
The Group calculates the recoverable amount of this CGU by determining the higher of fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. 
The key assumptions for the value in use calculation are those regarding the forecast cash flows during the forecast period and the 
long-term growth rate in revenue utilised to value the cash flows into perpetuity. 74  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying 
amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not 
reversed in a subsequent period.  
On disposal of an operation within a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated, the goodwill associated with that operation is included 
in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the profit or loss on disposal. 
Revenue recognition 
Purchased loan portfolios are financial instruments that are accounted for under IAS 39 and are measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a purchased loan portfolio 
and of allocating interest income over the expressed life of the portfolio; the allocated interest income is recorded as income from 
purchased loan portfolios in the Financial Statements. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future purchased portfolio 
cash receipts through the expected life of the purchased portfolio asset. The EIR is determined as at the time of purchase of the loan 
portfolio and then reassessed and adjusted up to 12 months after the purchase of the loan portfolio to reflect refinements made 
to our estimates of future cash flows based on enhanced data and analysis considered during that time period. This adjustment has 
historically not resulted in any material impact on income from purchased loan portfolios. When an individual portfolio’s carrying value 
is completely recovered, we recognise any subsequent collections as revenue as it is received. 
Upward revaluations (‘uplifts’) are recognised as revenue. Subsequent reversals of such uplifts are recorded in the revenue line. If such 
reversals exceed cumulative revenue recognised to date, a provision for impairment is recognised which is reflected as a separate 
income statement line item.
The portfolio asset is analysed between current and non-current in the balance sheet. The current asset is determined using the 
expected cash flows arising in the next 12 months after the balance sheet date. The residual amount is classified as non-current. 
Revenue on assets under management
In accordance with IAS 18, the Company recognises revenue on its managed services contracts when the right to receive such revenue 
is reasonably assured and can be measured reliably. The right to receive such revenue is measured in reference to services rendered 
based on the stage of completion, regardless of milestone payments received. 
Impairment of purchased loan portfolios
The portfolios are reviewed for any possible indications of impairment at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 39. Where 
portfolios exhibit objective evidence of impairment, an adjustment is recorded to the carrying value of the portfolio. If the forecast 
portfolio collections exceed initial estimates, a portfolio basis adjustment is recorded as an increase to the carrying value of the 
portfolio and is included in income from purchased loan portfolios. Where portfolios have been newly acquired, the Company 
identifies an incubation period, during which time the portfolio is reviewed for signs of impairment but for which the EIR is not formally 
set. The incubation period lasts for no more than 12 months subsequent to the acquisition date of the portfolio. If the forecast portfolio 
collections are lower than previous forecasts, the cumulative revenue recognised is considered as described in the revenue recognition 
accounting policy.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those which are separately identified by virtue of their size and incidence to allow a full understanding of the 
underlying performance of the Group.
Interest income from secured loan notes
The Group has entered into lending arrangements with third parties to provide capital to purchase non-performing consumer debt 
portfolios (see note 14). Interest income is recognised throughout the year using the EIR, which is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life. 
Retirement benefit costs  
Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. 
The Group has, for the period covered by these financial statements, only made contributions to defined contribution plans to provide 
pension benefits for employees upon retirement and, otherwise, has no residual obligation or commitments in respect of any defined 
benefit scheme. Financial statements  |  75 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Foreign currencies 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of 
each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency 
for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. 
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date 
when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not 
retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the year in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions 
entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks. 
For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange 
rates for the year, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that year, in which case the exchange rates at the date of 
transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the other-comprehensive income.
Leases 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic 
basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. 
Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
Current tax
Current taxation, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is based on the taxable profit for the year and is provided at amounts 
expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at each reporting date. 
Taxable profit differs from the net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. Current taxation is charged or 
credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the corporation taxation 
is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax
Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are 
provided, using the liability method, on all taxable temporary differences at each reporting date. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than 
in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred taxation liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in 
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred taxation is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the years in which the temporary timing differences 
are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at each reporting date. The 
carrying amount of deferred taxation assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred taxation is charged or credited 
in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred taxation is also dealt 
with in equity. 76  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Share based payments transactions
Share based payments transactions in which the Group receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity instruments are 
accounted for as equity-settled share based payments. 
The grant date fair value of the share based payment granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employee become unconditionally entitled to the awards. The fair value of 
the options granted is measured using an option valuation model were required, taking into accounts the terms and conditions upon 
which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the 
related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense 
is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For 
share based payments with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share based payment is measured to reflect such 
conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes. Where the Company grants rights to its 
equity instruments to employees of its subsidiaries, the costs are recharged to the subsidiary in line with the requirements of IFRS 2 
‘Share based payments’. 
Shares held in an employee benefit trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are treated as being those of the Group and are therefore reflected in these financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles  
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets (other than freehold land and properties under construction) 
less their residual values over their useful lives, using the straight-line method on the following basis:
Furniture - five years
Computer equipment - three years
Leasehold improvements - five years
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any changes in 
estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between 
the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Acquired licences are capitalised at cost and amortised over the shorter of contractual life and useful economic life.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Purchased loan portfolios and secured loan notes
The Group’s purchased loan portfolios and secured loan notes are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments 
that are not quoted in an active market. 
Under IAS 39, such assets are classified as ‘loans and receivables’ and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less any impairment. 
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual 
arrangement and in conjunction with the application of IFRS. The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Group’s obligations 
are discharged, cancelled or they expire. 
Financial liabilities are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The EIR is calculated by estimating the cash flows 
arising from the contractual terms of the instrument over its expected life. Transaction costs are included within the EIR and deducted 
from the initial carrying value of the debt instrument. Financial statements  |  77 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured  
to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately. 
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised  
as a financial liability.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible  
to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Capitalisation of legal transaction fees
Legal transaction fees associated with the purchase of portfolios are allocated to the purchase price of the portfolio and included 
within the EIR applied against the asset value. 
Operating expenses
Operating expenses relate to administration and costs associated with collection activities. All operating costs are accounted for  
on an accruals basis.
Fair value measurements
The fair value of financial instruments is determined in accordance with IFRS 13 in the manner described in note 23.
Going concern
The directors are required to make an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue to trade as a going concern for the foreseeable 
future. The directors have given this matter due consideration through a review of forecast cash flow models and scenarios and current 
cash availability and have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group financial statements on a going concern basis. The main 
considerations were as follows:
The Group is highly cash generative receiving weekly cash flows and has a low fixed cost base. As at 31 December 2013, the Group had 
an available £55 million overdraft facility, which was undrawn. The Group also had £47.5 million cash balance as at 31 December 2013.  
The directors have reviewed the available headroom of the Group, and confirmed that the Group has sufficient resources to meet 
future obligations as they fall due. 
The principal covenants of the revolving credit facility that the Group currently has in place are loan to value (“LTV”) ratio of no more 
than 75% and a super senior loan to value (“SSLTV”) ratio of no more than 25%, both tested quarterly. 
The SSLTV ratio as at 31 December 2013 was 0% and the LTV ratio 31.6%. Both covenants were comfortably met throughout the year to 
31 December 2013. The directors have reviewed the Group’s financial projections covering a minimum period of at least 12 months from 
the date of signing of these financial statements and the projections show covenant compliance.
The Company had a profit for the period from incorporation to 31 December 2013 of £511,000. With net current assets of £47,491,000, 
the directors deem this sufficient to cover a minimum period of at least 12 months from the date of signing these financial statements.
The Group is able to generate strong cash flows even in difficult general market conditions. The Group’s cash flow projections  
confirm that the Group will remain well within its facilities for a minimum period of at least 12 months from the data of signing these 
financial statements.
4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors are required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  
in the year in which the estimate is revised.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies  
The following are the critical judgements that the directors have made in the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies  
and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in financial statements. 78  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED
a) Revenue recognition
Purchased loan portfolios are financial instruments that are accounted for under IAS 39 and are measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a purchased loan portfolio 
and of allocating interest income over the expressed life of the portfolio; the allocated interest income is recorded as income from 
purchased loan portfolios in the financial statements. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future purchased portfolio 
cash receipts through the expected life of the purchased portfolio asset. The EIR is determined as at the time of purchase of the loan 
portfolio and then reassessed and adjusted up to 12 months after the purchase of the loan portfolio to reflect refinements made 
to our estimates of future cash flows based on enhanced data and analysis considered during that time period. This adjustment has 
historically not resulted in any material impact on income from purchased loan portfolios. When an individual portfolio’s carrying value 
is completely recovered, we recognise any subsequent collections as revenue as it is received. The estimation of cash flow forecasts  
is a key estimation uncertainty fundamental within this critical accounting policy. Further explanation is given in c) below.
Upward revaluations (‘uplifts’) are recognised as revenue. Subsequent reversals of such uplifts are recorded in the revenue line. If such 
reversals exceed cumulative revenue recognised to date, a provision for impairment is recognised which is reflected as a separate 
income statement line item.
b) Impairment of purchased loan portfolios
The portfolios are reviewed for any possible indications of impairment at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 39. Where 
portfolios exhibit objective evidence of impairment, an adjustment is recorded to the carrying value of the portfolio. If the forecast 
portfolio collections exceed initial estimates, a portfolio basis adjustment is recorded as an increase to the carrying value of the 
portfolio and is included in income from purchased loan portfolios. Where portfolios have been newly acquired, the Company 
identifies an incubation period, during which time the portfolio is reviewed for signs of impairment but for which the EIR is not formally 
set. The incubation period lasts for no more than 12 months subsequent to the acquisition date of the portfolio. If the forecast portfolio 
collections are lower than previous forecasts, the cumulative revenue recognised is considered as described in the revenue recognition 
accounting policy. The estimation of cash flow forecasts is a key estimation uncertainty fundamental within this critical accounting 
policy. Further explanation is given in c) below.
c) Estimation of cash flow forecasts
Estimates of cash flows that determine the EIR are established for each purchased portfolio over 12 months old and are based on our 
collection history with respect to portfolios comprising similar attributes and characteristics such as date of purchase, original credit 
grantor, type of receivable, customer payment histories, customer location, and the time since the original charge-off. Revaluations  
of portfolios are based on the rolling 84-month ERC at the revaluation date. This ERC is updated quarterly using a proprietary model.  
ERC represents an estimate of the undiscounted cash value of our purchased loan portfolios at a point in time.  Financial statements  |  79 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
5. SEGMENTAL REPORTING
The Group represents a single reportable segment. The majority of its operations derive revenue from the UK.
Collections information is available for the UK and Portugal operations. Such information does not constitute sufficient information upon 
which to base resource allocation decisions. This is the only information analysed between the UK and Portugal received on a regular basis 
by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) and consequently one segment was identified. The CODM is considered to be the board 
of directors collectively.
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Total revenue 94,697 65,840
Adjusted EBITDA 89,566 61,940
Portfolio amortisation (40,510) (26,459)
Portfolio write up 4,843 1,241
Depreciation and amortisation (752) (835)
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 23 (348)
Amortisation of acquisition and bank facility fees (359) (2,323)
Exceptional items (8,600) (1,879)
Operating profit 44,211 31,337
Interest income and costs (19,558) (18,738)
Fair value gains/(losses) on interest rate swaps 894 (451)
Amortisation of financing costs (4,554) -
Profit before tax 20,993 12,148
Taxation (5,882) (2,736)
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 15,111 9,412
Additions to non-current assets are disclosed in notes 12, 13 and 14.
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
 
£000
Purchased loan portfolios 273,932 208,171
Balance sheet 
Total segment assets 338,524 228,943
Total segment liabilities (227,823) (214,764)
Segment net assets 110,701 14,179
Unallocated assets which is represented by deferred tax balances 9 9
Unallocated liabilities which is represented by deferred and current tax balances (5,537) (1,633)
Consolidated net assets 105,173 12,555 80  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
7. FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS
Profit for the year has been arrived at after crediting/(charging): Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Net foreign exchange gains/(losses) 23 (348)
Operating leases – properties (249) (180)
Portfolio write up (note 14) 4,843 1,241
Depreciation and amortisation (note 12 and 13) (752) (835)
Goodwill impairment (note 12) (2,309) -
During the year, the Group has issued £220 million of 7.875% senior secured notes. See note 25 for further information. The proceeds 
were used to settle existing loans and facilities and accordingly accelerated amortisation and settlement fees were incurred, which can 
be seen in exceptional finance costs above.
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Finance income
Bank interest 57 -
Finance costs 
Interest on minority interest loans (30) (349)
Interest and similar charges on bank loans (1,970) (3,507)
Interest on senior secured notes (15,978) -
Other interest (346) -
Shareholder interest expense (note 21) (1,291) (14,882)
Total interest costs (19,615) (18,738)
Fair value gains/(losses) on interest rate swaps 894 (451)
Amortisation of financing costs (4,554) -
Total finance costs including exceptional items (23,275) (19,189)
Total finance income and costs including exceptional items (23,218) (19,189)
Exceptional finance costs 3,916 -
Total finance income and costs (19,302) (19,189)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
6. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Financial statements  |  81 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
8. AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION 
The analysis of auditor remuneration is as follows: Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Fees payable for audit services - Company 40 25
Fees payable for audit services - subsidiaries 94 89
Total fees payable for audit services 134 114
Fees payable for tax compliance 93 53
Fees payable for tax advisory services 605 238
Total fees payable for taxation services 698 291
Fees payable for corporate finance services - advisory 108 -
Fees payable for corporate finance services - other 631 200
Total fees payable for corporate finance services 739 200
Fees payable for other assurance services 110 196
Total fees payable for non-audit services 1,547 687
Total fees payable 1,681 801
9. STAFF COSTS AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
a) Other operating expenses
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Staff costs (9. b) 14,118 6,102
Other staff related costs 1,142 967
Premises 574 529
IT 913 677
Depreciation and amortisation 752 835
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (23) 348
Goodwill impairment 2,309 -
Other operating expenses 974 852
Total operating expenses including exceptional items 20,759 10,310
Exceptional items:
Goodwill impairment (note 12) (2,309) -
Staff costs (6,112) (323)
Other (179) (170)
Total exceptional items (8,600) (493)
Total operating expenses excluding exceptional items 12,159 9,817
Exceptional items include items that, by virtue of their size and incidence, are not considered to be representative of the on-going 
performance of the Group. 
In the year to 31 December 2013, goodwill arose upon the acquisition of Arrow Global Accounts Management Limited. As the goodwill 
was not supportable, this was fully impaired (see note 27). The remaining exceptional items in the year were exceptional restructuring 
costs associated with the senior secured notes issuance of £1,005,000 and IPO related staff and other costs of £5,286,000, the main 
item being £4,361,000 of share option charges. In the year to 31 December 2012, the exceptional items represented costs associated 
with the senior secured notes issuance and restructuring costs.  82  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
9. STAFF COSTS AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES CONTINUED
b) Staff costs
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Wages, bonuses and salaries 13,019 5,179
Payments for termination of employment of key management - 158
Payments for termination of employment of employees - 7
Pension costs 227 157
Social security costs 872 601
14,118 6,102
The total directors’ personnel remuneration (including non-executive directors) during the year was £3,876,000, including £2,126,000 
of exceptional costs (2012: £1,185,000) and included £31,000 in relation to pension costs (2012: £39,000).
The remuneration of the highest paid director during the year was £2,171,000 (2012: £395,000) including pension costs of £11,000  
(2012: £15,000).  
At 31 December 2013, there was an accrual in respect of pension costs of £nil (2012: £22,000).
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) are analysed below:
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Data and systems 44 31
Business support 50 46
Management 7 6
Finance 8 7
109 90
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Professional fees and services 1,733 4,548
Exceptional items:
Project and legal-related expenses - (1,386)
Professional fees and services excluding exceptional items 1,733 3,162
10. PROFESSIONAL FEES AND SERVICES
Exceptional project and legal-related expenses relate to corporate restructuring and transaction advisory fees. Financial statements  |  83 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
11. TAX
The Group’s activities are predominantly UK based. The analysis below therefore uses the UK rate of corporation tax. The effective tax rate 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK at 23.25%. The differences are as follows: 
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Profit before tax 20,993 12,148
Tax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate 4,881 2,976
Adjustment in respect of prior years 33 81
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 922 35
Differences on share based payments (15) -
Differences in tax rates (410) -
Differences on hedging arrangements 85 -
Other - 6
Differing overseas tax rates 386 (362)
Tax charge 5,882 2,736
Effective tax rate relating to continuing operations 28.0% 22.5%
Standard UK corporation rate for the year 23.25% 24.5%
Effective tax rate higher/lower than standard UK corporation rate for the year Higher Lower
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Tax charge for the year consists of:
Current tax charge:
UK and foreign corporation tax based on profit for the year 5,471 2,426
Adjustment in respect of prior years 78 181
Total current tax charge 5,549 2,607
Deferred tax charge/(credit):
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 788 229
Adjustment in respect of prior years (45) (100)
Differences in tax rates (410) -
Total tax charge 5,882 2,736
The Group has been involved in on-going discussions with HMRC with respect to the VAT implications of the business activities 
performed in Guernsey prior to January 2013, when the Group was restructured. To date these discussions have related exclusively to 
requests for and provision of factual information. HMRC have not yet confirmed to the Group whether they agree that Arrow Global 
Guernsey Limited’s business activities were such that it did not have a fixed place of business in the UK. Accordingly, no provision has 
been made in these financial statements in respect of this matter. HMRC have indicated that they expect to be able to confirm their 
position in the near future. 84  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Cost
Software licences 
£000
Goodwill 
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 January 2013 2,632 1,968 4,600
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiary - 2,309 2,309
Removal of fully depreciated assets (180) - (180)
Additions 341 - 341
At 31 December 2013 2,793 4,277 7,070
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 877 - 877
Goodwill Impairment - 2,309 2,309
Removal of fully depreciated assets (176) - (176)
Amortisation charge for the year 616 - 616
At 31 December 2013 1,317 2,309 3,626
Net book value
At 31 December 2013 1,476 1,968 3,444
At 31 December 2012 1,755 1,968 3,723
On the 28 February 2013, the Group acquired Arrow Global Accounts Management Limited for cash consideration of £18,909,000 (see 
note 27). The consideration was allocated to the fair value of net assets, which primarily related to portfolio assets recognised at fair 
value. Following the restatement of the portfolio assets from UK GAAP to IFRS a deferred tax liability has been recognised reducing 
net assets by £2,309,000. The corresponding increase in goodwill was then subject to an impairment assessment and was immediately 
impaired, as the cash consideration was primarily supported by the portfolio assets, and did not support the increased level of goodwill. 
The fair value of the assets less costs to dispose was also considered to be insufficient to support the increased level of goodwill. Over 
the life of the portfolio asset, we consider the recognition of the deferred tax liability does not increase the level of tax payments 
expected to be made.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
11. TAX CONTINUED
Deferred tax
The Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of £249,000 (2012: £249,000) of tax losses carried forward. These losses 
are available for offset against future non-trading profits and have no expiry date.
The Finance Act 2013, which was substantively enacted in July 2013, included provisions to reduce the rate of UK corporation tax to 
21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Deferred taxation is measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the periods in which the temporary timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Accordingly, deferred tax balances have been revalued to the lower rate of 
20% in these accounts.
A deferred tax liability of £2,309,000 was recognised on acquisition of Arrow Global Accounts Management Limited as described in 
note 27. The liability will unwind over the next ten years. Over the life of the portfolio asset, the Group considers the recognition of the 
deferred tax liability does not increase the level of tax payments expected to be made.
Exceptional tax
We have identified exceptional items in the year amounting to £12,516,000 (2012: £1,879,000). All exceptional items are taxable with the 
exception of the £2,309,000 goodwill impairment in the year.
12. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Financial statements  |  85 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
12. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Except 
for the goodwill generated in relation to the acquisition in the year, the remaining goodwill is attributable to Arrow Global Receivables 
Management Limited which is considered to be the only CGU to which the remaining purchased goodwill relates. The recoverable 
amount of this CGU is determined from value in use calculations and no impairment has been identified. The key assumptions for the 
value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rate and forecast cash collections net of direct collection costs. Management 
estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect weighted average cost of capital of the CGU. The discount rate was revised in 
June 2013 in light of the economic environment and to risks specific to the CGU. The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from 
this CGU is 20% (2012:15%). Had the 20% rate been applied consistently throughout the historical period, no impairment would have 
been identified.
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU’s carrying value. An increase in the discount rate  
of 1% would produce a £60,000 decrease in fair value.
The Group’s cash flow forecasts are those used in the assessment of the portfolio valuation and have been approved by key 
management personnel. There is no concentration within any particular portfolio and at the beginning and end of the financial year  
the recoverable amount of the CGU was substantially in excess of its book value and therefore management deem it reasonable not  
to impair the carrying amount of goodwill.
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Cost
Leasehold 
improvements
  
£000
Computer  
equipment
 
£000
Furniture 
£000
Total property,  
plant and  
equipment 
£000
At 1 January 2013 346 323 163 832
Additions - 19 124 143
At 31 December 2013 346 342 287 975
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2013 242 251 87 580
Charge for the year 50 45 41 136
At 31 December 2013 292 296 128 716
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2013 54 46 159 259
At 31 December 2012 104 72 76 252 86  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
Non current:
Purchased loan portfolios 208,042 162,125
Portfolio write up 3,745 954
211,787 163,079
Loan notes 1,668 -
213,455 163,079
Current:
Purchased loan portfolios 61,047 44,805
Portfolio write up 1,098 287
62,145 45,092
Total 275,600 208,171
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
14. FINANCIAL ASSETS
Year ended 
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended 
31 December 2012 
£000
As at the year brought forward 208,171 150,005
Portfolios acquired during the year * 84,308 84,431
Portfolios acquired through acquisition of a subsidiary 18,301 -
Collections in the year (127,840) (88,720)
Income from purchased loan portfolios 87,330 62,261
Exchange gain/(loss) on purchased loan portfolios 161 (200)
Amortisation of legal acquisition fees on portfolios - (230)
Disposal of purchased loan portfolios (1,342) (617)
Portfolio write up 4,843 1,241
As at the year end 273,932 208,171
At 31 December 2013, the directors calculated the fair value of portfolios and loan notes under IFRS 13 to be £281,386,000, which is 
£7,454,000 higher than the carrying value. The directors applied a discount rate of 20% net of cash flows, which was calculated using  
a consistent methodology as at 31 December 2012. 
The directors consider that there was no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of the assets for the comparative year. 
Purchased loan portfolios
The Group recognises income from purchased loan portfolios in accordance with IAS 39. At 31 December 2013, the carrying amount  
of the purchased loan portfolio asset was £273,932,000 (2012: £208,171,000). 
The movements in purchased loan portfolio assets were as follows:
* Inclusive of capitalised portfolio expenditure of £1,759,000 (2012: £453,000) Financial statements  |  87 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
15. OTHER RECEIVABLES AND PREPAYMENTS
Group
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Group
year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Company
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Prepayments 9,033 5,742 -
Due from subsidiary undertakings (note 21) - - 49,456
Other receivables 2,116 1,219 -
Derivative asset (note 23) 507 143 -
Current tax asset - 38 -
Deposits 45 45 -
11,701 7,187 49,456
The directors consider that the carrying amounts approximate to their fair value as balances are readily converted to cash.
16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Group
year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Company
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Trade payables 4,375 3,146 -
Current tax liability 2,894 1,633 193
Derivative liability - 451 -
Taxation and social security - 69 -
Due from subsidiary undertakings (note 21) - - 1,329
Other liabilities and accruals 5,753 4,513 520
13,022 9,812 2,042
The directors consider that the carrying amounts approximate to their fair value on the basis that the balances are short term in nature.
17. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY
Group
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Group
year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Fair value adjustment on acquired debt portfolio within a subsidiary* 1,841 -
Share schemes 598 -
Other 207 -
2,646 -
* A deferred tax liability of £2,309,000 was recognised on acquisition of Arrow Global Accounts Management Limited as described in 
note 27, with the liability being unwound over the next ten years. See note 11 for more information. 88  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Group
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Group
year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Company
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Loan received from shareholders - 66,625 -
Interest accruing at 15% per annum - 39,960 -
- 106,585 -
Issued and fully paid £000
174,439,026 ordinary shares of 1p each 1,744
1,744
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
18. SHAREHOLDERS’ LOANS
Up to 29 January 2013, the Group has a nominal amount of £66,625,000 of £1 loan stock accruing interest at 15% per annum in issue.  
The loan stock and accrued interest were repayable at the earliest of the sale of the business or 31 December 2015.
The Group issued £220 million senior secured notes on 29 January 2013. At this date, there were shareholders’ loan notes of £107.9 million, 
which included accrued and unpaid interest owing. As part of the process of issuing the senior secured notes, the shareholders’ loan  
notes were settled through a cash repayment of £77.4 million, with the remaining £30.5 million being converted into equity in Arrow  
Global Guernsey Holdings Limited.
19. SHARE CAPITAL
Between 14 August 2013 and 7 October 2013, the Group undertook a reorganisation of its corporate structure that resulted in the 
Company becoming the ultimate holding company of the Group and Arrow Global One Limited becoming the Company’s direct 
subsidiary. This reorganisation involved the following principal steps:
•  the Company was incorporated as a private limited company and subsequently re-registered as a public limited company;
•  all of the shares in Arrow Global Group Holdings Limited (“AGGHL”) were transferred from its then existing shareholders  
(the “Original Shareholders”) to Arrow Global One Limited;
•  Arrow Global One Limited issued ordinary shares to the Original Shareholders in consideration for the transfer of shares in AGGHL  
to Arrow Global One Limited (following which it became the sole shareholder of AGGHL);
•  all of the shares in Arrow Global One Limited were then transferred by the Original Shareholders to the Company; and
•  the Company issued ordinary shares to the Original Shareholders in consideration for the transfer of shares in Arrow Global One 
Limited to the Company (following which the Company became the sole shareholder of Arrow Global One Limited).
The consideration made by Arrow Global One Limited and the Company, was accounted for at fair value as per IAS 27 (2011) ‘Separate 
Financial Statements’. This lead to the creation of a merger reserve on consolidation. See note 1, general information on page 70,  
for further details.
Total consideration for the shares was £349,180,000, giving rise to a share premium of £347,436,000. £41,680,000 was raised as part of 
the IPO, net of £8,420,000 of IPO costs, which were netted against the share premium account in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006, section 610. The Company’s ordinary shares carry the right to receive dividends and distributions paid by the Company.  
The shareholders have the right to receive notice of and to attend and vote at all general meetings of the Company. Financial statements  |  89 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
20. LEASE COMMITMENTS
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Group
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Group
year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Less than 1 year 105 189
1-5 years 198 173
5+ years 655 -
958 362
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties.
21. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Group
Related party balances as at each year end were as follows:
As at 31 December 2013:
RB Investments 
limited
£000
Key management
personnel
£000
Other minority 
shareholders
£000
Total 
£000
Trade - 2 - 2
- 2 - 2
As at 31 December 2012: £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-controlling interest loan - - (2,619) (2,619)
Shareholders’ loans (106,585) - - (106,585)
(106,585) - (2,619) (109,204)
Remuneration for directors and key management personnel have been disclosed in note 9 along with the P&L charges in the year and 
in the remuneration report. The P&L charges for other balances are disclosed in note 7. 
Summary of transactions 
A loan for £11,000,000 was received by Arrow Global Guernsey Holdings Limited from RBS Asset Management Limited on 29 October 
2012 and repaid on 2 November 2012. The loan was advanced to facilitate the acquisition of a portfolio while in the process of drawing 
under the existing revolving credit facility. Interest on the loan was repayable at 18%.
£1,388,027 in relation to a loan note instrument was repaid in full in January 2013 to Lewylang LP, a party related to Zachary Lewy.
All remaining balances on loans were repaid on 29 January 2013 as part of the refinancing and issuance of senior secured notes 
described in note 25. 
On 6 September 2013, Shawbrook Bank Limited (which is an investment of RBS Special Opportunities Fund) committed £10 million 
as lender under the revolving credit facility. Shawbrook Bank Limited was paid customary fees by the Group in connection with this 
commitment (on the same basis as the other lenders under the revolving credit facility).
During the year GKV Limited, owned by non-executive director Gillian Key-Vice, charged the Group £5,061 in relation to consultancy 
services provided on Group projects. 90  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
As at 31 December 2013
Arrow Global 
Group Holdings Limited
£000
Arrow Global  
Limited
£000
Total 
£000
Intercompany receivables - 49,456 49,456
Intercompany payables (1,329) - (1,329) 
(1,329) 49,456 48,127
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
21. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED
Company
Related party balances as at each year end were as follows:
Name
Place of incorporation (or 
registration)  
and operation
Proportion of 
ownership  
interest (% )
Current  
status
Parent  
company
Arrow Global One Limited (AGOL) UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AGGP
Arrow Global Guernsey Holdings Limited Guernsey 100 Trading AGOL
Arrow Global Investment (Holdings) Limited (AGI(H)L) UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AGGHL
Arrow Global (Holdings) Limited (AG(H)L) UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AGI(H)L
Arrow Global Finance PLC UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AGI(H)L
Arrow Global Limited (AGL) UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AG(H)L
Arrow Global Receivables Management Limited UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AG(H)L
Arrow Global Management Limited UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AG(H)L
Arrow Global Portugal Limited (AGPL) UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AG(H)L
Arrow Global Accounts Management Limited UK – England and Wales 100 Trading AGL
Arrow Global Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100 Non-Trading AGI(H)L
Arrow Global Debt Limited (AGDL) Guernsey 100 Dormant AGGHL
Arrow Global Massey Limited UK – England and Wales 100 Dormant AG(H)L
Arrow Global Legh Limited UK – England and Wales 100 Dormant AG(H)L
Arrow Global Egerton Limited UK – England and Wales 100 Dormant AG(H)L
Arrow Global Guernsey Management Limited Guernsey 100 Dormant AGDL
Strzala Sp. z o.o. Poland 100 Dormant AG(H)L/AGL
Arrow Global  
One Limited  
£000
Total  
£000
At 31 December 2013 307,500 307,500
At the year end, the Company owed Arrow Global Group Holdings Limited £1,329,000 and was due £49,456,000 from Arrow Global 
Limited. These balances relate to intercompany loans that are repayable on demand and are therefore held as current liabilities or 
assets. No other transactions occurred between the related parties, excluding those disclosed above.
22. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries at 31 December 2013 are as follows:
The investments in subsidiaries are all stated at cost. See note 1 for further information on the Group restructure. Financial statements  |  91 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
23. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are managed within an established risk management framework. The Group’s day  
to day working capital is funded by its cash and cash equivalents. The key risks identified for the Group are discussed below.
The Group has exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk that arises throughout the normal course of the Group’s business.
Fair values
The directors consider that there are no material differences between the financial asset values in the consolidated balance sheet and their 
fair value, except in relation to those disclosed in note 14. Borrowings are considered to be reported at fair value as these were arm’s length 
transactions at prevailing market rates. The Group has not identified a significant change in the availability of such market rates.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include goodwill, property, plant and equipment, and other 
intangible assets. Such assets are reviewed for impairment indicators. If a triggering event has occurred, the assets are re-measured 
when the estimated fair value of the corresponding asset or asset group is less than the carrying value. The fair value measurements,  
in such instances, are based on significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). Key inputs into the impairment review process are outlined  
in note 12. There were no significant impairments recorded during the year ended 31 December 2013, except in relation to the goodwill 
outlined in note 12.
Credit risk 
Credit risk is considered upon the acquisition of a financial asset by assessing the expected return. The Group manages this risk by 
monitoring the performance of the financial asset throughout its economic life. Cash collections are continually monitored and the 
carrying value of the asset is impaired where it is deemed that, based on collections profiles, the asset is underperforming compared 
to the initial expected return determined at the acquisition date. The financial assets subjected to credit risk are portfolio assets, loan 
notes and derivative assets.
The maximum credit risk exposure in relation to the financial assets is disclosed below:
The Group’s principal activity is the acquisition and management of underperforming portfolios of loans. All purchased portfolios  
are, by their nature, significantly past due and impaired upon acquisition. No additional collateral is held in respect of the portfolios.  
The Group performs impairment reviews periodically.
All purchased loan portfolios are measured at amortised cost. Impairment is assessed on a regular basis by management and is 
identified on a portfolio basis following evidence that the financial asset is impaired. All loan notes are measured at amortised cost. 
Impairment is assessed on a regular basis by management and is identified on a portfolio basis following evidence that the financial 
asset is impaired.
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Purchased loan portfolio 273,932 208,171
Cash and cash equivalents (47,520) (9,610)
Loan notes 1,668 -
Derivative asset 507 143
228,587 198,704 92  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
As at 31 December 2013
Amounts due to:
within 1 year 
£000
1-2 years  
£000
2-5 years 
 £000
5 years and over 
 £000
Total 
£000
Non Interest bearing
Trade and other payables 8,128 - - - 8,128
Interest bearing
Secured senior note 17,325 17,325 51,975 244,448 331,073
Total 25,453 17,325 51,975 244,448 339,201
As at 31 December 2012
Amounts due to:
within 1 year 
£000
1-2 years  
£000
2-5 years 
 £000
Total 
£000
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables 7,728 - - 7,728
Interest bearing
Non-controlling interest loan - - 3,797 3,797
Bank loan - 114,679 - 114,679
Shareholder loan note - - 167,143 167,143
Total 7,728 114,679 170,940 293,347
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
23. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Liquidity risk
The Group actively monitors its liquidity and cash flow position to ensure it has sufficient cash and purchased loan portfolio financing 
in order to fund its activities. The management team monitors cash through daily reporting, the management accounts and periodic 
review meetings. Management has well established models used to predict collectability of cash receipts and this represents a key 
performance indicator of the business. The Group has a low fixed cost base, is highly cash generative with weekly cash receipts and 
portfolio purchases are discretionary, which helps to mitigate liquidity risk.
The table below includes both interest and principal cash flows, payable over the contractual life of the non-derivative  
financial liabilities.
Market risk
Market risk is defined as the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes  
in market prices. Market risk principally comprises currency risk and interest rate risk considered further below.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk during the year on the purchased loan portfolio financing, related party loans and cash  
and cash equivalents. The recoverability of debts may be influenced by movements in the interest rate environment. The Group has 
interest rate swaps in place for a notional amount of £66,667,000 (2012: £90,000,000).
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
If interest base rates had been 0.5% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit and equity  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 would decrease/increase by £121,000 (2012: £53,000). This is attributable to the Group’s exposure 
to interest on its cash and cash equivalents.
If LIBOR rates had been 0.25% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit and equity for the year ended 
31 December 2013 would decrease/increase by £1,000 (2012: £210,000). This is attributable to the Group’s exposure to interest on 
its revolving credit facility and incorporates the effects of the economic hedge from the interest rate swaps outstanding during the 
periods noted above.  Financial statements  |  93 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
23. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange currency risk on purchased loan portfolios, secured loan notes, cash and cash equivalents 
and its transactions with other related parties. The risk of this exposure is reduced using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
If foreign exchange rates had been 10% higher than those at the balance sheet date and all other variables were held constant,  
the Group’s net assets and net profit for each denomination of currency would increase/(decrease) as follows:
Equity and net assets
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Currency
Euro (EUR) (395) (1,620)
US Dollar (USD) 2 -
Polish Zloty (PLN) (7) (64)
(400) (1,684)
Net profit
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Currency
Euro (EUR) (1,445) (980)
US Dollar (USD) (1) (1)
Polish Zloty (PLN) 1 -
(1,445) (981)
If foreign exchange rates had been 10% lower than those at the balance sheet date and all other variables were held constant,  
the Group’s net assets and net profit for each denomination of currency would increase/(decrease) as follows:
Equity and net assets
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Currency
Euro (EUR) 483 1,980
US Dollar (USD) (2) -
Polish Zloty (PLN) 8 78
489 2,058
Net Profit
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Currency
Euro (EUR) 1,766 1,197
US Dollar (USD) 1 1
Polish Zloty (PLN) (2) -
1,765 1,198
10% is considered to be a reasonable expectation of possible fluctuations in rates. 94  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
23. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Forward foreign exchange contracts
It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts 
and exposure to currency rate fluctuations.
In the current year, the Group has created certain forward contracts to mitigate its portfolio future cash flows in Portugal.  
The collection remittances are received in Euros. The Group has entered into the forward foreign exchange contracts (for terms 
provided in the table below) to mitigate the exchange rate risk arising from these anticipated future cash flows. 
As at 31 December 2013, the aggregate amount of net gain/loss under forward foreign exchange contracts that have been recognised 
within profit and loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income relating to the exposure on these anticipated future 
transactions is £79,000 loss (2012: £27,000 profit).
Outstanding contracts at December Exchange rate 
(£/Euro) 
£000
Notional value 
2013 
£000
Maturity date Fair value 
2013 
£000
Exchange rate hedges 
sell Euro
Window forward extra 1.1899 1,681 13 February 2014 19
Window forward extra 1.1899 1,681 15 May 2014 19
Knock out ratio forward 1.1899 1,681 15 August 2014 (24)
Forward 1.1005 454 31 January 2014 38
Structured FXO 1.2090 248 29 January 2014 14
Structured FXO 1.1525 400 29 January 2014 (2)
Derivative asset 64
Total loss recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 79
Interest rate hedges at December Notional value 
2013 
£000
Maturity date Fair value 
2013 
£000
Interest rate swap 40,000 10-Oct-14 (104)
Interest rate swap 26,667 10-Feb-18 547
Derivative asset 443
Total gain recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 894 Financial statements  |  95 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
23. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from 2009.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity. The Group is not subject to any externally 
imposed capital requirements.
Management reviews the capital structure on an ongoing basis. As part of this review, management considers the cost of capital and the 
risks associated with each class of capital. The Group’s position as at the 31 December 2013 was:
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Ordinary share capital and premium 349,600 276,974
Secured senior notes (net of transaction fees of £8,080,000, December 2012: £nil) 211,920 -
Bank loans (net of transaction fees of £nil, December 2012: £2,594,000) - 97,381
Shareholder loan notes (15% interest) - 106,585
Cash and cash equivalents 561,520 480,940
Fair value hierarchy 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and subsequently measured, at fair value. Level 1 fair value measurements are 
those where the value has been derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 fair 
value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset  
or liability, either directly (i.e. prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 
Of the above derivative contracts, the net fair value asset of £507,000 (2012: liability of £308,000) has been determined as a Level 2 
measurement. There have been no transfers in or out of Level 2.
There are no Level 3 financial instruments. 96  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
24. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS – GROUP AND COMPANY
Share incentive plan scheme (“SIP”)
Upon listing, the Group provided eligible employees with a one off award of free shares worth up to £3,000, with a grant price of £2.425, 
as part of the Arrow Global Group SIP. The value of SIP shares awarded was dependent on a linear scale of length of service. The free 
shares will vest in three years’ time, with employees required to stay in employment to receive the shares. 
Initial share option plan (“ISOP”)
On 7 October 2013, and 21 October 2013, 3,566,000 ISOP options were granted to employees of the Group. These ISOP options 
became exercisable conditional upon, and with effect from IPO for those granted on 7 October 2013 and from the grant date for those 
granted on 21 October 2013. 1,934,000 vested immediately with the remaining to vest in two years from the date they take effect, with 
employees required to stay in employment to receive the shares.
The terms and conditions of the grant are as follows:
 Method of settlement 
accounting
Number of 
instruments 
Vesting period Contractual life of 
options
Grant date/employees entitled 
Equity settled SIP award - SIP Equity 81,298 3 years 31 October 2016
Equity settled award - ISOP Equity 3,391,228 2 years 1,851,335 vested 
immediately*, 1,539,893 
– 7 October 2015
Equity settled award - ISOP Equity 175,000 2 years 82,665 vested 
immediately*, 92,335 
– 20 October 2015
* The options which vested immediately in the period were used to cover taxation and other withholdings, deducted at source
Weighted average 
exercise price  
2013
Number of options 
2013
Outstanding at the beginning of the year * - -
Granted during the year £nil 3,566,228
Forfeited during the year - -
Vested during the year - (1,934,000)
Expired during the year - -
Outstanding at the end of the year £nil 1,632,228
* There were no options prior to 2013
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year was £2.06 (2012: £nil).
The ISOP nil cost options outstanding at the year end have a weighted average contractual life of 1.8 years. 
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments are as follows:
 2013 
£000
2012 
£000
Equity settled share based payment expense recognised immediately 3,979 -
Equity settled share based payment expense spread across vesting period 382
Total equity settled share based payment expense recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 4,361 -
The share price at the date of grant has been used as a proxy for fair value of the share options as this amount is not deemed to be 
materially different to the fair value calculated by an option pricing model. Financial statements  |  97 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
25. BORROWINGS
 
 
 
Secured borrowing at amortised cost
Group 
year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
Group  
year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Senior secured notes (net of transaction fees of £8,080,000, December 2012: £nil) 211,920 -
Bank loans (net of transaction fees of £nil, December 2012: £2,594,000: £nil) - 97,381
Shareholder loans (note 18) - 106,585
Non-controlling interest loan - 2,619
Senior secured notes interest 5,775 -
217,695 206,585
Total borrowings:
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 5,775 -
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 211,920 206,585
All amounts are denominated in GBP.
Senior secured notes
On 29 January 2013, the Group issued £220 million of 7.875% senior secured notes due 2020 (the “senior notes”). Net proceeds of £211.2 
million included senior secured notes issuance costs that were capitalised within the financial instrument. The proceeds from this 
issuance were used to repay the bank loans, shareholder loans, and the non-controlling interest loan in full resulting in recognition of 
a £3,036,000 amortisation of previously capitalised transaction costs. In addition, there was a cancellation fee of £880,000 for early 
settlement of revolving credit facility in place at that time. The senior notes can be redeemed in full or in part on or after 1 March 2016 
at the Group’s option. Prior to 1 March 2016, the Group may redeem, at its option, some or all of the senior notes at a redemption price 
equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.  
The senior notes are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Group. Interest is paid bi-annually.
Revolving credit facility
On 29 January 2013, the Group entered into a revolving credit facility (the “new revolving credit facility”) with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
PLC (“RBS”), as security agent for a consortium of participating financial institutions. The new revolving credit facility terminates on 
28 January 2018 and bears interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR or EURIBOR (as applicable) plus certain mandatory costs and a 
margin of 4.25% per annum, subject to a margin ratchet based on the loan-to-value ratio at each quarter end. The new revolving credit 
facility was increased to £55 million on 22 October 2013.
The Group is also required to pay a commitment fee on available but not utilised or not cancelled commitments under the new revolving 
credit facility at a rate of 40% of the applicable margin per annum on the undrawn portion of each lender’s commitment. The new 
revolving credit facility is secured by the same assets as the senior notes. Interest is paid based on agreement when the facility is drawn 
down, either payable every one, three or six months.
Prior to 2013, the Group entered into a £40 million revolving credit facility on 4 October 2011 (the “old revolving credit facility”), which 
subsequently increased to £110 million, with a term out date of September 2013 and a termination date of September 2014. This old 
revolving credit facility was repaid in full and terminated on January 2013 upon issuance of the senior notes described above. Interest  
on the facility was repayable at 4% plus LIBOR up to the term out date and at 5% plus LIBOR after the term out date up until the 
termination date. The facility was repayable by the termination date and was secured against the portfolio assets of the Group. Monthly 
loan repayments were based on a percentage of the monthly collections that the facility is secured against. There were no fixed 
contractual repayment dates prior to the above dates.
Shareholder loan notes
See note 18 for detail. 98  |  Financial statements Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
25. BORROWINGS CONTINUED
Non controlling interest loan notes
Non controlling interest loan notes were issued from 10 February 2010 to 7 February 2012. Amounts shown within the borrowings table 
include accrued interest. On 29 January 2013, capital amounting to £2,067,000 and accrued interest amounting to £552,000, totalling 
£2,619,000, were repaid in full. The Group is subject to certain financial and non financial covenants under the terms of the debt 
described above. The Group was in compliance with all such covenants during and as of all years presented herein.
26. EARNINGS PER SHARE (“EPS”)
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
 Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Basic/diluted EPS
Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 25,159 11,114
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders including exceptionals 15,111 9,412
Number of ordinary shares 154,427 135,109
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share (£) 0.16 0.08
Basic and diluted earnings per share including exceptionals (£) 0.10 0.07
 
 
Adjusted earnings per share
Year ended
31 December 2013 
£000
 Year ended
31 December 2012 
£000
Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 25,159 11,114
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders including exceptionals 15,111 9,412
Add back: shareholder interest expense 1,291 14,882
Underlying 26,450 25,996
Including exceptionals 16,402 24,294
Number of ordinary shares 154,427 135,109
Underlying adjusted earnings per share (£) 0.17 0.19
Adjusted earnings per share including exceptionals (£) 0.11 0.18
The reduction in adjusted EPS arose as a result of the reduction in shareholder interest expense following the Group’s issue of the senior 
secured notes and its subsequent repayment of shareholder loans. Financial statements  |  99 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
27. ACQUISITIONS
On 28 February 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital of Arrow Global Accounts Management Limited for 
£18,909,000, satisfied with cash. Goodwill of £2,309,000 was created as part of this acquisition and subsequently impaired as described 
in note 12. Arrow Global Accounts Management Limited has a similar principal activity as the Group being the acquisition and 
management of an underperforming portfolio of loans and servicing of debt in relation to third party contracts. In the ten months to 31 
December 2013, the subsidiary contributed revenue of £2,881,000 and operating profit of £2,257,000 to the consolidated results for the 
year. If the acquisition had occurred on the first day of 1 January 2013, Group total revenue would have been an estimated £95,513,000 
and operating profit would have been an estimated £44,911,000. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair 
value adjustments that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2013.
Effect of the acquisition
The acquisition had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities:
Arrow Global  
Accounts Management 
Limited book value
£000
 
 
Fair value adjustment
£000
 
 
Total
£000
Portfolio assets 8,262 10,039 18,301
Cash and cash equivalents 1,083 - 1,083
Payables (50) - (50)
Corporation tax liability (425) - (425)
Deferred tax liability - (2,309) (2,309)
8,870 7,730 16,600
Goodwill on acquisition (see note 11) 2,309
18,909
Consideration:
Cash 18,909
Goodwill of £2,309,000 arises on acquisition and has been immediately written off.
The fair value adjustment on the portfolio asset acquired arises from the alignment of the measurement of fair value using  
a methodology consistent with the Group’s IFRS accounting policies.
The fair value adjustment creating a deferred tax liability represents the tax payable due to the fair value adjustment to the  
portfolio asset. 100  |  Shareholder information Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Shareholder information
Registered and head office
Belvedere 
12 Booth Street 
Manchester 
M2 4AW 
United Kingdom
Telephone:  +44 800 130 0169
Company secretary
Stewart Hamilton
Auditor
Deloitte LLP 
2 Hardman Street 
Manchester 
M60 2AT
Legal advisors
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London 
EC1Y 8YY
Registrar
Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4ZF
Annual general meeting
The forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company will take place at The Midland 
Hotel, Peter Street, Manchester, M60 2DS on Wednesday, 28 May 2014 at 14:00. Notice 
of the annual general meeting of the Company, which includes the business to be 
transacted and resolutions to be considered at the meeting, appear in the document 
accompanying this annual report and accounts.
Shareholder information and website
Capita Asset Services is our registrar, and they offer many services to make managing 
your shareholding easier and more efficient. You can find out further information about 
the Group and view this annual report and accounts, results, other announcements 
and presentations, together with the latest share price information on the Company’s 
investor relations website (http://www.arrowglobalir.net/).
Share portal 
To register for the share portal, visit www.capitashareportal.com. All you need is your 
investor code, which can be found on your share certificate or your dividend tax voucher.  Shareholder information  |  101 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Customer support centre
You can contact Capita’s customer support centre, which is available to answer any 
queries you have in relation to your shareholding:
By phone: 
UK: 0871 664 0300 (UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras)
From overseas: +44 20 8639 3399
Lines are open from 09.00 to 17.30, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
By email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
By post: Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road,  
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF
Dividends
If you have a UK bank account, you can sign up for this service on the share portal  
(by clicking on ‘your dividend options’ and following the on screen instructions) or  
by contacting the customer support centre.
Share dealing service
A share dealing service is provided by Capita Asset Services. For further information on 
this service, or to buy and sell shares, visit www.capitadeal.com or call 0871 664 0454 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open from 08.00 to 16.30, 
Monday to Friday. From outside the UK dial + 44 20 3367 2699).
Please note the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders 
to either buy or sell shares. Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are 
recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial advisor authorised 
by the Financial Services Markets Act 2000.
Financial calendar for 2014
Annual general meeting 28 May 2014
Announcement of 2014 half yearly results 28 August 2014 102  |  Glossary Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Glossary
Reconciliation of net cash flow to EBITDA £000
Net cash flow used in operating activities (6,717)
Purchases of loan portfolios 84,308 
Purchases of loan notes 1,798 
Proceeds from disposal of loan portfolios (2,474)
Income taxes paid 4,269 
Working capital adjustments (814)
Profit on disposal of purchased loan portfolios 1,132 
Gain on fair value derivatives 815
Amortisation of acquisition and bank facility fees 916
Fair value (gains)/losses on interest rate swaps (894)
Interest payable/receivable 1,381 
Exceptional costs 5,846
Adjusted EBITDA 89,566 
Reconciliation of core collections to EBITDA £000
Income from loan portfolios 87,330 
Portfolio amortisation 40,510 
Core collections 127,840 
Profit on portfolios 1,132 
Other income 1,392 
Operating expenses (50,486)
Depreciation and amortisation 752
Foreign exchange gains (23)
Amortisation of acquisition and bank facility fees 359
Exceptional costs     8,600
Adjusted EBITDA  89,566
Reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA £000
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders    15,111 
Interest expense    19,302 
Taxation charge on ordinary activities     5,882 
Exceptional costs     3,916 
Operating profit    44,211 
Portfolio amortisation    40,510 
Portfolio write up    (4,843)
Depreciation and amortisation 752
Foreign exchange gains       (23)
Amortisation of acquisition and bank facility fees 359
Exceptional costs 8,600
Adjusted EBITDA 89,566 
“Adjusted EBITDA” means profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation, portfolio write up, foreign exchange gains or losses and exceptional items.  
The adjusted EBITDA reconciliations for the year to 31 December 2013 are shown below: Glossary  |  103 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
“Adjusted EBITDA ratio” represents the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to core collections
“CGU” means cash generating unit
“Collection activity costs” represent the direct costs of external collections related to the Group’s purchased 
loan portfolios, such as commissions paid to third party outsourced providers, credit bureau data costs and legal 
costs associated with collections
“Core collections” or “core cash collections” mean collections on the Group’s existing portfolios
“Cost-to-collect ratio” is the ratio of collection activity costs to core collections
“Creditors” means financial institutions or other initial credit providers to consumers, certain of which 
entities choose to sell paying accounts or non-paying accounts receivables related thereto to debt 
purchasers (such as the Group)
“CSA” means Credit Services Association
“Customers” means consumers whose unsecured loan obligation is owed to the Group as a result of a 
portfolio purchase made by the Group
“DBSG” means the Debt Buyers and Sellers Group 
“Defaulted debt” means a debt where a customer has breached the repayment terms governing that debt 
such that it is unlikely to be paid. Under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 there are specific legal obligations 
which require a customer to be sent the relevant statutory default notice(s) after which the customer’s 
agreement may ultimately be terminated. Other types of debts may also be defined as defaulted in the event 
that they remain unpaid for a period of 90 days or more, if there is not an acceptable arrangement in place 
to bring the account back up to date, in which case the creditor or lender may reasonably believe that the 
relationship has broken down. Under the Data Protection Act 1990 it is a requirement that any organisation 
seeking to register a default with a credit reference agency must also send a notice of intention to file a 
default, this notice is very similar in nature to that required under the Consumer Credit Act both of which give 
the debtor 28 days to bring the account back up to date before action is taken
“DSBP” means the Arrow Global deferred share bonus plan
“EBITDA” means earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation
“EBT” means employee benefit trust 
“EIR” means effective interest rate (which is based on the loan portfolio’s gross internal rate of return) calculated 
using the loan portfolio purchase price and forecast 84-month gross ERC at the date of purchase. EIR is 
reassessed to take account of actual performance and may be adjusted up to 12 months after the purchase of 
each loan portfolio
 “84-month ERC” and “120-month ERC” (together “gross ERC”), mean the Group’s estimated remaining 
collections on purchased loan portfolios over an 84-month or 120-month period, respectively, representing 
the expected future core collections on purchased loan portfolios over an 84-month or 120-month period 
(calculated at the end of each month, based on the Group’s proprietary ERC forecasting model, as amended 
from time to time)
“EPS” means earnings per share 
“Existing portfolios” or “purchased loan portfolios” are on the Group’s balance sheet and represent all 
debt portfolios that the Group owns at the relevant point in time
“FCA” means the Financial Conduct Authority
“FOS” means the UK Financial Ombudsman Service
“FRC” means the Financial Reporting Council 
“Free cash flow” means adjusted EBITDA after the effect of capital expenditure and working  
capital movements
“Gross cash-on-cash multiple” means collections to date plus the 84-month gross ERC or 120-month gross 
ERC, as applicable, all divided by the purchase price for each portfolio
“ICO” means the Information Commissioner’s Office
“IFRS” means international financial reporting standards 
“IPO” means initial public offering
“IRR” means internal rate of return
“ISOP” means the initial share option plan 
“Loan to value” or “LTV ratio” represents the ratio of 84-month ERC to net debt
“LTIP” means the Arrow Global long-term incentive plan
“MOJ” means Ministry of Justice
“NBS” means New Bridge Street remuneration consultants 104  |  Glossary Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
“Net cash-on-cash multiple” means collections to date plus the 84-month ERC or 120-month ERC, as applicable, 
net of collection activity costs, all divided by the purchase price for each portfolio
“Net core collections” are core collections less collection activity costs. The Group presents net core 
collections in order to calculate its net IRR
“Net debt” means the sum of the senior secured notes, interest thereon, and amounts outstanding under the 
revolving credit facility, less cash and cash equivalents. Net debt is presented because it indicates the level of 
debt after taking out of the Group’s assets that can be used to pay down outstanding borrowings, and because it 
is a component of the maintenance covenants in the revolving credit facility. The breakdown of net debt for the 
year ended 31 December 2013 is as follows:
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 47,520
Senior secured notes (pre transaction fees net off) (220,000)
Senior secured notes interest (5,775) 
Net debt (178,255)
“Net IRR” or “unlevered net IRR” means a loan portfolio’s internal rate of return calculated using expected net 
core collections for the next 84 months or 120 months, as applicable, subsequent to the date of purchase of the 
loan portfolio adjusted regularly in line with ERC
“OFT” means the Office of Fair Trading 
“Paying account” means an account that has shown at least one payment over the last three months or at 
least two payments over the last six months
“PCB” means the Proprietary Collections Bureau, a data matching tool designed by Arrow Global  
and Experian
 “Purchased loan portfolios” see “existing portfolios”
“PwC” means PricewaterhouseCoopers
“RCF” means revolving credit facility
“ROE” means the return on equity
“SID” means the senior independent director of the Group
“SIP” means the Arrow Global all-employee share incentive plan 
“TCF” means the treating customers fairly FCA initiative
“TSR” means total shareholder return 
“Underlying net income” means profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders adjusted for the post-
tax effect of exceptional items. The Group presents underlying net income because it excludes the effect of 
exceptional items (and the related tax on such items) on the Group’s profit or loss for a year and forms the 
basis of its dividend policy
“Underlying return on equity” represents the ratio of underlying profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders to average shareholder equity post restructure Overview  |  105 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
Environmental Information: 
Printed on Heaven 42, an environmentally responsible 
paper manufactured using Elemental Chlorine Free 
(ECF) pulp sourced from certified, well managed 
forests. Heaven 42 is FSC Mixed Sources Chain of 
Custody (CoC) certified.
FSC®Mixed FSC™ Mix Credit 
ISO14001 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) Arrow Global Group PLC
Belvedere
12 Booth Street
Manchester
M2 4AW
www.arrowglobal.net
Company No. 08649661
