 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Latin America
Great alpha opportunities  
in liquid markets
Strongly contrasting macro dynamics, exposure to global markets, and a variety  
of domestic policy choices offer investors in Latin America a rich variety of 
opportunities right across the spectrum of sovereigns, corporates, FX, rates, equities, 
and in the special situations space. The rapid expansion of pension systems and 
bulging FX reserves have signiﬁcantly reduced the region’s vulnerability to commodity 
price movements. 
Middle East and Africa
Opportunities off  
the beaten path
The Middle East and Africa now comprise nearly one third of established Emerging 
Market issuers and the region has the fastest evolving capital markets in the world. 
Value opportunities, many off-benchmark, are backed by strong growth, low 
leverage, and solid sovereign support. More Frontier Market issuers are entering 
global capital markets for the ﬁrst time from this region than from any other. 
Regional GDP 
(% of global total)
Ashmore AuM 
Investment in  
Middle East and Africa
Regional growth 
statistics
+7
% 
+8.0
% 
from 2011
Middle East  
and Africa:  
US$7.3bn 
Latin America:  
US$21.0bn 
Regional GDP  
(% of global total)
Ashmore AuM 
Investment in Latin 
America
Regional growth 
statistics
+9
% 
+1 .9
% 
from 2011
 30
25
15
10
5
20
0
AB C D
CAGR (2004-11)
30
25
15
10
5
20
0
AB C D
CAGR (2004-11) Eastern Europe
Resilience to  
Eurozone weakness
Eastern European bond yields declined 12 per cent over the past 12 months despite 
severe stresses in the neighbouring Eurozone. Eastern Europe’s impressive resilience 
rests on multiple and diverse sources of strength, including exceptionally low debt 
levels in Russia, impressive ﬁscal discipline in Hungary, healthy FX reserves and robust 
domestic demand in Poland, sharply improving debt dynamics in Turkey, and strong 
regional backing for Ukraine.
Asia Paciﬁc
The fastest growth  
in the world
Huge domestic markets, credible policy makers, and the fastest growth rates in  
the world kept Asian economies on a strong upwards ratings momentum last year 
despite the slowdown in China and in traditional export markets. The foresight of 
Chinese policy makers in commencing an early transition to domestic-led growth 
bodes well for the future of the region and the global economy alike.
Regional GDP 
(% of global total)
Ashmore AuM 
Investment  
in Asia Paciﬁc
Regional growth 
statistics
+25
% 
+7 .2
% 
from 2011
 
Eastern Europe:  
US$14.4bn 
Asia Paciﬁc:  
US$21.0bn 
Chart key
A: Equity market capitalisation 
B:  AuM from equity funds allocated to region/ 
countries in region
C: Sovereign tradeable debt outstanding
D: Local currency tradeable debt outstanding 
Regional GDP 
(% of global total)
Ashmore AuM 
Investment 
in Eastern Europe
Regional growth 
statistics
+8
% 
-2.8
% 
from 2011
 30
25
15
10
5
20
0
AB C D
CAGR (2004-11)
30
25
15
10
5
20
0
AB C D
CAGR (2004-11) Overlay/Liquidity 
13
%
Local currency 
16
%
Corporate debt 
4
%
Alternatives 
4
%
Multi-strategy 
9
%
External debt 
25
%
Blended debt 
19
%
Equities 
10
%  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1
Overview
Financial Highlights 02
Chairman’s Statement 03
Ashmore’ s Business Model 04
Investment Themes 06
Strategy
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Report 08
Our Strategy 11
Market insight 14
Distribution 16
Performance
Key Performance Indicators 18
Business Review 20
AuM bridge chart 26
Principal Risks and Mitigation 28
Governance
Board of Directors 30
Directors’ Report 31
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 34
Corporate Social Responsibility 35
The Ashmore Foundation 38
Corporate Governance 40
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 45
Remuneration Report 46
Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report 54
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 55
Consolidated balance sheet 56
Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity 57
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 58
Company balance sheet 59
Company statement of  
changes in equity 60
Company cash ﬂow statement 61
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 62
Five-year summary 94
Information for Shareholders 95
Contents
Glo obal distribu utio o on:
E E En n n n nh ha a an n n ncin n ng o o o our  
c c cl li ie en n nt offe e erin n n ng
p.16
The e Ash hmor re F Fo oundat tion:
M M M Ma a a ak k kin n n ng g a a a po o o ositiv ve  
d d di if f ff fe e ere e e en nc ce e
p.38
Ma arket insig ght t:
E E Em m m m m me e erg g g gin ng g g M Ma arke ets  
a a ar r re e e e t t the e dr rive e e er  
o o of f f g gl l lob b b ba al gro o o owth h
p.14
38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance Overview Strategy Performance Financial statements
T T The e A Ash hmo ore F Fou undation:
F Fo oc cu u use ed on n n n bu uildin ng g r relationships 
w wit t th no o on n- - -pr ro oﬁ ﬁ t o or rg ganisations
The Foundation’s Aims
The Ashmore Foundation aims to make a positive difference in the 
Emerging Market communities in which Ashmore operates and in 
the countries in which Ashmore invests. The Foundation provides 
ﬁ nancial grants to effective non-proﬁ t organisations working to 
enhance human welfare, opportunities and capabilities for those 
that are vulnerable or neglected and in particular children, young 
people and marginalised communities. The Emerging Market 
focus allows for increased leverage of the skills, knowledge, 
expertise and networks of Ashmore to deliver the social goals of 
the Foundation and provides support for a thriving and diverse civil 
sector, which is essential to democratic development in transitional 
and emerging nations.
The grant making policy of the Ashmore Foundation is wide ranging 
but maintains a particular focus on providing access to and improving 
quality of education and basic health, the former in particular seen 
as the best way to help the long-term self-development of Emerging 
Market countries. The Foundation is also interested in supporting 
community-based social enterprise and sustainable livelihoods, to 
empower people with the tools and resources with which to 
help themselves. 
The Foundation supports charitable causes through a Small Grants 
and Partnership scheme. The Small Grants scheme provides ﬂ exible 
one-off funds of up to £5,000, whilst the Partnership Grants scheme 
provides larger, often multi-year grants, building relationships with a 
handful of particularly strong charities or NGOs in pursuit of agreed 
social outcomes. 
The Foundation primarily sources partners through research and 
recommendation, seeking locally-based, emerging organisations 
which display a deep knowledge of the local context and culture, 
demonstrable involvement of and commitment to the community 
served, a good track record in meeting clearly deﬁ ned social needs, 
professionalism, accountability, ability to measure results, cost-
effectiveness and potential to scale or disseminate knowledge. 
In 2011, the Ashmore Foundation paid out £473,710 to 23 grantees 
delivering social work in 11 Emerging Market countries (up from 
£197,690 in 2010), beneﬁ tting approximately 60,000 people. In 
2011, trustees approved grant commitments totalling £768,000 over 
the period from 2011 – 2014. The Ashmore Foundation has donated 
£934,832 to charitable causes since inception in 2008.
In 2012 the Foundation will also be funding the STARS Impact 
Awards in Asia as a complement to its approach, awarding much 
needed funding to and shining a light on exceptional examples of 
innovative frontline NGOs delivering life changing services to 
disadvantaged children in developing countries.
Ashmore Employee Engagement
Employees have the opportunity to recommend eligible charities for 
support by the Ashmore Foundation. All organisations considered for 
support are assessed against the standard criteria of the Foundation 
designed to identify well managed and accountable organisations. 
Employees can also make use of matched funding offered by 
Ashmore for donations and by the Ashmore Foundation to 
Foundation grantees.
The board of trustees (directors) comprises Ashmore employees and 
an independent director. Ashmore employee directors are rotated to 
ensure new members have the opportunity to contribute and learn 
from the Foundation’s activities. 
The Ashmore Foundation presents information on local charities 
within the Emerging Markets to ﬁ rm employees on a regular basis, 
including showcasing by grantees at Ashmore’s ofﬁ ces.
Class sponsored by the 
Ashmore Foundation at 
the Philippine Community 
Fund’s community school 
for children living in Tondo 
or Navotas slum in Manila
Sunday and Joe, residents at 
Mama Laadi’s foster home supported 
by Ashmore Foundation grantee, 
Afrikids, which works to alleviate 
child suffering and poverty in 
Northern Ghana
Girl-friendly soccer training is combined 
with nutrition and life skills workshops 
for at-risk children and youth through 
grantee, Futbol Con Corozon at La Playa 
in Colombia
A pre and post natal satellite 
clinic delivered by Impact 
Bangladesh as part of a holistic 
programme funded by the 
Ashmore Foundation to reduce 
malnutrition, protect mothers 
and babies, and provide primary 
healthcare to 22,500 people
Nutritious meals and 
supplements along with family 
education and social support, 
are provided by Nu3 Foundation 
for malnourished children in 
Barranquilla, Colombia
Governance
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
Class sp
Ashmor
the Philipp
Fund’s co
for children
or Navotas
Su u un nda ay and d Jo o oe, residents at
M Ma a ama a L L Laad di’s f fo oster home su
by y y Ashm m mor re Fo ou undation gran
A Af fr rikids s, , which h h w works to allev
ch hild s su uf ffer ring g a and poverty in
No o orth her r rn G Ghan na a
G Gir rl-fr rie endly so o occer training is
w wit th n nu utrition and life skills w
fo or r at- -ri is sk c child dr ren and youth
gra a ante ee e, Fu utbo o ol Con Corozon
in n C Colom m mbi ia
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
Di i istrib b b bution:
E E E Enh ha a anc c c cin ng g our  
c c c clie en n nt o o o off fe ering
Private pension plans 17 % Public pension plans 13 %
Governments 37 %
Insurance 4 %
Corporate 3 %
Foundation/Endowment 2 %
Fund of funds 1 %
Permanent capital 1 %
Banks 6 %
Asia Paciﬁc 29 %
Middle East 18 %
UK 12 %
Europe 21 %
Third party intermediaries 
(retail/HNWI) 11 %
Funds/sub-advisor 5 %
AuM by investor type
AuM by investor geography
Building a world class distribution team 
Ashmore has always had a culture of focusing on our clients’ needs.  
Our goal is simple: we aim to be the pre-eminent specialist Emerging 
Markets investment manager. T o achieve this, we know that all of us 
need to be totally committed to building close and ongoing relationships 
with our clients. T estament to that commitment is the fact that many of 
our clients have been invested with Ashmore for many years.
Focused on our clients’ needs
Over the period we have strengthened our account management 
teams globally. This has allowed us to keep close to our growing 
client base so that we can better anticipate their needs and focus  
our resources where they have the most impact. Feedback from our 
clients has led to a number of enhancements to our client service:
 – Client reporting. We have enhanced our client reporting,  
introducing more depth and transparency and quicker delivery,  
and have more improvement planned.
 – Client communications. We have recruited product specialists  
who are focused on keeping our clients informed on our 
investment strategy and performance outlook. Given the 
continuing market uncertainty, this ongoing and regular 
communication with our clients is especially important. 
 – Structured and tailored education. This is a key part of our client 
offering. One example of this is a residential programme we run  
in partnership with Cass Business School for our central bank  
and sovereign wealth clients. As well as hearing from Ashmore 
investment professionals, attendees also have the opportunity  
to hear from a number of guest speakers.
 – Client events. As our client base grows we have responded by 
increasing the number of client events we hold. May 2012 saw the 
inaugural Ashmore Emerging Markets Investment Forum in London 
held over two days and was attended by key clients from around the 
globe (discussed below). 
 – Product Development. During the year we provided access through 
40 Act and SICAV vehicles to all our main investment themes and 
added new ones in Frontier equity, local currency corporate debt 
and investment grade debt. 
Understanding our clients’ worlds
As well as expanding our account management team, we have  
also built out our business development team. This is in line with  
the second and third phases of Ashmore’s strategy of establishing 
Ashmore as a trusted allocator across themes and mobilising 
Emerging Markets capital managed on and offshore.
Growing the team means we can talk to more clients in their 
domestic market and deepen our understanding of local regulations 
and requirements. It also supports our goal of maintaining diversity 
both in geographical spread and in client type.
Ashmore has made good initial progress in the expansion of its Third 
Party Distribution business in Europe. Our strategy of partnering with 
both global and regional private banks and wealth managers as well 
as making inroads into the platform market has started to generate 
asset ﬂows for the business. The foundations that have been built 
over the past 12 months will put us in a strong position to take this 
distribution franchise forward.
Americas 20 %
Our objective for hosting the Forum was not only to offer clients an insight into the breadth  
of Ashmore’s investment services, but also to bring a variety of different perspectives on the 
opportunities offered by Emerging Markets. We were delighted to welcome Mr Jin Liqun, 
Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the China Investment Corporation, as our keynote 
speaker opening the Forum, Naguib Sawiris, Executive Chairman of Orascom Telecom Media 
and Henrique de Campos Meirelles, ex-Governor of the Bank of Brazil. We also took the 
opportunity to run workshops in smaller groups so clients could interact with our portfolio 
managers. We are planning our next key client Investment Forum in New York later in 2012. 
P P Pub blic c p pension plan
Insu ura ance 4 %
C C Co orpo o orate 3 %
F Fou und d da ation/Endow
F Fun nd o of f funds 1 %
P Per rma a an nent capital 
B B Ban nks s 6 6 %
A A Asi ia P P Paciﬁc 29 %
T T Thi ird pa arty interme
( (r ret tail/ / /H HNWI) 11 %
F Fun nds s/ /s sub-advisor
A A Am meri icas 20 %
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Mar ar rk ket insig g ght:
E Eme e ergi i in ng M Mark k k kets s  
a a are t t the dr r river r r r  
of glob ob bal gr r row w w wth
The global backdrop will continue to be dominated by weaknesses  
in the HIDCs (Heavily Indebted Developed Countries) in the coming 
year due to sub-trend growth and bouts of risk aversion arising  
from serious macroeconomic problems and limited policy options. 
Sentiment will continue to shift back and forth as Europe’s debt crisis 
is pitched against the deteriorating ﬁscal backdrop in the US. Faced 
with this ‘ugly contest’ institutional investors will further diversify  
out of HIDC exposures, which are either over-stretched markets or 
excessively risky ones, in favour of Emerging Markets. 
The absolute and relative strength of Emerging Markets stands  
in sharp contrast to the weakness in the HIDCs. Emerging Market 
economies are unencumbered by excessive public and private  
sector debts and resilient to shocks due to deeper structural drivers, 
with room to stimulate their economies in the face of HIDC-led 
downturns. Growth in Emerging Markets is likely to accelerate  
from a low of about 5% this year to well above 6% in the coming 
12 months on the back of active policy easing as the inventory-cycle 
triggered by the European slowdown last year fades away.  
A stronger growth picture in Emerging Markets in turn underpins  
the global commodity markets.
China and Brazil’s cyclical upswings are likely to be headline grabbing 
drivers of global growth next year, but domestic demand across the 
broader Emerging Markets universe will be a real driver, especially  
via global trade ﬂows. Trade between other Emerging Market 
regions will continue to expand rapidly, accompanied by greater 
internationalisation of Emerging Market currencies, including CNY. 
China’s determined and visionary early transition from export-led to 
domestic-led growth has put Emerging Markets right at the front of 
the process of global rebalancing. Global rebalancing will accelerate 
as deleveraging continues in HIDCs, underpinning Emerging Market 
currencies and vesting them with major upside option value versus 
HIDC currencies.
Emerging Markets will continue to manage inﬂation risks well in 
response to strong bottom up political pressures in favour of prudent 
policy. New Frontier Economies will continue to enter the global 
ﬁnancial markets as more established Emerging Markets continue  
to deepen and broaden rapidly. The great ﬁnancial broadening and 
deepening of the Emerging Market universe will therefore continue 
even as ﬁnancial repression intensiﬁes and the global backdrop in  
the HIDCs only improves very slowly. Individual country stories will 
continue to play out within Emerging Markets and will eventually 
become more important drivers of returns than global market 
sentiment, supporting the case for active and Emerging Market 
specialist management in this space. 
Superior economic outlook
1
0
2
3
4
5
6
7
 Emerging Markets  Developed Markets
2007 – 2011 2012 – 2016
6.1
%
 
Forecasted GDP growth 
for Emerging Markets
The Ashmore advantage
Ashmore has a business model that focuses on providing investment 
management across a diverse range of Emerging Markets themes. 
Through its well established and successful processes Ashmore 
achieves long-term investment outperformance for fund investors  
and shareholders alike.
Investor geography
The Group’s clients are drawn from developed markets and Emerging 
Markets across the globe. The centrally managed but globally located 
distribution ofﬁces are our link to these clients.
We believe that the best way to gain exposure to strong medium and 
long-term trends in Emerging Markets is to employ specialist managers 
using an active approach. We believe our portfolio managers have the 
technical skills and an understanding of the asset class gained over 
many years of experience which ﬁts in well with our rigorous and 
proven investment approach.
1 1
0
2 2
3 3
4 4
5 5
6 6
7 7
For a downloadable version of the annual report, other 
announcements and details of up-coming events, please  
visit the corporate and investor relations section of our  
website at www.ashmoregroup.com 2 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Highlights
Net revenue
(£m)
£333.3m
-0%
0 08 09 10 11 12
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
Assets under Management (AuM) 
(US$bn)
US$63.7bn
-3%
0 08 09 10 11 12
80
60
40
20
Proﬁt before tax
(£m)
£243.2m
-1%
0 08 09 10 11 12
250
200
150
100
50
EPS basic
(p)
26.8p
-4%
0 08 09 10 11 12
30
25
20
15
10
5 “
“
Chairman’s Statement 
 
Demonstrable progress in raising and 
retaining assets, utilising specialist 
knowledge and skills to invest. 
As shareholders will be aware, global economies are currently facing 
many challenges, not least of which centre round the European debt 
crisis and the contraction of trade around the world. Such conditions 
create great uncertainty, which in turn lead to considerable market 
volatility. Against this background Ashmore has had a year of 
consolidation, one in which it has been able to use its specialist 
knowledge and skills to enhance its scalable operating platform. This  
is a key component for achieving success in any asset management 
business and the Chief Executive Officer’s report and Business Review 
which follow provide details of what has been achieved. 
In financial terms, the Group has produced a solid performance.  
The closing level of AUM was US$ 63.7 billion, marginally down from 
last year, which reflects the impact of difficult and volatile market 
conditions. Despite this, a number of the asset classes have grown 
through net inflows. As against last year the Group’s revenues have 
fallen very marginally, largely due to the anticipated reduction in 
performance fees. This fall was mitigated to some extent by increased 
management fees. 
A little over a year ago the Group completed the acquisition of 
AshmoreEMM and after a considerable amount of planning the 
business has been successfully integrated into the Group and the  
new equity team is operating well. Looking forward, the Group is 
determined to grow its equity footprint and the experience which 
AshmoreEMM has developed over many years will provide a sturdy 
platform to help achieve this. 
The Board continues to place great emphasis on all issues surrounding 
corporate governance and it welcomes the appointment of Simon 
Fraser, who joined the Group as a Non-executive Director in February  
this year. He has had a long and extensive career in the field of 
investment management and his experience will be very helpful to  
the Board. We are looking to appoint a further Non-executive Director  
in due course. Jonathan Asquith, who has been on the Board since 
September 2008, will retire and not seek re-election at the AGM.  
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for the service and 
contribution that he has given to the Group during this period. 
Although the Group saw a modest fall in earnings per share, as against 
last year, the Board remains confident about the future and the growth 
of the operations and the Directors are recommending a final dividend 
of 10.75p a share for the year to 30 June 2012, which, subject to 
shareholders’ approval, will be paid on 7 December, to those 
shareholders on the register on 9 November. This makes a total dividend 
for the year of 15.00p a share (FY2010/11: 14.50p a share). 
While the challenges facing the global markets look likely to continue, 
Ashmore’s investment team will continue to strive to produce top class 
investment performance, through its exclusive focus on the Emerging 
Markets. The distribution and support teams will also seek to win, serve 
and retain the assets of the Group’s diverse and growing client base. 
Looking back over the year there is much that has been accomplished, 
but there are always areas where improvements can be made and the 
Group remains totally committed to achieving the highest standards and 
levels of excellence in everything it does. 
The Board is grateful to everyone across the Group’s global offices for 
their hard work and commitment over the past year.  
Michael Benson 
Chairman 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The majority of investors in Ashmore’s funds 
are from developed markets, but an increasing 
proportion will originate from Emerging Markets 
as Phase 3 of Ashmore’s strategy grows
Ashmore invests the funds in a diverse range  
of investment themes
Ashmore’s Business Model
AuM by investor type (%) AuM by theme (%)
 Governments 37%
 Private pension plans 17%
 Public pension plans 13%
 Third party intermediaries
 (retail/HNWI) 11%
 Banks 6%
 Funds/sub-advisor 5%
 Insurance 4%
 Corporate 3%
 Foundation/Endowment 2%
 Fund of funds 1%
 Permanent capital 1%
 External debt 25%
 Local currency 16%
 Corporate debt 4%
 Blended debt 19%
 Equities 10%
 Alternatives 4%
 Multi-strategy 9%
 Overlay/Liquidity 13%
Investment themes Investors
Investor type
Institutional:
 – Government
 – Public pension plans
 – Private pension plans
 – Banks
 – Insurance
 – Funds/sub-advisor
Retail:
As we develop our 
distribution platform we 
will focus on increasing 
the retail sourced AuM 
principally through 
intermediaries such as:
 – private banks
 – brokers
 – other retail distributors
Investment theme
 – External debt
 – Local currency
 – Corporate debt
 – Blended debt
 – Equities
 – Alternatives
 – Multi-strategy
 – Overlay/Liquidity
  For more information on our  
investment themes see p. 6–7  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
Ashmore improves the performance of these funds through the 
expertise of its people, through its relationships and by rigorous 
adherence to a proven investment philosophy and a unique 
commitment to Emerging Markets
By applying this unique  
business model, Ashmore 
continues to outperform
Outperformance Maximising the Ashmore advantage
Expertise and commitment
 – 20 years’ experience of investing in Emerging Markets
 – T eam-based approach, not a star culture
 – Quality of Ashmore’ s employees, depth, breadth and experience in Emerging Markets 
 – Relationships with investors, investees and other contacts in over 60 Emerging  
Markets countries
Underpinned by
 – Support departments ensure robust and controlled processes
 – Legal, Risk and Compliance ensure appropriate governance
 – A risk aware culture throughout the organisation
Investment philosophy
 – Global and local asset management bringing together macro views and deep analysis  
of individual investments
 – Specialist long-term approach
 – Proven across a wide range of market conditions
 – Active forward-looking fund management of portfolios over market cycles
Assets under management 
(AuM) at period end
US$63.7bn
2011: US$65.8bn
EBITDA margin
71%
2011: 73%
AuM outperforming 
benchmark over three years
86%
2011: 71%
External debt, Local 
currency & Blended debt
Corporate debt
Macro, top-down overlay
Sector strategy
Bottom up stock selection
Equities
T op down country 
allocation
Country analysis
Bottom up stock selection Instrument selection
Portfolio construction
Execution process
Global macro overview 6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Investment Themes
Themes
External 
debt
Local  
currency
Corporate 
debt
Theme premise
A highly diversiﬁed 
portfolio of Emerging 
Markets debt assets  
with a primary focus  
on external debt.
Takes advantage of  
the rapidly expanding 
local currency and local 
currency denominated 
debt market with low 
correlations to other 
asset classes.
Focuses on the 
developing corporate 
debt asset class in
Emerging Markets.
Global Emerging 
Markets 
sub-themes
 – Broad
 – Sovereign
 – Sovereign, investment grade
 – Broad
 –FX
 – Bonds
 – Investment grade
 – Inﬂation linked
 – Broad
 – High yield
 – Investment grade
 – Local currency
Theme
Blended debt
Theme premise
Mandates speciﬁcally combine external, local currency and sometimes corporate
debt measured against tailor-made blended indices.
Regional/country 
focused sub-theme
Russia Asia, Brazil, China, Turkey Asia, Brazil, China, Turkey
Theme
Multi-strategy
Theme premise
Dynamic asset allocation across all investment themes.  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
Equities Alternatives Overlay/ 
Liquidity
Utilising top down macro 
country skills together 
with the bottom up micro 
investing excellence of one 
of the largest dedicated 
corporate research teams in 
Emerging Markets equities.
Investments are  
mainly in corporate  
restructurings through 
distressed debt, private 
and public equity and 
equity linked securities.
To separate and centralise 
the currency risk of an  
underlying Emerging 
Markets asset class in 
order to manage them 
effectively and efﬁciently.
 – Broad global active
 – Global small cap
 – Fund of closed-ended funds
 – Global quant
 – Special situations
 – Distressed debt
 – Private equity
 – Infrastructure
 – Real estate
 – Overlay
 – Hedging
 – Cash management
Africa, Brazil, China, Frontier, Latin 
America, Middle East, Russia, South 
Asia, Turkey
Asia, China, Colombia, 
India, Russia, Turkey “
“
Chief Executive Officer’s Report 
 
In facing all of our challenges together
I continue to be impressed by our 
team, and by the significant levels of 
emotional capital they invest in what 
we do. 
The results for the year ended 30 June 2012 provided a  
demonstration of the continuing resilient nature of Ashmore  
Group in a difficult year for investing. The business is now a more 
diversified one with the full range of Emerging Markets investment 
themes in place. This provides for an unrivalled depth of Emerging 
Markets fund products for which the distribution architecture is 
significantly developed. The expected increased levels of management 
fee income largely offset the anticipated reduction in performance 
fees. The Group was successful in completing the integration  
of the Emerging Markets equities business AshmoreEMM, with  
the consideration structure providing a reduction in the expected  
level of contingent payments, as global equity indices declined and 
hence levels of equities AuM reduced. Overall therefore the profit 
before tax for the Group was £243.2 million, a reduction of 1%  
on the previous year.  
AuM Development 
During the year, although average AuM increased by US$17.5 billion 
(38%), AuM decreased by 3% from US$65.8 billion to US$63.7 billion 
as overall negative investment performance of US$3.4 billion 
exceeded the level of net subscriptions achieved of US$1.3 billion. 
Gross subscriptions totalled US$13.0 billion (FY2010/11:  
US$23.0 billion) principally into all the debt themes with further  
large segregated mandates from both new and existing clients  
being a substantial component.  
Gross redemptions increased in absolute terms to US$11.7 billion 
(FY2010/11: US$7.5 billion) which at an overall level of 18%  
of average AuM remain on the low side by industry standards,  
although slightly up on the prior year. The absolute increase over 
levels experienced in prior periods was due to a combination  
of equities outflows in the first year after acquisition, and from  
retail multi-strategy assets raised in Japan in the prior period, 
undoubtedly amplified by the extreme market volatility  
experienced during the year. 
Investment performance 
Overall negative investment performance was primarily driven by  
the negative performance in equities and local currency exceeding 
positive investment performance in the external, corporate and 
blended debt themes. 
The sharp declines in equities indices, particularly in the first and 
fourth quarters, impacted AuM levels significantly in both the 
dedicated equities and multi-strategy themes. The predominantly 
dollar denominated external, corporate and blended debt mandates 
maintained positive performance given their relative attractions  
over developed world debt. In contrast, the declines in a number  
of Emerging Markets currencies due to the climate of risk  
aversion ensured that local currency debt indices were negative, 
notwithstanding the same underlying relative attractiveness. This  
led to negative investment performance in the local currency debt 
theme and of course impacted currency overlay AuM. At an overall 
Group level the percentage of funds outperforming benchmarks  
at 30 June 2012 was 23% over one year reflecting our consistent 
approach of adding risk in the risk off environment at the end of  
the first quarter and 86% over three years. This strong long-term 
investment performance profile, particularly in the debt themes, 
continues to underpin the Group’s position as one of the leading 
specialist Emerging Markets fund managers, which has again this  
year been recognised with a number of awards.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information on  
our financial performance see p. 20–27 
 
  
8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
 
Financial performance 
Revenue 
Net revenue for the year of £333.3 million was in line with the prior 
year. This resulted from a 21% increase in management fee income to 
£302.6 million, driven by an increase in average AuM levels offset by 
the reduction of average revenue margins which were largely in line 
with the levels reported at the interim stage (FY 2011/12: 74bps,  
H1 2011/12: 76 bps, FY 2010/11: 86bps). As reported at the interim 
this fall resulted from theme and mix effects including the respective 
weighting of the Group’s higher and lower margin themes as they 
were differently impacted by flows and performance, the inclusion  
of the equities theme for the full period with lower margins than the 
Group’s previous average, and further segregated account gains. The 
fall in performance fees to £25.4 million (FY 2010/11: £85.4 million) 
was expected as it is determined by levels of absolute investment 
performance, which reduce as is normal at this point in the cycle after 
peaking immediately following the credit crisis, and they were further 
reduced through the significant market sell offs at the end of the first 
quarter which largely eliminated performance fees for funds with year 
ends thereafter.  
Cost structure 
The Group has maintained its cost structure, and continues to focus 
on ensuring this remains a key strength, with the year on year changes 
largely reflecting the increment arising from the increase in staff and 
other costs resulting from the inclusion of the AshmoreEMM business 
for a first full year, together with the amortisation and share-based 
accounting charges arising from the transaction.  
The structure of staff costs has been maintained, whereby fixed 
salaries and benefits are set at a capped and low basic level, with the 
majority of staff costs arising from variable compensation, including  
a significant component of equity based long-term incentive share 
awards. This remains a core characteristic of Ashmore‘s business 
model. In the year to 30 June 2012 variable compensation as a 
percentage of earnings before variable compensation (VC/EBVCIT)  
was 18% (FY 2010/11: 19%). The VC/EBVCIT fell by 1% from the 
level of the prior period reflecting the less good overall performance 
metrics of the business – in particular short-term investment 
performance and shareholder return.  
Other expenses increased by 50% to £34.4 million (FY2010/11:  
£22.9 million). The increase reflected largely the costs of the acquired 
business and the amortisation of intangible assets (£6.2 million) arising 
within it.  
As a result operating profit for the year is £225.1 million (FY 2010/11: 
£239.4 million). In line with the statement made in the report last 
year, the Group‘s margins have reduced, although by slightly less than 
expected due to the lower variable compensation charge to an EBITDA 
margin of 71% for the year (FY 2010/11: 73%).  
 
Finance income during the period increased as a result of adjustments 
to the contingent consideration for the acquisition of AshmoreEMM. 
As in the first half, the further reduction during the second half in 
levels of AuM within the business, including outflows and negative 
investment performance, resulted in a downward revision of the level 
of the contingent payment at 31 May 2012, as well as reductions to 
the expected levels of the two further contingent payments scheduled 
for 31 May 2013 and 2014. This underlines the benefit of a significant 
component of the overall consideration being in the form of 
contingent payments. Incorporating finance charges arising from the 
unwind of the discount of contingent payments and gains upon the 
Group‘s seed capital, the overall finance income was £18.1 million  
(FY 2010/11: £6.5 million).  
Profit after tax for the year was £185.7 million (FY 2010/11:  
£190.2 million). Earnings per share for the year was 26.82p 
(FY2010/11: 28.08p). 
Strategic progress 
Equities acquisition update 
The acquisition of AshmoreEMM was completed at the end of the 
prior financial year and integrating the business successfully was  
the focus for the current year. Immediately following change of 
control the distribution responsibilities for the equities theme were 
undertaken within Ashmore’s global distribution team and during the 
year this included the establishment of business development, 
institutional account management and product specialist functions 
through firstly familiarisation, then ongoing focus and training  
and targeted recruitment. The seeding and launch of daily dealing 
SICAV and US mutual funds on the Ashmore platforms for both the  
broad global active and global small cap strategies were completed 
providing efficient access to these two key conduits. Full investment 
responsibility for the Group’s equities theme was transferred to the 
AshmoreEMM team during the year and thereafter there has been  
a focus on further developing the equities investment process.  
The integration of AshmoreEMM onto the Group’s core portfolio 
management and fund accounting systems was completed on 
schedule. This implementation gives consistent systems across the 
Group and provides greater transparency and enables more effective 
and efficient group-wide support for the AshmoreEMM business. 
AshmoreEMM is now fully integrated into the Group with the local 
governance structure reflecting Ashmore‘s global operating model 
and with local functional units reporting into the respective global 
function head. Finally, in July 2012, immediately after the year end, 
the physical infrastructure was enhanced with the move to a new 
purpose designed office, open plan in nature in line with the Group’s 
global standard, providing for the adoption of the optimised group-
wide technology infrastructure. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued 
 
 
Investment theme developments 
We continue to seek investment themes and sub-themes for investors 
to allocate capital across the Emerging Markets where we can provide 
both diversification of risk/return profiles and depth and growth of 
investable asset pools. The period has seen a widening adoption of 
Emerging Markets investment grade products, the initial establishment 
of dedicated local currency corporate debt funds, and the set up of 
conduits to allow wider access to our equity product suite, including  
in particular our small and mid cap and frontier markets expertise 
where we have outstanding track records across the Middle East, Asia 
and Africa. As expected with the inversion of credit quality between 
developed markets and Emerging Markets sovereigns, we have seen 
increasing momentum within Emerging Markets investment grade 
products as investors find the universe of developed world investment 
grade debt reduces, whilst it increases in Emerging Markets. We have 
also now launched investment grade bond products denominated in 
local currency. This enables investors to take advantage of attractive 
local currency exposure whilst diversifying away from Dollar, Euro,  
Yen and Sterling denominated bond assets which have traditionally 
dominated the investment grade space. Not all fixed income managers 
have the appropriate combination of interest rate, credit and foreign 
exchange skills to manage such a product successfully over the cycle, 
and we have been pleased with our immediate outperformance here. 
One of the most significant product initiatives in the year was not in 
the form of new product, but in new conduits for our existing global 
equities themes. We now have both SICAV and US 40 Act mutual 
funds in place for our broad global active, global small cap and 
frontier Emerging Markets equities products. These conduits open  
up the chance of investing with us to a far larger audience of both 
institutional and retail clients and we expect great things from both 
our investing and distribution teams in these sub themes. 
Distribution platform update 
In line with the progress reported over the previous two years, this 
year saw the final elements of the organisational structure added  
to the distribution platform, coupled with a deepening of resources 
within all the key functions. The addition of product specialists 
completes the architecture providing clients with access to individuals 
who are focused entirely upon the efficient communication of the 
investment management strategies and results. This function enables 
the investment management team to maximise their time managing 
assets yet ensuring the client or prospective client has full access to 
individuals participating in the respective investment committees and 
who are fully aware of every nuance of the resultant performance.  
Further progress was achieved in both the institutional and retail areas 
of the business. In terms of institutional clients, the global reach of  
the business development team delivered a broadening of the client 
base both in terms of client type and geographic location. Meanwhile 
further progress was made in the buildout of the Group’s retail 
activities with the Group securing access to a number of intermediary 
platforms in the US and Europe which are beginning to show 
encouraging early signs.  
The distribution headcount at the end of the year was 41 (30 June 
2011: 32) substantially completing the rapid growth phase of the 
team and ensuring the Group is positioned to raise assets and service 
clients globally from developed world and Emerging Markets with a 
highly experienced team of professionals focused on the Emerging 
Markets for all asset classes. 
Local asset management developments 
The Group believes strongly that, in addition to the AuM sourced from 
developed world investors who are increasing their allocations to the 
Emerging Markets in line with the trend of growth of these markets, 
its own long-term growth will be enhanced by successfully mobilising 
Emerging Markets capital in line with the third phase of the Group’s 
strategy. This recognises the absence of a history of the high leverage 
that is prevalent in the developed world, the economic growth 
prospects, demographics and enviable savings rate dynamics of these 
countries as well as the relatively early stage of development of asset 
management industries within many of these Emerging Markets.  
The Group has previously reported the establishment of local asset 
management subsidiaries in Brazil, Turkey and Colombia and real 
estate joint ventures in China and Russia which during the year have 
continued investing successfully and made progress in raising AuM, 
although much needs to be done. At the same time the Group has 
been looking throughout the period at further opportunities which 
aim to extend the geographic and asset class breadth.  
This has resulted in July 2012 in the establishment of a further new 
local asset management venture for Ashmore in Indonesia. We look 
forward to reporting on the developments within this new venture 
alongside the existing ones in the coming years.  
Overall the key now is to start seeing significant performance and 
asset growth from our local asset management operations. 
People and culture 
At the end of the year the Group’s headcount has increased to 257 
(30 June 2011: 246) reflecting the increase in both distribution and 
some of the key support functions which was offset by a small 
reduction arising from synergies achieved within the integration of 
AshmoreEMM. Whilst AuM levels overall have reduced by 3%, gross 
inflows of US$13 billion have resulted from the significant efforts 
across the Group in winning mandates and bringing them on board 
efficiently by strong cross functional collaboration. Our investment 
professionals have continued to ensure that their exclusive focus  
on the Emerging Markets and our long standing and rigorous 
investment process provide for the maximum potential for investment 
outperformance, in a year where global markets have provided many 
further challenges. In summary, last year judged through our KPIs, 
investment performance and shareholder return would probably  
be assessed as satisfactory. We, of course, like to do much better  
than this.  
10 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 For more information on our  
investor type and geography see p. 22
2.  Diversifying developed world capital  
sources and themes
Status: Underway – signiﬁcant growth available
Status: Mostly completed
1.  Establish Emerging Markets class
3.    Mobilise Emerging Markets capital
Status: Commenced – enormous future growth opportunities
Description
–  Establish Ashmore Emerging 
Markets investment processes
–  Enhance understanding of 
Emerging Markets debt in 
the developed world
–  Provide access to Emerging 
Markets, and their rapid 
development opportunities
–  Develop strong performance 
track record
–  Increase developed world 
investor base
Description
–  Establish new investment 
themes to diversify Emerging 
Markets product offerings
–  Develop new product  
structures and capabilities
–  Establish Ashmore as  
trusted allocator
–  Broaden and deepen 
developed world investor base
–  Deliver strong performance 
consistently
Description
–  Mobilise Emerging Markets 
capital managed offshore
–  Capital sourced initially 
from largest pools, i.e. central 
banks, governments, reserve 
managers and sovereign 
wealth funds
–  Develop network of domestic 
asset management businesses
–  Manage domestic  
capital locally
–  Create strong local  
performance track record
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued 
 
 
In facing all of our challenges together I continue to be impressed  
by our team, and by the significant levels of emotional capital they 
invest in what we do. As we grow and clients’ demands get more 
complex, and new people such as our AshmoreEMM colleagues join 
us, the pressure on individuals and the need for the whole firm to  
help each other will only increase. I should like to thank everyone for 
the contribution made during the last year and look forward to our 
continuing joint effort to do everything better, achieving investment 
outperformance and retaining and raising AuM whilst operating in an 
efficient and controlled manner across our existing and new businesses. 
Outlook 
Markets have been obsessed with Eurozone ‘tail-risk’ and low  
levels of developed world growth, and we expect these concerns  
to continue to affect financial market sentiment over the coming 
months, but to a steadily declining degree. The larger backdrop of  
de-leveraging and global rebalancing of currencies remains and 
justifies investment allocations to Emerging Markets much higher  
than today.  
Although this developed world environment means that Emerging 
Markets will go through periods of slower growth via lower export 
orders from the US and EU, they are becoming less dependent  
on this export demand as they are trading (and investing) more  
amongst themselves. For several of the most export-dependent  
Asian economies there is also a progressive shift to a domestic 
demand-led model of growth and hence growth rates of Emerging 
Markets economies are not only higher than in the West, but 
increasingly more resilient.  
As a result an Emerging Markets allocation is more and more seen  
as an important diversifier and risk reducer for investors as in the 
worst developed world scenarios Emerging Markets are likely to be 
safer investment destinations. Countries with high levels of foreign 
exchange reserves and low debt are most insulated from global risks, 
and in an about-turn from 15 years ago, that means Emerging 
Markets. Having the odd US$300 billion in reserves means a central 
bank can intervene to protect its currency at will at any time.  
Continuing to hold such large reserves concentrated in US dollars is,  
of course, unsustainable in the longer term and 2013 may see more 
diversification by central banks into Emerging Markets currencies.  
This also benefits other asset classes denominated in those currencies, 
both fixed income and, in due course, equity. 
We expect that this will contribute to significant growth in fixed 
income and equity issuance. Corporate debt market growth is being 
encouraged in many countries to provide term financing to companies 
and to help dis-intermediate banks that need to de-lever. Valuations 
are not expensive in either asset class, with both unsustainably low 
price/earnings ratios in equities, and certain spreads almost double 
2008 levels despite greater relative safety.  
Prejudice about Emerging Markets is steadily being eroded. Whilst it  
is difficult for some investors to accept the harsh realities in the West, 
there is gradually less difficulty in taking the plunge and investing in 
Emerging Markets. Fears of slow growth in Emerging Markets or a 
Chinese ‘hard landing’ constitute excuses for delay rather than long-
term reasons for not investing. We are seeing new types of developed 
world investors steadily increase allocations.  
Investors from Emerging Markets into other Emerging Markets are 
also increasing in number and size as they re-assess global risks. In 
particular, we have seen substantial growth of assets from Emerging 
Markets government entities, including central banks, as these 
institutions diversify away from developed countries. We expect this 
trend to continue. Our strategy of building on-the-ground presence  
in Emerging Markets also positions us to take advantage of the 
institutionalisation of local savings over the next few years which 
together with our growing access to more distribution channels and 
end investor types in developed countries will continue to diversify  
our income streams
In summary, more and more investors are seeing Emerging Markets 
debt as an alternative to fixed income in general, not just developed 
world corporate credit. Indeed, with yields in the developed world 
either high for a good reason or yielding next to nothing, Emerging 
Markets debt looks highly attractive. Furthermore, after a period  
of relatively poor performance and flows, Emerging Markets equity, 
which has long been an established asset class, looks to be ripe for  
a good year given relatively low valuations. In particular, we believe 
that our depth and outstanding performance advantage in small  
and mid-cap companies, in new frontier markets and regions in  
the Middle East, Africa, and Asia are bound to attract attention as 
investors lose their solely large cap bias in the search for high long-
term returns and outperformance. 
Our job remains to outperform across as broad a product set as 
possible, to fight for our investors to achieve risk/return diversification 
and, through focusing on revenue and costs, to maintain a high 
margin. We are up for it as ever. 
Mark Coombs 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
 
12 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ashmore’s focus exclusively within the 
Emerging Markets is key to its long-term 
investment outperformance
Emerging Markets are the  
driver of global growth
see p.14–15
Strengthening our global platform  
to enhance our client offering 
see p.16–17
This commitment to Emerging Markets is 
furthered by the Ashmore Foundation, which 
supports locally-based organisations and  
charities, and emphasises that people are  
at the heart of the business. 
see p.38–39
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The global backdrop will continue to be dominated by weaknesses  
in the HIDCs (Heavily Indebted Developed Countries) in the coming 
year due to sub-trend growth and bouts of risk aversion arising  
from serious macroeconomic problems and limited policy options. 
Sentiment will continue to shift back and forth as Europe’s debt crisis 
is pitched against the deteriorating ﬁscal backdrop in the US. Faced 
with this ‘ugly contest’ institutional investors will further diversify  
out of HIDC exposures, which are either over-stretched markets or 
excessively risky ones, in favour of Emerging Markets. 
The absolute and relative strength of Emerging Markets stands  
in sharp contrast to the weakness in the HIDCs. Emerging Market 
economies are unencumbered by excessive public and private  
sector debts and resilient to shocks due to deeper structural drivers, 
with room to stimulate their economies in the face of HIDC-led 
downturns. Growth in Emerging Markets is likely to accelerate  
from a low of about 5% this year to well above 6% in the coming 
12 months on the back of active policy easing as the inventory-cycle 
triggered by the European slowdown last year fades away.  
A stronger growth picture in Emerging Markets in turn underpins  
the global commodity markets.
China and Brazil’s cyclical upswings are likely to be headline grabbing 
drivers of global growth next year, but domestic demand across the 
broader Emerging Markets universe will be a real driver, especially  
via global trade ﬂows. Trade between other Emerging Market 
regions will continue to expand rapidly, accompanied by greater 
internationalisation of Emerging Market currencies, including CNY. 
China’s determined and visionary early transition from export-led to 
domestic-led growth has put Emerging Markets right at the front of 
the process of global rebalancing. Global rebalancing will accelerate 
as deleveraging continues in HIDCs, underpinning Emerging Market 
currencies and vesting them with major upside option value versus 
HIDC currencies.
Emerging Markets will continue to manage inﬂation risks well in 
response to strong bottom up political pressures in favour of prudent 
policy. New Frontier Economies will continue to enter the global 
ﬁnancial markets as more established Emerging Markets continue  
to deepen and broaden rapidly. The great ﬁnancial broadening and 
deepening of the Emerging Market universe will therefore continue 
even as ﬁnancial repression intensiﬁes and the global backdrop in  
the HIDCs only improves very slowly. Individual country stories will 
continue to play out within Emerging Markets and will eventually 
become more important drivers of returns than global market 
sentiment, supporting the case for active and Emerging Market 
specialist management in this space. 
The Ashmore advantage
Ashmore has a business model that focuses on providing investment 
management across a diverse range of Emerging Markets themes. 
Through its well established and successful processes Ashmore 
achieves long-term investment outperformance for fund investors  
and shareholders alike.
Investor geography
The Group’s clients are drawn from developed markets and Emerging 
Markets across the globe. The centrally managed but globally located 
distribution ofﬁces are our link to these clients.
We believe that the best way to gain exposure to strong medium and 
long-term trends in Emerging Markets is to employ specialist managers 
using an active approach. We believe our portfolio managers have the 
technical skills and an understanding of the asset class gained over 
many years of experience which ﬁts in well with our rigorous and 
proven investment approach.  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
Superior economic outlook
1
0
2
3
4
5
6
7
 Emerging Markets  Developed Markets
2007 – 2011 2012 – 2016
6.1
%
 
Forecasted GDP growth 
for Emerging Markets 16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Building a world class distribution team 
Ashmore has always had a culture of focusing on our clients’ needs.  
Our goal is simple: we aim to be the pre-eminent specialist Emerging 
Markets investment manager. T o achieve this, we know that all of us 
need to be totally committed to building close and ongoing relationships 
with our clients. T estament to that commitment is the fact that many of 
our clients have been invested with Ashmore for many years.
Focused on our clients’ needs
Over the period we have strengthened our account management 
teams globally. This has allowed us to keep close to our growing 
client base so that we can better anticipate their needs and focus  
our resources where they have the most impact. Feedback from our 
clients has led to a number of enhancements to our client service:
 – Client reporting. We have enhanced our client reporting,  
introducing more depth and transparency and quicker delivery,  
and have more improvement planned.
 – Client communications. We have recruited product specialists  
who are focused on keeping our clients informed on our 
investment strategy and performance outlook. Given the 
continuing market uncertainty, this ongoing and regular 
communication with our clients is especially important. 
 – Structured and tailored education. This is a key part of our client 
offering. One example of this is a residential programme we run  
in partnership with Cass Business School for our central bank  
and sovereign wealth clients. As well as hearing from Ashmore 
investment professionals, attendees also have the opportunity  
to hear from a number of guest speakers.
 – Client events. As our client base grows we have responded by 
increasing the number of client events we hold. May 2012 saw the 
inaugural Ashmore Emerging Markets Investment Forum in London 
held over two days and was attended by key clients from around the 
globe (discussed below). 
 – Product Development. During the year we provided access through 
40 Act and SICAV vehicles to all our main investment themes and 
added new ones in Frontier equity, local currency corporate debt 
and investment grade debt. 
Understanding our clients’ worlds
As well as expanding our account management team, we have  
also built out our business development team. This is in line with  
the second and third phases of Ashmore’s strategy of establishing 
Ashmore as a trusted allocator across themes and mobilising 
Emerging Markets capital managed on and offshore.
Growing the team means we can talk to more clients in their 
domestic market and deepen our understanding of local regulations 
and requirements. It also supports our goal of maintaining diversity 
both in geographical spread and in client type.
Ashmore has made good initial progress in the expansion of its Third 
Party Distribution business in Europe. Our strategy of partnering with 
both global and regional private banks and wealth managers as well 
as making inroads into the platform market has started to generate 
asset ﬂows for the business. The foundations that have been built 
over the past 12 months will put us in a strong position to take this 
distribution franchise forward.
Our objective for hosting the Forum was not only to offer clients an insight into the breadth  
of Ashmore’s investment services, but also to bring a variety of different perspectives on the 
opportunities offered by Emerging Markets. We were delighted to welcome Mr Jin Liqun, 
Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the China Investment Corporation, as our keynote 
speaker opening the Forum, Naguib Sawiris, Executive Chairman of Orascom Telecom Media 
and Henrique de Campos Meirelles, ex-Governor of the Bank of Brazil. We also took the 
opportunity to run workshops in smaller groups so clients could interact with our portfolio 
managers. We are planning our next key client Investment Forum in New York later in 2012.   Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
Private pension plans 17
%
Public pension plans 13
%
Governments 37
%
Insurance 4
%
Corporate 3
%
Foundation/Endowment 2
%
Fund of funds 1
%
Permanent capital 1
%
Banks 6
%
Asia Paciﬁc 29
%
Middle East 18
%
UK 12
%
Europe 21
%
Third party intermediaries 
(retail/HNWI) 11
%
Funds/sub-advisor 5
%
AuM by investor type
AuM by investor geography
Americas 20
% Key Performance Indicators
Measure
Year end AuM/
Average AuM
Average net
management fee
margins (bps)
Deﬁnition
The movement between opening  
and closing AuM provides a good 
indication of the overall success of the 
business during the period, both in 
terms of net subscriptions/redemptions 
and investment performance.
The average AuM balance during  
the period, along with the average 
margins achieved, determine the level 
of management fee revenues. The 
AuM and margin trends are lead 
indicators for short-term proﬁtability.
The average net management fee 
margin is calculated in US dollars,  
and is assessed after management  
fee rebates. The average is affected 
by changes in the product and 
investor mix. Certain themes attract 
higher gross fee levels, generally 
where investment return 
opportunities are higher.
Relevance to strategy
Ashmore’s strategy as a specialist  
Emerging Markets fund manager is to 
grow AuM; ﬁrstly by establishing the  
asset class, secondly by diversifying  
developed world capital and thirdly  
by mobilising Emerging Markets capital.
Ashmore aims to maintain high  
revenue margins reﬂecting the specialist  
characteristics of many of the investment 
themes it manages.
Long-term achievements
AuM decreased by 3% as negative 
performance of US$3.4 billion was offset 
by net inﬂows of US$1.3 billion. The 
investor base remains largely institutional 
with government agencies and pension 
plans making up 67% of AuM. During 
the period we saw further ﬂows in these 
categories, including those from Emerging 
Markets sovereigns, in line with the 
Group’s distribution strategy.
The reduction in management fee margin 
was due to the full year impact of the 
Group’s acquired equities business, and 
through changes in theme and client 
mixes, including reduction in size of the 
high margin multi-strategy theme, and 
additional segregated mandates at  
lower margins.
20
0 08 09 10 11 12
40
80
60
Assets under management
US$63.7bn
2011: US$65.8bn
08 09 10 11 12
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Average management
fee margins
74.4bps
2011: 85.6bps
18 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EBITDA margin Variable  
compensation
(VC)/EBVCIT
Year end
headcount
EBITDA margin measures operating 
proﬁt (excluding depreciation and 
amortisation) against net revenues. 
Net revenues are calculated after 
deducting distribution costs and any 
rebates. Included within costs are both 
ﬁxed and variable personnel expenses 
as well as other operating costs.
The Group’s variable compensation 
represents the majority of the overall 
personnel expenses payable, and is 
assessed as a percentage of proﬁt 
before variable compensation, 
interest and tax. The amount includes 
performance related bonuses, and 
share-based payments and associated 
social security costs.
The Group analyses its headcount  
by function (investment vs support) 
and by business (global asset 
management vs local asset 
management subsidiaries).
Ashmore’s stated strategy is to maintain 
an industry leading EBITDA margin whilst 
growing the scale of the business. EBITDA 
margin replaces operating margin to 
ensure market comprehension and  
peer comparability.
The Group maintains a tightly controlled 
cost structure, with a low proportion of 
recurring costs and a large proportion of 
variable performance related costs. This 
enables the Group to achieve its targeted 
industry leading operating margin.
The year end headcount highlights the 
overall scalability of the business platform. 
The local asset management headcount is 
a vital part of the third phase of the 
Group’s strategy – mobilising Emerging 
Markets capital managed domestically.
Ashmore has maintained an EBITDA 
margin above 70 per cent for each 
of the last ﬁve years.
The Group has consistently kept (VC)/
EBVCIT at between 18% and 19%  
over the last ﬁve years except during 
FY2008/09 when it reduced to 14% 
following the ﬁnancial crisis. 
The increase in headcount is in line  
with the Group’s strategic initiatives 
surrounding distribution and also in key 
support functions. The increases were 
offset by a small reduction arising from 
synergies gained within the integration  
of AshmoreEMM. 
08 09 10 11 12
20
0
40
80
60
EBITDA margin
71.0%
2011: 73.0%
5
10
20
15
0 08 09 10 11 12
Variable compensation ratio
18.0%
2011: 19.0%
0 08 09 10 11 12
Year end headcount
257
2011: 246
 Global asset management Local asset management
300
250
200
150
100
50
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Business Review 
 
Ashmore Group result 
The Group recorded an operating profit before tax for the year ended 
30 June 2012 of £225.1 million (FY2010/11: £239.4 million), giving 
rise to an EBITDA margin of 71 per cent (FY2010/11: 73 per cent);  
a profit before tax of £243.2 million (FY2010/11: £245.9 million);  
and a profit after tax of £185.7 million (FY2010/11: £190.2 million).  
The financial results are analysed further below. 
Assets under Management and Fund Flows 
During the year AuM decreased by 3% from US$65.8 billion to 
US$63.7 billion, comprising net inflows of US$1.3 billion, which  
was somewhat lower than our expectation, and adverse investment 
performance of US$3.4 billion.  
The year saw good levels of gross subscriptions which totalled 
US$13.0 billion (FY2010/11: US$23.0 billion). The reduction from  
the prior year was perhaps to be anticipated given the extraordinary 
subscriptions in the multi-strategy and overlay themes in that period. 
Subscriptions this year were greatest in the external debt and local 
currency themes with strong contributions both from new and 
existing segregated account clients and into a range of the public 
funds in these two themes. Corporate debt continues to be a theme 
where there is significant interest and this included the particular 
growth of the investment grade corporate debt sub-theme which 
increased in the period, following several new segregated client  
wins, to become approximately half of AuM in the theme. Likewise 
blended debt attracted further segregated account wins and as the 
period ended we began to see subscriptions through its US mutual 
fund vehicle.  
The absolute levels of gross redemptions increased to US$11.7 billion 
(FY2010/11: US$7.5 billion). However, as a percentage of opening 
AuM the level of redemptions was slightly down on the prior period, 
and only slightly up on average AuM. Within the equities theme there 
were redemptions principally within the broad global active strategy 
from a number of funds and segregated accounts.  
After the significant accumulation of AuM in the multi-strategy theme 
over the prior period, given its origin, there was an expectation of an 
increase in the redemption levels for this year and the asset allocation 
and currency component inherent within this product meant that  
the sharp mark downs in equities and Emerging Markets currencies, 
particularly in the first and fourth quarters, contributed additionally  
to this effect. 
New funds and accounts 
The year saw further launches of new funds, including a new 
Japanese retail focused multi-strategy fund and three new equities 
funds. As such our principal equities strategies, broad global active, 
global small cap and frontier, are now available for investors on 
Ashmore’s most widely distributed platforms.  
There were also 11 new segregated and white label/dual brand 
funds won during the year, within the external debt, local currency, 
corporate debt and blended debt themes. 
At 136, the overall number of funds and accounts is in line with that 
from the prior year (30 June 2011: 135) since the above additions 
have been offset by a number of fund closures as the Group has 
rationalised its public fund product offerings, including the closure  
of a number of overlapping equity strategies after the acquisition  
of AshmoreEMM, and by reductions in equity segregated accounts. 
  
20 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
 
AuM movements by investment theme  
In line with the interim results and the historically reported quarterly updates, the AuM by theme as classified by mandate is shown in the 
following table. This details gross subscriptions and redemptions, investment performance and average management fee margins for each theme. 
AuM movements by investment theme as mandated: 
     
Theme 
AuM 
30 Jun 11 
(US$bn) 
Performance
(US$bn)
Gross
Redemptions
(US$bn) 
Gross 
subscriptions
(US$bn) 
Net flows 
(US$bn) 
AuM
30 Jun 12
(US$bn) 
Average 
management fee 
margins 
(bps) 
External debt 14.3 0.6 (3.2) 4.2 1.0 15.9 70
Local currency 9.4 (0.4) (1.8) 2.8 1.0 10.0 75
Corporate debt 1.3 0.3 (0.3) 1.1 0.8 2.4 108
Blended debt 10.9 1.2 (0.6) 0.9 0.3 12.4 51
Equities 10.1 (1.9) (2.0) – (2.0) 6.2 67
Alternatives 2.8 (0.2) (0.1) 0.1 – 2.6 239
Multi-strategy 8.4 (2.0) (2.9) 2.1 (0.8) 5.6 127
Overlay/Liquidity 8.6 (1.0) (0.8) 1.8 1.0 8.6 16
Total 65.8 (3.4) (11.7) 13.0 1.3 63.7 74
 
AUM – as invested 
The following tables report AuM “as invested” by underlying asset 
class which adjusts from “by mandate” to take account of the 
allocation into underlying asset class of multi-strategy, blended debt 
themes; and of cross-over investment from within certain external 
debt funds. This analysis continues to demonstrate the greater 
significance of the local currency and corporate debt themes, 
 
 
the growth in the period of the external debt after its positive flow 
and performance profile and the reduction in the equities theme in 
line with the outflows and negative performance. The charts below 
illustrate the impact of moving between the “by mandate” and the 
“as invested” analysis as at 30 June 2012, and the previous year end.
 
 
  
■ External debt 22%
■ Local currency 14%
■ Corporate debt 2%
■ Blended debt 17%
■ Equities 15%
■ Alternatives 4%
■ Multi-strategy 13%
■ Overlay/Liquidity 13%
AuM classiﬁed by mandate 2011 (%)
■ External debt 28%
■ Local currency debt 20%
■ Corporate debt 13%
■ Equities 19%
■ Alternatives 7%
■ Overlay/Liquidity 13%
AuM as invested 2011 (%)
■ External debt 25%
■ Local currency 16%
■ Corporate debt 4%
■ Blended debt 19%
■ Equities 10%
■ Alternatives 4%
■ Multi-strategy 9%
■ Overlay/Liquidity 13%
AuM classiﬁed by mandate 2012 (%)
■ External debt 33%
■ Local currency debt 22%
■ Corporate debt 14%
■ Equities 11%
■ Alternatives 7%
■ Overlay/Liquidity 13%
AuM as invested 2012 (%)
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Business Review continued 
 
 
Investor profile  
Investor type 
In line with the investment over the last three years in the Group’s 
distribution platform the Group’s AuM has further diversified. AuM is 
predominantly of an institutional nature (30 June 2012: 89%; 30 June 
2011: 85%) and the most significant sub-categories of institutional 
investor are government agencies and private and public pension plans, 
together accounting for 67% (30 June 2011: 64%) of AuM. During 
the year there were further fund inflows within the government 
category, which include those from Emerging Markets central banks, 
reserve managers and sovereign funds as part of the third phase of  
the Group’s strategy – mobilising Emerging Markets capital. 
The remaining AuM is derived through our relationships with third 
party intermediaries – including electronic platforms, private banks, 
brokers and other distributors – where the end customers are typically 
retail/high net worth individuals. The reduction in the percentage  
of this AuM to 11% (30 June 2011: 15%) results entirely from the 
reduction of Japanese retail multi-strategy AuM which was raised in 
the previous year. Following developments in the Group’s products 
and the distribution platform which target these sources of AuM, 
there have been good levels of inflows into the range of sub-funds 
within the SICAV platform and some good initial inflows into the 
Group’s US mutual fund complex which was launched in December 
2010. The total AuM at the end of the year in these two platforms 
were US$3.2 billion and US$364.0 million respectively. In addition the 
new multi-strategy product for a Japanese distributor and further US 
mutual fund advisory arrangements provided AuM inflows during the 
year. Developing AuM sourced through such intermediaries remains 
one of the Group’s key strategic objectives and overall the period has 
seen some good progress in deepening and developing these 
relationships in Europe, the US and Japan. 
 
 
 
 
Investor Geography 
The increasing appeal of the Emerging Markets asset class to investors globally is demonstrated by the Group’s continued diverse geographic 
investor profile. 
 
AuM by investor type 2011 (%)
■ Governments 31%
■ Private pension plans 18%
■ Public pension plans 15%
■ Third party intermediaries
 (retail/HNWI) 15%
■ Banks 5%
■ Fund/sub-advisor 7%
■ Insurance 2%
■ Corporate 3%
■ Foundation/Endowment 2%
■ Fund of funds 1%
■ Permanent capital 1%
■ Europe 23%
■ UK 13%
■ Middle East 14%
■ Americas 20%
■ Asia Paciﬁc 30%
AuM by investor geography 2011 (%)
AuM by investor type 2012 (%)
■ Governments 37%
■ Private pension plans 17%
■ Public pension plans 13%
■ Third party intermediaries
 (retail/HNWI) 11%
■ Banks 6%
■ Fund/sub-advisor 5%
■ Insurance 4%
■ Corporate 3%
■ Foundation/Endowment 2%
■ Fund of funds 1%
■ Permanent capital 1%
■ Europe 21%
■ UK 12%
■ Middle East 18%
■ Americas 20%
■ Asia Paciﬁc 29%
AuM by investor geography 2012 (%)
22 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
Management fees and performance fees 
As the Group’s AuM are predominantly US dollar based, the majority of management and performance fees are also US dollar denominated. 
The table below sets out AuM, net management fees, net management fee margins, and performance fees, by theme in US dollars: 
Underlying US dollar management and performance fees: 
 
Theme 
FY2010/11
AuM 
(US$bn) 
FY2011/12
AuM 
(US$bn) 
Net management 
fees to  
30 June 2012 
(US$m) 
Average 
management
 fee margin 
(bps) 
Performance 
fees to 
30 June 2012
(US$m) 
External debt 14.3 15.9 103.1 70 27.1 
Local currency 9.4 10 72.1 75 6.3 
Corporate debt 1.3 2.4 20.7 108 0.1 
Blended debt 10.9 12.4 59.9 51 3.0 
Equities 10.1 6.2 54.0 67 0.8 
Alternatives 2.8 2.6 66.4 239 3.6 
Multi-strategy 8.4 5.6 85.6 127 0.1 
Overlay/Liquidity 8.6 8.6 13.5 16 –
Total 65.8 63.7 475.3 74 41.0
 
Management fees 
Net management fee income in Sterling terms increased by  
21% to £302.6 million as a function of increased levels of average 
AuM (FY2011/12: US$63.9 billion; FY2010/11: US$46.4 billion),  
stable GBP/USD foreign exchange rates (FY2011/12: 1.59 effective; 
FY2010/11: 1.59 effective) offset by a reduction in average 
management fee margins (FY2011/12: 74 bps; FY2010/11: 86 bps). 
The average revenue margin reduction was initially driven by an exit 
rate of 82 bps and includes, as anticipated, the full year impact of  
the Group’s acquired equities business. The remaining reduction  
is through both theme and client mix effects. These include the 
reduction in AuM of the higher margin multi-strategy theme, the 
development for the first time of substantial levels of AuM within the 
sub-theme of investment grade corporate debt with a lower revenue 
margin than high yield corporate debt and further segregated 
mandate subscriptions at lower margins.  
Performance fees 
Total performance fee income for the year was £25.4 million 
(FY2010/11: £85.4 million) being earned across the investment 
themes. The majority of these fees were annual performance fees 
from funds having an August 2011 year end with the balance being 
made up of other annual performance fees and crystallised fees arising 
on redemptions during the year. This reduction had been anticipated 
as absolute levels of investment return reduced period on period  
after peaking in 2009/10 following the credit crisis. The market wide 
corrections seen in the period reduced performance fees for the funds 
with a December 2011 and April 2012 year end to a minimal level. 
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a good balance between those 
funds where the Group is eligible to earn performance fees and those 
that generate revenues for the Group solely through management 
fees. At the year end the Group was eligible to earn performance  
fees on 30% of AuM (30 June 2011: 38%), or 37% of funds  
(30 June 2011: 43%). Of this AuM, 54% (30 June 2011: 41%)  
of it, whilst able to generate performance fees in the future, was 
ineligible to do so in FY2011/12 either as a result of such fees only 
being available at the end of the multi-year fund life, such funds  
not earning a fee in the performance year, or as a result of rebate 
agreements in the new period.  
In the new financial year, unaudited annual performance fees for  
the funds with performance years ended 31 August 2012 were 
approximately £4.0 million (August 2011: £18.8 million).  
Operating costs and operating margin 
The Group has maintained its tightly controlled cost structure, with a 
low proportion of recurring costs and a large proportion of variable 
performance related costs. Closing headcount increased from 246 at 
30 June 2011 to 257 at 30 June 2012 while the average headcount 
shows a larger increase from 182 to 251 as a result of the full year 
impact of AshmoreEMM. The increase in wages and salaries to  
£18.0 million (FY2010/11: £11.5 million) reflects this increase in 
average headcount. There has been continued recruitment this year  
to support the future growth of the business particularly to support 
the development of our distribution and support teams.  
Variable compensation costs represent the majority of overall 
personnel expenses and consist of performance related bonuses, 
share-based payments and associated social security costs. Variable 
compensation is calculated as a percentage of profit before variable 
compensation, interest and tax. The rate of variable compensation 
applied in the year to 30 June 2012 reduced to 18% (FY2010/11: 
19%). The lower level of variable compensation from the prior year 
reflects the flat to slightly lower performance of the overall business 
over the year. 
The overall total for other expenses for the year to 30 June 2012  
was £34.4 million (FY2010/11: £22.9 million) with key drivers for  
the year on year rise being increased amortisation charges on 
intangible assets, integration costs for AshmoreEMM (most notably 
with information technology and communications) and the full year 
impact of AshmoreEMM, offset partly by reduced professional fees  
of £4.0 million (FY2010/11: £5.5 million), largely resulting from 
acquisition-related costs in the prior year. Other costs have also 
increased reflecting the geographic expansion of the business and 
increased distribution activities.  
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Business Review continued 
 
 
The five year trend graphs of total employee numbers and total 
employment costs are shown below. These demonstrate how the 
Group’s operating model has been maintained: 
 
 
 
 
Taxation   
The majority of the Group’s profit is subject to UK taxation. The 
Group’s effective tax rate for the year is 23.7% (FY2010/11: 22.7%). 
The tax rate for the year is less than the blended UK corporation tax 
rate of 25.5% principally as a result of deductions in respect of share 
based awards vesting during the period. 
There is a £15.1 million deferred tax asset on the Group’s balance 
sheet at 30 June 2012 (30 June 2011: £17.9 million), as a result of 
timing differences in the recognition of the accounting expense and 
actual tax deductions in connection with share price appreciation on 
share-based awards.  
Balance sheet management and cash flow 
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong balance sheet in order  
to support regulatory capital requirements, to meet the commercial 
demands of current and prospective investors, and to fulfil 
development needs across the business which include funding 
establishment costs of distribution offices and local asset management 
ventures, seeding new funds, trading or investment in funds or other 
assets and other strategic initiatives. 
As at 30 June 2012, total equity attributable to shareholders of  
the parent was £537.3 million, as compared to £498.5 million at  
30 June 2011. There is no debt on the Group’s balance sheet. 
Cash 
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by  
£22.4 million in the year to £346.6 million. The Group continues  
to generate significant cash from operations, totalling £238.8 million 
in the year (FY2010/11: £253.4 million), from which it paid the  
following significant items: £106.9 million in cash dividends 
(FY2010/11: £93.7 million); £58.2 million of taxation (FY2010/11: 
£62.1 million); £62.2 million for net new seed capital investments 
(FY2010/11: £12.5 million); and £40.8 million for purchase of own 
shares to satisfy share awards (FY2010/11: £10.9 million). 
The Group’s cash balances are invested with the objective of 
optimising returns within a strict framework which emphasises capital 
preservation, security, liquidity and counterparty risk. Cash is invested 
only with institutions and liquidity funds with approved credit ratings 
of A or better. Typically during the financial year these have been 
short-term cash deposits with banks and investments in the Group’s 
S&P AAA rated money market liquidity funds.  
Seed capital investments 
As at 30 June 2012 the amount invested was £140.1 million (at cost), 
with a market value of £148.9 million. During the period the largest 
seed capital investments were further amounts invested in respect of 
the launch of a new equities focused SICAV sub-funds and an equities 
(small cap) focused 40 Act fund as well as further seeding in to the 
Group’s recently launched SICAV funds, including the inflation linked 
bond fund. In addition the year saw capital commitment calls made by 
funds managed by the Group’s local asset management subsidiaries 
and associates. Some of the seed capital investments made in earlier 
periods were able to be recycled profitably. 
Purchase of own shares 
The Group purchases and holds shares through an Employee Benefit 
Trust (“EBT”) in anticipation of the exercise of outstanding share 
options and the vesting of share awards. At 30 June 2012 the EBT 
owned 32,668,764 (30 June 2011: 24,555,042) ordinary shares. 
Goodwill and Intangible assets 
Total goodwill and intangible assets on the Group’s balance sheet  
at 30 June 2012 are £98.1 million (30 June 2011: £103.2 million).  
The year on year decrease of £5.1 million is driven by amortisation 
charges of £6.2 million (FY2010/11: £0.5 million), combined with  
a non-recurring impairment charge of £1.2 million (FY2010/11: nil), 
partly offset by FX retranslation gains of £2.3 million arising  
on non-Sterling denominated goodwill and intangible assets  
(FY2010/11: £2.3 million). This gain is included within the Group’s 
other comprehensive income. 
  
50
0 12 11 10 09 08
100
200
150
250
300
Year end headcount 
■ Global asset management
■ Local asset management subsidiaries
10
0
20
40
30
70
60
50
80
£m
Employee costs
■ Fixed personnel costs
■ Variable compensation
12 11 10 09 08
24 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) 
The Group carries on its balance sheet unamortised deferred 
acquisition costs of £4.7 million (FY2010/11: £6.9 million) in respect  
of the launch of Ashmore Global Opportunities Limited (“AGOL”), a 
publicly listed closed-ended investment company incorporated in 2007.  
During FY2011/12, the shares of AGOL have continued to trade at a 
discount to the net asset value of its balance sheet and, as previously, 
where this discount is in excess of 10 per cent for 12 consecutive 
months, an EGM is required to consider whether AGOL should be 
wound up. The EGM was held on 7 June 2012, with over 90 per cent 
of the voting shareholders voting against winding up. Should the 
discount continue to exceed 10 per cent for a further 12 consecutive 
months, an EGM will once again be required. Should, as a result of 
any future vote, AGOL be wound up, this would not result in an 
acceleration or recognition of these deferred acquisition costs. An 
early termination of AGOL would instead trigger the full recovery of 
the initial set-up costs including the portion of £9.6 million amortised 
to 30 June 2012. 
Foreign exchange management 
The Group’s long-standing policy is to hedge between a quarter  
and two-thirds of the notional value of foreign exchange exposure  
in connection with its net management fee cash flows, using either 
forward foreign exchange contracts or options for up to two years 
forward with at least 25% coverage for the first 12 month period.  
The GBP/USD exchange rate to 30 June 2012 ranged between 
GBP1.00:1.5387 – 1.6419USD. 
The Group experienced an overall foreign exchange gain for the  
year to 30 June 2012 of £2.8 million (FY2010/11: £7.4m loss), 
comprising a gain of £2.7 million (FY2010/11: loss of £9.2 million)  
on the translation of non-Sterling denominated assets and  
liabilities combined with a gain of £0.1 million (FY2010/11: gain  
of £1.8 million) on realised and unrealised hedging transactions.  
The notional level of foreign exchange hedges in place at 30 June 
2012 is US$168.5 million. This consists of options (US$119.5 million) 
and forwards (US$49.0 million) in respect of FY2012/13 and 
FY2013/14 net management fee cash flows.  
The options effectively operate as a collar, and together with the 
forwards, protect the Sterling value of US$168.5 million of the 
Group’s forecast management fee revenue cash flows for FY2012/13 
and FY2013/14 from being impacted by currency movements  
(outside the contracted ranges for the collars).  
The options and forwards have been marked-to-market at the  
year end rate of GBP1:1.5707USD.  
As designated hedges the mark-to-market movement in the value of 
the options and forwards will be taken through reserves, until such 
time as they and the associated hedged revenues mature, so long as 
the hedges are assessed as being effective. If assessed as ineffective, 
the mark-to-market of the options and forwards will be taken through 
the income statement. 
Regulatory capital 
As a UK listed asset management group, Ashmore is subject to 
regulatory supervision by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) under 
the Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and 
Investment Firms. The Group has one UK-regulated entity, Ashmore 
Investment Management Limited (“AIML”), on behalf of which half 
yearly capital adequacy returns are filed. AIML held surplus capital 
resources relative to its requirements at all times during the period 
under review. 
Further, since 1 January 2007, the Group has been subject to 
consolidated regulatory capital requirements, whereby the Board is 
required to assess the degree of risk across the Group’s business, and 
hold sufficient capital against these. 
The Board has assessed the amount of Pillar II capital required to cover 
such risks as £65.6 million. Thus, given the considerable balance sheet 
resources available to the Group, the Board is satisfied that the Group 
is adequately capitalised to continue its operations effectively.  
Further information regarding the Group’s capital adequacy status  
can be found in the Group’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP) and Pillar III disclosures, which are available on our 
website at www.ashmoregroup.com. 
Risk 
Risk is inherent in all businesses and is therefore present within the 
Group’s activities. The Group seeks to effectively identify, monitor  
and manage each of its risks and actively promotes a risk awareness 
culture throughout the organisation. The ultimate responsibility for 
risk management rests with the Board. However, from a practical 
perspective some of this activity is delegated. 
The key risks, their mitigants, and their delegated owners are set out 
on pages 28 and 29 for each of the four risk categories that Ashmore 
considers most important: strategic and business, investment, 
operational, and treasury – with reputational risk being a common 
characteristic across all four categories. 
 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 26 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
65.8
63.7
35.3
24.9
37.5
31.6
 External debt
 Local currency
 Corporate debt
 Blended debt 
 Equities
 Alternatives
 Multi-strategy
 Overlay/liquidity
0
US$bn
2012 2011 2010 2009 2007 2008
26 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review continued 
Long-term growth in 
assets under management
Assets under Management
Over the last ﬁve years Ashmore has increased its  
AuM by 102%. In line with our historic experience over  
a number of cycles, the credit crisis in 2008 saw AuM 
redemptions peak and overall AuM levels fall by over  
one third. Thereafter, we have seen strong AuM growth 
momentum resume.  (5.5) 2.1
(11.7) 13.0
US$65.8bn
US$63.7bn
Assets under Management bridge 
During the year AuM decreased 3% from  
US$65.8 billion to US$63.7 billion, comprising net 
inﬂows of US$1.3 billion and adverse investment 
performance of US$3.4 billion.
Positive performance 
(US$bn)
Negative performance 
(US$bn)
Gross redemptions 
(US$bn)
Gross subscriptions 
(US$bn)
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Principal Risks and Mitigation 
 
Risk type/owner  Description of risk  Mitigation 
Strategic and business risk  
The risk that the medium and long-term 
profitability of the Group could be adversely 
impacted by the failure to identify and 
implement the correct strategy, and to  
react appropriately to changes in the 
business environment.  
Delegated to:  
Ashmore Group plc Board 
 These include: 
– A long-term downturn in the fundamental 
and technical dynamics of emerging markets;
– Reputational damage to Ashmore impacting 
marketing and distribution capabilities;  
– Potential market capacity issues and  
increased competition. 
 These include:  
– The Board’s long investment  
management experience;  
– A clearly defined Group strategy,  
understood throughout the organisation  
and actively monitored;  
– The diversification of investment capabilities 
to reduce single event/product exposure;  
– A committee based top down  
investment methodology to create  
a scalable business model;  
– Experienced, centrally managed and globally 
located distribution team;  
– Product Committee with knowledge of the 
markets in place. 
Investment risk  
The risk of non-performance or manager 
neglect, including the risk that long-term 
investment outperformance is not delivered 
thereby damaging prospects for winning 
and retaining clients, and putting  
average management fee margins under 
increased pressure.  
Delegated to:  
Ashmore Group Investment Committees 
 These include:  
– That the investment manager does not 
adhere to policies;  
– A downturn in investment performance;  
– Expansion into unsuccessful themes;  
– Insufficient counterparties. 
 These include:  
– Experienced Investment Committees meet 
weekly ensuring consistent core investment 
processes are applied;  
– Dedicated emerging markets research and 
investment focus, with frequent country  
visits as well as physical presence in key 
Emerging Markets;  
– Strong Compliance and Risk Management 
oversight of policies, restrictions, limits and 
other related controls;  
– Formal counterparty policy with reviews held 
at least quarterly. 
Operational risk  
Risks in this category are broad in nature 
and inherent in most businesses and 
processes. They include the risk that 
operational flaws result from a lack of 
resources or planning, error or fraud or 
weaknesses in systems and controls, and 
may lead to the inability to capitalise on 
market opportunities. 
Delegated to:  
Ashmore Group Risk and Compliance 
Committee 
 These include:  
– The inability to fairly price assets;  
– Oversight of overseas subsidiaries;  
– Compliance with regulatory requirements  
as well as with respect to the monitoring  
of investment breaches; 
– Availability and retention of staff;  
– Execution and process management;  
– Business and systems disruption;  
– Fraud by an employee or third party  
service provider.  
 
 These include: 
– The valuations of the most material assets  
are outsourced to independent third parties 
with the Pricing Methodology Valuation 
Committee (PMVC) providing additional 
oversight of valuations used for hard- 
to-price assets; 
– An integrated control and management 
framework is in place to ensure day-to-day 
global operations are managed effectively; 
– Resources regularly reviewed and also  
career development and succession planning 
in place; 
– A Risk and Compliance Committee meets  
on a monthly basis to consider the Group’s 
Key Risk Indicators (“KRIs”);  
– A disaster recovery procedure exists and  
is tested regularly;  
– Engagement letters or service level 
agreements are in place with all significant 
service providers;  
– A Product Committee approves new  
product launches and regularly reviews 
existing products.  
 
  
28 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
 
 
Risk type/owner  Description of risk  Mitigation 
Treasury risk  
These are the risks that management does 
not appropriately mitigate balance sheet 
risks or exposures which could ultimately 
impact the financial performance or position 
of the Group.  
Delegated to:  
Chief Executive Officer and Group  
Finance Director 
 These include:  
– Group revenues are primarily US dollar based, 
whereas results are denominated in Sterling; 
– The Group invests in its own funds from time 
to time, exposing it to price risk, credit risk 
and foreign exchange risk;  
– Liquidity management;  
– The Group is exposed to credit risk  
and interest rate risk in respect of its  
cash balances. 
 These include:  
– Monthly reporting of all balance sheet 
exposures to the Executive;  
– A proportion of Group currency exposures 
are hedged as a matter of policy;  
– Significant corporate investments are 
approved by the Board, and all others  
by the CEO;  
– Cash flows are forecast and monitored on  
a regular basis and managed in line with 
approved policy;  
– The availability of GBP and USD S&P AAA 
rated liquidity funds managed by experienced 
cash managers; 
– Defined Risk Appetite in place. 
During the year the Group’s risk control framework has been 
enhanced to take account of changing business and market 
conditions. This included reviews conducted by the Group’s Internal 
Audit function. There has also been specific focus on the further 
refinement of the Group Risk Matrix, which seeks to identify the key 
risks to the Group, as well as current mitigants and forward-looking 
action plans. 
Risk management and control 
Risk management and control is one element of the Group’s overall 
system of internal controls within its corporate governance framework 
– incorporating Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit. Further details of 
the Group’s internal control environment are described in the 
corporate governance report on pages 40 to 44. 
Dividend 
In recognition of the satisfactory financial performance during the 
period, and of our confidence in the Group’s future prospects, the 
Directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.75 pence per share 
for the year ended 30 June 2012 which, subject to shareholder 
approval, will be paid on 7 December 2012 to all shareholders who 
are on the register on 9 November 2012.  
An interim dividend for the six-month period to 31 December 2011  
of 4.25 pence (31 December 2010: 4.16 pence) was paid on 4 April 
2012. Together, these result in a full-year dividend of 15.00 pence 
(2011: 14.50 pence), an increase of 3.4%. 
Graeme Dell 
Group Finance Director 
 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Board of Directors 
 
The Hon. Michael Benson, Non-executive Chairman (Age 69) 
Michael Benson was appointed to the Board as Non-executive 
Chairman on 3 July 2006. He is Chairman of the Company’s 
Nominations Committee. Michael began his career in the City in 1963 
and, after a series of senior positions in the investment management 
industry, was, from 2002 to March 2005, Chairman of Invesco and 
Vice Chairman of Amvescap plc. Prior to that he was CEO of Invesco 
Global (1997 to 2002). Michael is a Non-executive Director of Trinity 
Street Asset Management, is the Director of the York Minster Fund 
and is CEO of the York Minster Revealed project. 
Committee membership: N, R
 
Mark Coombs, Chief Executive Officer (Age 52) 
Mark Coombs was appointed a Director on the incorporation of the 
Company in December 1998, and has served as its Chief Executive 
Officer since then. He held a number of positions at Australia and  
New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ) and led Ashmore’s buyout from 
ANZ in early 1999. He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association for 
emerging markets, having been on the Board since 1993. Mark has  
an MA in Law from Cambridge University.  
Graeme Dell, Group Finance Director (Age 46) 
Graeme Dell was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director  
in December 2007. Prior to joining Ashmore, Graeme was Group 
Finance Director of Evolution Group plc from 2001 to 2007, where  
he had group-wide responsibility for finance, operations, technology, 
compliance, risk and HR which included playing a significant role in 
the foundation and development of Evolution’s Chinese securities 
business. Graeme previously worked for Deutsche Bank and Goldman 
Sachs in a range of business management, finance and operations 
roles both in Europe and in Asia Pacific. Graeme qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and is a graduate  
of Hertford College, Oxford University.  
Nick Land, Senior Independent Non-executive Director (Age 64) 
Nick Land was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee on 3 July 2006. He is a qualified accountant and was a 
partner of Ernst & Young LLP from 1978 to 2006 and its Chairman 
from 1995 to 2006. Nick is a Non-executive Director of BBA Aviation 
plc, Alliance Boots GmbH and Vodafone Group plc and a trustee  
of the Vodafone Group Foundation. He is a Board member of the 
Financial Reporting Council, a member of the Finance and Audit 
Committees of the National Gallery and is Chairman of the Board  
of Trustees of Farnham Castle. 
Committee membership: A, N, R
 
Jonathan Asquith, Non-executive Director (Age 55) 
Jonathan Asquith joined the Board on 1 September 2008 and is 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. He was formerly Vice 
Chairman of Schroders plc and held the position of Chief Financial 
Officer between 2002 and 2007. Prior to that he worked for Morgan 
Grenfell and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche 
Morgan Grenfell in 1995 and Chief Operating Officer in 1997. He  
is also Non-executive Chairman of AXA UK plc and a Non-executive 
Director of AXA Investment Managers, 3i Group plc, Dexion Capital 
plc, and a member of the Finance and Audit Committees of the  
Tate galleries. 
Committee membership: A, N, R
 
Melda Donnelly, Non-executive Director (Age 62) 
Melda Donnelly joined the Ashmore Group plc Board as a  
Non-executive Director in July 2009, and is also a member of the  
Audit and Risk Committee. Melda is an Australian citizen and a 
Chartered Accountant. She was the Founder and Chairperson  
of the Centre for Investor Education. Current directorships include 
Treasury Group Limited and Uni Super Limited. Ms Donnelly’s past 
investment experience includes being CEO of Queensland Investment 
Corporation, Deputy Managing Director of ANZ Funds Management 
and Managing Director of ANZ Trustees. She is currently a member of 
the Advisory Committee of the Oxford University Centre for Ageing. 
Committee membership: A
 
Simon Fraser, Non-executive Director (Age 53) 
Simon Fraser joined the Board on 10 February 2012. Simon has 
extensive experience of the fund management industry, having worked 
at Fidelity International from 1981 to 2008. At Fidelity he held a number 
of positions during his career, including President of the European & UK 
Institutional Business, Global Chief Investment Officer, Chief Investment 
Officer for Asia Pacific and Chief Investment Officer of the European 
Investment Group. He is a Non-executive Director of Barclays Bank plc 
and Barclays plc, Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, 
The Merchants Trust plc and a Non-executive Director of Fidelity 
European Values Plc and Fidelity Japanese Values Plc. 
Committee membership: None 
 
Key to membership of committees  
A – Audit and Risk 
N – Nominations 
R – Remuneration 
 
30 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ Report 
 
The Directors present their Annual Report and financial statements  
for the year ended 30 June 2012.  
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the  
EU (IFRS). 
Principal activity and business review 
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of investment 
management services. The Company is required to set out in this 
report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial 
year ended 30 June 2012 and of the position of the Group at the end 
of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group (referred to as the business review). 
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review 
can be found in the financial and operational highlights on page 2, 
the Chief Executive Officer’s report on pages 8 to 13, the business 
review on pages 20 to 29 and the Corporate Governance report on 
pages 40 to 44. 
The principal risks facing the business are detailed in the business 
review on pages 28 and 29 and in the Corporate Governance report  
on pages 40 to 44. 
Results and dividends 
The results of the Group for the year are set out in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income on page 55.  
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.75 pence per share 
(2011: 10.34 pence) which, together with the interim dividend of  
4.25 pence per share (2011: 4.16 pence) already declared, makes  
a total for the year ended 30 June 2012 of 15.00 pence per share 
(2011: 14.50 pence). Details of the interim dividend payment are set 
out in note 11 to the financial statements.  
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend 
will be paid on 7 December 2012 to shareholders on the register  
on 9 November 2012 (ex-dividend date being 7 November 2012). 
Related party transactions 
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 26 to the 
financial statements. 
Post-balance sheet events 
As set out in note 28 to the financial statements there were no post-
balance sheet events that required adjustment or disclosure herein. 
Directors 
The members of the Board together with biographical details are 
shown on page 30, all of whom served as Directors throughout the 
year with the exception of Simon Fraser who was appointed to the 
Board on 10 February 2012.  
Details of the service contracts of the current Directors are shown  
in the remuneration report on pages 46 to 53. 
Details of the constitution and powers of the Board and its 
committees are set out in the corporate governance report on  
pages 40 to 44. The corporate governance report also summarises  
the Company’s rules concerning appointment and replacement  
of Directors. 
Directors’ conflicts of interests 
Since October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 has imposed upon 
Directors a new statutory duty to avoid unauthorised conflicts of 
interest with the Company. The Company has adopted revisions  
to its Articles of Association which enable Directors to approve 
conflicts of interest and which also include other conflict of interest 
provisions. The Company has implemented processes to identify 
potential and actual conflicts of interest. Such conflicts are then 
considered for approval by the Board, subject, where necessary,  
to appropriate conditions. 
Executive Directors do not presently hold any external appointments 
with any non-Ashmore related companies.  
Directors’ share interests 
The interests of Directors in the Company’s shares are shown on page 
53 within the remuneration report. 
Significant agreements with provisions applicable to a change 
in control of the Company 
Save as described, there are no agreements in place applicable to  
a change in control of the Company.  
Resolution 16 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will seek 
approval from shareholders to a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9  
of the Takeover Code in respect of the obligation that could arise  
for Mark Coombs to make a mandatory offer for the Company in  
the event that the Company exercises the authority to make market 
purchases of its own shares. Further details are contained in the 
separate Notice of AGM.  
Restrictions on transfer of shares 
On 31 May 2011 the Company completed the acquisition of Emerging 
Markets Management LLC (now renamed Ashmore EMM LLC). A 
proportion of the initial and earnout consideration paid and to be paid 
to the selling shareholders of AshmoreEMM is in Ashmore Group plc 
shares which are subject to certain restrictions on sale for a period  
of up to three years from either completion or the date of earnout. 
Dealings in the Company’s ordinary shares by persons discharging 
managerial responsibilities, employees of the Company and, in each 
case, their connected persons, are subject to the Group’s Dealing 
Code which adopts the Model Code of the Listing Rules contained  
in the Financial Services Authority’s Handbook. 
Certain restrictions, customary for a listed company, apply to transfers 
of shares in the Company.  
The Board may, at its absolute discretion, decline to register any 
transfer of a share which is not fully paid or where there are more 
than four joint holders. 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Director’s Report continued 
 
In the case of certificated shares, registration of a transfer may also  
be refused where (i) the instrument of transfer is not duly stamped 
(unless exempt from stamping); (ii) insufficient evidence of title is 
produced in respect of a transfer; or (iii) the transferor has been served 
with a restriction notice (as defined in the Articles) after failure to 
provide the Company with information concerning interests in those 
shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless  
the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arm’s length 
sale. Registration of a transfer of shares may be refused in the case of 
uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations (as defined in the Articles). 
 
Substantial shareholdings 
The Company has been notified of the following significant interests (over 3 per cent) in accordance with the FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (other than those of the Directors which are disclosed separately on page 53) in the Company’s ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each as set 
out in the table below.  
 
Number of
shares as at
30 June 2012 
Percentage  
interests
2
 
Number of 
shares as at 
10 September 2012 
Percentage  
interests
2
 
Jerome Paul Booth 48,355,024 6.88 48,355,024 6.88 
Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited  
as Trustees of the Ashmore 2004  
Employee Benefit Trust
1
 32,668,764 4.62 32,668,764 4.62 
BlackRock Inc 30,997,089 4.38 30,997,089 4.41 
FMR LLC 35,260,338 4.98 35,260,338 4.98 
1. In addition to the interests in the Company’s ordinary shares referred to above, each Director and senior manager who is an employee of the Group has an interest in the Company’s ordinary shares held 
by Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust. 
2. Percentage interests are based upon 707,372,473 shares in issue (which excludes 5,368,331 shares held in Treasury) (2011: 707,916,106 shares in issue which excluded 5,368,331in Treasury). 
 
Share capital 
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 
ordinary shares of 0.01 pence, each of which rank pari passu in respect 
of participation and voting rights. The shares are in registered form. The 
issued share capital of the Company at 30 June 2012 is 712,740,804 
shares in issue (of which 5,368,331 shares are held in Treasury). 
Details of the structure of and changes in share capital are set out in 
note 20 to the financial statements.  
Restrictions on voting rights 
A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class 
meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum 
then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if  
a member has been served with a restriction notice (as defined in  
the Articles) after failure to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under  
the Companies Acts. Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy. 
The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms 
of 48 hours before the meeting. 
Purchase of own shares 
The Company is, until the date of the next Annual General Meeting, 
generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back up to 
70,791,600 of its own issued shares. In the year under review the 
Company did not purchase any shares for Treasury. The Company 
retains a total of 5,368,331 shares for Treasury which were acquired 
at an average price of 129 pence per share. The Company is seeking  
a renewal of this authority at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. 
Power to issue and allot shares 
The Directors are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot 
unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount 
of £23,597.20 (and £47,194.40 in connection with an offer by way  
of a rights issue).  
A further authority has been granted to the Directors to allot the 
Company’s shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£3,559.28, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the 
Companies Acts. No such shares have been issued or allotted under 
these authorities, nor is there any current intention to do so, other 
than to satisfy outstanding obligations under the employee share 
schemes where necessary. 
These authorities are valid until the date of the next Annual General 
Meeting. A resolution for the renewal of such authorities will be 
proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. 
Employees 
Details of the Company’s employment practices (including the 
employment of disabled persons) can be found in the corporate 
governance report on pages 40 to 44. 
Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as trustee of the Ashmore 2004 
Employee Benefit Trust (the EBT) has discretion as to the exercise  
of voting rights over shares which it holds in respect of employee 
share options that have not vested and other restricted share awards. 
The current arrangement is that the EBT considers the Company’s 
recommendation(s) before voting such shares at a general meeting  
of the Company, subject to an overriding duty to act in the interests  
of the EBT. 
Corporate governance 
The Company is governed according to the applicable provisions  
of company law and by the Company’s Articles. As a listed company, 
the Company must also comply with the Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the United Kingdom 
Listing Authority (UKLA). Listed companies are expected to comply  
as far as possible with the Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate 
Governance Code, and to state how its principles have been applied. 
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions 
of the Code is set out on pages 40 to 44.  
Board diversity 
The Board has noted the recommendations of the Davies Report 
issued in February 2011 relating to Board diversity. The Nominations 
Committee considers diversity, including the balance of skills, 
experience, gender and nationality, amongst many other factors, 
when reviewing the appointment of new Directors but does not 
consider it appropriate to establish targets or quotas in this regard. 
 
32 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
 
Charitable and political contributions 
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of £0.1 million 
(2011: £0.3 million). The work of the Ashmore Foundation is 
described further below in the corporate social responsibility section  
of this report. It is the Group’s policy not to make contributions for 
political purposes. 
Creditor payment policy 
The Group’s policy and practice in the UK is to follow its suppliers’ 
terms of payment and to make payment in accordance with those 
terms subject to receipt of satisfactory invoicing. Unless otherwise 
agreed payments to creditors are made within 30 days of receipt  
of an invoice. At 30 June 2012, the amount owed to the Group’s 
trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 28 days’ average 
purchases from suppliers (2011: 30 days). 
Auditors and the disclosure of information to auditors 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware,  
and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information. 
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to 
reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the Directors 
to agree their remuneration. Note 7 to the financial statements sets 
out details of the auditors’ remuneration. 
2012 Annual General Meeting 
The 2012 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 
12.00 noon on Wednesday 31 October 2012 at Kingsway Hall Hotel, 
66 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5BX. Details of the resolutions 
to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are given in the 
separate circular and notice of meeting. 
Going concern 
The Company and Group have considerable financial resources and 
the Directors believe that both are well placed to manage their 
business risks successfully. Further information regarding the Group’s 
business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position is set out on pages 40 to 44. 
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for 
the foreseeable future and confirm that the Company and the Group 
are going concerns. For this reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing these financial statements. 
Companies Act 2006 
This Directors’ report on pages 31 to 33 inclusive has been drawn  
up and presented in accordance with and in reliance on English 
company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with 
that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided 
by such law. 
References in this Directors’ report to the financial highlights,  
the business review, the corporate governance report and the 
remuneration report are deemed to be included by reference  
in this Directors’ report. 
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 
Michael Perman 
Company Secretary 
10 September 2012 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements  
on the same basis. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit and loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
– state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs  
as adopted by the EU; and 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting  
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and  
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and corporate governance statement that comply with that  
law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
annual financial report 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
– the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
– the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development  
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face. 
Michael Benson 
Chairman 
10 September 2012
34 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility 
 
Ashmore recognises the importance of corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) incorporating transparency, fairness, accountability and integrity, 
and believes that these principles are fundamental to the Group’s 
operations. The Group continues to monitor developments in all relevant 
areas of CSR, including environmental management, employees, health 
and safety, suppliers and the community to ensure that it meets best 
practice and sees CSR as a continually evolving process.  
Investment 
Ashmore believes that its reputation as an ethical, trustworthy 
provider of investment services is essential to its core purpose of 
helping its clients to build their financial security. Ashmore seeks to 
establish and maintain long-term relationships with its clients and 
intermediaries. The Group believes this to be a fundamental pre-
requisite for the growth of the business.  
Ashmore’s Board of Directors seeks to maintain a strong corporate 
culture employing high standards of integrity and fair dealing in the 
conduct of the firm’s activities, compliance with both the letter and the 
spirit of relevant laws and regulations, and standards of good market 
practice in all jurisdictions where the firm’s business is carried out. The 
Board’s aim is to enable Ashmore to demonstrate that the firm is fit and 
proper to undertake its business, to safeguard the legitimate interests of 
Ashmore clients and protect Ashmore’s reputation. 
Ashmore’s Investment Committee process ensures a holistic approach 
to all investments within its portfolios. Its experience in managing 
investments within the Emerging Markets has enabled Ashmore  
to experience first hand the advantages of qualitatively evaluating 
environmental, social and governance factors and incorporating  
them within its portfolios. There are many potential asset classes  
in emerging countries – many different risk return profiles which 
Ashmore is able to offer its clients and fund investors in the future.  
As capital markets grow rapidly in Emerging Markets Ashmore wishes 
to be a part of that growth, both enabling access to these markets  
by developed world pools of capital, but also and increasingly by 
Emerging Markets pools of capital. 
Ashmore believes that social, ethical and environmental (SEE)  
criteria tend to be focused primarily on equity investing because  
of the influence which shareholder interests are able to exert on the 
management of a particular company. In May 2011 Ashmore acquired 
Ashmore EMM LLC (“AshmoreEMM”) a long established US-based 
investment management firm focusing entirely on the Emerging 
Markets public equity theme.  
AshmoreEMM believes that the way in which companies manage  
their relations with stakeholders can have an impact on business 
performance. These stakeholders encompass employees, local 
communities, wider society, governments, supply chains, customers 
and the natural environment. There is a wide range of environmental 
and social issues which could be relevant for a company depending  
on the industry in which it operates and its specific business profile. 
Environmental and social issues can become new sources of risk  
or opportunities for companies, and a company’s ability to respond  
to these issues can therefore act as an early signal of long-term 
competitiveness. To the extent practicable, AshmoreEMM monitors 
the environmental, social and corporate governance performance of 
the companies in which they invest through ongoing company visits 
and other information channels. Generally, companies disclose 
corporate governance practices through corporate policies, stock 
market listings (for example, Brazil has a separate category for 
companies committed to corporate governance best practice), and 
market press releases. They disclose environmental and social practices 
in annual reports and other reports to investors.  
As a global investor, AshmoreEMM recognises that legislation and 
best practice standards vary among countries and regions, and that 
they must remain sensitive to these differences. However, at a 
minimum, AshmoreEMM expects the companies in which they invest 
to comply with the national legislation that applies to them. 
Within the public equities theme AshmoreEMM believes that good 
corporate governance helps to align the interests of company 
management with those of its shareholders. Where possible, 
AshmoreEMM seeks to maintain constructive dialogue with company 
management. AshmoreEMM considers whether companies have 
corporate governance frameworks that are in line with applicable 
country codes and serve shareholder interests. Views on corporate 
governance do not constrain investment decisions, however; often  
the best investment can be in companies where AshmoreEMM 
anticipate an improvement in corporate governance practices. In many 
jurisdictions, and to the extent consistent with its fiduciary duty to 
clients, AshmoreEMM exercised voting rights as a means to signal  
its views to company management. AshmoreEMM has developed 
detailed guidelines to guide its voting decision, but will, as 
appropriate, consider resolutions on a case-by-case basis taking into 
account all available information. 
In private equity, Ashmore’s Alternatives investment theme often 
involves its funds taking significant controlling stakes in investee 
companies and in such circumstances it is in a position to positively 
engage with the management of these companies. In many cases 
Ashmore believes it to be beneficial to its investors to be pro-active  
in promoting Ashmore’s brand locally by improving the livelihoods  
of the employees in the companies where it has a controlling stake.  
Within the Alternatives theme Ashmore does not invest in companies 
that manufacture or trade arms and aims to avoid investing in 
companies that do not: 
– Respect human rights; 
– Comply with local environmental, ethical or social legislation. 
Ashmore also aims to ensure that any investments which it makes 
comply with its own industry standards and best practice, treat its 
employees fairly, have active community programmes and operate 
with sensitivity to the environment. Ashmore has made investments in 
a number of renewable energy projects in different countries including 
hydro electricity, geothermal energy and sugar based ethanol 
production, which reflects its overall approach to combining ethical 
investing with sound business practice on behalf of clients.  
Ashmore’s funds and segregated accounts each have a specific 
investment mandate which sets out the parameters for investment 
which may include requirements to screen for geographic, sector  
and stock specific restrictions. Stock specific restrictions may include 
securities which meet clients’ own CSR criteria.  
Amongst the initiatives undertaken in South America, Ashmore  
has established an Environmental and Social Management System 
(“ESMS”) for the management of investments of a new investor fund 
in Colombia within the Alternatives investment theme which has been 
developed in a form and substance acceptable to the Inter-American 
Development Bank (“IDB”).  
Within mature markets, ethical investing has often been portrayed  
as a “negative” concept, i.e. it involves a decision not to invest in  
a certain way. Whilst these concepts are well accepted in mature 
markets Ashmore believes that they are not necessarily conducive  
to helping emerging economies develop. In the context of developing 
countries Ashmore believes that it is also possible to apply other 
concepts such as engagement to the ethical investment debate.  
 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Corporate Social Responsibility continued  
 
The majority of Ashmore’s assets continue to be invested in either 
External Debt (the majority of which is Sovereign) or Local Currencies. 
In the case of external debt investments, the ability to have an 
influence is generally limited to a decision whether or not to invest, 
however, at a country level it is believed that Ashmore is able to exert 
an influence through dialogue with governments and central banks. 
Engagement with a country, as opposed to disengagement, is akin  
to many small pressures every day as opposed to one “big stick”.  
By remaining engaged it is often possible to have a positive influence 
and to have credibility.  
Where Emerging Markets are concerned therefore, Ashmore  
believes that in certain circumstances it may be more beneficial to 
keep investment flowing as well as the influence which accompanies  
it in order to continue to be able to help a country’s population.  
In country specific terms, at the extreme, being cut off from capital 
may allow undemocratic rulers to control their people by attributing 
blame for economic problems to foreign involvement. Sanctions may 
be counter-productive and may reduce the welfare of the population 
considerably. Hence Ashmore takes investment and engagement/ 
disengagement decisions on a case by case basis relative to the 
specific circumstances and investment criteria in the best interests  
of clients. 
Details on how, and the extent to which, Ashmore complies with  
the principles of the UK Stewardship Code are described separately  
on the Ashmore website at: www.ashmoregroup.com. 
The Ashmore Foundation 
Consistent with the Group’s commitment to responsible corporate 
citizenship, the Ashmore Foundation was created in 2008 and is 
funded by personal financial contributions from employees of the 
Group. The Foundation reflects Ashmore’s overall philosophy that  
we can and should make a positive difference in communities in 
which Ashmore operates, in countries which contribute to Ashmore’s 
income and profitability. The Foundation therefore seeks to provide 
financial grants to worthwhile causes within the Emerging Markets  
in order to enhance human welfare, opportunities and capabilities, 
particularly for those that are vulnerable and at the lower end of the 
socio-economic spectrum.  
The Foundation’s grant-making policy is wide-ranging but has a 
particular focus on education and healthcare, the former in particular 
being seen as the best way to help the long-term self-development  
of Emerging Markets countries. The Foundation is also interested  
in supporting sustainable livelihoods and social enterprise as a  
method of reducing poverty in a manner that empowers people  
to help themselves. 
Despite strong economic growth in many Emerging Market  
countries, inequality creates ongoing challenges and many of the most 
vulnerable groups are excluded from opportunities afforded by wider 
national developments. The Ashmore Foundation works to address 
disadvantage in the Emerging Markets by enhancing the capabilities 
and resources of underprivileged communities. For Ashmore, the 
Foundation signals to its investors, clients, employees and the general 
public a philosophy of giving back to the countries and communities 
that contribute to the Company’s success. The Ashmore Foundation 
provides for Ashmore to demonstrate its commitment to the local 
communities in which the business operates and provides an 
opportunity for employee engagement in a rewarding programme  
of philanthropic work, as well as the much-coveted opportunity for 
grantees to connect with Ashmore’s talent, network and brand. 
An Emerging Markets (EM) focus: 
– Reflects a desire to give back to the countries that have contributed 
to the Company’s profitability; 
– Allows for increased leverage of the EM skills, knowledge,  
expertise and networks of Ashmore to deliver the social goals  
of the Foundation; 
– Provides support for a thriving and diverse civil sector,  
which is essential to democratic development in transitional and 
emerging nations; 
– Offers potential “bang” for philanthropic “buck”. 
Operating in EM poses challenges, principally: 
– Scale of need versus resources available; 
– Language, distance and cultural issues – particularly in carrying  
out due diligence and monitoring. 
Awareness of these challenges informs the Foundation’s giving strategy.  
The Ashmore Foundation provides grants to non-profit organisations 
that are closely connected to local communities and that provide  
vital services to disadvantaged groups, particularly young people,  
in the areas of education, health and livelihoods. A partnership 
scheme identifies organisations that are accountable, have a strong 
track record and demonstrable potential impact in addressing pressing 
social needs, providing flexible funding potentially over a number  
of years. In 2012 the Foundation will also fund the STARS Impact 
Awards in Asia as a complement to its approach, awarding much 
needed unrestricted funding to and shining a light on exceptional 
examples of innovative frontline Non Government Organisations 
(NGOs) delivering tangible outcomes for disadvantaged children. 
Priorities for the Ashmore Foundation are currently: 
– Supporting NGOs with the potential to achieve tangible social 
outcomes to improve the education, health and livelihoods 
prospects of disadvantaged communities, particularly young  
people, in the Emerging Markets; 
– 10 priority locations, where Ashmore has a presence and/or invests 
and where there exist pressing social needs; 
– A small (one to three) portfolio of sourced, effective non-profit 
partners in each priority country, supported over a number of years 
to achieve social goals; 
– Support for the STARS Foundation’s Asia Impact Awards; 
– Supplementary ‘small grants’ scheme for wider, eligible charities. 
Ashmore Foundation grantees have the opportunity to showcase  
their work at Ashmore’s offices. Ashmore provides matched  
funding of up to £2,000 per employee per year for donations to the 
Foundation, whilst the Foundation provides matching of up to £500 
per employee per year for donations to Foundation grantees. Ashmore 
employees are increasingly involved in additional activities such as  
in-country mentoring, as well as fundraising for Ashmore Foundation 
grantees, through events such as the 3 Peaks Challenge in May 2012.  
The board of trustees of the Ashmore Foundation are responsible  
for ensuring strategic oversight, including financial oversight and risk 
management, to ensure that it is solvent and performing in its delivery 
of public benefit. Ashmore trustees (six) bring skills including general 
management, financial and investment management, knowledge  
of the markets in which the Foundation operates as well as experience 
of fundraising and governance for charities. Legal and specific  
grant-making expertise is provided through an external trustee.  
 
36 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
 
The management of the Foundation is delegated to one member  
of staff with experience in management of charities working  
in international development and human rights, fundraising  
and communications. 
The Ashmore Foundation has assets of approximately £7.5 million,  
and has committed grants totalling £1,228,830 for Emerging Markets 
social causes since inception. 
The Ashmore Foundation is a member of the Association of  
Charitable Foundations. 
Regular updates on the activities of the Foundation are published  
on the Ashmore Foundation section of our website at 
www.ashmoregroup.com. 
Employees 
At year end Ashmore employed 257 people in 11 countries 
worldwide. Ashmore’s people have always been its most important 
asset, at the heart of everything it does. Ashmore has many talented 
people and it remains a priority to develop, manage and retain this 
talent in order to deliver the potential of the organisation. Ashmore 
wants to be an employer which the most talented people aspire to 
join wherever it operates. 
Ashmore seeks to ensure that its workforce reflects, as far as 
practicable, the diversity of the many communities in which it is 
located. Ashmore also recognises the diverse needs of its employees  
in managing the responsibilities of their work and personal lives, and 
believes that achieving an effective balance in these areas is beneficial 
to both the Company and the individual.  
Ashmore encourages employees to act ethically and to clearly uphold 
the standards of practice which its clients have come to expect. It also 
means ensuring that its employees understand the strategic aims and 
objectives of the Group and are clear about their role in achieving them. 
The Group recognises that the involvement of its employees is key  
to the future success of the business and adopts a practice of keeping 
employees informed on significant matters affecting them, via email 
and in meetings arranged for the purpose. The Group has consistently 
operated a remuneration strategy that recognises both corporate and 
individual performance. 
The Group is also committed to following good practice in 
employment matters, recognising the part this plays in attracting and 
retaining staff. The Group promotes the importance of high ethical 
standards to all employees and staff have the opportunity to voice  
any concerns they may have, either direct with management or on  
a confidential basis via the whistle-blowing process. 
Equal opportunities 
The Group is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated 
fairly and with dignity and respect. This commitment is reflected  
in the Staff Handbook that all employees receive on joining.  
The policies and practices in place within the Group to deter acts  
of harassment and discrimination are regularly monitored.  
It is the Group’s policy that no employee shall be treated less favourably 
on the grounds of their age, sex, sexual orientation, race, religion, 
nationality or marital status or on the grounds of disability. This policy 
applies, without limitation, to promotion, training, placement, transfer, 
dismissal, remuneration, grievance and disciplinary procedures and 
decisions. This policy also applies to persons from outside the workplace 
and the treatment of contract workers. 
Health and Safety 
The Group has in place a global health and safety policy which can  
be accessed by all staff via an internal database. The aim of this policy 
is to provide both staff and visitors with a safe and healthy working 
environment. The Group is committed to adhering to the high 
standards of health and safety set out by its policies and procedures 
and to providing training as necessary. 
Environment 
As an investment manager, Ashmore has a limited direct impact upon 
the environment and there are few environmental risks associated 
with the Group’s activities. Ashmore moved into its premises at  
61 Aldwych, London in May 2008 and occupies a single floor of 
approximately 19,000 square feet in a nine storey multi-tenanted 
building. Water and gas supplied into the building are metered 
centrally by the building management and costs apportioned to  
each tenant pro-rata according to floor occupancy.  
As part of its ongoing commitment to the environment, Ashmore 
throughout its operations has adopted policies and programmes to 
promote energy conservation and the avoidance of waste through a 
number of initiatives, such as the recycling of paper, glass and other 
waste and the use of “green” energy. Electricity usage is separately 
monitored by floor with renewable energy accounting for a minimum 
of 10 per cent of supply. Energy-efficient lighting is installed in the 
building with sensors which turn lights off when no movement is 
detected. The building has received an Energy Performance Certificate 
with an Asset Rating of 98. Utilities are not monitored by the building 
management in terms of carbon emissions as no accurate data is 
available on the consumptive quality of each item. The registration 
and reporting obligations under the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC) Energy Efficient Scheme do not apply to the Company. 
Ashmore endeavours to make maximum use of available technology 
such as video conferencing; however, its business model as an  
investor in Emerging Markets inevitably requires that its investment 
professionals and other members of staff travel frequently to these 
countries to assess and monitor opportunities.  
Ashmore provides obsolete computers to Computer Aid International 
(“Computer Aid”), a UK registered charity that aims to reduce poverty 
through practical ICT solutions, and has in place recycling programmes 
for waste paper, photocopier toners and other disposable materials. 
Ashmore has published a separate corporate responsibility report 
which can be found on its website at www.ashmoregroup.com. 
By order of the Board 
Michael Perman 
Company Secretary 
10 September 2012 
  
 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Foundation’s Aims
The Ashmore Foundation aims to make a positive difference in the 
Emerging Market communities in which Ashmore operates and in 
the countries in which Ashmore invests. The Foundation provides 
ﬁnancial grants to effective non-proﬁt organisations working to 
enhance human welfare, opportunities and capabilities for those  
that are vulnerable or neglected and in particular children, young 
people and marginalised communities. The Emerging Market  
focus allows for increased leverage of the skills, knowledge,  
expertise and networks of Ashmore to deliver the social goals of  
the Foundation and provides support for a thriving and diverse civil 
sector, which is essential to democratic development in transitional 
and emerging nations.
The grant making policy of the Ashmore Foundation is wide ranging 
but maintains a particular focus on providing access to and improving 
quality of education and basic health, the former in particular seen  
as the best way to help the long-term self-development of Emerging 
Market countries. The Foundation is also interested in supporting 
community-based social enterprise and sustainable livelihoods, to 
empower people with the tools and resources with which to  
help themselves. 
The Foundation supports charitable causes through a Small Grants 
and Partnership scheme. The Small Grants scheme provides ﬂexible 
one-off funds of up to £5,000, whilst the Partnership Grants scheme 
provides larger, often multi-year grants, building relationships with a 
handful of particularly strong charities or NGOs in pursuit of agreed 
social outcomes. 
The Foundation primarily sources partners through research and 
recommendation, seeking locally-based, emerging organisations 
which display a deep knowledge of the local context and culture, 
demonstrable involvement of and commitment to the community 
served, a good track record in meeting clearly deﬁned social needs, 
professionalism, accountability, ability to measure results, cost-
effectiveness and potential to scale or disseminate knowledge. 
In 2011, the Ashmore Foundation paid out £473,710 to 23 grantees 
delivering social work in 11 Emerging Market countries (up from 
£197,690 in 2010), beneﬁtting approximately 60,000 people. In 
2011, trustees approved grant commitments totalling £768,000 over 
the period from 2011 – 2014. The Ashmore Foundation has donated 
£934,832 to charitable causes since inception in 2008.
In 2012 the Foundation will also be funding the STARS Impact 
Awards in Asia as a complement to its approach, awarding much 
needed funding to and shining a light on exceptional examples of 
innovative frontline NGOs delivering life changing services to 
disadvantaged children in developing countries.
Ashmore Employee Engagement
Employees have the opportunity to recommend eligible charities for 
support by the Ashmore Foundation. All organisations considered for 
support are assessed against the standard criteria of the Foundation 
designed to identify well managed and accountable organisations. 
Employees can also make use of matched funding offered by 
Ashmore for donations and by the Ashmore Foundation to 
Foundation grantees.
The board of trustees (directors) comprises Ashmore employees and 
an independent director. Ashmore employee directors are rotated to 
ensure new members have the opportunity to contribute and learn 
from the Foundation’s activities. 
The Ashmore Foundation presents information on local charities 
within the Emerging Markets to ﬁrm employees on a regular basis, 
including showcasing by grantees at Ashmore’s ofﬁces. Governance
Class sponsored by the 
Ashmore Foundation at 
the Philippine Community 
Fund’s community school 
for children living in Tondo 
or Navotas slum in Manila
Sunday and Joe, residents at  
Mama Laadi’s foster home supported 
by Ashmore Foundation grantee, 
Afrikids, which works to alleviate  
child suffering and poverty in 
Northern Ghana
Girl-friendly soccer training is combined 
with nutrition and life skills workshops 
for at-risk children and youth through 
grantee, Futbol Con Corozon at La Playa 
in Colombia
A pre and post natal satellite 
clinic delivered by Impact 
Bangladesh as part of a holistic 
programme funded by the 
Ashmore Foundation to reduce 
malnutrition, protect mothers 
and babies, and provide primary 
healthcare to 22,500 people
Nutritious meals and 
supplements along with family 
education and social support, 
are provided by Nu3 Foundation 
for malnourished children in 
Barranquilla, Colombia
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Corporate Governance Report 
 
In May 2010 the FRC published a new edition 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(“the 2010 Code”) which applies to financial 
years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.  
The Company has been in compliance  
with the predecessor Combined Code since 
Admission to listing on the London Stock 
Exchange on 17 October 2006, except where 
the Directors consider that in particular 
limited circumstances, departure may be 
justified and explained.  
No departures from the 2010 Code occurred 
during the year under review. 
This report describes the Company’s 
corporate governance arrangements, 
explaining how it has applied the principles 
of the Combined Code. 
Michael Benson 
Chairman 
 
Directors 
The Board of Directors comprises two Executive Directors and five 
Non-executive Directors. The two Executive Directors are Mark 
Coombs, the Chief Executive Officer, and Graeme Dell, the Group 
Finance Director. The Non-executive Directors are Michael Benson, 
Chairman; Nick Land, Senior Independent Director; Jonathan Asquith, 
Melda Donnelly and Simon Fraser. With the exception of Simon Fraser 
who joined the Board on 10 February 2012 all Directors served 
throughout the year.  
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for 
decision and approval, which include, but are not limited to: 
– the Group’s long-term commercial objectives and strategy; 
– major acquisitions, disposals and investments; 
– the Group’s annual and interim reports and financial statements; 
– interim dividend and recommendation of final dividend; 
– annual budgets and forecast updates; 
– significant capital expenditure; and 
– the effectiveness of internal controls.  
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, 
clearly defined and have been approved by the Board. The Chairman 
is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board, while the Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for execution of strategy and for the 
day-to-day management of the Group.  
In considering Non-executive Director independence, the Board has 
taken into consideration the guidance provided by the 2010 Code. 
The Board considers Michael Benson, Nick Land, Jonathan Asquith, 
Melda Donnelly and Simon Fraser to be independent. Nick Land  
is the Senior Independent Director. 
During the year under review the Group complied with the  
2010 Code requirement that at least half of the Board consist  
of independent Directors (excluding the Chairman). 
Biographical details of the Directors are given on page 30.  
The Board met six times during the year to review financial 
performance and strategy and to follow the formal schedule  
of matters reserved for its decision. Comprehensive Board papers, 
comprising an agenda and formal reports and briefing papers,  
are sent to Directors in advance of each meeting. Throughout their 
period in office, Directors are continually updated by means of written 
and verbal reports from senior executives and external advisors on the 
Group’s business, and the competitive and regulatory environments  
in which it operates, as well as on legal, corporate governance, 
corporate social responsibility and other relevant matters. 
In addition to its formal business, the Board received a number  
of briefings and presentations from executive management during  
the year covering a wide range of topics across the range of  
the Group’s business. All Directors have access to independent 
professional advice, if required, at the Company’s expense as well as 
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. New Directors 
appointed to the Board will receive advice as to the legal and  
other duties and obligations arising from the role of a director  
of a UK listed company within a full, formal and tailored induction 
programme. The Company Secretary, under the direction of the 
Chairman, is responsible for maintaining an adequate continuing 
education programme, reminding the Directors of their duties and 
obligations on a regular basis, ensuring good information flows 
between the Board, its committees and management and assisting 
with Directors’ continuing professional development needs.  
The Company’s Nominations Committee considers the appointment 
and replacement of Directors subject to the rules set out in the 
Articles, a summary of which is set out below.  
Under the Articles, the minimum number of Directors shall be two  
and the maximum shall be nine. Directors may be appointed by the 
Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board. A Director appointed 
by the Board must offer himself for election at the next Annual 
General Meeting of the Company following his appointment but  
he is not taken into account in determining the Directors or the 
number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.  
The Directors to retire by rotation must be those who held office at 
the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and did not 
retire at either of them or if they have held office with the Company 
for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the 
Annual General Meeting. The office of Director shall be vacated in 
other circumstances, including where (i) that Director resigns or is 
asked to resign; (ii) they are or have been suffering from mental ill 
health; (iii) they are absent without permission of the Board from 
meetings of the Board for six consecutive months; (iv) they become 
bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally; or (v) they are 
prohibited by law from being a Director. Notwithstanding these 
provisions the Board has adopted provision B.7.1 of the 2010 Code 
and therefore all Directors (excluding Jonathan Asquith who is to 
stand down from the Board) will retire and seek re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting on 31 October 2012. 
40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
 
 
Powers of the Directors 
Subject to the Company’s Articles, the Companies Acts and any 
directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business  
of the Company is managed by the Board, who may exercise all 
powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the 
business of the Company or not. 
Annual performance evaluation 
The 2010 Code recommends that the Board should undertake a 
formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees and individual Directors and that an externally facilitated 
evaluation should be undertaken at least once every three years. 
During the year, the Board undertook an externally facilitated 
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and 
individual Directors led by an independent consultant experienced  
in board evaluation. The external facilitator had no other connection 
with the Company. Meetings were held between each Director and 
the independent external facilitator in which issues and developments 
over the year were discussed and performance was considered by 
reference to the objectives of the Board and its committees. The issues 
raised during this process were discussed by the Board together. 
During the year, the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director, evaluated the performance of 
the Chairman and gave feedback on his performance as Chairman 
which was also reflected in the externally facilitated evaluation. The 
Board believes that, following the completion of the independently 
facilitated performance evaluation, the performance of the Directors 
continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate 
commitment to their roles. 
Board and committee attendance 
The table below sets out the number of pre-scheduled meetings  
of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by  
the Directors.  
Board and committee attendance 
 
Board 
Nominations 
Committee 
Audit 
and Risk 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Total number of 
scheduled meetings 
between 1 July 2011 
and 30 June 2012 6 2 4 4
Michael Benson 100% 100% – 100%
Mark Coombs
1
 100% – – –
Graeme Dell
1
 100% – – –
Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100%
Jonathan Asquith 100% 100% 100% 100%
Melda Donnelly 100% – 100% –
Simon Fraser
2
 100% – – –
1.  Members of executive management are invited to attend Board Committee meetings as required 
but do not attend  as members of those Committees. 
2. Simon Fraser joined the Board on 10 February 2012 and has attended all Board meetings since 
that date. 
Any Directors who are not members of Board Committees are also 
invited to attend meetings of such Committees as necessary. 
Board committees 
The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees to assist in the execution of its duties. 
All of these committees operate within written terms of reference, 
which are reviewed annually. In order to strengthen and enhance the 
Audit Committee’s oversight on risk matters the terms of reference 
and agenda for the committee were revised from September 2011 
and the committee was changed to the Audit and Risk Committee in 
order to reflect this role. The terms of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee have also been revised to give due regard to the provisions 
and recommendations of the FSA’s Remuneration Code.  
The chairman of each committee reports regularly to the Board.  
Each of the committees is authorised, at the Company’s expense, to 
obtain external legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying 
out its duties. Only the members of each committee are entitled to 
attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and 
external advisors, may be invited to attend as appropriate. 
Current membership of the committees is shown in the relevant 
sections below. The composition of these committees is reviewed 
annually, taking into consideration the recommendations of the 
Nominations Committee. 
Audit and Risk Committee 
During the year under review the Audit and Risk Committee 
comprised the following Non-executive Directors and was fully 
compliant with the 2010 Code: 
Nick Land (Chairman)  
Melda Donnelly 
Jonathan Asquith  
The Board is satisfied that for the year under review and thereafter 
Nick Land, Jonathan Asquith and Melda Donnelly had and have  
recent and relevant commercial and financial knowledge and 
experience to satisfy the provisions of the 2010 Code. Nick Land  
and Melda Donnelly are Chartered Accountants and Jonathan Asquith 
has previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Schroders plc and 
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. 
A report on the activities of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out 
below. The terms of reference for the committee take into account 
the requirements of the 2010 Code and are available for inspection  
at the registered office and at the Annual General Meeting and can 
also be found on the Company website at www.ashmoregroup.com. 
The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee include: 
– monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company, any formal announcements relating to the Company’s 
financial performance and any significant financial issues and 
judgements contained in them;  
– reviewing the Group’s draft annual financial statements and interim 
results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board and 
reviewing the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon; 
– reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the Group’s 
financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of 
auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement  
and proposed fees for the audit; 
– making recommendations to the Board for a resolution  
to be put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment  
of the external auditors; 
– reviewing the level and amount of external auditor  
non-audit services; 
– reviewing the Group’s internal control and risk management 
systems, reporting to the Board on the results of this review  
and receiving updates on key risks and controls;  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Corporate Governance Report continued  
 
– overseeing and challenging the day-to-day risk management  
and oversight arrangements of the executive and the design  
and execution of stress and scenario testing; 
– overseeing and challenging due diligence on risk issues relating  
to material transactions and strategic proposals that are subject  
to approval by the Board;  
– considering and approving the remit of the risk management 
function and ensuring that it has adequate independence; and 
– reviewing the Audit and Risk Committee’s terms of reference, 
carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting 
the satisfactory operation of the Committee. 
The Audit and Risk Committee has requested and received reports 
from management to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms  
of reference. 
The Audit and Risk Committee also has responsibility for reviewing  
the Company’s arrangements on whistle-blowing, ensuring that 
appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to 
raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable 
subsequent follow-up action. 
The Audit and Risk Committee has the authority to seek any 
information it requires to perform its duties from any employee  
of the Company and to obtain outside legal or other independent 
professional advice as appropriate.  
The number of Audit and Risk Committee meetings and their 
attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 41. 
Representatives of KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Finance Director, 
Group Head of Risk and representatives of the internal auditors,  
Ernst & Young, attend each meeting as a matter of practice and 
presentations are made by the executive management as required.  
Remuneration Committee 
The Group complied during the year with the 2010 Code requirement 
that the Remuneration Committee should consist of at least three 
independent Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee 
was  chaired throughout the financial year by Jonathan Asquith with 
Michael Benson and Nick Land as members, all of whom served on 
the Remuneration Committee throughout the year. Jonathan Asquith 
has indicated his wish not to stand for re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting on 31 October 2012 and Nick Land has assumed  
the role of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the date 
of this report.  
A report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is included 
in the remuneration report on pages 46 to 53. The terms of reference 
for the Remuneration Committee take into account the requirements 
of the 2010 Code and are available for inspection at the registered 
office, at the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on the 
Company website at www.ashmoregroup.com.  
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee include:  
– reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the 
remuneration policy; 
– reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval  
by the Board and shareholders;  
– ensuring that members of the executive management of the 
Company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance and that remuneration incentives are 
compatible with the Company’s risk policies and systems;  
– making recommendations to the Board as to the Company’s 
framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and to 
determine their total individual remuneration packages including 
bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other  
share awards;  
– ensuring that a significant proportion of Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to corporate and 
individual performance and that performance conditions are 
stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of the 
Company; and 
– ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments 
made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is  
not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised. 
Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are set out  
in the remuneration report on pages 46 to 53.  
The number of Remuneration Committee meetings and their 
attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 41.  
In addition, and in accordance with the terms of reference, the 
members of the Remuneration Committee were also consulted  
on a range of issues during the year, including specific matters  
related to recruitment. 
Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee comprises three Non-executive Directors, 
Michael Benson as Chairman, Nick Land and Jonathan Asquith. All 
Directors served on the Nominations Committee throughout the year.  
The terms of reference for the Committee take into account the 
requirements of the 2010 Code and are available for inspection  
at the registered office and at the Annual General Meeting and can 
also be found on the Company website at www.ashmoregroup.com. 
The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee include:  
– reviewing the structure, size and composition (including the skills, 
knowledge and experience) of the Board and its committees;  
– reviewing annually the time required from each Non-executive 
Director, using performance evaluation to assess whether the  
Non-executive Director is giving sufficient commitment to the role; 
– giving full consideration to succession planning in the course of its 
work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing 
the Company and what skills and expertise are needed on the 
Board in the future; and 
– ensuring that on appointment to the Board, Non-executive Directors 
receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is 
expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service 
and involvement outside Board meetings. 
During the year the activities of the Nominations Committee  
have included reviewing the requirements for potential independent 
non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board, proposals for 
re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting, and reviewing 
its terms of reference. The number of Nominations Committee 
meetings and their attendance by the Directors are set out in the  
table on page 41. 
42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
 
 
Relations with shareholders 
The Company places great importance on communication with  
its investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means  
of regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts  
and the financial press throughout the year.  
Annual and interim reports and trading updates are widely  
distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Group’s 
performance. These documents are also made available on the 
Company’s website where formal regulatory information service 
announcements are also posted. The Chief Executive Officer and 
Group Finance Director make regular reports to the Board on investor 
relations and on specific discussions with major shareholders and the 
Board receives copies of all research published on the Company.  
The 2012 Annual General Meeting will be attended by all Directors, and 
the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees will be available to answer questions. Private investors are 
encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting. 
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they  
have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve  
or for which such contact is inappropriate. The Company continues  
to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of the 
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and any new Directors.  
The Group will announce via a regulatory information service the 
number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General 
Meeting and any other general meetings. 
Internal control and risk management 
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2010, the Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems and for reviewing their 
effectiveness. Such systems and their review are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. 
Within the Group’s over-arching corporate governance framework, 
through which the Board aims to maintain full and effective control 
over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance 
issues, an internal control framework has been established, against 
which the Company is able to assess the effectiveness of its risk 
management and internal control systems. The Group’s system  
of internal control is embedded within its routine operations,  
and a strong control culture is combined with clear management 
responsibility and accountabilities for individual control. The internal 
control framework provides an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the Group’s significant risks, and has been 
in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of 
the annual report and accounts. The process is regularly reviewed by 
the Board, and accords with the guidance in the document “Internal 
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, 
October 2005” (“Turnbull Guidance”) published by the Financial 
Reporting Council. 
The Executive Directors oversee the key risks and controls and the risk 
management process on a day to day basis, and have put in place an 
organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and 
delegation of authority.  
The Group’s Risk and Compliance Committee (“RCC”), which meets 
monthly, is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management  
and internal control environment and for assessing the impact of the 
Group’s ongoing activities on its regulatory and operational exposures. 
The RCC is chaired by the Head of Risk Management and Control – 
the other members are the Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director, the Head of IT, Operations and Performance Management, 
the Group Head of Compliance, the Head of Information Technology, 
the Head of Legal and Transaction Management and the Head of 
Finance. Responsibility for risk identification is shared amongst these 
senior management personnel, with each such individual being 
responsible for day-to-day control of risk in their business area. 
There are established policies and procedures to enable the Board, 
through its regular meetings, to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control systems, which cover all significant 
identified internal and external strategic, operational, financial, 
compliance and other risks, including the Group’s ability to comply 
with all applicable laws, regulations and clients’ requirements.  
The Board has continued to receive regular financial and other 
management information related to the control of expenditure against 
budget and the making of investments, and for monitoring the 
Group’s business and its performance, and regular compliance and 
risk reports.  
Through the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board has conducted  
an annual review and assessment of the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control systems, and has identified no 
significant failings or weaknesses during this review. In conducting  
this review, the Board has considered the periodic reports received 
throughout the year on compliance and risk matters, including reports 
provided by the internal audit function, and the annual report on risk 
management and internal control processes from the RCC. The Board 
is satisfied that appropriate planned actions continue to be effective in 
improving controls as the Group develops, and its overall assessment 
of the control framework continues to be satisfactory. 
The main features of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems are as follows: 
Policies 
– core values and policies together comprising the Group’s high level 
principles and controls, with which all staff are expected to comply; 
– manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business units, 
with procedures for reporting weaknesses and for monitoring 
corrective action; 
– a code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting 
compliance therewith; and 
– a defined operational framework and organisational structure with 
appropriate delegation of authority with accountability that has 
regard to acceptable levels of risk. 
Processes 
– a planning framework is maintained, which incorporates a Board 
approved strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit; 
– regular business reviews of the Company and its subsidiaries  
are performed by senior management, which consider the  
ongoing effects of change and the short, medium and long-term  
operational requirements; 
– quarterly senior management systems and controls reviews are 
undertaken by the Group Finance Director with the Group Head  
of Compliance, and Group Head of Risk Management and Control 
in which the Chief Executive Officer participates at least annually. 
These reviews include evaluation of the potential impact and 
likelihood of identified risks and possible new risk areas; 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Corporate Governance Report continued  
 
– a matrix of top risks identifies key business, operational, financial 
and compliance risks, and considers the likelihood of those risks 
crystallising and the resultant impact. The inherent risk within  
each business activity has been identified, with the adequacy and 
mitigating effect of existing processes being assessed to determine 
a current residual risk level for each such activity. On the basis that 
further mitigants may be employed over time, a target residual risk 
for each activity after one to two years has been defined; 
– key risk indicator (“KRI”) statistics are reported to and analysed  
by the RCC. The KRIs indicate trends in the Group’s risk profile, 
assist in the reduction of errors and potential financial losses and 
seek to prevent exposure by proactively dealing with a potential  
risk situation before an event actually occurs;  
– there are well-defined procedures governing the appraisal and 
approval of corporate investments, including seeding of funds and 
purchase of own shares, with detailed investment and divestment 
approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority 
and regular post-investment reviews; 
– the Group has secure information and communication systems 
capable of capturing relevant and up to date information by 
relevant personnel, with oversight and direction provided by  
the Group’s IT Steering Group, which implements the IT strategy, 
establishing and overseeing the operation of all IT projects;  
– strong financial controls are maintained to ensure accurate 
accounting for transactions, appropriate authorisation limits to 
contain exposures, and reliability of data processing and integrity  
of information generated; 
– an in-depth annual budget is reviewed and approved by the  
Board and is regularly subject to update through a formal  
re-forecasting process; 
– oversight and management of the Group’s foreign currency cash 
flows and balance sheet exposures are the responsibility of the  
FX Management Committee which determines the appropriate  
level of hedging required and appropriate accounting treatment; 
– Board members receive monthly management accounts and other 
relevant reports, which highlight actual financial performance 
against budget/forecast and prior year period; 
– detailed investment reports are prepared and discussed at each of 
the sub-committee meetings of the Group’s investment committee, 
which take place weekly or monthly depending on investment 
theme, with follow up actions agreed and implemented within  
a strict operational framework; 
– oversight of the valuation methodologies used for clients’  
fund investments that cannot be readily externally priced is the 
responsibility of the Group’s Pricing Methodology and Valuation 
Committee (“PMVC”) which meets monthly to review the current 
valuation methodology for each of these investments and to 
propose an updated valuation methodology where appropriate; 
– the Group Compliance function, whose responsibility is to ensure 
that the Group at all times meets its regulatory obligations, and  
to integrate regulatory compliance procedures and best practices 
within the Group, undertakes an ongoing compliance monitoring 
programme covering all the relevant areas of the Group’s 
operations, to seek to identify any breach of compliance with 
applicable financial services regulation, which includes real-time 
investment restrictions monitoring of client mandate requirements. 
Results of the compliance monitoring programme are reported to 
the RCC in support of the overall risk management framework; and 
– the development of new products is an important part of the 
Group’s business in responding to clients’ needs and changes in  
the financial markets and is the responsibility of the New Products 
Committee which approves new product launches. 
Verification 
– The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on  
the annual financial statements, the half year review and also 
independently and objectively review the approach of management 
to reporting operating results and financial condition; 
– the Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, receives  
half-yearly updates from the Group’s external auditors which 
include any control matters that have come to their attention; 
– annual control reports are reviewed independently by the Group’s 
external auditors pursuant to the International Standards on 
Assurance Engagements 3402 (“ISAE 3402”);  
– the internal audit function undertakes a programme of reviews  
of systems, processes and procedures as determined by the  
Board, reporting the results together with their advice and 
recommendations, and assisting in the presentation of their findings 
to the Audit and Risk Committee. The internal audit function is 
currently provided under an outsourcing arrangement by Ernst & 
Young – this arrangement will be subject to periodic review. 
By order of the Board 
Michael Perman 
Company Secretary 
10 September 2012
44 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 
 
 
The composition and summary terms of reference of the Audit  
and Risk Committee are set out on pages 41 and 42. 
The principal activities of the Audit and Risk Committee through  
the year were as follows: 
Financial statements  
The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the 2012 Annual Report, 
Interim Results, Preliminary Results and reports from the external 
auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcome of their reviews and  
audits in 2012. 
External auditors  
The external auditors attend all meetings of the Committee. During 
the year the Committee reviewed the scope and findings of the 
external auditors’ work in connection with the interim review and  
the annual audit. 
The Committee also received a comprehensive presentation from  
the auditors demonstrating to its satisfaction how their independence 
and objectivity is maintained when providing non-audit services.  
The Committee has agreed the types of permitted and non-permitted 
non-audit services and those which require explicit prior approval. All 
contracts for non-audit services in excess of £25,000 must be notified 
to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and approved  
by him.  
During the year the value of non-audit services provided by KPMG 
amounted to £0.5 million (2011: £0.4 million). Whilst non-audit 
services as a proportion of audit services amount to approximately  
125 per cent, the overall quantum of non-audit services is not 
considered to be material given that Ashmore operates within a highly 
regulated market and that a significant proportion of the non-audit 
services provided relate to the following matters:  
– reporting on our half year financial statements;  
– providing assurance reports to the FSA (as the regulator of Ashmore 
Investment Management Limited); 
– the provision of tax compliance services; 
– acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances 
provided there is no element of valuation work involved; and  
– reporting on internal controls as required under ISAE 3402 (formerly 
SAS 70) pursuant to investment management industry standards. 
The Committee considers the assurance provided by the Group 
auditors on these items to be strictly necessary in the interests of the 
business and that, by their nature, these services could not easily be 
provided by another professional auditing firm.  
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence/transaction 
services and litigation services may be permitted with the Committee’s 
prior approval. The provision of internal audit services, valuation  
work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of  
self-review are not permitted under any circumstance. During the year 
there were no circumstances where KPMG Audit plc was engaged  
to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.  
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain 
independent and has recommended to the Board that a resolution  
be put to shareholders for the re-appointment of the auditors, and 
their remuneration and terms of engagement, at the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company. 
From time to time during the year the Non-executives met with  
the external and internal auditors without the Executive Directors 
being present so as to provide a forum to raise any matters of concern 
in confidence. The Committee also received a report from the 
independent KPMG team responsible for the audits of the Ashmore 
publicly traded funds.  
Internal controls and risk management  
In September 2011 the terms of reference  of the Committee  
were updated  to better reflect its role and responsibilities for Risk 
related matters. At the same time its name was changed to the Audit 
and Risk Committee. The Head of Risk attends all meetings of the 
Committee and provides regular reports and updates on various topics 
including operational risk, market risk, the valuation methodology for 
hard to price assets, and counterparty risk.  
The Committee received a report on, and conducted a review and 
evaluation of, the system of internal controls and risk management 
operated within the Company pursuant to the Turnbull Guidance  
prior to full review by the Board. 
Internal audit 
Ernst & Young have acted as internal auditors since 1 July 2009 
reporting directly to the Committee. The Committee has received  
reports on its findings and programme of reviews at each of its 
meetings during the course of the year.  
Audit and Risk Committee effectiveness 
During the year an independently facilitated review of the 
effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and the Directors was 
conducted in accordance with provision B.6.2 of the 2010 Code.  
The review concluded that the Committee and its members were 
working effectively. 
Nick Land 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 
10 September 2012 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Remuneration Report 
 
Unaudited information 
Introduction 
This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board in accordance 
with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. This report sets out the Company’s 
remuneration policy and gives details of the compensation of Directors 
for the year ended 30 June 2012. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises three Non-executive 
Directors. Throughout the year Jonathan Asquith served as Chairman 
with Michael Benson and Nick Land as members. Jonathan Asquith 
has indicated his wish not to stand for re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting on 31 October 2012 and Nick Land has assumed  
the role of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the  
date of this report. The Remuneration Committee meets as often  
as required to discharge its duties and met four times during the 
period from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012. Details of attendance  
at all meetings for the financial year under review are contained in  
the table on page 41 of the Corporate Governance Report. The Chief 
Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, Company Secretary and  
the Head of Human Resources attended all or part of the meetings  
at the invitation of the Remuneration Committee but took no part  
in the determination of their own remuneration. 
The primary role of the Remuneration Committee is to make 
recommendations to the Board as to the Company’s framework  
or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors of the Board, the Company Secretary and employees identified 
as Code and Control staff for the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) 
remuneration code (“Code”). The Code defines Code staff as staff  
who have a material impact on the firm’s risk profile, including a  
person who performs a significant influence function for a firm, senior 
managers (as defined) and risk takers. Control staff are those employed 
in Control functions such as Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit.  
The Remuneration Committee decides on total individual remuneration 
for Code staff and agrees the total individual remuneration for Control 
staff. In addition the Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
ensuring that the Company’s remuneration policy for all staff is 
compliant with the Code. 
Remuneration policy 
The key objectives of the Company’s remuneration policy are to 
ensure that: 
– levels of remuneration are relative to the Company’s market and 
sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors and employees  
of the quality required to run the Company successfully; 
– the Executive Directors and employees receive sufficient incentives 
to motivate enhanced performance;  
– Executive Directors and employees are fairly rewarded for their 
individual contributions to the Company’s overall performance; and  
– effective risk management is promoted and encouraged by 
Executive Directors and employees. 
In determining this policy, the Remuneration Committee takes into 
account a broad range of factors including the interests of the 
shareholders, the financial and commercial health of the Company 
and guidance provided by the FSA or other relevant bodies.  
In addition, the Heads of Risk and Compliance actively contribute  
to the annual reviews of all employees, and their feedback is taken 
into consideration when determining employee remuneration. 
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available 
on the Company website at www.ashmoregroup.com. 
Advisors 
The Remuneration Committee was advised, when considered 
appropriate, by Hewitt New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon 
Hewitt Limited) throughout the period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012.  
The Company participates in the McLagan Partners compensation survey 
from which relevant data is provided to the Remuneration Committee. 
Neither of the above has any connection with the Company other 
than providing compensation advice and/or information. 
Service agreements 
Each Executive Director has entered into a service agreement with  
the Company. The service agreements do not have a fixed term but 
include provisions for termination on 12 months’ notice by either 
party. Service agreements contain no contractual entitlement to 
receive bonus payments or to participate in the Company’s share 
plans. Participation in these arrangements is discretionary and subject 
to approval by the Remuneration Committee. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year period. 
Their continued engagement is subject to the requirements of the 
Company’s Articles relating to the retirement of Directors by rotation. 
The Company has maintained directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
cover throughout the period. 
The table below provides details of the Directors’ service agreements/ 
letters of appointment for current Directors and Directors who served 
during the year.
46 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
 
Directors’ service contracts Date appointed Director Contract date Notice period Expiry/review date 
Executive Directors 
    
Mark Coombs 3 December 1998 21 September 2006 1 year Rolling
Graeme Dell 19 December 2007 3 December 2007 1 year Rolling
     
Non-executive Directors  
Michael Benson – Chairman 3 July 2006 3 July 2009 1 month 3 July 2015
Nick Land 3 July 2006 3 July 2009 1 month 3 July 2015
Jonathan Asquith  1 September 2008 1 September 2011 1 month 1 September 2014
Melda Donnelly 1 July 2009 1 July 2009 1 month 1 July 2015
Simon Fraser 10 February 2012 10 February 2012 1 month 10 February 2015
Executive Directors are permitted to serve as Non-executive Directors of other companies where there is no competition to the Company’s 
business activities and where these duties do not interfere with the individual’s ability to perform his duties for the Company. In the reporting 
year neither Mark Coombs nor Graeme Dell held any Non-executive Directorships. 
Michael Benson, Nick Land and Melda Donnelly were invited, and agreed, to serve a further three years after their three year periods of 
appointment expired on 3 July 2012, 3 July 2012 and 1 July 2012 respectively. There are no provisions for compensation of Executive Directors 
on early termination save as described below: 
(a) the contracts for Mr Coombs and Mr Dell contain provisions entitling the Company to terminate employment without notice subject to 
making 12 monthly payments thereafter equivalent to monthly basic pay and benefits; and 
(b) all Directors’ contracts entitle the Company to give pay in lieu of notice. 
 
Executive remuneration components 
The Company rewards exceptional performance and so emphasises 
the variable components of the remuneration package. 
The pay model adopted for the Executive Directors is similar to that  
of employees more generally within the Group, and the Remuneration 
Committee considers the levels and principles applying to the 
remuneration of other employees of the Group when determining 
Directors’ remuneration. 
All employees are subject to capped salaries and participate in a 
Group-wide bonus pool. Since performance-related pay is based  
on the principle of profit sharing, all employees share in the success  
of the business with remuneration rising and falling as a result of 
Group profit performance. The extent that each individual shares in 
the actual profit of the Group varies by individual performance and 
the role undertaken within the business. Part of individuals’ bonuses 
are deferred for a period of five years for the majority of employees 
through participation in the Company’s long-term incentive plans. 
Fixed compensation 
Fixed compensation components comprise basic salary and benefits  
in kind. Basic salaries are capped, as it is the Company’s policy to 
maintain its fixed cost base at a low level. 
Periodic reviews are undertaken in terms of an appropriate level at 
which to cap maximum annual salary. Both the Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Finance Director earn a basic salary of £100,000. There 
have been no increases to their base salary levels during the year 
under review. 
Variable compensation 
The Company’s discretionary variable compensation provides  
for both an annual cash bonus, which is non-pensionable, and 
deferred share awards. The total variable compensation is determined 
by reference to the individual’s performance against agreed  
criteria, the profitability of the Company and the external market. 
Performance criteria are established appropriate to the individual’s 
role, to include such measures as growth in assets under management 
(“AuM”), profitability where appropriate, an assessment of the 
individual’s adherence to the Company’s risk and compliance 
principles and culture and other key areas of individual performance. 
The Company’s intention is to pay to members of staff an amount  
in total of up to 25% of earnings before variable compensation, 
interest and tax (“EBVCIT”) in respect of its total variable 
compensation comprising cash bonus, including social security 
obligations thereon, and share-based payments, including fair value 
and social security costs in this respect. For the financial year ended  
30 June 2012 the provision for variable compensation is at 18%  
of EBVCIT. In view of the stringent salary controls which the Group 
operates the Remuneration Committee does not consider it necessary 
or appropriate to set a cap on individual discretionary bonus awards, 
although such awards will be made within the overall provision for 
variable compensation as set out above. 
40% of any discretionary variable compensation earned by  
Executive Directors is received in the form of a restricted share or 
restricted phantom share award (at the prevailing share price without 
enhancement) which is deferred and vests after a period of five  
years subject to achieving a relative total shareholder return (“TSR”) 
performance target. In addition, the opportunity exists to commute  
up to 50% of the annual cash bonus that would otherwise be earned 
into the Company’s shares or phantom shares (also at the prevailing 
share price without enhancement) or to take the entire remaining 
bonus as cash. If a proportion of bonus is voluntarily commuted,  
the deferral period is also five years with commuted shares then 
subject to a matching award that is currently of equal value to the 
bonus deferred. Matching awards are subject to the same relative  
TSR performance condition. Full details of share awards and the TSR 
performance target are set out on page 50.  
The Remuneration Committee has considered the final rules on 
remuneration in financial companies issued by the FSA as applied  
to the Company as a ‘tier 4’ firm, and in particular its emphasis on the 
need to ensure that remuneration plans do not incentivise excessive 
risk taking and short-termism. The Committee believe that the nature 
of the variable remuneration plans in place have been structured 
appropriately in light of the Company’s business model and risk 
profile, the proportion of variable remuneration of Executive Directors 
and senior staff across the business which is deferred (a minimum  
of 40% of any bonus earned), the length of the deferral period  
(five years being ahead of the period required by the FSA for firms in 
tiers 1-3 and other relevant guidance) and the performance conditions 
attached to the deferred awards (i.e. the part of the bonus that is 
converted into a restricted share award and any matching share award 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Remuneration Report continued  
 
are subject to a TSR performance condition that acts as a form of 
‘clawback’ in that the shares will not ultimately vest in full unless the 
Company’s TSR is at upper quartile measured against other global 
investment management firms over the five-year deferral period).  
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has the authority to 
clawback part or all of the deferred remuneration of Executive 
Directors during its five-year restricted period, in the exceptional event 
that either the remuneration was awarded on the basis of materially 
misstated results, or an Executive Director commits gross misconduct. 
The authority to apply clawback applies to remuneration awarded in 
respect of the 2011-2012 performance year and has been effective 
from the 2010-2011 performance period.  
Where an Executive Director has waived deferred variable 
compensation in return for the Remuneration Committee considering 
a contribution to charity, and the Remuneration Committee has 
approved such a contribution, the Remuneration Committee will  
not apply clawback to the amount waived to charity, but has the 
discretion to reduce present or future year variable compensation  
by equivalent amounts.  
Until the year ended 30 June 2009, for reasons related to Rule 9 of 
the Takeover Code, Mark Coombs chose to waive any shares offered 
to him as part of his variable remuneration as the issuance of further 
shares to him would have increased his existing shareholdings to the 
extent that it would trigger a mandatory bid for all shares. During 
prior years he therefore asked the Remuneration Committee to 
consider an appropriate equivalent donation to be made to a charity 
or charities nominated by him and the Remuneration Committee  
has agreed to this. Any equivalent donation made to a charity is paid 
to the charity annually in instalments of one fifth of the value of the 
award over a period equivalent to the five-year vesting period, which 
would have otherwise applied to a share award. Ongoing payments to 
the charity are dependent on Mark Coombs’ continued employment.  
Mark Coombs’ performance measures include stretch targets for EBIT 
and AuM growth as well as the progression of strategic opportunities 
and operational development. Targets for EBIT, AuM growth and 
investment performance were not met in certain cases during the 
period. Measures relating to the progression of strategic opportunities 
and operational development met the committee’s expectations in 
most areas in the year ended 30 June 2012. Similar measurements  
will be applied in the financial year ending 30 June 2013. 
Graeme Dell’s performance measurements are a basket of 
operational, strategic and compliance related targets pertaining to  
his areas of responsibility, including finance, technology, compliance, 
operations, Ashmore’s overseas operations and investor relations. 
While the committee was satisfied with performance in a number  
of these areas, certain key corporate and management targets were 
not fully met in the year ended 30 June 2012. Similar performance 
measures will be applied to the financial year ending 30 June 2013. 
The balance between the fixed and variable elements of total 
compensation for each of the Executive Directors for the year ended 
30 June 2012 is shown in the table below prior to any waivers made 
to charity and prior to any elections made to commute cash bonus 
into bonus shares or bonus phantom shares. 
Total compensation  Fixed 
Variable 
 – cash 
Variable 
– deferred Total 
Mark Coombs  3% 58% 39% 100%
Graeme Dell 17% 50% 33% 100%
Mark Coombs has requested to waive 10% of any total  
bonus that would otherwise be awarded to him. He asked the 
Remuneration Committee to consider an appropriate equivalent 
donation to be made to a charity or charities nominated by him  
and the Remuneration Committee has agreed to this. 50% of the 
amount waived will be donated to the Ashmore Foundation, more 
details of which can be found in the corporate social responsibility 
section of this report on pages 35 to 37, and 50% to a charity or 
charities of his choice. 
Long-term share award plans 
As a business which is completely reliant upon the intellectual  
capital of its people, the Board considers it essential to have in place 
share incentive arrangements which provide a significant element of 
“at risk” compensation and which are designed to attract, motivate 
and retain highly qualified executives, investment management 
professionals, and other key employees who are critical to our  
long-term success and to align their interests with those of our clients 
and shareholders.  
The overall limits operated under the live plans described below,  
which were established prior to the listing of the Company, are 
designed to fulfil these objectives. The number of shares which  
may be issued in aggregate under any employee share plan of the 
Company over any 10-year period following Admission is limited  
to 15% of the Company’s issued share capital at that time. The 
Company’s obligations under the share plans can be met by newly 
issued shares in the Company or shares purchased in the market  
by the trustees of an employee benefit trust (“EBT”). During the 
period all of the awards that vested were met by shares from the EBT. 
As detailed in note 21 of the accounts, the EBT continues to make 
market purchases of shares to satisfy current and future awards. 
At 30 June 2012 the Company had issued 3.65% of the Company’s 
issued share capital under employee share plans to its staff.  
The Company operates three share award plans. All employees, 
including Executive Directors, are eligible to receive awards under  
the share award plans.  
48 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
The Company Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan (“Omnibus Plan”)  
This plan was adopted on 11 October 2006. 
As described in the variable compensation section above, employees 
routinely receive a proportion of their remuneration in the form of 
restricted shares, which vest after five years but qualify for dividends 
from the date of award. Employees who receive an award of restricted 
shares under the Omnibus Plan may also be given the opportunity  
to commute cash bonus that would otherwise be awarded into bonus 
shares. Should employees take up this option, the Company may 
match the award with matching shares. Bonus and matching awards 
are eligible for dividends or equivalent from the date of award. All 
share awards for employees who remain employed by the Company 
cliff vest at five years. 
In the case of Executive Directors restricted and matching share 
awards will be subject to Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
performance conditions. Bonus shares will not be subject to a TSR 
performance condition as the Executive Directors will have waived 
cash bonus in order to receive them. 
Awards under the Omnibus Plan are subject to good and bad  
leaver provisions. Should an award holder leave employment for 
reasons that would categorise them as a bad leaver, all restricted and 
matching share awards will be forfeited. Should an award holder leave 
employment for reasons that would categorise them as a good leaver, 
then restricted and matching share awards would generally vest on a 
pro-rated basis. Bonus shares will vest and be transferred to the award 
holder free of restrictions upon termination of employment for any 
reason other than dismissal for cause or personal bankruptcy. 
The Omnibus Plan also allows the issue of option and share awards  
of different types. No options have been issued under this plan during 
the year and this is not current policy for Executive Directors. 
The Omnibus Plan includes individual limits in respect of option and 
share awards made to Executive Directors in any annual period, 
whereby an award will be limited and take effect so that (a) no 
participant who is an Executive Director of the Company is granted 
market value options, discounted options or premium cost options  
in any annual period over more than 2,000,000 ordinary shares of 
0.01 pence each, and (b) no participant who is an Executive Director 
of the Company is granted restricted share or restricted phantom 
share awards (or equivalent conditional rights to shares) in any annual 
period over more than 1,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each 
(such annual limits do not include bonus shares or matching shares).  
If there are exceptional circumstances that the Remuneration 
Committee considers justify making awards in excess of these  
limits, the Remuneration Committee may, in respect of the relevant 
participant, apply double the limits above. Bonus shares represent 
mandatorily or voluntarily waived annual bonus entitlement and the 
Omnibus Plan also contains a limit on the ratio of matching shares to 
bonus shares of three to one. The match applied to all awards made 
to date has been one to one and this ratio will be used for awards 
relating to the year ended 30 June 2012. 
The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme  
(“Option Scheme”) 
This scheme was established on 23 October 2000. Subsequent to  
the Company’s Admission in October 2006, it is not intended to issue 
any further options under this scheme. 
The Company Approved Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)  
This plan was adopted on 11 October 2006 and approved by HMRC 
on 1 June 2007. The CSOP provides for the granting of options up  
to a market value limit of £30,000 to each individual on the date  
of grant. No awards have been made under this plan to date. 
During the financial year share awards were granted to Graeme Dell 
from the Omnibus Plan on 21 September 2011 as set forth in the 
table below and as reported in the remuneration report for the year 
ended 30 June 2011. 
 
 
Ashmore Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan 
 
Number of   
restricted shares* 
Number of 
bonus shares 
Number of  
matching shares* Price of award Date of award Release date 
Graeme Dell 121,853    91,390 91,390  393.92 pence 22 September 2011 21 September 2016
* Awards subject to TSR performance measures. Bonus shares relate to a proportion of cash bonus voluntarily commuted into Ashmore shares by the recipient.  
During the financial year phantom share awards were granted to Mark Coombs from the Omnibus Plan on 21 September 2011 as set forth in 
the table below and as reported in the remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2011. 
Ashmore Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan 
 
Number of    
phantom    
restricted shares* 
Number of 
phantom bonus 
shares 
Number of  
phantom matching   
shares* Price of award Date of award Release date 
Mark Coombs 812,348   609,621 609,621 393.92 pence 21 September 2011 19 September 2016
* Awards subject to TSR performance measures. Bonus shares relate to a proportion of cash bonus voluntarily commuted into Ashmore shares by the recipient.  
In relation to these awards, Mark Coombs requested to waive 20% of any total bonus awarded to him. He asked the Remuneration Committee 
to consider an appropriate equivalent donation to be made to a charity or charities nominated by him and this was agreed by the Remuneration 
Committee. The figures shown are gross of this waiver. 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Remuneration Report continued  
 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance measure 
Relative TSR is used as the performance measure for long-term 
incentive awards at Ashmore. 
The Remuneration Committee has established a comparator group 
against which to measure TSR performance in respect of share awards 
to Executive Directors under CSOP and the Omnibus Plan (for awards 
of restricted shares, matching shares, restricted phantom shares  
and matching phantom shares). Share awards will not vest at below 
median performance. 25 per cent of share awards will vest for median 
performance rising to full vesting at upper quartile performance, with 
straight-line proportionate vesting between these two points. The 
performance period for awards under the Omnibus Plan is five years.  
TSR is considered appropriate as a well established and recognised 
performance measure which aligns the interests of the Executive 
Directors with those of the shareholders choosing to invest in other 
similar global investment management firms. In the absence of  
any other dedicated emerging markets investment management 
companies, a comparator group of 19 companies has been selected 
from global investment management companies of a similar size that 
are established and actively trading on stock markets.  
The Remuneration Committee decided to increase the number of 
companies used for TSR comparison purposes on 10 September 2009 
from the original 16 comparator companies. This was prompted by 
the suspension from trading or acquisition of three of the original 
comparator group companies. The Remuneration Committee felt that 
in order to ensure that a sustainable peer group was selected, the 
group should be increased for awards made in relation to the year 
ended 30 June 2009 forward. Since the increase of the comparator 
group to 19 companies, one has delisted thus reducing the 
comparator group to 18. There have been no other changes to the 
comparator group this year. 
In measuring the extent to which the Company’s TSR performance  
has met the relevant targets, the Remuneration Committee instructs 
its independent remuneration consultants to prepare a report for  
it to use as the basis for approving vesting of performance related 
share awards. 
TSR performance graph 
The graph below shows the growth in the Company’s share price since Admission against the FTSE 250 (both on a TSR basis). The graph also 
shows the FTSE 100 index as the index in which the Company is currently listed. 
The chart shows the value by 30 June 2012 of £100 invested in Ashmore Group on 11 October 2006 (the date of listing) compared to the  
value of £100 invested in either the FTSE 250 index, the FTSE 100 index and a bespoke index composed of the 2012 Peer Group for the 
Ashmore Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan. The other points are the values at intervening financial year ends. Each point at a financial year  
end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over June (i.e. 1 June to 30 June inclusive). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Thomson Reuters 
The chart shows the value by 30 June 2012 of £100 invested in Ashmore Group on 30 June 2007 compared to the value of £100 invested in 
the FTSE 250 index, the FTSE 100 index and a bespoke index composed of the Peer Group for the 2012 awards under the Ashmore Executive 
Omnibus Incentive Plan. The other points are the values at intervening financial year ends. Each point at a financial year end is calculated using 
an average total shareholder return value over June (i.e. 1 June to 30 June inclusive). 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
30 Jun 2007
Ashmore Group
Value of £100 invested on 30 June 2007
30 Jun 2008 30 Jun 2009 30 Jun 2010 30 Jun 2011 30 Jun 2012
FTSE 250 FTSE 100 Peer Group (2009 awards onwards)
£m
Total Return Performance Chart to 30 June 2012
50 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
Audited Information 
Pensions 
The Company operates a Group Self Invested Personal Pension (“GSIPP”). Executive Directors are entitled to join the GSIPP under which the 
Company makes contributions at 7 per cent of basic salary. There is no mandatory requirement for Executive Directors, or any employees, to 
contribute. Following the changes to pension legislation introduced from 6 April 2006, Mark Coombs has elected for employer contributions  
to cease and equivalent taxable cash payments have been made to him in lieu. Graeme Dell is a member of the GSIPP. 
Other benefits 
Executive Directors are entitled to a lump sum death-in-service benefit of four times basic salary. In addition, Executive Directors are entitled  
to membership of the Company medical insurance scheme, an annual health check and a number of other minor benefits to encourage and 
facilitate good health and a healthy work-life balance. 
Directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2012 was as follows: 
 
Notes 
Salaries
£ 
Fees
£ 
Benefits
£ 
Cash bonus 
£ 
Year ended 
30 June 2012 
Total
£ 
Year ended 
30 June 2011 
Total
£ 
Executive Directors  
Mark Coombs
1, 2, 3, 4, 7
 100,000 – £9,832 1,800,000 1,909,832 4,909,023
Graeme Dell
1, 5, 8
 100,000 – £9,832 300,000  409,832 829,023
  
Non-executive Directors  
Michael Benson
6
 – 150,000 – – 150,000 125,000
Jonathan Asquith
6
 – 60,000 – – 60,000 50,000
Nick Land
6
 – 60,000 – – 60,000 50,000
Melda Donnelly
6
 – 60,000 – – 60,000 60,000
Simon Fraser
6
 – 23,231 – – 23,031 –
1. Mark Coombs’ and Graeme Dell’s variable compensation is made up of 60 per cent cash bonus and 40 per cent deferred restricted share or restricted phantom awards. They may commute up to  
50 per cent of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of bonus share or bonus phantom awards and an equivalent value in matching share or matching phantom awards. All share or 
phantom awards will be reported in the Directors’ share award and phantom award tables in the year of grant. 
2. In respect of the year ended 30 June 2011 Mark Coombs chose to commute 50 per cent of his cash bonus thus reducing his cash bonus from £4,800,000 to £2,400,000.  
3. In respect of the year ended 30 June 2011 Mark Coombs chose to waive 20 per cent of any element of his potential variable compensation award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering 
and approving a contribution to a charity or charities nominated by himself, thus reducing his cash compensation further from £2,400,000 to £1,920,000.  
4. In respect of the year ended 30 June 2012 Mark Coombs chose to waive 10 per cent of any element of his potential variable compensation award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering 
and approving a contribution to a charity or charities nominated by himself. 
5. In respect of the year ended 30 June 2011 Graeme Dell chose to commute 50 per cent of his cash bonus thus reducing his cash bonus from £720,000 to £360,000.  
6. Non-executive Directors do not receive any additional fees for committee memberships. 
7. Mark Coombs’ benefits include payment in lieu of pension equivalent to 7 per cent of basic salary in the “Benefits” column. His benefits also include membership of the Company medical scheme. 
8. Graeme Dell’s benefits include a pension contribution of 7 per cent of basic salary in the “Benefits” column. His benefits also include membership of the Company medical scheme. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Remuneration Report continued  
 
Directors’ share awards 
The Company Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan: 
Executive Director Omnibus Share Award Date of Award Release Date 
Market Price on 
Date of Award 
Shares held at 
30 June 2011 
Shares held at
30 June 2012 
Graeme Dell Restricted Shares 3 December 2007 2 December 2012 £2.7525 272,480 272,480
 Restricted Shares 17 October 2008 16 October 2013 £1.6210 296,114 296,114
 Bonus Shares 17 October 2008 16 October 2013 £1.6210 222,085 222,085
 Matching Shares 17 October 2008 16 October 2013 £1.6210 222,085 222,085
 Restricted Shares 15 October 2009 15 October 2014 £2.7342 102,406 102,406
 Bonus Shares 15 October 2009 15 October 2014 £2.7342 76,805 76,805
 Matching Shares 15 October 2009 15 October 2014 £2.7342 76,805 76,805
 Restricted Shares 21 September 2010 21 September 2015 £3.1724 113,479 113,479
 Bonus Shares 21 September 2010 21 September 2015 £3.1724 85,109 85,109
 Matching Shares 21 September 2010 21 September 2015 £3.1724 85,109 85,109
 Restricted Shares 20 September 2011 19 September 2016 £3.9392 121,853
 Bonus Shares 20 September 2011 19 September 2016 £3.9392 91,390
 Matching Shares 20 September 2011 19 September 2016 £3.9392 91,390
Directors’ phantom awards 
The Company Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan: 
Executive Director Omnibus Share Award Date of Award Release Date Price of Award 
Awards held at 
30 June 2011 
Awards held at 
30 June 2012 
Mark Coombs Phantom Restricted Shares 29 October 2010 21 September 2015 £3.1724 882,613 882,613
 Phantom Bonus Shares 29 October 2010 21 September 2015 £3.1724 661,959 661,959
 Phantom Matching Shares 29 October 2010 21 September 2015 £3.1724 661,959 661,959
 Phantom Restricted Shares 20 September 2011 19 September 2016 £3.9392 812,348
 Phantom Bonus Shares 20 September 2011 19 September 2016 £3.9392 609,261
 Phantom Matching Shares 20 September 2011 19 September 2016 £3.9392 609,261
In relation to awards made in respect of the year ending 30 June 2010, Mark Coombs requested to waive 30 per cent of any total bonus 
awarded to him. In relation to awards made in respect of the year ending 30 June 2011, Mark Coombs requested to waive 20 per cent of any 
total bonus awarded to him. He asked the Remuneration Committee to consider an appropriate equivalent donation to be made to a charity  
or charities nominated by him and this was agreed by the Remuneration Committee. The figures shown are gross of this waiver.  
No share or phantom awards have been made to Non-executive Directors. 
  
52 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of Ashmore Group plc 
 30 June 2012 30 June 2011 
Executive Directors   
Mark Coombs 295,574,200 298,574,200
Graeme Dell 1,857,110 1,552,477
 
Non-executive Directors 
Michael Benson 29,000 29,000
Nick Land 43,000 29,000
Jonathan Asquith – –
Melda Donnelly 20,000 –
Simon Fraser – –
The market price of the Company’s shares as at 30 June 2012 was 348.5 pence. The highest share price during the financial year was  
420 pence. The lowest share price was 310.7 pence per share. 
By order of the Board 
Nick Land 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
10 September 2012 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Ashmore Group plc 
 
We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc for 
the year ended 30 June 2012 set out on pages 55 to 93, together 
referred to as “the Financial Statements”. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as  
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion  
on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 June 2012 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
– the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards  
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
– the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
– the information given in the Directors’ report (which includes  
that specific information presented in the Business review that is 
cross referred from the Principal activity and business review  
section of the Directors’ report) for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial  
statements; and 
– information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out  
on pages 40 to 44 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the  
financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
– a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by  
the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
– the Directors’ report, set out on page 33, in relation to  
going concern;  
– the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 44 
relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and 
– certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration.  
Paul Furneaux (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL 
10 September 2012
54 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
Year ended 30 June 2012 
 
 Notes 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Management fees  302.6 250.9
Performance fees  25.4 85.4
Other revenue  6.2 6.5
Total revenue  334.2 342.8
Distribution costs  (3.7) (1.6)
Foreign exchange 4 2.8 (7.4)
Net revenue  333.3 333.8
  
Losses on investment securities 18 (0.4) –
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 18 (0.4) –
Personnel expenses 6 (73.0) (71.5)
Other expenses  7 (34.4) (22.9)
Operating profit  225.1 239.4
  
Finance income 5 18.1 6.5
Profit before tax   243.2 245.9
  
Tax expense 8 (57.5) (55.7)
Profit for the year  185.7 190.2
  
Other comprehensive income:  
Exchange adjustments on translation of foreign operations   0.1 2.8
Net (losses)/gains on available-for-sale and held-for-sale financial assets including tax  (4.2) 4.0
Cash flow hedge intrinsic value gains/(losses) including tax  0.1 (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year  181.7 196.9
  
Profit attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  181.5 189.0
Non-controlling interests  4.2 1.2
Profit for the year  185.7 190.2
  
Total comprehensive income attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  177.2 195.3
Non-controlling interests  4.5 1.6
Total comprehensive income for the year  181.7 196.9
  
Earnings per share:  
Basic 9 26.82 28.08p
Diluted 9 25.80 26.63p
The notes on pages 62 to 93 form an integral part of these financial statements.
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Consolidated balance sheet 
Year ended 30 June 2012 
 
 Notes 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Assets  
Property, plant and equipment 12 4.2 3.4
Goodwill and intangible assets 13 98.1 103.2
Investment in associates 25 2.3 2.3
Non-current asset investments 18 5.6 3.5
Other receivables  0.7 0.8
Deferred acquisition costs 14 4.7 6.9
Deferred tax assets 16 15.1 17.9
Total non-current assets  130.7 138.0
  
Investment securities 18 60.6 –
Available-for-sale financial assets 18 54.6 41.4
Trade and other receivables 15 64.1 68.2
Derivative financial instruments 19 0.5 –
Cash and cash equivalents  346.6 369.0
Total current assets  526.4 478.6
  
Non-current assets held-for-sale 18 49.9 59.0
Total assets  707.0 675.6
  
Equity  
Issued capital 20 – –
Share premium   15.7 15.7
Retained earnings  516.6 473.5
Foreign exchange reserve  3.1 3.3
Available-for-sale and held-for-sale fair value reserve  2.5 6.7
Cash flow hedging reserve  (0.6) (0.7)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  537.3 498.5
  
Non-controlling interests  20.8 16.4
Total equity   558.1 514.9
  
Liabilities  
Trade and other payables 23 5.8 21.4
Deferred tax liabilities 16 1.0 1.6
Total non-current liabilities  6.8 23.0
  
Current tax  27.9 29.4
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 18 10.5 –
Derivative financial instruments 19 1.5 0.6
Trade and other payables 23 87.1 94.9
Total current liabilities  127.0 124.9
  
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 18 15.1 12.8
Total liabilities  148.9 160.7
Total equity and liabilities  707.0 675.6
The notes on pages 62 to 93 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Approved by the Board on 10 September 2012 and signed on its behalf by: 
Mark Coombs    Graeme Dell 
Chief Executive Officer   Group Finance Director
56 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
Year ended 30 June 2012 
 
 
Issued  
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve
£m 
Available-
for-sale (AFS) 
and held-
for-sale 
(HFS) fair 
value reserve
£m 
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Total equity 
attributable  
to equity 
holders of  
the parent 
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Balance at 1 July 2010 – 0.3 365.8 0.9 4.1 (0.6) 370.5 2.2 372.7
    
Issue of share capital – 15.4 – – – – 15.4 – 15.4
Non-controlling interests arising  
on acquisition of subsidiary – – – – – – – 12.9 12.9
Profit for the year – – 189.0 – – – 189.0 1.2 190.2
Other comprehensive income:    
Translation adjustments on 
foreign operations – – – 2.4 – – 2.4 0.4 2.8
Net gains on AFS/HFS assets 
including tax – – – – 9.3 – 9.3 – 9.3
Gains on AFS previously 
recognised in equity – – – – (5.3) – (5.3) – (5.3)
Cash flow hedge intrinsic  
value losses – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Other reserve movements – – 1.4 – (1.4) – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – (10.9) – – – (10.9) – (10.9)
Share-based payments – – 19.7 – – – 19.7 – 19.7
Deferred tax related to  
share-based payments – – (0.6) – – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Proceeds received on exercise  
of vested options – – 2.5 – – – 2.5 – 2.5
Dividends to equity holders – – (93.4) – – – (93.4) – (93.4)
Dividends to non-controlling 
interests – – – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Balance at 30 June 2011 – 15.7 473.5 3.3 6.7 (0.7) 498.5 16.4 514.9
    
Non-controlling interests arising  
on establishment of a subsidiary – – – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Profit for the year – – 181.5 – – – 181.5 4.2 185.7
Other comprehensive income:    
Translation adjustments on 
foreign operations – – – (0.2) – – (0.2) 0.3 0.1
Net loss on AFS/HFS assets 
including tax – – – – (3.8) – (3.8) – (3.8)
Gains on AFS previously 
recognised in equity – – – – (0.4) – (0.4) – (0.4)
Cash flow hedge intrinsic  
value gains – – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Purchase of own shares – – (40.8) – – – (40.8) – (40.8)
Share-based payments – – 4.6 – – – 4.6 5.7 10.3
Deferred tax related to  
share-based payments – – (1.7) – – – (1.7) – (1.7)
Proceeds received on exercise  
of vested options – – 0.5 – – – 0.5 – 0.5
Dividends to equity holders – – (101.0) – – – (101.0) – (101.0)
Dividends to non-controlling 
interests – – – – – – – (5.9) (5.9)
Balance at 30 June 2012 – 15.7 516.6 3.1 2.5 (0.6) 537.3 20.8 558.1
The notes on pages 62 to 93 form an integral part of these financial statements.
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Consolidated cash flow statement 
Year ended 30 June 2012 
 
 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Operating activities 
Cash receipts from customers 329.1 307.7
Cash paid to suppliers and employees (90.3) (54.3)
Cash generated from operations 238.8 253.4
Taxes paid (58.2) (62.1)
Net cash from operating activities 180.6 191.3
 
Investing activities 
Interest received 3.3 1.4
Acquisition of subsidiary – (41.2)
Changes in upfront consideration relating to acquisitions 0.4 –
Purchase of non-current asset investments (10.3) (0.9)
Purchase of non-current assets held-for-sale (59.9) (49.0)
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (5.5) (10.8)
Sale of available-for-sale financial assets 13.5 48.2
Purchase of investment securities (161.3) –
Sale of investment securities 160.0 –
Subscriptions to consolidated funds 6.3 –
Redemptions from consolidated funds (5.2) –
Cash balances arising on the consolidation of seed capital 1.9 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2.6) (0.5)
Net cash used in investing activities (59.4) (52.8)
 
Financing activities 
Dividends received 0.3 –
Dividends paid to equity holders (101.0) (93.4)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (5.9) (0.3)
Purchase of own shares (40.8) (10.9)
Net cash used in financing activities (147.4) (104.6)
 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (26.2) 33.9
 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 369.0 344.4
 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  3.8 (9.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 346.6 369.0
 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise: 
Cash at bank and in hand  346.6 369.0
 346.6 369.0
The notes on pages 62 to 93 form an integral part of these financial statements.
58 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Company balance sheet 
Year ended 30 June 2012 
 
 Notes 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Assets  
Property, plant and equipment 12 2.5 2.3
Goodwill and intangible assets 13 4.1 4.1
Investment in subsidiaries 25 20.1 20.1
Loans due from subsidiaries 15 17.3 7.9
Deferred tax assets 16 13.7 17.9
Total non-current assets  57.7 52.3
  
Trade and other receivables 15 215.2 136.0
Cash and cash equivalents  210.6 231.2
Total current assets  425.8 367.2
Total assets  483.5 419.5
  
Equity  
Issued capital 20 – –
Share premium   15.7 15.7
Retained earnings  419.5 356.4
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company  435.2 372.1
  
Liabilities  
Current tax  1.8 –
Trade and other payables 23 46.5 47.4
Total current liabilities  48.3 47.4
Total liabilities  48.3 47.4
Total equity and liabilities  483.5 419.5
The notes on pages 62 to 93 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Approved by the Board on 10 September 2012 and signed on its behalf by: 
Mark Coombs    Graeme Dell 
Chief Executive Officer   Group Finance Director
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Company statement of changes in equity 
Year ended 30 June 2012 
 
 
Issued 
capital
£m 
Share  
premium  
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Total equity 
attributable to 
equity holders 
of the parent
£m 
Balance at 1 July 2010 – 0.3 274.2 274.5
  
Issue of share capital – 15.4 – 15.4
Profit for the year – – 164.9 164.9
Purchase of own shares – – (10.9) (10.9)
Share-based payments – – 19.7 19.7
Deferred tax related to share-based payments – – (0.6) (0.6)
Proceeds received on exercise of vested options – – 2.5 2.5
Dividends to equity holders – – (93.4) (93.4)
Balance at 30 June 2011 – 15.7 356.4 372.1
  
Profit for the year – – 201.7 201.7
Purchase of own shares – – (40.8) (40.8)
Share-based payments – – 4.6 4.6
Deferred tax related to share-based payments – – (1.9) (1.9)
Proceeds received on exercise of vested options – – 0.5 0.5
Dividends to equity holders – – (101.0) (101.0)
Balance at 30 June 2012 – 15.7 419.5 435.2
The notes on pages 62 to 93 form an integral part of these financial statements.
60 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Company cash flow statement 
Year ended 30 June 2012 
 
 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Operating activities 
Cash receipts from customers and other Group companies 66.8 78.2
Cash paid to suppliers and employees and other Group companies (54.8) (56.2)
Cash generated from operations 12.0 22.0
Net cash from operating activities 12.0 22.0
 
Investing activities 
Interest received 1.2 0.8
Loans to subsidiaries (85.5) (73.5)
Dividends received from subsidiaries 194.8 170.0
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1.3) (0.1)
Net cash from investing activities 109.2 97.2
 
Financing activities 
Dividends paid (101.0) (93.4)
Purchase of own shares (40.8) (10.9)
Net cash used in financing activities (141.8) (104.3)
 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (20.6) 14.9
 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 231.2 222.0
 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  – (5.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 210.6 231.2
 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise: 
Cash at bank and in hand 210.6 231.2
 210.6 231.2
The notes on pages 62 to 93 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Notes to the financial statements 
 
1) Significant accounting policies 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently 
where applicable to all years presented in dealing with items which 
are considered material in relation to the Group and Company 
financial statements, with the exception of new standards and 
interpretations which have been adopted with effect from 1 July 2011 
as disclosed in policy note (a) below or where noted otherwise.  
(a) Basis of preparation – Group and Company 
The financial information has been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU, and applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006. Based on these adopted IFRS, the 
Directors have selected the accounting policies to be applied, which 
are set out below. 
The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except for the measurement at fair value of derivative 
financial instruments and certain financial assets that are held as 
available-for-sale.  
The Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of 
the Companies Act 2006 which allows it not to present its individual 
statement of comprehensive income and related notes.  
New and amended standards and interpretations 
•  Adopted by the Group 
The following new and amended IFRSs effective for the first  
time during the year and relevant to the Group did not have a  
material impact: 
– IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Amendment): The 
amendment was part of the IASB’s annual improvement project 
published in May 2010 and reduced the volume of disclosures 
regarding collateral held and clarified requirements when carrying 
amounts of financial assets do not reflect the maximum exposure  
to credit risk;   
– IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Amendment): The 
amendment requires additional disclosures relating to transfers of 
financial assets where an entity retains continuing involvement; 
– IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Amendment): The 
amendment clarified that an entity may present an analysis of each 
component of other comprehensive income either in the statement 
of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements; 
– IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (Amendment): This amendment 
clarified the definition of a related party to simplify the 
identification of related party relationships. 
•  Issued but not yet effective  
The following new standards and amendments issued are effective 
from 1 January 2013 unless stated otherwise and have not been  
early adopted:  
– Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive 
Income changes the grouping of items presented in the other 
comprehensive income based on whether they will be reclassified  
to profit or loss in future or not. Effective from 1 July 2012;  
– Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation  
(Effective from 1 January 2014) provides additional guidance for 
offsetting financial assets and liabilities while amendments to IFRS 7 
Financial instruments: Disclosures set out the corresponding new 
disclosure requirements; 
– IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised) primarily results in changes to 
the measurement, recognition and disclosure of post-employment 
benefit plans and termination costs;  
– IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (Revised) and IAS 28 
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (Revised) are  
revised accordingly as they are largely replaced by IFRS  
10 and 11, respectively; 
– IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 
replaces the current models for classification and measurement of 
financial instruments. Financial assets are to be classified into two 
measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those 
measured at amortised cost. Classification depends on an entity’s 
business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the 
instrument. Financial liabilities are not affected by the changes. 
Effective from 1 January 2015; 
– IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements revises the concept of 
control to relate it to whether an investor has exercisable power 
over an investee and consequently has exposure or rights to 
variable returns. Consolidation procedures remain unchanged;   
– IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements requires joint ventures to be accounted 
for using the equity accounting method while joint operations are 
accounted for based on the rights and obligations of each party in 
the arrangement; 
– IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities consolidates and 
enhances disclosure requirements relating to interests of an entity 
in other entities; 
– IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provides guidance on how to 
measure fair value where fair value is required or permitted under 
IFRS and enhances disclosures requirements.  
Adoption of IFRS 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 could have a significant effect 
on the Group’s financial statements the impact of which is still being 
considered by management.  
(b) Basis of consolidation  
(i) Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists 
when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern  
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits 
from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The 
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the 
date that control ceases. The results of subsidiaries acquired during  
the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income from the effective date of acquisition. 
(ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income 
and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
(iii) Associates 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence. 
Significant influence exists when the Group has the power to 
participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the 
investee but does not control those policies. 
Associates are accounted for using the equity method as described 
under IAS 28, whereby the investment is initially recognised at cost 
and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the 
Company’s share of net assets of the investee. 
(iv) Employee Benefit Trust 
An Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) acts as an agent for the purpose 
of the employee share-based compensation plans. Accordingly, the 
EBT is included within the Group and Company financial statements.  
(c) Business combinations 
Under the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, all business 
combinations are accounted for using the purchase method 
(acquisition accounting). The cost of a business combination is the 
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, 
liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the 
acquirer. The fair value of a business combination is calculated at the 
acquisition date by recognising the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
62 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, 
at their fair values at that date. The acquisition date is the date on 
which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree. The cost 
of a business combination in excess of the fair value of net identifiable 
assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible assets identified, is 
recognised as goodwill. Costs of issuing debt or equity instruments 
are accounted for under IAS 32 and IAS 39. All other costs associated 
with acquisitions are expensed. 
(d) Foreign currency translation  
The Group’s financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling 
(“Sterling”), which is the Company’s functional and presentation 
currency. Items included in the financial statements of each of the 
Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (the  
functional currency). 
(i) Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet 
date are translated at the prevailing exchange rate. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and 
fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into 
Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. 
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into 
Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at 
the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on 
translation are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. 
(e) Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group 
becomes party to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially 
at fair value plus transactions costs except for financial assets classified 
at fair value through profit or loss. Purchases or sales of financial 
assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the 
Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are 
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the 
investments have expired or been transferred or when the Group has 
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial 
liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability has 
been discharged or cancelled or expires. 
The Group’s accounting policy on fair value measurements is in 
accordance with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and is 
discussed in note 17. 
(i) Investment securities 
Investment securities represent securities held by consolidated seed 
investments. Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt 
on any other regulated market that operates regularly, recognised 
and open to the public, are valued at the last known available closing 
bid price. If such a price is not available, a closing mid price (the mean 
of the listed closing bid and asking prices) may be taken as a basis for 
the valuation. If a security is traded on several actively traded and 
organised financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis of the 
last known bid price on the main market on which the securities are 
traded. In the case of securities for which trading on an actively 
traded and organised financial market is not significant, but which are 
bought and sold on a secondary market with regulated trading 
among security dealers (with the effect that the price is set on a 
market basis), the valuation may be based on this secondary market.  
Where investments are not listed on any stock exchange or not traded 
on any regulated markets, these investments will be valued by 
independent valuation agents. 
Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis of last 
available NAV of the units or shares of such funds. 
The Group’s share of the results of the comprehensive income for 
each of the consolidated seed investments is included in the Group’s 
total comprehensive income. 
(ii) Derivatives 
Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options 
used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and 
those held in consolidated seed funds.  
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which  
a derivative contract is entered and subsequently remeasured at fair 
value. Transaction costs are recognised immediately in the statement 
of comprehensive income. The fair value of the derivatives is their 
quoted market price at the balance sheet date. All derivatives are 
carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as 
financial liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives 
are taken directly to the statement of comprehensive income, except 
for the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in 
other comprehensive income. 
(iii) Financial assets 
The Group may, from time to time, invest in funds where an Ashmore 
Group subsidiary is the Investment Manager or an Advisor (‘seeding’). 
Where the holding in such investments is deemed to represent  
a controlling stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to  
subsequent disposal through sale or dilution, these seed investments 
are recognised as non-current assets held-for-sale in accordance with 
IFRS 5. The Group recognises 100% of the investment in the fund  
as a “held-for-sale” asset and the interest held by other parties as a 
“liability held-for-sale”. Where control is not deemed to exist, and the 
assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as available-for-sale 
financial assets. Where the assets are not readily realisable, they are 
recognised as non-current asset investments. If a seed investment 
remains under control of the Group for more than one year from  
the original investment date, it is consolidated line by line. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
1) Significant accounting policies continued 
The recognition policy for the three categories of financial assets are 
set out below: 
•  Non-current asset investments 
Non-current asset investments, relating to closed-end funds, are 
classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.  
Fair value is assessed by taking account of the extent to which 
potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional 
investors subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has 
not occurred. 
•  Financial assets held as non-current assets held-for-sale 
Non-current assets held-for-sale are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where 
measurement and re-measurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5. 
Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current 
assets held-for-sale, because the Group has been deemed as holding 
a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted such that 
the Group’s holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, the 
investment will subsequently be classified as an available-for-sale 
financial asset. Subsequent movements will be recognised in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for the newly  
adopted classification.  
•  Financial assets held as available-for-sale 
For available-for-sale financial assets, gains and losses arising from 
changes in their fair value are recognised in other comprehensive 
income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at which  
time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part  
of comprehensive income.  
(iv) Trade and other receivables and payables 
Trade and other receivables and payables are initially recorded at fair 
value plus transaction costs. The fair value on acquisition is normally 
the cost. Impairment losses with respect to the estimated 
irrecoverable amount are recognised through the statement of 
comprehensive income when there is appropriate evidence that trade 
and other receivables are impaired. However, if a longer-term loan or 
receivable carries no interest, the fair value is estimated as the present 
value of all future cash payments or receipts discounted using the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The resulting adjustment  
is recognised as interest expense or interest income. Subsequent to 
initial recognition these assets and liabilities are measured at 
amortised cost less any impairment. 
(v) Hedge accounting 
The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions 
meet the specified hedge accounting criteria. To qualify, the following 
conditions must be met: 
– formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging 
instrument(s) and hedged item(s) must exist at inception; 
– the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must present 
an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect 
profit and loss; 
– the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured; and 
– the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed  
on an ongoing basis. 
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of the 
effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other 
comprehensive income and is released to profit for the year as part of 
comprehensive income in the same period during which the relevant 
financial asset or liability affects profit or loss.  
Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion  
of the hedge is immediately recognised in profit and loss. Where the 
instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or is sold, 
terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued. 
(f) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above. 
(g) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment includes office equipment and is 
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.  
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income 
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of 
an item of property, plant and equipment. The useful life of office 
equipment is estimated to be five years. The residual values and useful 
lives of assets are reviewed at least annually. 
(h) Intangible assets 
•  Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the 
acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired 
and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, is not subject to amortisation 
and is tested annually for impairment. Goodwill and intangible assets 
held by subsidiaries and denominated in a foreign currency are 
translated at the closing balance sheet rate. Any gain or loss on 
translation is included in other comprehensive income. 
IFRS 3 and IAS 36 require goodwill to be allocated to cash-generating 
units for the purpose of impairment testing. The Group is considered 
to have one cash-generating unit and all goodwill has been allocated 
to this cash-generating unit. 
•  Other intangibles 
The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and 
trade names, acquired as part of a business combination are their  
fair value as at the date of acquisition. The fair value at the date of 
acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology 
and represents the valuation of the net residual revenue stream 
arising from the management contracts and brand name in place at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets 
are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses. Intangible assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their  
useful lives which have been assessed as being between 31 months 
and 10 years.  
Other intangible assets held by subsidiaries and denominated in a 
foreign currency are retranslated at the closing balance sheet rate. Any 
gain or loss on translation is included in other comprehensive income. 
(i) Deferred acquisition costs 
Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment 
management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately 
and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered. 
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit 
from providing investment management services and are charged  
as the related revenue is recognised. 
(j) Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of 
impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. For goodwill, the recoverable amount is 
estimated at each balance sheet date. An impairment loss is 
recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income. 
64 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital. For an asset that does not 
generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect  
of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a 
change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no 
impairment loss had been recognised. 
(k) Dividends payable 
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive 
payments have been established. 
(l) Employee benefits 
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans 
are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive 
income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars. 
(m) Share-based payments  
The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based 
compensation plans. The awards are accounted for in line with IFRS 2 
Share-Based Payment. Phantom awards are classified as cash settled 
under IFRS 2. All other awards are classified as equity settled. 
For equity settled awards the fair value of the amounts payable to 
employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase 
in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the 
vesting period. The fair value of equity settled awards is measured 
using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.  
For cash settled awards the fair value of the amounts payable to 
employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability 
on the Group’s balance sheet. The fair value is measured at the end  
of each reporting period and spread over the vesting period. The  
fair value of cash settled awards is measured using an appropriate 
valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the instruments were granted.  
(n) Equity shares 
The Company’s ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified  
as equity instruments. Ordinary shares issued by the Company are 
recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the market 
price at the day of issue. Direct issue costs, net of tax, are deducted 
from equity through share premium. When share capital is 
repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly 
attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity. 
(o) Own shares 
Own shares are held by the EBT. The holding of the EBT comprises 
own shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the 
Group. In both the Group and Company, own shares are recorded at 
cost and are deducted from retained earnings.  
(p) Treasury shares 
Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost. 
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in 
equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and 
original cost being taken to retained earnings. 
(q) Revenue 
Revenue comprises management fees, performance fees and other 
revenue. Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income as and when the related services are provided. Revenue is 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits 
will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Specific revenue recognition policies are: 
(i) Management fees 
Management fees net of rebates are accrued over the period for 
which the service is provided. Where management fees are received 
in advance these are recognised over the period of the provision of 
the asset management service, which is estimated based on 
experience of average holding periods for investments.  
(ii) Performance fees 
Performance fees net of rebates relate to the performance of funds 
managed during the period and are recognised at the balance sheet 
date when the quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is 
probable that the fee will crystallise. This is usually at the end of the 
performance period. 
(iii) Other revenue 
Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration 
fees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.  
This revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.  
(r) Distribution costs 
Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third parties and are 
recognised over the period for which the service is provided.  
(s) Operating leases  
Payments payable under operating leases are recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term and are recorded as a reduction 
in premises costs.  
(t) Finance income  
Finance income includes interest receivable on the Group’s cash and 
cash equivalents and gains on available-for-sale/held-for-sale assets. 
Gains and losses on available-for-sale/held-for-sale assets recognised 
in the year arose either as a result of crystallisation on the disposal of 
an available-for-sale asset or upon reclassification of financial assets 
previously held as non-current assets held-for-sale as described in 
policy note (e)(ii).  
Finance income also includes adjustments in relation to the Group’s 
contingent consideration liabilities related to acquisitions and charges 
in respect of unwinding of net present value discounts.  
(u) Taxation  
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred 
tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in 
equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
(i) Current tax 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for  
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect  
of previous years. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
1) Significant accounting policies continued 
(ii) Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. The following differences are 
not provided for:  
– goodwill not deductible for tax purposes; and  
– differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent  
that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
(v) Accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates 
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and 
various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the 
judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not 
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in  
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only 
that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods. 
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that 
have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with 
a significant risk of material adjustment are described in note 29.   
(w) Segmental information 
Key management information, including revenues, margins, 
investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, which is 
relevant to the operation of Group, is reviewed on the basis of the 
investment management business as a whole and, hence, the Group’s 
management regards the Group’s services as comprising one business 
segment (being provision of investment management services) and 
that its operations are not run on a discrete geographic basis.  
Company 
In addition to the above accounting policies, the following specifically 
relate to the Company. 
(x) Investment in subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists 
when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern 
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights 
that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, 
provisions for impairment. 
(y) Financial guarantees 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to 
guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group,  
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and 
accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it 
becomes probable that the Company will be required to make  
a payment under the guarantee or that guarantee expires for  
any reason.  
 
66 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
2) Segmental information 
The Group is required to provide entity-wide disclosures by geographical location of revenue and amounts of non-current assets other than 
financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets. Revenue disclosures are included in note 3 and those relating  
to non-current assets are as follows: 
Analysis of non-current asset by geography 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
UK  12.3 14.4
US  96.8 101.6
Other  0.9 0.6
 
3) Revenue  
Management fees are accrued throughout the period in line with fluctuations in the levels of assets under management. Periodic performance 
fees are recognised only if performance hurdles have been achieved in a period. The Group is not considered to be reliant on any single source 
of revenue. During the year, two of the Group’s funds provided 11.3% and 10.5% (2011: two funds provided 19.7% and 10.3%) of total 
revenue in the year respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis. 
Analysis of revenue by geography 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
UK earned revenue  294.8 324.3
US earned revenue  34.7 3.5
Other  3.8 6.0
4) Foreign exchange  
The only foreign exchange rate which had a material impact on the Group’s results is the US dollar. 
 
Closing rate
as at
30 June 
2012 
Closing rate 
as at 
30 June  
2011 
Average rate
year ended
30 June 
2012 
Average rate
year ended
30 June 
2011 
US dollar 1.5707 1.6053 1.5901 1.5878
Analysis of foreign exchange 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Realised and unrealised hedging gains 0.1 1.8
Translation gains/(losses) on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 2.7 (9.2)
Total foreign exchange gains/(losses)  2.8 (7.4)
5) Finance income 
Analysis of finance income 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Interest on cash and cash equivalents 3.7 1.4
Finance income 18.5 5.7
Finance expense  (4.1) (0.6)
Net finance income 18.1 6.5
Included within finance income is £16.8 million (FY2010/11: £nil) in relation to the downward adjustment of the Group’s contingent 
consideration liabilities, £0.4 million (FY2010/11: £nil) received as part of an acquisition-related purchase price adjustment and £0.4 million 
(FY2010/11: £5.3 million) in relation to gains on available-for-sale and held-for-sale assets. 
Included within finance expense is £4.1 million (FY2010/11: £0.5 million) in relation to the unwind of the discounts applied to earn out 
liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet following the acquisition of AshmoreEMM. 
 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
6) Personnel expenses 
Number of employees 
The number of employees of the Group (including Directors) during the reporting years, analysed by category, was as follows: 
 
Average for the 
year ended
30 June
2012
Number 
Average for the 
year ended 
30 June 
2011 
Number 
At 30 June
2012
Number 
At 30 June
2011
Number 
Investment management 251 182 257 246
Total employees 251 182 257 246
Analysis of employee benefits expense 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Wages and salaries 18.0 11.5
Performance-related bonuses 34.1 28.1
Share-based payments 14.3 23.3
Social security costs  2.2 5.7
Pension costs 1.5 0.8
Other costs 2.9 2.1
Total employee benefits 73.0 71.5
Employee benefits in the above table in respect of the year ended 30 June 2012 include an amount of £0.6 million (2011: £1.9 million) that 
has been waived by Directors and employees in earlier periods with an equivalent amount to be paid to charity in the financial year to 
30 June 2013. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Disclosures of Directors’ remuneration as required by the Companies Act 2006 are as follows: 
 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011 
£m 
Aggregate emoluments 5.6 9.1
There are retirement benefits accruing to two Directors under a defined contribution scheme (2011: two).  
Further information on the Directors’ remuneration is included in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 53. 
  
68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
7) Other expenses 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Travel  5.9 4.7
Professional fees 4.0 5.5
Information technology and communications 4.3 2.7
Deferred acquisition costs (note 14) 2.1 2.2
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 13) 6.2 0.5
Impairment of intangible assets (note 13) 1.2 –
Operating leases 2.8 2.5
Premises-related costs 1.7 1.1
Insurance 0.9 0.6
Auditors’ remuneration 0.9 0.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 12) 1.6 1.3
Other expenses  2.8 1.2
Total other expenses 34.4 22.9
Auditors’ remuneration 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Statutory audit services: 
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Group’s accounts 0.2 0.1
– Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company's subsidiaries 
pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1
 
Non-audit services: 
– Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates for tax services 0.2 0.2
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services  0.3 0.2
Total services 0.9 0.6
 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
8) Taxation 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Current tax: 
Corporation tax on profits for the year 56.5 60.2
Overseas corporation tax charge 2.4 1.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.6) (1.7)
Total current tax 57.3 59.8
 
Deferred tax arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences: 
Current year (see note 16) – (4.1)
Prior year 0.2 – 
Total tax charge for the year 57.5 55.7
 
Factors affecting tax charge for the year 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Profit before tax 243.2 245.9
Tax at the blended UK tax rate of 25.5% (2011: 27.5%) 62.0 67.6
 
Effects of: 
Expenses not deductible 1.7 0.4
Deduction in respect of vested shares/exercised options (Schedule 23 Finance Act 2003) (0.1) (7.6)
Deferred tax arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences – (4.1)
Overseas taxes, net of overseas tax relief 2.4 0.4
Non-taxable income (5.5) –
Amortisation of goodwill and intangibles (1.6) –
Other – 0.7
 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Current tax (1.6) (1.7)
Deferred tax 0.2 – 
Total tax charge for the year 57.5 55.7
 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Current tax on share-based payments – –
Deferred tax on share-based payments 1.7 0.6
Deferred tax on available-for-sale assets 0.2 0.3
Current tax on available-for-sale assets 0.1 –
Total charge recognised in equity/other comprehensive income 2.0 0.9
A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 26% to 24% was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 and became effective 
from 1 April 2012. The effect of this rate reduction has been reflected in the figures set out above. On 21 March 2012 the Chancellor 
announced that the main rate of UK corporation tax will further reduce to 22% by 2014. An initial further reduction to 23% (effective from  
1 April 2013) was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012.    
70 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
9) Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent of  
£181.5 million (2011: £189.0 million) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated as for basic earnings per share with an adjustment to the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
to reflect the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. There is no difference between the profit for the financial year attributable to 
equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. 
Reconciliation of the figures used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012 
Year ended
30 June
2011 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share 676,460,821 673,317,931
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares – share options/awards  26,845,937 36,585,155
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in calculation of diluted earnings per share 703,306,758 709,903,086
10) Share-based payments 
The total share-based payments-related cost recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below:  
Group 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Omnibus Plan 8.9 23.3
Related to compensation plans 8.9 23.3
Related to acquisition of AshmoreEMM 5.4 –
Total expense 14.3 23.3
Group and Company share-based compensation plans 
The following share-based compensation plans were in operation during the reporting year. 
The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme (“Option Scheme”) 
The Option Scheme was set up in October 2000. Options issued under the Option Scheme typically have a life of ten years and vest after five 
years from date of grant. The pro rata proportion of the fair value of options at each reporting year end has been accounted for on an equity-
settled basis. No further options will be issued under the Option Scheme. 
The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan (“Omnibus Plan”) 
The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value 
options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and/or nil cost options to employees. The Plan will also allow 
bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares. These elements can be used singly or in combination. 
Awards granted under the Omnibus plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards which vest after 
the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment. Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for 
as equity settled, with the exception of phantoms which are classified as cash settled. 
The Approved Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”) 
The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value 
options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding £30,000 per employee. The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax 
approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC. To date, there have been no awards made under 
the CSOP. 
The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity settled payments. 
Group and Company  
Year of grant 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
2007 (2.4) 1.8
2008 (1.1) 2.1
2009 0.5 1.4
2010 1.7 5.6
2011 (2.1) 12.4
2012 12.3 –
Total expense 8.9 23.3
 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
10) Share-based payments continued 
Share options outstanding 
Share options outstanding under the Option Scheme were as follows: 
Group and Company 
2012
Number of 
options 
Weighted  
average  
exercise price 
pence 
2011
Number of 
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
pence 
At the beginning of the year 4,229,071 26.15 18,529,571 20.67
Exercised (2,330,850) 20.42 (14,280,500) 19.04
Forfeited – – (20,000) 24.24
At the end of the year 1,898,221 33.20 4,229,071 26.15
Options exercisable 1,898,221 33.20 3,355,000 18.99
The weighted average share price on the date options were exercised during 2012 was 369.92p (2011: 352.36p). 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options 
Group and Company 
 Year ended 
30 June 
2012 
Year ended
30 June
2011 
Outstanding options 1,898,221 4,229,071
Weighted average exercise price 33.20p 18.99p
Weighted average remaining contracted life (years) 3.56 4.62
Range of exercise prices for share options outstanding at the end of the year 18.72p-170.00p 18.72p-170.00p
 
Group and Company 
Exercise price per share (p) Exercise periods 
 
2012 
Number 
Before
2011
Number 
10.00-20.00 9 December 2008 – 8 December 2015 1,578,750 3,193,750
20.00-30.00 28 April 2011 – 10 September 2016 143,000 858,850
170.00-180.00 8 December 2011 – 7 December 2016 176,471 176,471
  1,898,221 4,229,071
There were no new share options granted during the year ended 30 June 2012 (2011: none). 
Share awards outstanding 
Share awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: 
Equity settled awards 
Group and Company 
2012
Number of shares 
subject to awards 
2012
Weighted average 
share price 
2011 
Number of shares 
subject to awards 
2011
Weighted average 
share price 
Restricted share awards  
At the beginning of the year 15,988,966 £2.42 12,937,439 £2.14
Granted 4,834,808 £3.93 4,895,264 £3.17
Vested (1,108,813) £3.33 (241,933) £3.35
Forfeited (3,837,331) £2.39 (1,601,804) £2.43
At the end of the year 15,877,630 £2.90 15,988,966 £2.42
  
Bonus share awards  
At the beginning of the year 3,450,279 £2.61 2,423,439 £2.27
Granted 1,559,408 £3.93 1,424,082 £3.17
Vested (102,775) £3.73 (340,137) £3.31
Forfeited – – (57,105) £2.89
At the end of the year 4,906,912 £3.01 3,450,279 £2.61
  
Matching share awards  
At the beginning of the year 3,450,279 £2.61 2,423,439 £2.27
Granted 1,559,408 £3.93 1,424,082 £3.17
Vested (5,213) £3.61 (67,772) £3.35
Forfeited (97,562) £3.34 (329,470) £2.54
At the end of the year 4,906,912 £3.01 3,450,279 £2.61
Total 25,691,454 £2.95 22,889,524 £2.48
72 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
Cash settled awards 
Group and Company 
2012
Number of shares 
subject to awards 
2012 
Weighted 
average 
share price 
2011
Number of shares 
subject to awards 
2011
Weighted average 
share price 
Restricted share awards  
At the beginning of the year 1,265,622 £2.92 – –
Granted 908,239 £3.93 1,265,622 £2.92
Vested (108,225) £3.29 – –
Forfeited (259,568) £2.54 – –
At the end of the year 1,806,068 £3.54 1,265,622 £2.92
  
Bonus share awards  
At the beginning of the year 700,151 £3.15 – –
Granted 638,116 £3.93 700,151 £3.15
Vested – – – –
Forfeited (38,192) £2.70 – –
At the end of the year 1,300,075 £3.55 700,151 £3.15
  
Matching share awards  
At the beginning of the year 700,151 £3.15 – –
Granted 638,116 £3.93 700,151 £3.15
Vested – – – –
Forfeited (38,192) £2.70 – –
At the end of the year 1,300,075 £3.55 700,151 £3.15
Total 4,406,218 £3.55 2,665,924 £3.04
 
Total awards 
Group and Company 
2012
Number of shares 
subject to awards 
2012 
Weighted 
average  
share price 
2011
Number of shares 
subject to awards 
2011
Weighted average 
share price 
Restricted share awards  
At the beginning of the year 17,254,588 £2.46 12,937,439 £2.14
Granted 5,743,047 £3.93 6,160,886 £3.12
Vested (1,217,038) £3.33 (241,933) £3.35
Forfeited (4,096,899) £2.40 (1,601,804) £2.43
At the end of the year 17,683,698 £2.96 17,254,588 £2.46
  
Bonus share awards  
At the beginning of the year 4,150,430 £2.70 2,423,439 £2.27
Granted 2,197,524 £3.93 2,124,233 £3.16
Vested (102,775) £3.73 (340,137) £3.31
Forfeited (38,192) £2.70 (57,105) £2.89
At the end of the year 6,206,987 £3.12 4,150,430 £2.70
  
Matching share awards  
At the beginning of the year 4,150,430 £2.70 2,423,439 £2.27
Granted 2,197,524 £3.93 2,124,233 £3.16
Vested (5,213) £3.61 (67,772) £3.35
Forfeited (135,754) £3.16 (329,470) £2.54
At the end of the year 6,206,987 £3.12 4,150,430 £2.70
Total 30,097,672 £3.04 25,555,448 £2.54
The fair value of awards granted under the Omnibus Plan is determined by the average Ashmore Group plc share price for the five business 
days prior to grant. 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
10) Share-based payments continued 
Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process the fair value of the awards is spread over  
a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their release date when the grantee becomes unconditionally 
entitled to the underlying shares. Of the total outstanding share awards of 30,097,672 as at 30 June 2012 (25,555,448 as at 30 June 2011) 
the amount of 23,890,685 (2011: 19,630,824) were restricted and matching shares granted as part of the Group’s variable compensation 
process. The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from date of grant to the release date. 
Acquisition of AshmoreEMM 
On acquisition of AshmoreEMM, employees and management held unvested shares representing 17.9% of its partnership shares. These 
awards, which vest after five years depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are accounted for as equity settled share-based 
payments in accordance with IFRS 2 which results in an annual charge to the income statement during the period of vesting. Upon vesting, the 
holders are entitled to receive AshmoreEMM shares which may be exchanged for shares in Ashmore Group plc or cash at the discretion of the 
Group. The grant date fair value was based on the intrinsic value proportionate with the value implied from the purchase consideration paid by 
the Group to acquire AshmoreEMM.  
No awards were granted or vested (2011: none) during the year. 25,097 awards (2011: none) were forfeited during the year and 2,294,453 
(2011: 2,300,000) awards are outstanding as at year end. 
11) Dividends 
An analysis of dividends is as follows: 
Group and Company 2012 2011 
Dividends declared/proposed in respect of the year: 
Interim dividend declared per share (p) 4.25 4.16
Final dividend proposed per share (p) 10.75 10.34
 
Dividends paid in the year: 
Interim dividend paid (£m) 29.4 29.1
Interim dividend per share (p) 4.25 4.16
 
Final dividend paid (£m) 71.6 64.3
Final dividend per share (p) 10.34 9.34
In addition to the £101.0 million (2011: £93.4 million) of dividends paid to equity holders of the parent, the Group also paid £5.9 million  
(2011: £0.3 million) of dividends to non-controlling interests. 
On 10 September 2012 the Board proposed a final dividend of 10.75p per share for the year ended 30 June 2012. This has not been 
recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders. Based on the number of shares in issue 
at the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be £73.7 million (2011: £72.2 million). 
12) Property, plant and equipment 
Group 
2012
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
£m 
2011
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
£m 
Cost 
At the beginning of the year 8.1 6.3
Additions 2.6 0.5
Acquisitions  – 1.3
Disposals (0.3) –
At the end of the year 10.4 8.1
Accumulated depreciation 
At the beginning of the year 4.7 2.5
Depreciation charge for the year (note 7) 1.6 1.3
Acquisitions  – 0.9
Disposals (0.1) –
At the end of the year 6.2 4.7
Net book value at 30 June 4.2 3.4
  
74 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
 
Company 
2012
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
£m 
2011
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
£m 
Cost 
At the beginning of the year 5.5 5.4
Additions 1.3 0.1
At the end of the year 6.8 5.5
Accumulated depreciation 
At the beginning of the year 3.2 2.2
Depreciation charge for year 1.1 1.0
At the end of the year 4.3 3.2
Net book value at 30 June 2.5 2.3
13) Goodwill and intangible assets 
For the year ended 30 June 2012: 
Group 
Goodwill
£m 
AshmoreEMM 
fund 
management 
relationships 
£m 
AshmoreEMM 
brand 
name 
£m 
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost   
At the beginning and end of the year 57.5 39.5 1.8 2.6 101.4
Accumulated amortisation and impairment  
At the beginning of the year – (0.4) – (0.1) (0.5)
Amortisation charge for year (note 7) – (5.1) (0.2) (0.9) (6.2)
Impairment charge for the year – – (1.2) (1.2)
At the end of the year – (5.5) (0.2) (2.2) (7.9)
Net book value  
At the beginning of the year 58.7 40.1 1.8 2.6 103.2
Accumulated amortisation and impairment movement – (5.1) (0.2) (2.1) (7.4)
FX revaluation through reserves (i) 1.3 0.8 0.1 0.1 2.3
At the end of the year 60.0 35.8 1.7 0.6 98.1
 
For the year ended 30 June 2011: 
Group 
Goodwill
£m 
AshmoreEMM 
fund 
management 
relationships 
£m 
AshmoreEMM 
brand 
name 
£m 
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost   
At the beginning of the year 6.7 – – – 6.7
Additions – – – 2.6 2.6
Acquisitions 50.8 39.5 1.8 – 92.1
At the end of the year 57.5 39.5 1.8 2.6 101.4
Accumulated amortisation and impairment  
At the beginning of the year – – – – –
Amortisation charge for year (note 7) – (0.4) –  (0.1) (0.5)
At the end of the year – (0.4) – (0.1) (0.5)
Net book value  
At the beginning of the year 6.7 – – – 6.7
Additions and acquisitions – cost 50.8 39.5 1.8 2.6 94.7
Accumulated amortisation and impairment movement – (0.4) – (0.1) (0.5)
FX revaluation through reserves (i) 1.2 1.0 – 0.1 2.3
At the end of the year 58.7 40.1 1.8 2.6 103.2
(i) FX revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar denominated intangibles and goodwill. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
13) Goodwill and intangible assets continued 
Company 
Goodwill
£m 
Cost 
At the beginning and end of the year 4.1
Net book value at 30 June 2011 and 2012 4.1
Goodwill 
The goodwill balance within the Group relates principally to the acquisition of AshmoreEMM in May 2011. 
The goodwill balance within the Company at the beginning and the end of the year was £4.1 million and related to the acquisition of the 
business from ANZ in 1999. Additional goodwill arising in the Group at the beginning of the year relates to the Dolomite acquisition in 2008. 
The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting the 
commonality of approach across all fund themes. The Group considers itself to have one cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated. 
Therefore, no further split into smaller cash-generating units is possible, and the impairment review is conducted for the Group as a whole. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based on 
management’s judgements regarding the future prospects of the business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. When assessing 
the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of fair value  
less costs to sell or value in use calculations. The calculation is based on the forecast future profitability and cash flow projections of the  
cash-generating unit over a 10-year period which management believes is the most appropriate timescale to review and consider performance.  
The discount rate applied is based on the Group's weighted average cost of capital.
The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken at 31 May 2012. No impairments were deemed necessary. 
AshmoreEMM fund management relationships and the AshmoreEMM brand name 
The AshmoreEMM fund management relationships and the AshmoreEMM brand name are separately identifiable intangible assets acquired  
as part of the acquisition of AshmoreEMM in May 2011. 
Ashmore engaged an independent third-party valuation expert to value these assets as part of the acquisition. They were valued at the present 
value of the expected future cash flows resulting from the assets over their useful lives and were discounted using the Group weighted 
average cost of capital of 13.0%. They are being amortised over their useful lives which were also estimated based on the work of the 
valuation expert. Their estimated useful lives are eight years for the fund management relationships and 10 years for the AshmoreEMM brand 
name. The fund management relationships intangible comprises the profit expected to be earned from existing clients of AshmoreEMM. The 
AshmoreEMM brand name is being actively used through the co-branding of the subsidiary since its acquisition. The carrying amounts of the 
assets in the balance sheet are based on their historic costs less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Other intangible assets 
In addition, in order to incentivise Amundi, who were formerly a shareholder in AshmoreEMM, to retain existing AuM within the business and  
to further increase AuM there is an incentive fee payable after three years tied to the level of such AuM at that time. As the purpose of this  
is to benefit the Group going forward, a corresponding intangible asset was recognised. During the year to 30 June 2012 there has been a 
downward adjustment to the net present value of the incentive fee payable to Amundi at the end of the agreement. Consequently management 
have concluded that the associated intangible asset is impaired. An impairment charge of £1.2 million for the year to 30 June 2012 has been 
included within other expenses in the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income, reducing the carrying value of the intangible 
asset to its recoverable amount. 
  
76 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
14) Deferred acquisition costs  
Group 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Cost 
At the beginning of the year 14.4 14.6
Deferred acquisition costs recovered (0.1) (0.2)
At the end of the year 14.3 14.4
Accumulated charge 
At the beginning of the year 7.5 5.3
Charge for the year (note 7) 2.1 2.2
At the end of the year 9.6 7.5
Carrying value at the end of the year 4.7 6.9
The deferred acquisition costs shown above are in respect of the launch of AGOL, the Group’s listed permanent capital vehicle, during 
December 2007, and are being charged to the Group’s statement of comprehensive income over seven years. 
15) Trade and other receivables 
 Group Company 
 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at 
30 June 
2011 
£m 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Current  
Trade debtors 55.8 58.6 2.6 2.9
Prepayments  2.1 1.9 1.0 1.1
Loans due from subsidiaries – – 199.8 113.1
Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 6.8 13.3
Other receivables 6.2 7.7 5.0 5.6
Total current 64.1 68.2 215.2 136.0
Non-current  
Loans due from subsidiaries – – 17.3 7.9
Total non-current – – 17.3 7.9
Total trade and other receivables 64.1 68.2 232.5 143.9
Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2012 in respect of management services 
provided to that date.  
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
16) Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company are attributable to the following: 
Group  
Other temporary 
differences 
£m 
Share-based 
payments
£m 
Total
£m 
At 30 June 2011  
(Assets) – (17.9) (17.9)
Liabilities 1.6 – 1.6
Net 1.6 (17.9) (16.3)
At 30 June 2012  
(Assets) (1.4) (13.7) (15.1)
Liabilities 1.0 – 1.0
Net (0.4) (13.7) (14.1)
 
Company 
Other temporary 
differences 
£m 
Share-based 
payments
£m 
Total
£m 
At 30 June 2011  
(Assets) – (17.9) (17.9)
Net – (17.9) (17.9)
At 30 June 2012  
(Assets) – (13.7) (13.7)
Net – (13.7) (13.7)
Movement in temporary differences between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive income  
as follows: 
Group 
Other temporary 
differences 
£m 
Share-based 
payments
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 July 2010 1.3 (14.4) (13.1)
Credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income  – (4.1) (4.1)
Charged to equity 0.3 0.6 0.9
At 30 June 2011 1.6 (17.9) (16.3)
(Credited)/charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income  (2.2) 2.5 0.3
Charged to equity 0.2 1.7 1.9
At 30 June 2012 (0.4) (13.7) (14.1)
 
Company 
Other temporary 
differences 
£m 
Share-based 
payments
£m 
Total
£m 
At 1 July 2010 0.2 (14.4) (14.2)
Credited to the statement of comprehensive income  (0.2) (4.1) (4.3)
Charged to equity – 0.6 0.6
At 30 June 2011 – (17.9) (17.9)
Charged to the statement of comprehensive income  – 2.3 2.3
Charged to equity – 1.9 1.9
At 30 June 2012 – (13.7) (13.7)
A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 26% to 24% was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 and became effective 
from 1 April 2012. The rate reduction is reflected in the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the figures above. The 2012 
Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate is set to reduce further to 22% by 2014.  
Whilst a reduction to a rate of 22% has not yet been substantively enacted, a further reduction to a rate of 23% (effective from 1 April 2013) 
was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012. The overall effect of a further tax reduction from 24% to 23%, if applied to the deferred tax 
balance above as at 30 June 2012, would be to further decrease the Group deferred tax assets by approximately £0.6 million and the 
Company deferred tax assets by £0.6 million.  
78 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
17) Fair value of financial instruments 
There is no material difference between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and their fair values.  
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by reference to published price quotations (Level 2 inputs).  
Fair value hierarchy 
The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making 
the measurements.  
– Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.  
– Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).  
– Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.  
The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value as at 30 June is summarised below: 
 2012 2011 
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
Financial assets at fair value   
Investment securities 27.8 32.8 – 60.6 – – – –
Derivative financial instruments – 0.5 – 0.5 – – – –
Non-current assets held-for-sale  – 49.9 – 49.9 – 59.0 – 59.0
Available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 54.2 – 54.6 – 41.4 – 41.4
Non-current asset investments – 5.6 – 5.6 – 3.5 – 3.5
Total financial assets 28.2 143.0 – 171.2 – 103.9 – 103.9
   
    2012    2011 
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
Financial liabilities at fair value   
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 4.8 5.7 – 10.5 – – – –
Derivative financial instruments – 1.5 – 1.5 – 0.6 – 0.6
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale – 15.1 – 15.1 – 12.8 – 12.8
Contingent consideration  – – 10.7 10.7 – – 32.0 32.0
Total financial liabilities 4.8 22.3 10.7 37.8 – 13.4 32.0 45.4
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year (2011: none).  
The valuation techniques used to estimate the fair value of contingent consideration payable in connection with the acquisition of 
AshmoreEMM are described in note 29. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
18) Seed capital investments 
a) Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held-for-sale 
Where Group companies inject seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group, the fund is classified as being held-for-sale.  
 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Non-current assets held-for-sale 49.9 59.0
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale (15.1) (12.8)
Seed capital classified as being held-for-sale 34.8 46.2
Typically, if the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date it will cease to be 
classified as held-for-sale, and will be consolidated line by line after considering the proximity of loss of control, and the extent to which 
consolidation of the fund on a line by line basis would be material to the presentation of the Group’s financial statements. 
Investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group. A loss of control may happen either 
through sale of the investment and/or dilution of the Group’s holding. When investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale they are 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39 (see below). 
b) Consolidated funds 
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period greater than one year and its interest 
represents a controlling stake in the fund. These funds are consolidated line by line.  
  
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Investment securities 60.6 –
Cash and cash equivalents 2.6 –
Net derivative financial instruments 0.3
Other  0.9 –
Third-party interests in consolidated funds (10.5) –
Consolidated seed capital 53.9 –
Investment securities include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities. Other includes trade receivables, trade payables and accruals. 
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is a net gain of £0.5 million (FY2010/11: £nil) relating to the Group’s 
share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds. This is made up of finance 
income of £1.3 million partially offset by a £0.4 million loss on investment securities and by £0.4 million allocated to third-party interests in 
consolidated funds.  
As of 30 June 2012, the Group’s consolidated funds were domiciled in Brazil, Luxembourg and the USA.  
c) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Investments at fair value 
 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Equities – listed 0.4 –
Equity funds – unlisted  3.0 7.5
Debt funds – unlisted 51.2 33.9
Seed capital classified as being available-for-sale 54.6 41.4
d) Non-current asset investments 
 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Non-current asset investments at fair value 5.6 3.5
Non-current asset investments relate to the Group’s holding in closed-end funds and are classified as financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss. Fair value is assessed by taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of 
additional investors subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred. 
Included within finance income is £0.7 million of unrealised gains on the Group’s non-current asset investments. 
 
80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
19) Financial instrument risk management  
Group 
The Group is subject to strategic, business, investment, operational and treasury risks throughout its business as discussed in the Business 
Review. This note provides further detail on the Group’s exposure to and the management of risks derived from the financial instruments  
it uses. Specific areas of financial instrument risk include credit, liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and price risk.  
Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Group’s senior management. The Ashmore Group Risk Management and Control 
department, the Group’s Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for monitoring the overall risk 
environment. The Group has established a control environment which seeks to ensure that risks are reviewed regularly and that all risk controls 
operating throughout the Group are in accordance with regulatory requirements. In addition, as a regulated business the Group is responsible 
for maintaining appropriate capital and performing regular calculations of capital requirements, including the development of an Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”), based upon the Financial Services Authority’s methodologies under the Capital Requirements 
Directive. An overview of the ICAAP can be found on our website at www.ashmoregroup.com.  
The effectiveness of the Group’s risk management process is critical to its soundness and profitability and considerable resources are dedicated 
to this area. 
• Credit risk 
The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when 
due. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets. 
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. 
Financial assets subject to credit risk at 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 are as follows: 
 Notes 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Investment securities 18 60.6 –
Derivative financial instruments  0.5 –
Non-current assets held-for-sale 18 49.9 59.0
Available-for-sale financial assets 18 54.6 41.4
Cash and cash equivalents  346.6 369.0
Total excluding trade and other receivables  512.2 469.4
Trade and other receivables 15 64.1 68.2
Total   576.3 537.6
At 30 June 2012 there were no overdue trade and other receivables (2011: none). All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully 
recoverable. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging from  
A to AAAm as at 30 June 2012 (2011: A to AAAm).  
Trade and other receivables at amortised cost 
Financial assets at amortised cost principally comprise fee debtors, which are all less than 90 days old. 
Fee debtors arise principally within the Group’s investment management business and amounts are monitored regularly. Historically, default 
levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client. 
There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients. 
Financial assets held at fair value 
Such assets comprise derivative financial instruments, investment securities, non-current assets held-for-sale and available-for-sale financial 
assets. These assets expose the Group to credit risk from varied counterparties which is monitored and reviewed by the Group’s risk 
management team.   
• Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost. In order to manage inherent 
liquidity risk there is a liquidity policy within the Group to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed 
requirements for the next 12 months. 
 
 
 
 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
19) Financial instrument risk management continued 
The maturity profile of the Group’s contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: 
As at 30 June 2012: 
 Liability maturity date (£m) 
 <1 year 1-5 years >5years Total 
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 10.5 – – 10.5
Derivative financial instruments 1.5 – – 1.5
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 15.1 – – 15.1
Trade and other payables 85.7 – – 85.7
Non-current trade and other payables – 7.2 – 7.2
Total financial liabilities 112.8 7.2 – 120.0
As at 30 June 2011: 
 Liability maturity date (£m) 
 <1 year 1-5 years >5years Total 
Third-party interests in consolidated funds – – – –
Derivative financial instruments 0.6 – – 0.6
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 12.8 – – 12.8
Trade and other payables 94.9 – – 94.9
Non-current trade and other payables – 21.4 – 21.4
Total financial liabilities 108.3 21.4 – 129.7
Details on leases and other commitments are provided in notes 24 and 27. 
• Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market  
interest rates. 
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest revenue through adverse movements in interest 
rates. This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business. This exposure is monitored by management on a continuing basis. 
At 30 June 2012, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher or 50 basis points lower (2011: 200 basis points higher  
or 40 basis points lower) with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £1.7 million higher/£1.7 million 
lower (2011: £7.5 million higher/£1.5 million lower), mainly as a result of higher/lower interest on cash balances. 
The assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate 
the effect on post-tax profits.  
Effective interest rates applicable to financial instruments are as follows: 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
% 
Year ended
30 June
2011
% 
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.79 0.40
 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Items repricing within one year or less: 
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 346.6 369.0
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk through debt securities held in consolidated seed funds. The following table provides a summary 
of fixed and floating rate interest exposures in these funds: 
 
As at 30 June 2012: 
 
Fixed rate 
£m 
Floating rate 
£m  
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets  
Investment securities   43.4 3.7 13.5 60.6
Total  43.4 3.7 13.5 60.6
No seed investment funds were consolidated on a line by line basis as at 30 June 2011. 
 
  
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
• Foreign exchange risk 
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. 
The Group’s revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, whilst the majority of the Group’s cost are Sterling-based. Consequently, the 
Group has an exposure to movements in the US$/£ exchange rate. In addition, the Group operates globally which means that it may enter into 
contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various geographic areas.  
The Group’s policy is to hedge significant foreign exchange exposures by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and/or 
options for up to two years forward. The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.  
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are denominated in the following currencies: 
As at 30 June 2012: 
 Notes 
Sterling
£m 
US dollar
£m 
Brazilian Real 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets  
Investment securities 18 0.3 8.9 21.8 29.6 60.6
Derivative financial instruments  – 0.5 – – 0.5
Non-current assets held-for-sale 18 – 49.9 – – 49.9
Available-for-sale financial assets 18 – 54.6 – – 54.6
Trade and other receivables 15 8.7 52.4 1.5 1.5 64.1
Cash and cash equivalents 239.3 100.8 1.3 5.2 346.6
Total financial assets 248.3 267.1 24.6 36.3 576.3
 
 Notes 
Sterling
£m 
US dollar
£m 
Brazilian Real 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial liabilities  
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 18 – 1.5 3.7 5.3 10.5
Derivative financial instruments – 1.5 – – 1.5
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 18 – 15.1 – – 15.1
Trade and other payables  23 45.8 39.6 0.5 1.2 87.1
Non-current trade and other payables 23 – 5.8 – – 5.8
Total financial liabilities 45.8 63.5 4.2 6.5 120.0
As at 30 June 2011: 
 Notes 
Sterling
£m 
US dollar
£m 
Brazilian Real 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets  
Non-current assets held-for-sale 18 – 41.4 17.6 – 59.0
Available-for-sale financial assets 18 – 41.4 – – 41.4
Trade and other receivables 15 10.5 54.6 1.7 1.4 68.2
Cash and cash equivalents 302.0 63.9 – 3.1 369.0
Total financial assets 312.5 201.3 19.3 4.5 537.6
 
 Notes 
Sterling
£m 
US dollar
£m 
Brazilian Real 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial liabilities  
Derivative financial instruments – 0.6 – – 0.6
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 18 – 7.1 5.7 – 12.8
Trade and other payables  23 46.8 47.2 – 0.9 94.9
Non-current trade and other payables 23 – 21.4 – – 21.4
Total financial liabilities 46.8 76.3 5.7 0.9 129.7
At 30 June 2012, if the US dollar had strengthened/weakened by 10 cents against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before 
tax for the year would have increased/decreased by £7.4 million/£6.5 million respectively (2011: £3.5million/£3.1 million). 
The Group also holds a number of seed capital investments which are denominated mainly in either US dollars or Brazilian Real. Any such seed 
investments give rise to foreign exchange risk. 
At 30 June 2012, if the Brazilian Real, US dollar and other currencies had, in aggregate, strengthened/weakened by one per cent against 
Sterling with all other variables held constant, the impact on net assets as a result of the Group’s seed capital positions would have been  
an increase/decrease of £1.4 million/£1.4 million (2011: £0.9 million/£0.9million). The impact on profit before tax would have been an 
increase/decrease of £0.5 million/£0.5 million (2011: £nil). 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
19) Financial instrument risk management continued 
• Price risk 
Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes. 
The Group’s direct exposure to price risk is primarily in respect of seed capital investments. Seed capital interests classified as available-for-sale 
or non-current asset investments are held at fair value and are directly impacted by market price movements whilst those classified as held-for-
sale or investment securities, derivative financial instruments and other assets and liabilities expose the Group to market changes indirectly 
either through line by line consolidation of underlying financial performance and positions or potential impairments when fair value less costs 
to sell are less than carrying amounts.  
At 30 June 2012, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a £7.3 million (2011: £4.4 million) impact on net 
assets. The impact on profit before tax would have been £3.3 million (2011: nil). 
There is also indirect price risk in connection with the Group’s management fees which are based on a percentage of value of AuM and fees 
based on performance. Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate which in turn could affect 
fees earned. However, these fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single market 
indices in Emerging Markets. Based on the year end assets under management of US$63.7 billion, and the year’s average net management  
fee rate of 74bps, a 5% movement in assets under management would have a US$23.6 million impact on management fee revenues  
(2011: based on assets under management of $65.8 billion and an average net management fee rate of 80bps, a 5% movement in assets 
under management would have had a US$26.3 million impact on management fee revenues). Performance fee revenues could be reduced in 
severe market conditions, however, throughout Ashmore’s history the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout the financial 
year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded. The profitability impact is likely to be 
less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.  
• Hedging activities 
The Group uses forward exchange contracts and options to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk. These hedges protect a proportion  
of the Group’s revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements and occur consistently throughout the year. 
The options and forward contracts have been assessed as effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2012. When hedges are assessed as 
effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to comprehensive  
income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise. A £0.1 million intrinsic gain (2011: £0.1 million loss) on the Group’s hedges has 
been recognised through other comprehensive income and no intrinsic value (2011: £nil) was reclassified from equity to the statement of 
comprehensive income in the year. The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges liability at 30 June 2012 was  
£1.3 million (2011: £0.6 million) and is included within the Group’s derivative financial instrument liabilities.  
Time value in relation to the Group’s hedges is excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss  
related to the time value of the hedges is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year. 
Included within the realised and unrealised hedging gains of £0.1 million (note 4) recognised at 30 June 2012 (£1.8 million gain at  
30 June 2011) are: 
– a £0.5 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending  
30 June 2013 (2011: £1.3 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial  
year ended 30 June 2012); and 
– a £0.6 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts (2011: £0.5 million gain). 
  
84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
The maturity profile of the Group’s outstanding hedges is shown below. 
As at 30 June 2012: 
 Notional amount with maturity date (£m) 
 
Within 6 
months 6 – 12 months >12 months Total 
Foreign exchange option collars 34.3 30.2 9.3 73.8
Forward contracts 13.6 13.6 3.1 30.3
Total foreign exchange hedges 47.9 43.8 12.4 104.1
As at 30 June 2011: 
 Notional amount with maturity date (£m) 
 Within 6 months 6 – 12 months >12 months Total 
Foreign exchange option collars 36.8 35.5 24.0 96.3
Forward contracts 14.6 13.7 9.3 37.6
Total foreign exchange hedges 51.4 49.2 33.3 133.9
 
 2012 2011 
 
Notional 
amount
£m 
Fair value 
assets/(liabilities) 
£m 
Notional
amount
£m 
Fair value
assets/(liabilities)
£m 
Cash flow hedges  
Foreign exchange nil cost option collars 73.8 (0.7) 96.3 0.1
Foreign exchange forward contracts 30.3 (0.6) 37.6 (0.7)
Total foreign exchange hedges 104.1 (1.3) 133.9 (0.6)
• Capital management 
Equity, as referred to in the Group’s balance sheet, is the capital for the business. There are no other assets managed which are considered 
capital of the Group. As referred to above, the Group monitors its regulatory capital in order to meet the financial resources requirements of 
the Financial Services Authority. 
Company 
The risk management processes of the Company are aligned with those of the Group as a whole. The Company’s specific risk exposures are 
explained below. 
• Credit risk 
The Company has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts 
when due. The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets. 
Financial assets subject to credit risk as at 30 June 2012 are as follows: 
 Note 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Financial assets  
Trade and other receivables 15 232.5 143.9
Cash and cash equivalents  210.6 231.2
Total financial assets  443.1 375.1
At 30 June 2012 there were nil overdue trade and other receivables (2011: none). All trade and other receivables are considered to be  
fully recoverable. 
The Company’s cash and cash equivalents are short-term deposits with banks or liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging from  
A to AAAm as at 30 June 2012 (2011: A to AAAm). 
• Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost. The liquidity policy is  
to ensure that the Company has sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed requirements for the next 12 months.  
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
19) Financial instrument risk management continued 
The table below analyses the Company’s financial assets and liabilities. The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and 
are all due within one year unless otherwise disclosed. 
 Note 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Financial assets  
Trade and other receivables 15 232.5 143.9
Cash and cash equivalents  210.6 231.2
Total financial assets  443.1 375.1
 
 Note 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Financial liabilities  
Trade and other payables 23 46.5 47.4
Total financial liabilities  46.5 47.4
• Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. 
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Company will sustain a reduction in interest revenue through adverse movements in interest 
rates. This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business.  
At 30 June 2012, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher/50 basis points lower (2011: 200 basis points higher/29 basis 
points lower) with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £0.7 million higher/£0.7 million lower  
(2011: £3.1 million higher/£0.5 million lower), mainly as a result of higher/lower interest on cash balances. 
The assumption that the fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate 
the effect on post-tax profits. 
Effective interest rates applicable to financial instruments are as follows: 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
% 
Year ended
30 June
2011
% 
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.61 0.29
 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Items repricing within one year or less: 
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 210.6 231.2
 
• Foreign exchange risk 
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. Other than intercompany balances, the only foreign exchange risk to which the Company is exposed is in respect of US dollar 
cash balances. 
Year ended 30 June 2012: 
 
Sterling 
£m 
US dollar
£m 
Total
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 172.2 38.4 210.6
Total 172.2 38.4 210.6
Year ended 30 June 2011: 
 
Sterling 
£m 
US dollar
£m 
Total
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 204.1 27.1 231.2
Total 204.1 27.1 231.2
At 30 June 2012, if the US dollar had strengthened/weakened by 10 cents against Sterling with all other variables held constant,  
profit before tax for the year would have increased/decreased by £11.6 million/£10.2 million respectively (2011: increased/decreased by  
£9.9 million/£8.8 million). 
• Price risk 
Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes. The Company  
has no exposure in this area. 
86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
20) Share capital  
Group and Company 
(a) Share capital authorised 
 
As at
30 June
2012
Number of 
shares 
As at 
30 June 
2012 
Nominal value 
£’000 
As at
30 June
2011
Number of 
shares 
As at
30 June
2011
Nominal value
£’000 
Ordinary shares of 0.01p each  900,000,000 90 900,000,000 90
(b) Share capital issued 
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity shares: 
 
As at
30 June
2012 
Number of 
shares 
As at 
30 June 
2012 
Nominal value 
£’000 
As at
30 June
2011
Number of 
shares 
As at
30 June
2011
Nominal value
£’000 
Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71 713,284,437 71
All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights. 
During the year 543,633 ordinary shares were cancelled as part of an acquisition-related purchase price adjustment. The nominal value of  
the cancelled shares has been credited to a capital redemption reserve. The capital redemption reserve is not presented on the face of the 
consolidated balance sheet as it is de minimis. 
At 30 June 2012 there were 1,898,221 (2011: 4,229,071) options in issue with contingent rights to the allotment of ordinary shares of 0.01p 
in the Company. There were also equity settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 25,948,803 shares (2011: 22,889,524) 
that have release dates ranging from October 2012 to January 2017. Further details are provided in note 10. 
21) Own shares 
The Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) was established to act as an agent to facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the 
Company with a view to facilitating the recruitment and motivation of the employees of the Company. As at the year end, the EBT owned 
32,668,764 (2011: 24,555,042) ordinary shares of 0.01p with a nominal value of £3,266.88 (2011: £2,455.50) and shareholders’ funds are 
reduced by £88.9 million (2011: £48.7 million) in this respect. It is the intention of the Directors to make these shares available to employees 
by way of sale through the share-based compensation plans. The EBT is periodically funded by the Company for these purposes. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
22) Treasury shares  
Treasury shares held by Ashmore Group plc 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 6.9 6.9
 
 Number Number 
Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 5,368,331
 
Reconciliation of treasury shares Number Number 
At the beginning of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331
Purchase of own shares – –
At the end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331
 
Market value of treasury shares £m £m 
Ashmore Group plc  18.7 21.4
23) Trade and other payables 
 
Group
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
Group  
As at 
30 June 
2011 
£m 
Company
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
Company
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Current  
Trade and other payables 29.6 27.7 26.3 27.6
Accruals and deferred income 52.6 55.5 18.4 19.1
Amounts due to subsidiaries – – 1.8 0.7
Contingent consideration  4.9 11.7 – –
Total current 87.1 94.9 46.5 47.4
Non-current  
Contingent consideration 5.8 20.3 – –
Other non-current liabilities – 1.1 – –
Total non-current 5.8 21.4 – –
Total trade and other payables 92.9 116.3 46.5 47.4
 
 
  
88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
Contingent consideration 
The Group’s contingent consideration liabilities comprise amounts payable in future periods subject to achievement of agreed milestone 
targets by the relevant maturity dates of 31 May 2012, 2013 and 2014. Of the total contingent consideration liability of £10.7 million,  
£4.9 million is considered to be payable in less than one year and is classified as a current liability. The remaining £5.8 million is payable  
after a period greater than 12 months and is classified as a non-current liability. 
The movement of contingent consideration during the year is shown below: 
   
Contingent 
consideration
£m 
At 30 June 2010  –
Liabilities arising on acquisition of subsidiary  28.1
Liabilities arising on the purchase of intangible assets  2.6
Net present value discount unwind  0.5
FX revaluation  0.8
At 30 June 2011  32.0
Net present value discount unwind  4.1
Fair value adjustment  (16.8)
Consideration that crystallised during the year  (9.5)
FX revaluation  0.9
At 30 June 2012  10.7
The contingent consideration payable following the acquisition of AshmoreEMM was adjusted at the end of the period, in line with  
accounting standards, to reflect its fair value. Such a movement in fair value is driven principally by the levels of equities AuM managed  
by AshmoreEMM at 30 June 2012, compared with the levels forecast when the fair values of the contingent consideration liabilities were 
established on the completion date and retested at the end of the previous financial year. The reduction in equities AuM – principally through 
negative investment performance in line with the falls in global equity indices – created a fall in the fair value of the contingent consideration. 
The fall in the fair value of the Group’s contingent consideration liabilities at 30 June 2012 resulted in a downward adjustment to 
the 30 June 2012 closing balance of £16.8 million (2011: £nil). The reduction of the discounted liability, reported within finance income, 
reflects a reduction in the Group’s expected payments as a result of performance against contingent consideration milestones to date. 
The potential undiscounted value of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under contingent consideration 
arrangements is between nil and a maximum of £65.3 million/US$102.5 million (2011: nil and £86.7 million/US$139.1 million). 
The fair value of the contingent consideration was calculated by reference to possible scenarios, weighted according to management’s 
estimates of their probabilities and discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital of 13.0%. The scenarios and assumptions 
are therefore reviewed on a regular basis to assess the potential sensitivities and impact on the Group. The undiscounted value of the 
estimated payments was £12.5 million/US$19.7 million (2011: £37.9 million/US$ 60.9 million). At maturity, contingent consideration will  
be settled using a combination of cash and new Ashmore ordinary shares at the prevailing market price. Ashmore has the option to pay up  
to £3.0 million/US$4.7 million (2011: £8.6 million/US$13.8 million) of the current estimate of the undiscounted contingent consideration 
amount that will ultimately become payable as equity. 
The discount applied to the contingent consideration will unwind until the time when the final payment is made in May 2014.
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
24) Leases 
Operating leases 
The Group has entered into certain property leases. The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase options, and no restrictions 
imposed on them. 
The obligations under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: 
Group 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Within one year 2.9 2.9
Over one year but not more than five years 9.2 6.5
Over five years 7.9 8.6
Total 20.0 18.0 
 
Company 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Within one year 1.2 1.2
Over one year but not more than five years 4.6 4.6
Over five years 7.5 8.6
Total 13.3 14.4
 
25) Subsidiaries and associates 
Company 
Investment in subsidiaries 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011 
£m 
Cost 20.1 20.1
There were no significant movements in the year. 
Ashmore Group plc is the ultimate parent company of the Group. 
The directly held subsidiary of the parent company is as follows: 
 
Country of incorporation/
formation and principal 
place of operation 
As at
30 June
2012
% owned 
Ashmore Investments (UK) Limited England 100.00
 
  
90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
The principal indirectly held subsidiaries are as follows: 
 
Country of incorporation/
formation and principal 
place of operation 
As at
30 June
2012
% owned 
Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00
Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00
Ashmore Investment Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.00
AA Development Capital Investment Managers (Mauritius) LLC Mauritius 55.00
Ashmore Investments (Brasil) Limited Guernsey 91.25
Ashmore Investments (India) Limited Mauritius 100.00
Ashmore Investments (Turkey) NV Netherlands 95.20
Ashmore Investment Management (US) Corporation USA 100.00
Ashmore Russia LLC Russia 100.00
Ashmore Investments (Colombia) SL Spain 100.00
Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00
Ashmore Investment Consulting (Beijing) Co. Limited China 100.00
Ashmore EMM Holding Corp. USA 100.00
Ashmore EMM L.L.C. USA 63.63
All shares held are ordinary. All subsidiaries within the Group are included in the consolidated results. The principal subsidiaries affecting the 
Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet as at 30 June 2012 are Ashmore Investments (UK) Limited, 
Ashmore Investment Management Limited, Ashmore Management Company Limited, Ashmore EMM L.L.C and Ashmore EMM Holding Corp. 
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is annexed to the annual return of Ashmore Group plc filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
As at 30 June 2012 the Company indirectly held investments in associates. These are as follows: 
Investment in associates 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Total assets 4.4 4.2 
Total liabilities (1.4) (1.8)
Net assets 3.0 2.4
Group’s share of associates’ net assets 0.9 0.8
Revenue for the year to 30 June 2012 3.2 4.7
Profit for the year to 30 June 2012 0.4 (0.1) 
Group’s share of associates’ profit for the year 0.1 (0.1)
The Group held 50.0% of the equity of an associate, VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited, as at 30 June 2012 (2011: 50%). 
The Group held 30.0% of the equity of an associate, Everbright Ashmore, as at 30 June 2012 (2011: 30%). 
The Group’s share of net assets of the associates is currently below the carrying value of the investment reflected on the consolidated  
balance sheet. This is considered to be a temporary position which has arisen as the associates’ progress through an initial establishment 
phase. No permanent impairment is believed to exist and as such the carrying value of the investment in associates has not been adjusted.  
No profit has been recognised in the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of its share of associates’ profit for 
the year as a result of the net asset position of the associates. This treatment will continue to be applied until the Group’s share of associates’ 
net assets returns to a level greater than the carrying value of the investment.  
The Group has undrawn capital commitments of £18.4 million (2011: £21.6 million) to investment funds managed by the associates.  
Further details are provided in note 27. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
 
26) Related party transactions 
Transactions with key management personnel – Group and Company 
Related party transactions are in respect of relationships with key management personnel. The compensation of key management personnel 
was as follows: 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Short-term employee benefits 2.7 6.0
Share-based payment benefits 2.6 2.3
Total 5.3 8.3
Share-based payment benefits represents the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of share awards.
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 53. 
During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel (2011: one transaction). Transactions with subsidiaries – Company 
Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, are shown below: 
 
 Year ended
30 June
2012
£m 
Year ended
30 June
2011
£m 
Management fees received 65.4 76.6
Net dividends received 194.8 170.0
 
 
As at
30 June
2012
£m 
As at
30 June
2011
£m 
Due from subsidiaries 
Loans  217.1 121.0
Other  6.8 13.3
Due to subsidiaries 
Other 1.8 0.7
 
Transactions with Ashmore Funds 
Group 
During the year, the Group received £270.4 million gross management fees and performance fees (2011: £397.3 million) from the 72 funds 
(30 June 2011: 81 funds) it manages and which are classified as related parties. As at 30 June the Group has receivables due from funds of 
£50.3 million (2011: £41.5 million). 
Transactions with the Ashmore Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) – Group and Company 
The EBT, which acts as an agent for the purpose of the employee share-based compensation plans, has been provided a loan facility to allow  
it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested shares. The EBT is included within the results of the Group and the 
Company. As at year end the loan outstanding was £82.7 million (2011: £43.2million).  
Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation – Group and Company 
The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group. The foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within 
the Emerging Markets geographies in which Ashmore operates with a view to putting something back into the countries and communities in 
which the Group invests and which contribute to Ashmore’s income and profitability. There were no related party transactions with the 
foundation during the year (2011: none). 
27) Capital commitments 
 Group Company 
Undrawn investment commitments 
2012
£m 
2011 
£m 
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, L.P. 3.4 5.0 – –
Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 6.2 16.6 – –
Ashmore I – FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 8.8 9.7 – –
The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling £18.4 million (2011: £31.3 million) to support their  
investment activities. 
28) Post-balance sheet events 
There were no post-balance sheet events that required adjustment of or disclosure in the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2012.
92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
 
29) Accounting estimates and judgements 
Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are continually evaluated and are based upon management’s assessment 
of current and future events. The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities are discussed below. 
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets annually for impairment. The recoverable amount is determined based upon value in use 
calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates. The carrying value of goodwill and intangibles on the Group’s 
balance sheet at 30 June 2012 was £98.1 million (2011: £103.2 million). Management considers that no reasonably possible changes in any of 
the key assumptions applied would cause the carrying value of goodwill to materially exceed its recoverable value.  
The Group assesses the recognition of performance fees to determine whether receipt of the fees is considered probable and the amount 
reliable. The assessment is made using management’s judgement of the circumstances relevant to each performance fee entitlement.  
There were no outstanding performance fees receivable at 30 June 2012 (2011: none).  
The Group assesses the expected payments to be made under earnout arrangements to determine whether the estimates are reasonable 
based on current information. The assessment is made using management’s judgement of the likelihood of the conditions of the earnout 
being met taking into account the revenue earning capability of the underlying AuM. The fair value of the contingent consideration is then 
calculated by reference to those estimates, weighted according to management’s estimates of their probabilities and discounted using the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The combined liability of all earnout arrangements on the Group’s balance sheet at 30 June 2012 
was £10.7 million (2011: £32.0 million) (refer to note 23). 
A number of assumptions are made in deriving the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration, including assumptions around future 
net management fee margins, net subscriptions, market performance and the average cost of capital. While the Group believes that a set of 
prudent assumptions and estimates have been used that best reflect current market conditions, there remains a degree of uncertainty. In the 
event that future results or revised assumptions contribute to an upward revision in the contingent consideration, the reduction recognised 
during the period, reported within finance income, could be partially or fully reversed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is possible that this document could or may contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as 
assumptions about future events. These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or 
current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, 
should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.  
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and 
uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Group’s plans and objectives, to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those described in the forward looking statements are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory 
forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions. The Group undertakes no 
obligation to revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are 
affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93 Five-year summary 
 
 
 
 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2010
£m 
2011 
£m 
2012
£m 
Management fees 186.7 186.8 192.1 250.9 302.6
Performance fees 44.7 52.5 82.9 85.4 25.4
Other revenue 10.1 6.4 6.4 6.5 6.2
Total revenue 241.5 245.7 281.4 342.8 334.2
Distribution costs (4.7) (3.6) (2.2) (1.6) (3.7)
Foreign exchange 3.2 (38.6) 7.0 (7.4) 2.8
Net revenue 240.0 203.5 286.2 333.8 333.3
Loss on investment securities – – – – (0.4)
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds – – – – (0.4)
Personnel expenses (7.4) (11.5) (12.8) (15.3) (23.6)
Variable compensation (40.3) (24.5) (46.0) (56.2) (49.4)
Other operating expenses (11.1) (16.9) (18.1) (22.9) (34.4)
Total operating expenses (58.8) (52.9) (76.9) (94.4) 108.2
Operating profit 181.2 150.6 209.3 239.4 225.1
Finance income 15.0 9.2 7.9 6.5 18.1
Profit before tax 196.2 159.8 217.2 245.9 243.2
Tax expense (55.2) (44.3) (56.6) (55.7) (57.5)
Profit for the year 141.0 115.5 160.6 190.2 185.7
 
EPS (basic) 21.0p 17.1p 23.9p 28.1p 26.8p
  
Other operating data (unaudited)  
AuM at period end (US$bn) 37.5 24.9 35.3 65.8 63.7
AuM at period end (£bn) 18.8 15.1 23.6 41.0 40.6
Average AuM (£bn) 17.7 17.3 19.8 29.0 40.2
Average £/US$ exchange rate for the year 2.01 1.60 1.58 1.59 1.59
Period end £/US$ exchange rate for the year 1.99 1.65 1.49 1.61 1.57
94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Information for Shareholders  
 
 
Ashmore Group plc 
Registered in England and Wales. 
Company No. 3675683 
Registered office 
61 Aldwych 
London WC2B 4AE 
Tel: +44 (0) 20 3077 6000 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 3077 6001 
Principal UK trading subsidiary 
Ashmore Investment Management Limited 
Registered in England and Wales, Company No. 3344281. 
Business address and registered office as above. 
Further information on Ashmore Group plc can be found on the 
Company’s website: www.ashmoregroup.com. 
Financial calendar 
Announcement of results for year ended 30 June 2012 
11 September 2012 
First quarter interim management statement 
11 October 2012 
Annual General Meeting 
31 October 2012 
Ex-dividend date 
7 November 2012 
Record date 
9 November 2012 
Final dividend payment date 
7 December 2012 
Second quarter AuM statement 
January 2013 
Announcement of unaudited interim results for the six months ended 
31 December 2012 
February 2013 
Third quarter interim management statement  
April 2013 
Announcement of results for the year ended 30 June 2013 
September 2013 
 
Registrar 
Equiniti Registrars 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
UK shareholder helpline: 0871 384 2812 (Calls to this number cost 8p 
per minute from a BT landline, other providers’ costs may vary. Lines 
are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.) 
International shareholder helpline: +44 121 415 7047 
Further information about the Registrar is available on their website 
www.equiniti.com. 
Up-to-date information about current holdings on the register is also 
available at www.shareview.co.uk. 
Shareholders will need their reference number (account number) and 
postcode to view information on their own holding. 
.
Share price information 
Share price information can be found at www.ashmoregroup.com  
or through your broker. 
Share dealing 
Shares may be sold through a stockbroker or share dealing service. 
There are a variety of services available. Equiniti Registrars offer a 
secure, free and easy-to-use internet-based share dealing service 
known as Shareview Dealing. 
You can log on at www.shareview.co.uk/dealing to access  
this service, or contact the helpline on 0845 603 7037 to deal  
by telephone. 
You may also use the Shareview service to access and manage your 
share investments and view balance movements, indicative share 
prices, information on recent dividends, portfolio valuation and 
general information for shareholders. 
Shareholders must register at www.shareview.co.uk entering  
the shareholder reference on the share certificate and other  
personal details. 
Having selected a personal PIN, a user ID will be issued by  
the Registrar. 
Electronic copies of the 2012 Annual Report and financial  
statements and other publications 
Copies of the 2012 Annual Report and financial statements, the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, 
press releases and announcements are available on the Company’s 
website at www.ashmoregroup.com. 
Sharegift 
Shareholders with only a small number of shares whose value makes 
them uneconomic to sell may wish to consider donating to charity 
through Sharegift, an independent charity share donation scheme. 
For further information, please contact either the Registrar or see the 
Sharegift website at www.sharegift.org. 
Frequent shareholder enquiries 
Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, share certificates or 
transfers and address changes should be sent to the Registrar; the 
Company’s governance reports, corporate governance guidelines and 
the terms of reference of the Board committees can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.ashmoregroup.com. 
Notifying the Company of a change of address 
You should notify Equiniti Registrars in writing. 
If you hold shares in joint names, the notification to change address 
must be signed by the first-named shareholder. You may choose to 
do this online, by logging on to www.shareview.co.uk. You will need 
your shareholder reference number to access this service – this can be 
found on your share certificate or from a dividend counterfoil. 
You will be asked to select your own PIN and a user ID will be posted 
to you. 
Notifying the Company of a change of name 
You should notify Equiniti Registrars in writing of your new name and 
previous name. You should attach a copy of your marriage certificate 
or your change of name deed, together with your share certificates 
and any un-cashed dividend cheques in your old name, so that the 
Registrar can reissue them. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95 Information for Shareholders continued 
 
 
Dividend payments directly into bank or building society accounts 
We recommend that all dividend payments are made directly into  
a bank or building society account. Dividends are paid via BACS, 
providing tighter security and access to funds more quickly. To apply 
for a dividend mandate form, contact the Registrar, or you can find 
one by logging on to www.shareview.co.uk (under Frequently Asked 
Questions) or by calling the helpline on 0871 384 2812 (calls to this 
number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers’ costs 
may vary. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday). 
International shareholder helpline: +44 121 415 7047 
Transferring Ashmore Group plc shares 
Transferring some or all of your shares to someone else (for example 
your partner or a member of your family) requires completion of  
a share transfer form, which is available from Equiniti Registrars.  
The form should be fully completed and returned with your share 
certificate representing at least the number of shares being 
transferred. The Registrar will then process the transfer and issue  
a balance share certificate to you if applicable. The Registrar will be 
able to help you with any questions you may have. 
Lost share certificate(s) 
Shareholders who lose their share certificate(s) or have their 
certificate(s) stolen should inform Equiniti Registrars immediately  
by calling the shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2812 (calls to this 
number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers’ costs 
may vary. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday). 
International shareholder helpline: +44 121 415 7047 
Disability helpline 
For shareholders with hearing difficulties a special text phone number 
is available: +44 (0)871 384 2255. 
96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 This report is printed on Hello Fat Matt paper. This paper is composed  
of virgin wood ﬁbre from well-managed forests independently 
certiﬁed according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC). It is manufactured at a mill that is certiﬁed to ISO14001  
and EMAS environmental standards. The mill used pulps that are 
elemental chlorine free (ECF) and the inks in printing this report are  
all vegetable-based.
Printed at Principal Colour, ISO14001, FSC certiﬁed and 
CarbonNeutral®
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc Ashmore Group plc
61 Aldwych
London WC2B 4AE
United Kingdom
www.ashmoregroup.com
