 Annual Report  
and Accounts 2016 FINANCIAL HEADLINES
Group revenue
£13.4bn
Actual: +5% Constant currency: +4%
Adjusted operating profit*
£1,118m
Actual: +3% Constant currency: +3%
Adjusted profit before tax**
£1,071m
Up 5%
Adjusted earnings 
per share**
 1 06.2p
Up 5%
Dividends per share
36.75p
Up 5%
Gross investment 
£1bn
Net debt
£315m
Operating profit
£1,103m
Up 18%
Profit before tax
£1,042m
Up 47%
Basic earnings per share
 1 03.4p
Up 55%
REVIEW OF THE YEAR ONLINE:  
www.abf.co.uk/ar2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
IFC Financial headlines
1 Our year in review
2 Our businesses at a glance
4  Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s statement
8   Group business model and strategy
10 Business strategies
12 Operating review
 12 Grocery
 20 Sugar
 26 Agriculture
 32 Ingredients
 36 Retail
42 Financial review
44 Corporate responsibility
48 Principal risks and uncertainties
GOVERNANCE
54 Board of directors
56 Corporate governance
69 Remuneration report
88 Directors’ report
91  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
92  Independent auditor’s report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
98 Consolidated income statement
99   Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
100 Consolidated balance sheet
101 Consolidated cash flow statement
102  Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
103 Significant accounting policies
108  Accounting estimates and judgements
109  Notes forming part of the 
financial statements
149 Company financial statements
IBC Progress report
IBC Company directory
*  Before amortisation of non-operating intangibles, profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets and exceptional items.
**  Before amortisation of non-operating intangibles, profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets, profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses 
and exceptional items.
Associated British Foods is a diversified 
international food, ingredients and retail group 
with sales of £13.4bn, 130,000 employees 
and operations in 50 countries across Europe, 
southern Africa, the Americas, Asia and Australia. OUR YEAR IN REVIEW
2016
Front cover image: Sugar cane
Above: Dorset Cereals
12 GROCERY
20 SUGAR
26 AGRICULTURE
32 INGREDIENTS
36 RETAIL
A year of progress for all of our businesses with  
a substantial expansion in Primark’s selling space, 
increased margins in all of our food businesses and 
fundamental structural changes at AB Sugar.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc
Strategic report
1 OUR BUSINESSES  
AT A GLANCE
International
Twinings and Ovaltine are our 
global hot beverage brands.
Europe
Silver Spoon and Billington’s sugars, 
Jordans and Dorset cereals, Ryvita, 
Kingsmill, Patak’s and Blue Dragon.
The Americas
In the US, Mazola is the leader in 
corn oil and we sell a range of baking 
brands through retail and food service 
channels. Capullo is a premium 
canola oil in Mexico.
Australia
Ham, bacon and smallgoods under 
Don and KRC brands. Tip Top Bakeries 
produce a range of well-known 
breads and baked goods.
Europe
Our UK beet sugar factories typically 
produce well over one million tonnes 
of sugar annually. Azucarera in Spain 
produces over 400,000 tonnes 
of beet sugar each year and has a 
cane refining capacity of a further 
400,000 tonnes.
China
We operate two beet sugar factories 
in the north east of the country, with 
annual sugar production capacity 
of over 160,000 tonnes.
Southern Africa
Illovo is Africa’s largest sugar 
producer with agricultural and 
production facilities in six countries. 
Typical annual sugar production is 
1.7 million tonnes.
SUGAR GROCERY
A DIVERSIFIED 
BUSINESS
The group operates through five 
strategic business segments
Revenue
£3,274m 2015: £3,177m
Adjusted operating profit
£304m 2015: £285m
Adjusted operating profit margin
9.3% 2015: 9.0%
Return on average capital employed
24.2% 2015: 22.5%
Revenue
£1,798m 2015: £1,818m
Adjusted operating profit
£34m 2015: £33m
Adjusted operating profit margin
1.9% 2015: 1.8%
Return on average capital employed
2.1% 2015: 1.9%
Operating review, Grocery 12 Operating review, Sugar 20
Image: Central Madrid –  
Celebrating 10 years in Spain
Operating review, Retail 36
2
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc AB Agri operates at the heart of 
the agricultural industry. Its unique 
breadth and experience enable it 
to add value all along the food, drink 
and biofuel industry supply chains.
AB Agri supplies products and 
services to farmers, feed and food 
manufacturers, processors and 
retailers. It also buys grain from 
farmers and supplies crop inputs 
through its joint venture arable 
operation, Frontier Agriculture.
The business employs more than 
2,300 people in the UK and China 
and market products in more than 
65 countries worldwide.
Yeast and bakery ingredients
AB Mauri operates globally in yeast 
and bakery ingredients production 
with 49 plants in 26 countries 
supplying plant and artisanal bakers 
and the foodservice and wholesale 
channels. It is a technology leader in 
bread improvers, dough conditioners 
and bakery mixes.
Speciality ingredients
ABF Ingredients focuses on 
high-value ingredients for food and 
non-food applications. It manufactures 
and markets enzymes, lipids, yeast 
extracts and cereal specialities 
worldwide with manufacturing 
facilities in Europe and the US.
Primark
Primark is a major retail group 
employing 68,000 people. 
It operates stores in the UK, 
Republic of Ireland, Spain, Portugal, 
Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, 
Austria, France, Italy and the US.
It offers customers quality, 
up-to-the-minute fashion at 
value-for-money prices.
Buying and merchandising teams 
in Dublin (Republic of Ireland) and 
Reading (UK) travel internationally 
to source and buy fashion items 
that best reflect each season’s 
key fashion trends. Primark’s range 
includes womenswear, lingerie, 
childrenswear, menswear, footwear, 
accessories, hosiery and homeware.
RETAIL INGREDIENTS AGRICULTURE
Revenue
£1,294m 2015: £1,247m
Adjusted operating profit
£93m 2015: £76m
Adjusted operating profit margin
7.2% 2015: 6.1%
Return on average capital employed
13.1% 2015: 11.1%
Revenue
£1,084m 2015: £1,211m
Adjusted operating profit
£58m 2015: £60m
Adjusted operating profit margin
5.4% 2015: 5.0%
Return on average capital employed
17.7% 2015: 19.2%
Revenue
£5,949m 2015: £5,347m
Adjusted operating profit
£689m 2015: £673m
Adjusted operating profit margin
11.6% 2015: 12.6%
Return on average capital employed
30.2% 2015: 31.1%
Operating review, Agriculture 26 Operating review, Ingredients 32 Operating review, Retail 36
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
3
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
This has been a year of progress for 
the group with revenues 5% higher 
than last year, adjusted operating 
profit ahead by 3% and earnings 
per share up by 5% to 106.2p. Gross 
investment was significant this year 
at just over £1bn which included 
capital expenditure increases both 
for Primark and the food businesses 
and the £247m consideration to 
acquire the minority shareholdings 
in Illovo Sugar Limited. This was 
funded by another strong cash flow 
and was the fifth consecutive year of 
operating cash generated in excess 
of £1bn. Although net debt at the 
year end was higher than last year, 
this was after the buyout of the 
Illovo minorities and a £53m 
increase attributable to the effect 
of translating foreign currency 
denominated net debt at weaker 
sterling exchange rates.
One of our group’s great virtues is 
the way that it embraces change so 
positively and this year has provided 
plenty of opportunity for our businesses 
to demonstrate this. Whether responding 
to challenging financial markets; 
integrating acquired businesses; disposing 
of businesses; dealing with the effects 
of unusual weather on our supply chains 
or retail demand; advancing technology 
or changing legislation, our people 
have responded with enthusiasm.
The sugar industry has seen much 
change, not least in Europe as it has 
prepared for regime reform in 2017. 
However, 2016 will be seen as 
something of a turning point for 
AB Sugar. The profit decline of recent 
years has been arrested as EU and world 
sugar prices turned upwards and our 
performance improvement programme, 
which had already yielded substantial 
benefits, delivered further cost 
reduction and efficiency gains which 
have underpinned our credentials as 
a low-cost producer. Moving to full 
ownership of Illovo, at a time when 
increasing populations and rising 
incomes are driving growth in the African 
sugar market, is expected to accelerate 
its performance improvement and 
commercial development. We have also 
announced the sale of our south China 
cane sugar operations with completion 
expected later in this calendar year. We 
first entered the Chinese sugar market 
in 1995 and since then have substantially 
improved agricultural productivity, factory 
extraction and sugar yields. However, 
further improvements are likely to be 
driven by industry consolidation and 
we believe that other parties are better 
placed to take the business forward. 
Our beet sugar business in north 
east China is at an earlier stage in its 
development and we believe we are  
well positioned to take advantage of 
the opportunities this presents.
Cost reduction was a driver of the 
continued recovery of the yeast and 
bakery ingredients business which 
was the major contributor to the 22% 
growth in adjusted operating profit 
from Ingredients this year. Grocery 
and Agriculture both achieved further 
margin improvement despite the 
challenges for revenue growth 
presented by commodity price deflation. 
Since the year end we have announced 
the sale of ACH’s herbs and spices 
business in North America with 
completion expected shortly. Whilst 
this has been a good investment over 
the years, it is a complex operation which 
occupies a niche position in its market 
and we believe its further development 
will best be achieved through consolidation 
with another party.
Primark’s development continued 
apace with a further 1.2 million sq ft 
of selling space opened during the year. 
Ten years ago Primark opened its first 
store in Spain – the first time that it 
had ventured outside the UK and 
Ireland. Since then it has expanded 
into a further eight countries and has 
achieved a fivefold increase in retail 
selling space. This pace of development 
is set to continue with an extensive 
schedule of new store openings planned 
for 2016/17. That new store openings 
are still greeted with enthusiasm by our 
customers says much for the capability 
of our buyers and merchandisers who 
ensure that Primark remains at the 
CHARLES SINCLAIR, CHAIRMAN
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
4 forefront of fashion, but is also the result 
of our store designers making Primark 
an attractive and fun place to shop.
Corporate responsibility
Having provided an update on corporate 
responsibility in each of the last two 
years we have, today, published a full 
report for this year. The priorities of our 
businesses remain largely unchanged 
with a continued challenge to reduce the 
environmental footprint of our operations 
and improve the safety of our sites. 
We remain committed to being a 
good neighbour and supporting the 
communities where we operate. For 
the first time, we have sought to quantify 
our social impact in order to show the 
benefits of our collective endeavour 
on the lives of our people, suppliers, 
neighbours and customers. A copy of 
the report is available for download at 
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.
The fifth consecutive 
year of operating 
cash generated in 
excess of £1bn.”
Remuneration
As noted in the Remuneration report 
last year, we have undertaken a 
complete review of the group’s incentive 
arrangements during the course of this 
year and a number of changes are 
proposed to improve alignment with 
shareholder interests.
The board
Tim Clarke and Javier Ferrán have 
each completed more than nine years’ 
service as directors of the Company and, 
in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the rest of the board 
must now confirm their independence 
annually. This having been done, we 
are delighted that both Tim and Javier 
have agreed to continue as members 
of the board and Tim will continue as 
the Senior Independent Director.
Peter Smith retired as a non-executive 
director of the Company in April having 
served nine years as a member of the 
board. I would like to thank Peter for the 
significant contribution he made during 
his tenure as a director and chairman 
of the Audit committee.
In April we welcomed Richard Reid to 
the board as a non-executive director 
and chairman of the Audit committee. 
Richard was formerly a partner at 
KPMG LLP, having joined the firm in 
1980. From 2008 he served as London 
Chairman until he retired from the firm 
in September 2015.
Employees
Whenever I visit our operations around 
the world I am regularly reminded of the 
enthusiasm with which our employees 
undertake their responsibilities, their 
commitment to improving performance 
and their willingness to embrace 
change. I would like to thank them for 
their achievements this year which 
contributed greatly to the group’s 
continuing success.
Dividends
I am pleased to report that a final 
dividend of 26.45p is proposed, to be 
paid on 13 January 2017 to shareholders 
on the register on 16 December 2016. 
Together with the interim dividend 
of 10.3p paid on 1 July 2016, this will 
make a total of 36.75p for the year, 
an increase of 5%.
Outlook
We expect the expansion of Primark’s 
selling space to continue in all of its 
major markets. AB Sugar will benefit 
substantially from this year’s increase 
in sugar prices and from reductions 
in its cost base. Grocery, Ingredients 
and Agriculture are expected to make 
further progress.
Assuming a continuation of current 
exchange rates, and following the 
significant devaluation of sterling, 
we expect group earnings to benefit 
from the translation of overseas profits. 
However, as Primark buys much of its 
merchandise in US dollars and sells 
in the UK in sterling, there will be an 
adverse effect, in the year, on its 
UK margins.
Taking all of these factors into account, 
at this early stage, we expect progress 
in adjusted operating profit and adjusted 
earnings for the group for the coming year.
Charles Sinclair
Chairman
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
5 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that group 
revenue increased by 5% to £13.4bn 
and adjusted operating profit of 
£1,118m was 3% higher than last year.
AB Sugar made a number of fundamental 
structural changes this year which will 
lead to a higher and more sustainable 
profit. Specifically, all of its operations 
delivered substantial cost reductions 
through performance improvement and 
capital investment; the sale of its cane 
sugar operations in south China will 
improve margins; and the move to  
full ownership will accelerate Illovo’s 
commercial development and profit 
growth. There has also been an 
emphasis this year on working closely 
with growers, key members of our 
supply chain, to maximise efficiency 
and underpin our growth aspirations.
As a responsible business, AB Sugar 
contributes actively to the debate 
concerning the role that sugar can play  
as part of a healthy balanced diet with 
its Making Sense of Sugar campaign. 
We believe it is important to recognise 
that there is no single response to 
tackling obesity. We are committed 
to playing our part in finding solutions 
that heighten people’s awareness 
of the calories they are consuming, 
whether in sugars or other food 
ingredients, through a combination of 
educational and regulatory measures.
Ingredients achieved a strong profit 
and margin increase driven by a further 
recovery in AB Mauri, our yeast and 
bakery ingredients business. AB Agri 
delivered a resilient performance with 
its strategy of expanding the value 
adding elements of its business, 
particularly internationally. Grocery 
achieved revenue growth against a 
background of food commodity price 
deflation and margin increased again 
with an improvement in George Weston 
Foods in Australia, particularly at the 
Don KRC meat business which 
generated a profit.
The strong expansion of Primark’s 
selling space continued this year and 
a further 1.3 million sq ft is scheduled 
for next year. We were encouraged 
by the trading at our first store in  
Italy and by our five stores in the US.  
We now have a better understanding 
of what appeals to our American 
customers and are gaining valuable 
insights into store location. This was 
This has been a year of progress 
for all of our businesses.”
GEORGE WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
6 OUR BROAD GEOGRAPHICAL FOOTPRINT
Please note, the above map correctly reflects the group’s countries of operation and has been amended from that 
shown in the printed version of the Annual Report that was distributed to shareholders, which included a printing error.
With the diversity of 
our operations, our 
broad geographical 
footprint and a strong 
balance sheet, we 
are well placed to 
take advantage 
of the opportunity 
presented by 
the weakness 
of sterling.”
The referendum on the UK’s continued 
membership of the EU has created  
some short-term uncertainties including  
a decline in the value of sterling. 
However, changes in legislation and 
trade agreements, particularly in the 
areas of trade tariffs and UK agricultural 
policy have the potential to benefit the 
group, and the current level of sterling 
offers UK food producers significant 
opportunities to replace imported  
food and build export markets. We are 
therefore engaging with a number of  
UK Government departments to ensure 
that the full range of opportunities and 
risks, as they affect ABF, are recognised.
George Weston
Chief Executive
a challenging year for clothing retailers 
with market value declines seen in 
most countries in Europe. It is therefore 
a testament to the strength of Primark’s 
customer offering that it increased its 
share in all of its major markets. The 
devaluation of the euro against the US 
dollar in 2015 put pressure on margins 
in this financial year and sterling’s recent 
devaluation against the US dollar will 
have an impact in the coming year. 
Primark’s commitment to maintaining 
its leadership position in the value 
sector of the clothing market has 
been our priority and I am pleased 
with the efforts of our buyers to 
significantly limit the profit impact of  
euro weakness in the financial year.
Implications of the EU referendum
ABF is an international business with 
diverse interests across 50 countries 
and has a business model that,  
wherever possible, aligns food 
production with the end markets for  
its products. Primark operates discrete 
supply chains for its stores in each 
of the UK, US and eurozone and 
as a group we undertake relatively 
little cross-border trading between 
the UK and the rest of the EU.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
7 History of dividends paid (pence per share)
06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
18.3 19.0 19.8 20.4 21.7 35.3 24.1 25.4 29.4 32.4 34.3
BUSINESS STRUCTURE
STRATEGY
ORGANIC GROWTH
GROUP BUSINESS MODEL  
AND STRATEGY
ASSOCIATED BRITISH FOODS  
IS A DIVERSIFIED GROUP  
OF FOOD, INGREDIENTS  
AND RETAIL BUSINESSES
We sell into more than 100 
countries worldwide with 
operations in 50 countries 
across Europe, southern 
Africa, the Americas, 
Asia and Australia.
Our range of activities is broad 
in product, technology and market 
scope. Our businesses comprise  
sizeable operations that achieve good 
revenue and profit growth; mature, 
cash-generative operations; and 
smaller enterprises that afford 
exciting growth potential.
In our markets, we aim to achieve 
strong and sustainable positions 
through a combination of organic 
growth, acquisition of complementary 
new businesses and achievement 
of high levels of operating efficiency. 
We provide high-quality, value-for- 
money food and clothing that are 
central to people’s lives.
Our businesses are organised so 
that they are close to the markets 
and customers that they serve.
The corporate centre agrees 
strategy and budgets with the 
businesses and monitors their 
performance closely.
Organic growth is achieved 
through investment in 
marketing, in the development 
of existing and new products 
and technologies and in targeted 
capital expenditure to improve 
efficiency and expand capacity.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
8 The group is managed as five business 
segments that bring together common 
industry expertise, operational capability 
and market intelligence. Operational 
decisions are made locally because, in 
our experience, they are most successful 
when made by the people who have 
the best understanding of their markets 
and who have to implement them. 
The corporate centre aims to provide a 
framework in which our business leaders 
have the freedom and decision-making 
authority to pursue opportunities with 
The group balance sheet is managed 
to ensure long-term financial stability, 
regardless of the state of capital 
markets, and capital funding is made 
available to all of our businesses where 
returns meet or exceed clearly defined 
criteria. The centre provides selected 
services where the scale of its 
operations enables a more cost-effective 
or efficient delivery, where expertise that 
might not be available at a business level 
can be retained by the group, or where 
the provision of such services would 
otherwise distract business executives. 
Such services include investor relations, 
pensions, insurance, legal support, 
tax and treasury management, where 
We are committed to innovation, the 
continuous pursuit of improvement 
and the maintenance of our efficient 
manufacturing capability.
We aim to operate in a sustainable, 
ethical, efficient and safe manner. 
We have a strong culture of continuing 
operational improvement and focus 
on delivering exceptional quality and 
customer service. The group takes a 
long-term approach to investment and 
is committed to increasing shareholder 
value through sound commercial, 
responsible and sustainable business 
decisions that deliver steady growth 
in earnings and dividends.
entrepreneurial flair. The centre is small 
and uses short lines of communication 
to ensure prompt, incisive and 
unambiguous decision-making. It seeks 
to ensure that business activities are 
appropriately monitored and supported.
specialist expertise is brought together 
in one place for the benefit of the group 
as a whole. The centre also co-ordinates 
selected value-added capabilities to 
support the businesses in their local 
markets such as talent management 
and development, procurement, and the 
sharing of best practice in, for example, 
health and safety or engineering risk 
management. We operate to high 
ethical standards as an organisation 
and expect the same of our employees. 
We encourage an open and honest 
culture in all our dealings and ensure that 
our core values are fully implemented 
throughout the group.
Acquisitions are made to complement 
existing business activities and to exploit 
opportunities in adjacent markets 
or geographies.
BUSINESS STRUCTURE
STRATEGY
ORGANIC GROWTH
Operating review 12
Business strategies 10
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
9 BUSINESS STRATEGIES
PROVIDING OUR BUSINESS 
LEADERS WITH THE FREEDOM 
AND DECISION-MAKING AUTHORITY 
TO PURSUE OPPORTUNITIES 
WITH ENTREPRENEURIAL FLAIR
Five business segments 
that bring together 
common industry expertise, 
operational capability and 
market intelligence. 
SUGAR
GROCERY
Each of our Grocery businesses 
pursues an independent strategy, 
appropriate to its particular market 
position and stage of development. 
As examples, Jordans Dorset Ryvita 
is focused on developing its brands 
in its core markets, whilst AB World 
Foods has had considerable success 
extending its reach into new and 
emerging markets.
All of these businesses are 
committed to the consistent 
development of their brands, and 
consumer research is conducted 
locally and internationally to establish 
consumer needs and ensure 
appropriately targeted investment. 
Our production facilities are well 
maintained and we take a long-term 
approach to capital investment, 
recognising the merits of building 
for the future. Acquisitions are 
undertaken when opportunities are 
presented to either strengthen or 
complement existing businesses.
AB Sugar is one of the world’s largest 
and most diverse sugar producers 
and has a simple vision to be the 
world’s leading sugar business.
Whilst sugar is at the heart of what 
we do, the sugar production process 
provides opportunities to do more 
than simply manufacture an 
ingredient. We are an innovative and 
advanced manufacturer, producing a 
wide range of sugar and co-products. 
Additionally, we are an energy and 
power supplier and, as part of the 
wider agri-business value chain, we 
are an important contributor to the 
economy across all our locations.
Our success has been built on 
continued development and 
innovation to meet the changing 
needs of our customers, to improve 
our operations and to work with 
our growers to ensure sustainable, 
efficient, agricultural production. 
We seek to drive continuous 
improvement in everything we do 
and are committed to developing 
our people to build capability and 
capacity across all our locations 
for the future.
Operating review, Grocery 12
Operating review, Sugar 20
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
10 RETAIL
INGREDIENTS AGRICULTURE
AB Agri is a unique group of leading 
agricultural businesses operating 
across the entire food supply chain. 
It has a detailed understanding 
of agriculture’s importance in our 
changing world and the ambition 
to drive ever greater production 
efficiency has been the core philosophy 
for over 30 years. AB Agri operates 
through individual, entrepreneurial 
businesses empowered to grow their 
interests independently, and through 
a strong network of contacts across 
the entire supply chain.
Organic growth is achieved through 
innovative product development and by 
extending the business’ already broad 
geographic reach into new territories 
and new areas adjacent to its core 
capabilities. Using the diverse breadth 
of products, services and people within 
the AB Agri community, the business 
develops bespoke solutions tailored 
to its customers’ needs. AB Agri 
will continue its successful strategy 
of seeking to make complementary 
acquisitions to strengthen its portfolio 
of businesses and its technical capability. 
It will also continue to collaborate with 
other businesses in the ABF group to 
harness new contacts and technologies.
Our Ingredients businesses are 
dedicated to understanding the key 
requirements of their customers 
and their end-use markets in order 
to ensure a relevant supply of 
ingredients, systems, products 
and technology that create 
value. They develop partnership 
relationships with customers to 
achieve a genuine understanding 
of their products, formulations, 
equipment and processes and the 
market environment in which the 
products are sold. They aim to grow 
by providing outstanding customer 
service backed by a high level of 
investment in technology, innovation, 
research and development.
Each business has its own business 
model that determines an appropriate 
balance of emphasis across the 
full range of potential sources of 
competitive advantage: innovative 
and distinctive products; an efficient 
and proprietary set of production 
processes; and compelling customer 
propositions comprising a blend of 
product performance and customer 
specific services.
Primark offers great value for money 
which it achieves by: incurring no 
advertising costs, instead relying 
on its customers ‘doing the talking’ 
about its products; buying in vast 
quantities and passing on the cost 
savings to customers; keeping 
overheads to a minimum but 
investing in state-of-the-art logistics 
to enable its stores to replenish stocks 
quickly; and by not compromising 
its high-quality standards, rigorously 
testing products at the various 
stages of production.
In the world of fashion it is critical 
that once a style is seen on the 
fashion show catwalk it reaches 
the stores as quickly as possible. 
It can take as little as six weeks 
from initial design concept to being 
available on shelf, and merchandise is 
sourced from all corners of the globe. 
Although Primark does not own the 
companies or factories that produce 
its merchandise, it recognises its 
responsibility to the workers in those 
factories, and to its customers, to 
ensure that its products are made 
in good working conditions.
Operating review, Agriculture 26 Operating review, Ingredients 32
Operating review, Retail 36
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
11 GROCERY
12
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc GLOBAL FLAVOURS
About Grocery
Grocery comprises consumer-facing 
businesses that manufacture and 
market a variety of well-known brands 
both nationally and internationally. 
Twinings Ovaltine has the broadest 
geographical reach, selling premium 
teas and malted beverages in more 
than 100 countries.
AB World Foods focuses on the 
creation and development of world 
flavours and its Patak’s and Blue 
Dragon branded products are 
sold internationally. Westmill Foods 
specialises in supplying UK restaurants 
and wholesalers with high-quality 
ethnic foods including rice, spices, 
sauces, oils, flour and noodles under 
brands such as Rajah, Lucky Boat 
and Elephant.
Jordans, Dorset and Ryvita operate in 
the better-for-you cereal and savoury 
biscuits categories with increasing 
international presence. Jordans has a 
heritage of using traditional methods 
in the production of its wholegrain 
cereals and cereal bars. Dorset’s 
INTERNATIONALISATION  
OF OUR GREAT  
BRITISH BRANDS
RESPONDING TO  
CONSUMER DEMAND
Gluten-free bread that people  
want to eat.
UNLOCKING THE MAGICAL  
WORLD OF TEA
DELIVERING THE 
PERFECT BAKE
Speedibake designs and creates 
the customer’s ultimate muffin.
award-winning muesli and granolas 
are renowned for the quality of their 
natural ingredients. Ryvita has a strong 
reputation in healthy snacking and is 
the UK category leader in crispbreads. 
Allied Bakeries produces a range of 
bakery products under the Kingsmill, 
Sunblest, Allinson and Burgen brands, 
with flour and semolina produced 
by sister company, Allied Mills. 
Speedibake specialises in own-label 
baked goods for retail and foodservice 
customers. Silver Spoon and Billington’s 
are our two retail sugar brands in the 
UK, complemented by a range of 
dessert toppings and syrups under 
the Askeys and Crusha brands.
In Australia, Tip Top is one of the 
country’s most recognised brands, with 
an extensive range of bread and baked 
goods and George Weston Foods 
also manufactures a variety of bacon, 
ham and meat products including the 
Don and KR Castlemaine brands. 
ACH Foods includes within its range 
of branded products, Mazola, the 
leading corn oil in the US, and Capullo, 
a premium canola oil in Mexico.
15
19 16
18
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
13
Strategic report – operating review
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc GROCERY
EVERYDAY FOOD PRODUCTS 
ENJOYED BY PEOPLE ALL OVER 
THE WORLD
Adjusted operating profit increased 
by 7% with a further improvement in 
margin. Revenues were also ahead, 
including the benefit of a 53rd week 
but were again held back by 
commodity price deflation.
Twinings Ovaltine had another good 
year led by Twinings in Australia and the 
US and a return to growth for Ovaltine 
in Thailand. Continued support for the 
brand through television, digital and 
print advertising drove a further increase 
in Twinings’ UK value market share 
following the brand’s relaunch last year. 
Twinings is the clear market leader in 
Australia, where the breakfast range 
was relaunched during the year, and 
the successful ‘Tealand’ television 
advertising campaign, which has driven 
further growth in Italy, has recently 
been rolled out in France and Japan. 
Sales of Ovaltine in Thailand increased 
and, with less sold on promotion, there 
was also some margin improvement. 
Brand extensions drove growth in 
Switzerland and some of these lines 
now have wider geographic distribution 
achieving particular success in Germany.
Revenues at Allied Bakeries were 
ahead this year driven by a substantial 
increase in Kingsmill volumes. A 
further strengthening of relationships 
with major customers saw the business 
win The Grocer magazine’s ‘supplier 
of the year’ award for the second year 
running. Our premium brands, Allinson 
and Burgen, also performed well with 
notable success for Allinson Seeded 
and Seeded Wholemeal variants. The 
continued growth of Kingsmill Sandwich 
Thins led to investment in a second 
production line which came on stream 
in the Stockport bakery in April, providing 
a platform for further innovation.
Silver Spoon gained new contracts and 
benefited from a relaunch this summer, 
but low retail sugar prices maintained 
pressure on margins. Wider distribution 
and a targeted home-baking marketing 
campaign drove an increase in 
Billington’s revenues, and Allinson 
maintained its position as the UK’s 
leading bread flour brand. The full 
integration of Dorset Cereals with 
Jordans and Ryvita has now delivered 
the expected savings in operations, 
logistics and procurement. International 
expansion drove excellent growth 
for Jordans and Dorset, which also 
increased their UK market share. The 
Jordans Farm partnership, launched 
late last year in conjunction with LEAF 
(Linking Environment and Farming) 
and the Wildlife Trust to improve 
sustainability and biodiversity on the 
farms of our oat suppliers, has received 
widespread recognition within the 
industry. Ryvita lost crispbread sales in 
a very competitive UK market although 
its relaunch this year and a new portion 
pack format has slowed the rate 
of decline.
Revenues at AB World Foods were level 
with last year. Patak’s and Blue Dragon 
achieved growth in their important 
markets of Canada and the UK where 
both brands strengthened their market 
leading positions, but Patak’s faced 
a more challenging competitive 
environment in Australia. Westmill had 
a good year across most segments 
with a particularly strong performance 
in noodles where Lucky Boat achieved 
good growth. Spices and microwaveable 
rice both delivered volume and value 
growth but the proliferation of low cost 
basmati rice brands put pressure on 
sales and margin of our products.
Operating profit for our grocery 
businesses in North America was 
ahead of last year. Stratas Foods, our 
commodity oils joint venture, performed 
strongly. At ACH, Mazola oil revenues 
were marginally below last year despite 
distribution gains, as pricing remained 
under pressure from competing 
vegetable oils which had a raw material 
cost advantage throughout the year. 
Mexico’s results were disappointing as 
unfavourable exchange rate movements 
and competitor pricing pressure reduced 
volumes and margin. Since the year 
end we have reached agreement to 
sell ACH’s North American herbs and 
spices business including the Tone’s, 
Spice Islands and Durkee brands, the 
licence for Weber seasonings, and a 
manufacturing facility in Ankeny, Iowa. 
The transaction has now received 
clearance from the anti-trust authorities 
and completion, with a cash consideration 
of $365m, is expected in mid-November. 
Revenue
£3,274m
2015: £3,177m
Actual fx: +3%  
Constant fx: +2%
Adjusted operating profit margin
9.3%
2015: 9.0%
Adjusted operating profit
£304m
2015: £285m
Actual fx: +7%  
Constant fx: +4%
Return on average capital employed
24.2%
2015: 22.5%
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
14 Extending 
national brands  
Unlocking the key to consumers’ Indian food 
preferences has enabled Patak’s to make its 
leading UK brand a winner in Canada too…  “Mining consumer insights has been key to Patak’s growth in Canada. 
When our research showed that butter chicken was the nation’s 
‘entry flavour’ into Indian foods, we focused on getting our Butter 
Chicken sauce right, quickly becoming market leader. We then 
launched Spicy Butter Chicken, after sensory tests revealed a 
changing national palate; introduced a smaller two-portion size, 
when census data showed 60% of Canadians lived in one or 
two person households; and created a successful light variant, 
to satisfy demand for lower fat foods.
Butter Chicken’s halo effect on our other popular flavours has helped 
our entire sauces and pastes range grow at twice the market rate.”
Innovation and  
insight deliver 
success for Patak’s
VIKRAM VERGHESE, MARKETING MANAGER, 
THE AMERICAS, PATAK’S
To read more about the 
internationalisation of our  
products go to page 18 Source: Mintel
CASE 
STUDY
As a consequence of the sale, ACH 
has announced the rationalisation of 
its remaining overheads with the result 
that we expect a minimal effect on its 
adjusted operating profit in the new 
financial year.
Adjusted operating profit and margin 
both increased at George Weston Foods 
in Australia. The Don KRC meat business 
generated a profit with a return to more 
normal bought-in raw material prices, 
good volume growth and production 
efficiencies. Continuous improvement 
at the Castlemaine factory remains 
a management priority with further 
opportunities identified. Last autumn’s 
Tip Top relaunch was well received by 
customers and the trade, and bread and 
breakfast bakery both performed well. 
The brand is committed to innovative 
new product development with Café 
Brioche style fruit bread launched in 
Australia during the year and Tip Top 
Extra Protein distributed across 
Australia and New Zealand.
In 2009
696
new gluten-free 
products were 
launched  
in Australia
In 2012
1,199
gluten-free products 
were launched,  
16% being bread  
and bread-based
RESPONDING TO  
CONSUMER DEMAND
In 2012, supermarket sales of gluten-free bread in Australia were 
valued at $32m, and Tip Top had no presence. By 2016, the market 
has more than doubled to $71m, with Tip Top approaching market 
leadership under the Burgen brand and a new range recently 
launched. This outstanding growth and future opportunity highlights 
Tip Top’s commitment to insight-led innovation and driving 
operational advantage.
In the past, gluten-free bread was typically chosen by those 
with coeliac disease (some 1.5% of the population). By 2010,  
a ‘Health & Wellness’ trend was evolving with concerned consumers 
avoiding ingredients thought to be unhealthy. With gluten widely 
believed to be responsible for ‘that bloated feeling’, gluten-free 
products were set for a period of strong growth.
With no gluten-free manufacturing capability in Australia, Tip Top 
tested the market by sourcing product from New Zealand. Through 
strong collaboration between the operations teams, a manufacturing 
solution and frozen supply chain was quickly established. Sensory 
testing proved the New Zealand product to be more popular than 
the Australian market leader in both taste and texture.
With its health and premium quality credentials, Burgen was selected 
as the brand to launch our new offering and, in April 2013, it became 
the first ‘mainstream’ bakery brand to introduce a gluten-free bakery 
product in Australia. Within six months it had achieved a 35% value 
share in Australia’s largest grocery retailer, delivering incremental 
volume for Tip Top and the bakery category as a whole. With this 
early success, a dedicated gluten-free production line was built in 
Ermington, a suburb of Sydney.
A new product has now been developed for the Abbott’s Village 
Bakery range with a unique formulation and baking process that 
deliver a gluten-free loaf so close to regular bread that consumers 
“can’t believe it’s gluten free”. 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
15
Strategic report – operating review CASE 
STUDY
GROCERY
A fantastical story which draws on  
‘Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland’
A young woman in black walks alone, 
along a dark and foggy London street. 
Spotting a white rabbit in a red silk 
collar she follows it, intrigued, as it 
hops towards a plain grey door.
The door opens inwards. A smiling man 
in a frock coat and striped trousers, 
with extravagant lace collars and ruff 
and a silver-topped cane, raises his 
top hat and welcomes her – to an 
extraordinary tea party.
Incredible sights greet her at every turn: 
elegant couples sip tea at candlelit tables 
suspended from an enormous tree; time 
goes backwards as a man on stilts, a 
ball-gowned woman on a swing and another, 
reclining on a white grand piano, whirl 
around her. And then a handsome conjuror 
tosses a deck of Twinings’ sachets into 
the air that change into butterflies, then 
into a peerless cup of tea…
Enchanting consumers
This fantastical story – which draws 
on ‘Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland’ – 
is captured in our Twinings ‘Tealand’ 
commercial. The advertisement, which 
reflects our strategy of showing how the 
premium brand can unlock a magical world 
of sensory experience, was first aired in 
2014 in Italy and parts of Japan – with 
UNLOCKING THE MAGICAL 
WORLD OF TEA
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
16 exceptional impact. We have since rolled 
it out in France, India, Norway, Switzerland 
and Sweden. Despite the cultural differences, 
consumers across these varied markets – 
chosen for their potential for growth – have 
been enchanted.
In the coffee-dominated Italian market,  
for example, the campaign helped grow 
our sales as well as the wider tea market. 
Last year alone, our sales there grew at 
twice the rate of our nearest competitor. 
And after the film was aired in Tokyo – 
attracting more YouTube ‘interactions’ 
than any other consumer goods advert 
during the month measured – our market 
share again grew significantly and brand 
awareness rose from 12% to 19%.
Reflecting local tastes
The advertising campaign has reached 
consumers via multiple channels, including 
terrestrial, digital and cable/satellite TV, 
cinema and social media. Although the 
core film remains the same in each market, 
elements were adapted to reflect local 
tastes, varying the products pictured, the 
soundtrack and the straplines. We have 
supported the film with search engine 
advertising and in-store promotions 
and have woven its look and feel into 
national websites.
To view the Tealand commercial  
go to youtube.com and search  
Twinings Tealand
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
17
Strategic report – operating review CASE 
STUDY
GROCERY
INTERNATIONALISATION OF 
OUR GREAT BRITISH BRANDS
A number of our well known UK brands have wide international 
appeal and have built up substantial export portfolios, mainly 
through third-party distributors. To open up new markets and 
accelerate the rate of growth we have sought to capitalise on the 
local knowledge, experience and office support infrastructure 
of the group’s existing operations in a number of these markets.
Jordans and Dorset Cereals 
We already sell almost as much Jordans cereal internationally 
as we do in the UK, with distribution in over 60 countries. In the 
largest of these export markets, Australia, France and Canada, 
we have now established overseas sales and marketing offices.
Assisted by George Weston Foods in Australia, we launched 
Jordans into the Australian market in 2013, where it is now eaten 
in over 10% of households and, shortly after its acquisition in 2015, 
the Dorset Cereals brand was launched in Australia where it can 
now be bought in over 1,700 supermarket stores. Dorset Cereals 
are now sold in over 45 countries.
Jordans has been sold in France since 1992 and has been distributed 
by the local Twinings Ovaltine operation since we acquired the 
brand in 2009. It is now the country’s second largest cereal brand, 
with 12% of the adult cereals market.
Distributed in Canada since 1989, Jordans established its own 
commercial team in Cambridge, Ontario, in 2010. Under their 
stewardship distribution has doubled, and it is now number two 
in wholesome cereals with a repeat purchase rate of over 40%. 
A small but growing Dorset Cereals business has recently been 
established, managed by the same team.
Blue Dragon
In 2012, AB World Foods conducted a study to identify which 
markets around the world offered the best long-term opportunities  
for its world-cuisine products. Criteria for the study included GDP 
growth, levels of consumer spend, sophistication of the grocery 
market, population growth and urbanisation, consumer influences 
and lifestyles. However, a key factor was the extent to which 
the group already had experience and assets in each market. 
Mexico and Brazil were identified as affording the most potential.
Our operation in Mexico leverages the existing ABF presence in 
the country through ACH. Products are sold by the ACH sales team 
alongside other ACH consumer brands such as Capullo and Mazola  
oils, while a dedicated Blue Dragon marketing team manages the 
brand. The range has expanded from 7 to 11 products and is centred  
on stir-fry meals and oriental condiments. Sales grew by 46% 
in 2014/15 and by a further 43% in the current year.
In Brazil, as in Mexico, we used a hosting model, leveraging 
ABF’s international presence and existing structure, but this time 
with AB Mauri. AB World Foods has a dedicated in-country 
resource based in Sao Paulo, supported by AB Mauri’s sales 
and finance teams.
France
12%
of the adult  
cereals market
In Australia
10%
of households regularly  
eat Jordans products
Mexico
Blue Dragon’s sales grew by  
43% in 2015/16
Sold in
45 countries
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
18 CASE 
STUDY
19
DELIVERING THE 
PERFECT BAKE
Already established as one of the UK’s top 
muffin bakers, Speedibake identified a gap 
in the market for innovative and affordable 
decorated muffins capable of being 
produced at high volume. 
You will not have seen the Speedibake name 
on supermarket shelves but you may well 
have eaten one of our muffins, doughnuts 
or garlic breads. This is because they 
are all sold as customers’ own brands. 
Speedibake has successfully made a variety 
of American-style muffins for over 20 years 
and is a well-established supplier to many 
of the UK’s supermarkets, restaurant 
chains and coffee shops. 
Recent research identified that tastes are 
changing and consumers are now looking for 
greater variety but still at affordable prices. 
In response, an automated line capable of 
making distinctive muffins continuously and 
consistently at high volume was installed 
at our Bradford bakery. At the same time, 
the bakery itself was extensively renovated 
to meet ever more challenging technical 
standards. The new muffins can have one or 
two batter types in one cup (marbling), can 
be sprinkled with wet or dry toppings before 
baking, injected with a filling after baking 
and topped with many forms of icing and 
decoration. The permutations are numerous 
so, not only can we design and create the 
customer’s ‘ultimate’ muffin, we can now 
do so at a competitive price by comparison 
with traditional, batch-production. 
The success of this project was in no small 
part due to the involvement, right from the 
design stage, of those who would eventually 
run the production line. This led to a project 
with no accidents, completion on time 
and on budget, and very quick sign-off by 
our customers as products were trialled 
and approved. 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report – operating review SUGAR
SHARING
IDEAS
20
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc About Sugar
AB Sugar is a leading producer of 
sugar and sugar-derived co-products 
in southern Africa, the UK, Spain, 
and north China. We operate 24 plants 
in ten countries with the capacity to 
produce some 4.5 million tonnes of 
sugar and around 600 million litres of 
ethanol annually and are a significant 
employer. Our products are sold into 
industry sectors including food and 
drink, pharmaceutical, industrial, 
agricultural, power and energy.
In the EU, Azucarera is the largest 
producer in Iberia and British Sugar 
is the sole processor of the UK sugar 
beet crop. Illovo Sugar is the biggest 
sugar processor in Africa and in June 
2016, ABF acquired full ownership 
putting both AB Sugar and Illovo Sugar 
into a stronger position to navigate 
the complex sugar landscape whilst 
capitalising on Africa’s growth market. 
We have a beet sugar business in  
north China that has achieved a strong 
record of performance improvement in 
agriculture and production efficiencies. 
We also operate one of Europe’s 
largest bioethanol producers based 
in the UK, serving half of the UK’s 
demand for bioethanol. 
BUILDING THE  
WORLD’S LEADING  
SUGAR BUSINESS
Responding to changes in the sugar 
industry by enhancing the supply chain, 
working with growers and continuously 
improving performance.
ILLOVO SUGAR –  
A MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR TO 
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
A responsible approach to operating 
in the developing world.
Our success has been built on 
continued development and innovation 
to meet the changing needs of our 
customers, to improve our operations 
and to work with our growers to 
ensure sustainable, efficient 
agricultural production.
As a global business, we operate 
in a diverse and continually changing 
environment with many opportunities 
and challenges. Although we have 
a global portfolio, we operate with 
a local heart – working together to 
do what is right for the location and 
market. As we evolve to meet the 
world’s changing needs – customers, 
growers and others – it is our role to 
ensure we use resources responsibly, 
build strong rural economies and 
ensure thriving healthy communities.
By drawing upon everything we have 
learnt over many decades as a sugar 
producer, we continue to embrace 
innovation and strive to create more 
from less by working collaboratively 
across our group and with our 
stakeholders.
23 24
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
21
Strategic report – operating review SUGAR
A WORLD-LEADING SUGAR 
BUSINESS FOCUSED ON EXCELLENCE, 
OPERATING IN TEN COUNTRIES
Our reported revenue and adjusted 
operating profit for AB Sugar for the 
period were in line with last year, 
and substantially ahead at constant 
currency as a result of the weakness 
of the African currencies.
A reduction in EU stock levels and an 
increase in world sugar prices resulted 
in a strengthening of European sugar 
prices. This benefited our Spanish 
business in the year but, with most of 
British Sugar’s contracts agreed on an 
annual basis, no material impact on its 
results from the improvement in pricing 
will be seen until the 2016/17 financial 
year. All of our sugar businesses 
delivered substantial cost reductions 
again this year through a combination 
of continuous improvement, business 
transformation, capital expenditure 
and procurement activities.
In June, we completed the buyout of the 
minority interests in Illovo Sugar Limited 
for a purchase consideration of £247m. 
Africa is a growth market for sugar, 
driven by increasing populations and 
rising incomes and, with AB Sugar’s 
strong track record of commercial 
development and delivery of 
performance improvement, full 
ownership will accelerate Illovo’s 
progress. In order to align Illovo’s 
financial year end more closely with that 
of the group, Illovo’s results will now be 
consolidated for the year to 31 August. 
These results therefore include Illovo’s 
revenue and profit for an 11 month 
period. They also reflect a change in 
accounting policy for the valuation of 
Illovo’s sugar cane roots in line with an 
amendment to IAS 41 which now 
permits the valuation of such assets at 
cost less accumulated depreciation. The 
cane roots adjustment had the effect  
of reducing adjusted operating profit by 
£8m this year, with a restatement of  
the adjusted operating profit for 2015  
to reduce it by £10m.
UK sugar production for the 2015/16 
year was just short of 1.0 million tonnes, 
as planned, with a return to more typical 
Revenue
£1,798m
2015: £1,818m
Actual fx: -1% 
Constant fx: +5%
Adjusted operating profit margin
1.9%
2015: 1.8%
Adjusted operating profit
£34m
2015: £33m
Actual fx: +3% 
Constant fx: +55%
Return on average capital employed
2.1%
2015: 1.9%
beet yields and a smaller contracted 
growing area designed to reduce 
excessive stocks from the prior year. 
Above average rainfall in June slowed 
the growth of the new crop for the 
2016/17 season and, combined with a 
further small reduction in the contracted 
area, we expect a further reduction in 
sugar production next year. Delivered 
beet costs for the 2016/17 campaign 
will be lower than this year.
The end of the EU sugar regime in 
October 2017 represents an opportunity 
for British Sugar to increase its sugar 
production and it is working with growers 
to restore beet supplies to more normal 
levels in 2017/18. This is the first crop 
for which growers will be able to choose 
between one and three-year deals, 
both of which will have bonuses linked 
to the sugar sales price. This is designed 
to strengthen the partnership with our 
farmers and underpin British Sugar’s 
competitive position.
During the year, British Sugar completed 
a £15m investment in an anaerobic 
digestion plant at the Bury St Edmunds 
factory. This new facility will consume 
some 100,000 tonnes of pressed sugar 
beet pulp as a feedstock and will 
generate five megawatts of electricity 
for export to the national grid. This 
investment will reduce our carbon 
emissions and our energy consumption 
by avoiding the need to dry the pulp 
and by eliminating the transportation 
of it for animal feed.
In Spain, the operating result improved 
significantly with the benefit of lower 
beet costs, higher beet sugar production 
and better pricing. Total production for 
the year is estimated to be 474,000 
tonnes of which 449,000 tonnes was 
from beet and 25,000 tonnes was 
from raw sugars co-refined in the 
beet factories in the north.
Beet sugar in north China made a 
small profit with the benefit of increased 
production to 159,000 tonnes and record 
operating performances at both factories. 
In the south, our cane sugar factories 
operated at a much lower level than last 
year and sugar production reduced to 
284,000 tonnes mainly as a result of 
poor sugar content. On 12 September 
we reached agreement to sell our 
cane sugar business in south China to 
a consortium led by Nanning Sugar, a 
leading producer in the region which has 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
22 Process driven 
 
By pooling knowledge and experience, our 
Sugar teams in the UK and Spain are working  
to save energy and increase efficiency…  “We have had a very positive collaboration with our colleagues 
from British Sugar’s Cantley plant about their success in saving 
energy. Cantley lowered its energy consumption by reducing the 
amount of process water used and introducing a ‘pre-scalder’ 
in the sugar diffusion (extraction) process. Formerly steam had 
been used to heat the water that sugar beet passes through 
in the early stages of extraction. Pre-scalding the beet heats 
up the water too – saving energy.
A team from Guadalete visited Cantley to learn more about this 
approach. Our UK colleagues shared their technical and project 
management information, which proved really helpful. The learnings 
from Cantley have already enabled us to reduce our energy usage 
and cut our overall fuel consumption by 15%.”
Working together  
to save energy
ANTONIO BAS PARDO, DIRECTOR OF AZUCARERA’S  
GUADALETE FACTORY CASE 
STUDY
Hospital and clinic services  
are provided on-site for
6,500
employees and their  
family members
Refined sugar production  
capacity doubled in Zambia to
 1 00,000
tonnes following  
recent expansion
ILLOVO SUGAR –  
A MAJOR 
CONTRIBUTOR  
TO AFRICAN 
DEVELOPMENT
The Illovo group operates in six countries 
in southern Africa. It is the continent’s 
largest sugar producer and a significant 
manufacturer of downstream products.
Illovo owns 270 square miles of agricultural 
land under cane which, when combined 
with the 703 square miles owned by private 
growers, yield enough sugar cane to 
produce upwards of 1.7 million tonnes of 
sugar annually at the group’s 11 cane sugar 
plants. The group also produces a range 
of co-products downstream of the sugar 
making process, including furfural, an 
important renewable chemical feedstock, 
and ethyl alcohol. The majority of these 
co-products are made at plants in 
South Africa and Tanzania and are sold 
internationally into high-value niche 
markets. Illovo’s plants also utilise milled 
cane stalks (bagasse) as a bio-renewable 
fuel to co-generate enough electricity 
to meet around 90% of their own power 
requirements and, in power-deficit 
countries such as Swaziland, they sell 
surplus power into the national grid.
Our business in Mazabuka, Zambia, 
exemplifies the huge scale of the group’s 
operations and the important role it 
plays in local community life. Located in 
108 square miles of agricultural land is 
the continent’s largest cane sugar plant, 
providing employment within the factory 
and also in marketing and administration 
functions. But it doesn’t stop there. Villages 
have been built for staff housing; hospital 
and clinic services are provided on-site for 
6,500 employees and their family members, 
together with schools, community centres 
and churches; and the business also 
provides electricity, drinking water and 
refuse removal services.
Illovo’s key markets are consumers and 
industrial customers in its own countries 
of operation as well as in neighbouring 
regional African markets, employing 
an extensive network of distribution 
and logistics channels. The group’s 
continuing strategy of securing 
increasing growth opportunities, 
in local and regional sugar outlets, 
reduces its exposure to lower-priced 
EU markets. This is evidenced by 
this year’s commissioning of Zambia 
Sugar’s most recent expansion project 
which more than doubles annual 
refined sugar production capacity 
to around 100,000 tonnes.
As a major private investor in Africa, 
Illovo operates and markets its products 
in countries that face considerable 
challenges in the form of poverty, 
unemployment, inequality and disease – 
the United Nations classifies Malawi, 
Mozambique, Zambia and Tanzania 
as being among the world’s least 
developed countries. By providing 
significant employment, accommodation, 
healthcare, educational assistance and 
basic services to rural communities, 
the group has a significant positive 
impact on these economies. In an 
extensive and independent socio-
economic impact study released in 2014,  
it was shown that Illovo contributed  
an estimated ZAR 18.5bn in 2012/13 to 
African economies, including direct, 
indirect and induced economic impacts.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
23
Strategic report – operating review CASE 
STUDY
SUGAR
the support of the Guangxi government. 
Upon completion of the transaction, 
which is subject to third-party consents 
and regulatory approvals, we will receive 
consideration for our shareholdings in 
the business together with the repayment 
of related loans.
Illovo production was lower than 
last year as a result of severe drought. 
However, an improved sales mix and 
further cost savings across the business 
contributed to an increase in full year 
profit. With the exception of Tanzania, 
all of Illovo’s countries of operation 
experienced substantial currency 
devaluations during the year but, 
despite the pressure this placed on 
consumers and on production 
costs, Illovo maintained its margin 
development through a combination of 
price increases and benefits delivered  
by the performance improvement 
programme. The new refining and sugar 
conditioning facility at the Nakambala 
plant in Zambia, was commissioned 
in July 2016, is now fully operational, 
and is a key step in broadening our 
product range to meet the demands  
of a fast developing domestic market.
Good progress was made this year 
by Vivergo Fuels which increased 
throughput in the bioethanol plant, 
although achieving operational reliability 
remained challenging. An improvement  
in the operating result was driven  
by better margins with the benefit  
of lower wheat prices and higher EU 
bioethanol prices. The UK Energy 
& Climate Change Select Committee 
recently issued a report recommending  
a proposal to increase bioethanol 
inclusion in road fuel from the current 
level of 5% to 10%. We believe this is  
the only practical next step towards 
achieving the UK Government’s 
previously agreed 2020 renewable 
obligation for transport fuel in the near 
term, and would bring the UK into 
line with the US, Brazil, France 
and Germany.
BUILDING THE 
WORLD’S LEADING 
SUGAR BUSINESS
AB Sugar operates in a diverse and 
continually changing environment with 
many opportunities and challenges – 
the final round of changes to the EU sugar 
regime in 2017 being just one example. 
These changes will see the abolition of 
production quotas, the removal of minimum 
beet prices and the elimination of the 
artificial distinction between sugar sold for 
food and industrial applications in the EU. 
Furthermore, World Trade Organization 
(WTO) export constraints will no longer 
be applicable to European producers 
although WTO-controlled import duties 
for non-preferential sugars into the  
EU will remain in place.
As a consequence, sugar prices in the EU 
are likely to move more in line with world 
prices than has previously been the case. In 
such a dynamic market, increased pressure 
will be placed on the competitiveness of 
the total EU sugar supply chain. Growers, 
processors, haulage companies and other 
key stakeholders will all need to ensure 
their individual competitiveness in order 
to maintain the ability of the sugar industry  
as a whole to compete. The UK vote  
on Brexit clearly introduces a further  
dimension to the 2017 regime reform  
for sugar producers in the EU.
So, what scenarios are we most likely 
to face beyond 2017?
• suppliers to the European market will 
need to improve further their efficiency 
and competitiveness. This will include 
energy efficiency, process technology and 
co-product development. Well-targeted 
and effective investment will be key;
• with inflation in other major world markets 
outstripping that in the EU, we have 
already seen EU beet sugar producers 
improve their position in world league 
tables for cost of production. With the 
exception of distortions generated by 
movements in currency exchange rates 
it is anticipated that this trend will 
be maintained;
• continuing growth in sugar beet 
productivity will be essential to support 
these changes. This has already led to 
EU white sugar yields, expressed on a per 
hectare basis, exceeding those of Brazil;
• the relative profitability of alternative 
crops will become even more of a key 
determinant of production scale in the 
EU as growers look to maximise total 
farm profitability;
• EU refiners may need to take a more 
opportunistic view of refining, for example, 
by focusing on periods when world sugar 
prices are sufficiently below EU prices 
to generate attractive returns; and
• global trade flows will adjust to 
accommodate EU exports and sales 
into regions outside Europe, some of 
which may be new markets.
THE SUCCESS OF OUR 
SUPPLY CHAIN
Historically, our success as an industry 
has been delivered through processor 
improvement – size of factory and cost 
of production.
In the future, AB Sugar’s success will 
be determined by our ability to serve the 
customer – whether local, regional or global 
– and by contributing to the long-term 
success and sustainability of the wider 
supply chain and local communities. In short,  
it will be the evolving competitiveness of 
our total supply chain that will determine 
our ability to become the world’s leading 
sugar business.
  
In the future, AB Sugar’s success will 
be determined by our ability to serve 
the customer – whether local, regional 
or global – and by contributing to the 
long-term success and sustainability  
of the wider supply chain and 
local communities.”
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24 Managing and enhancing our supply chain 
from end-to-end involves our businesses 
operating within a local context informed 
by our global knowledge network – by 
working together we do what is right for 
the location and market. As an example, 
in north China, AB Sugar has continued 
to put growers firmly at the centre of the 
business by improving communication, 
with the development of bespoke digital 
and social applications, and by attracting 
growers to beet production through the 
use of innovative marketing techniques.
RESPONDING TO THE  
NEEDS OF GROWERS
In British Sugar, where both processor and 
grower have been used to operating in a 
highly regulated environment, our approach 
will focus increasingly on the attractiveness 
of the crop on farm. To ensure a competitive 
beet supply for the future, we will seek to 
add further value to the growers by building 
flexibility into contracting options and 
by developing the capabilities of our 
agricultural teams to respond to the needs 
of the next generation of growers and farm 
owners. New and innovative technologies 
to reduce or recycle waste, such as the 
development of anaerobic digestion, may 
also provide an opportunity to generate 
further income on farm and secure a 
sustainable, profitable revenue stream.
CONTINUOUS  
IMPROVEMENT
We have an excellent track record 
of active engagement in performance 
improvement programmes that build 
capability, enhance plant performance and 
deliver cost reduction whilst maintaining 
our well-invested assets. This drive for 
continuous improvement has enabled us 
to maintain our cost leadership and ensure 
we remain competitive. As staff relocate 
to different parts of our operations around 
the world, so this process gathers momentum 
supported by our centralised technology 
resource. As an example, Azucarera has 
created a team that has optimised the beet 
supply to our factories which resulted in 
a €2m cost reduction this year. This was 
achieved by an integrated team working, 
across the supply chain, towards a 
common goal to increase productivity 
and reduce costs.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
25
Strategic report – operating review AGRICULTURE
FEEDING
SUCCESS
26
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc About Agriculture
AB Agri occupies a unique position 
across the agri-food supply chain. 
Its focus is to add value and deliver 
profit for partners all along that chain 
by improving the sustainability of 
food production. This is achieved by 
investing in research and development, 
driving the use of technology and 
exploring how data can deliver insight 
and enable real world improvements. 
A top three player in almost all 
the markets in which it operates, 
it continues to expand its global 
footprint and is rapidly becoming 
a major international agri-business.
AB Agri’s core capabilities include:
Specialised feed ingredients
Offering pioneering feed ingredients, 
additive products and technical services 
to the global animal feed industry as 
well as high-quality, bespoke, vitamin/
mineral premixes, starter feeds and 
micro-ingredients developed through 
world-class expertise in nutrition 
and product formulation.
Co-product innovation & marketing 
The UK’s largest and most progressive 
marketer of food, drink and energy 
industry co-products.
Finished feed manufacture
A major global manufacturer and 
supplier of pig, poultry and dairy 
feeds, with 20 production sites in 
the UK and China. We work closely 
with major processors and producers 
to benchmark productivity and 
develop tailored feeds and feeding 
regimes to improve performance 
for every customer.
Supply chain solutions 
Working exclusively with major 
brands and retailers for more than 
15 years to create value through 
the implementation of continuous 
improvement programmes, working 
across food, agriculture and natural 
resource supply chains in over 
65 countries.
Commodity risk management
Providing customers with in-depth 
insight on global commodity markets, 
we are also the UK’s leading grain 
trading and crop inputs company 
through our joint venture, 
Frontier Agriculture.
EFFICIENCY  
AND INNOVATION  
IN AGRI-FOOD  
PRODUCTION
EXTRACTING VALUE FROM 
FEEDSTOCK MATERIALS
Taking our first step into the 
anaerobic digestion market.
RESPONSIBLY PRODUCED 
PROTEIN
Rising to the challenge of an 
increasing demand for protein feed.
29
29
30
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report – operating review
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc
27 AGRICULTURE
ADDING VALUE BY IMPROVING 
THE SUSTAINABILITY OF 
FOOD PRODUCTION
UK agriculture faced a number 
of challenges this year and in that 
context AB Agri performed well, 
delivering an adjusted operating 
profit just below last year but with 
a higher reported operating margin. 
Good results from the specialist 
businesses and a strong finish 
by Frontier Agriculture were 
more than offset by lower UK 
feed profits.
The UK dairy market saw continued 
price pressure resulting from global 
oversupply, and pig prices fell to their 
lowest level for a number of years. 
Against this background our UK pig 
starter feed business had a strong year 
but the smaller UK sugar beet crop 
resulted in less beet feed availability 
which adversely affected revenue 
and profit at AB Connect, our UK 
feed business.
AB Agri has a strong tradition of 
seeking ways of extracting value from 
feedstock materials and has entered 
the specialist anaerobic digestion (AD) 
products and services sector this year. 
A new business was created to market 
a range of specialist vitamin and mineral 
packs, and a nutritionally balanced, 
blended food-waste product for use as 
the feedstock for AD plants. We have 
built an AD plant in Yorkshire, due to 
be commissioned before the end of 
the calendar year, which will enable us 
to promote our nutritional, operational 
and product expertise in this 
developing market.
Frontier Agriculture achieved record 
grain procurement volumes from 
farms and benefited from strong grain 
exports in the second half of the year. 
The creation of a strategic alliance 
with a major UK fertiliser manufacturer 
and the acquisition of a bio-stimulant 
specialist will further strengthen 
Frontier’s crop inputs business.
The pace of development of our 
international operations has increased. 
AB Vista, our animal nutrition and 
technology business, achieved further 
volume and market share growth driven 
by strong sales of its two leading feed 
enzyme products, Quantum Blue and 
Econase XT. We have developed our  
pig starter feed business in Spain and  
the recent acquisition of Agro Korn in 
Denmark provides an exciting platform  
for further growth in specialist proteins 
for pigs, calves, poultry, fish and pets.
AB Agri China enjoyed a good year 
due to its continued focus on sales 
into the fast growing larger-farm sector 
and the development of its service 
business aimed at integrated international 
livestock producers. These relationships, 
supported by the construction of a 
new pre-mix feed mill which will provide 
an assured source of high-quality feed 
and is due to be completed next spring, 
will further differentiate our feed 
business in China.
Revenue
£1,084m
2015: £1,211m
Actual fx: -10%  
Constant fx: -11%
Adjusted operating profit margin
5.4%
2015: 5.0%
Adjusted operating profit
£58m
2015: £60m
Actual fx: -3%  
Constant fx: -6%
Return on average capital employed
17.7%
2015: 19.2%
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
28 Attracting  
world-class 
talent
AB Agri’s growing global reputation for 
innovation, expertise and career opportunities 
is attracting high calibre recruits from all over 
the world…  “Since qualifying as a vet in Brazil in 2008, I have focused on neonatal 
swine health. I joined AB Agri in the UK in January 2016. It was a 
big decision – I left my home, my friends and my family – but it was 
definitely the right move.
My colleagues are incredibly knowledgeable and innovative and 
could not be kinder or more helpful. I have been able to develop 
my technical understanding about animal health and nutrition, 
my capabilities in sales and negotiation and my understanding of 
the European farming sector. As well as becoming a better sales  
manager, my role at AB Agri is helping me become a better vet.”
Attracting and 
developing the 
brightest talent
CRISTINA MIGLIAVACCA, EUROPEAN TECHNICAL  
SALES MANAGER, AB AGRI CASE 
STUDY
CASE 
STUDY
RESPONSIBLY 
PRODUCED 
PROTEIN
Global meat production has increased 
by some 20% in the last ten years and, 
with growth rates escalating, demand 
for responsibly produced protein for 
inclusion in animal feeds is increasing.
Soya is one of the most effective protein 
sources for animal feed but increased 
demand has contributed to deforestation 
in South America. Whilst we have been 
active in the development of European 
industry standards to source soya 
responsibly, we have also been exploring 
how to use soya more efficiently. 
By combining our expertise in nutrition 
and co-product development with the 
EXTRACTING 
VALUE FROM 
FEEDSTOCK 
MATERIALS
AB Agri has its roots in looking for 
alternative ways to extract more value 
from feedstock materials and this year 
we have taken our first step into a new 
market segment with the formation 
of Amur, an anaerobic digestion (AD) 
business unit which was launched at 
the UK AD and Biogas Show in July.
It is positioned as the leading and first 
expert in the provision of products  
and services into the UK AD market  
and is a great example of how AB Agri 
approaches growth and innovation and 
leverages the breadth of skills to which  
it has access.
specialisms of some of the food businesses 
elsewhere in the ABF group, we are 
also successfully developing alternative 
protein replacements.
This year’s acquisition of Agro Korn, 
a Danish producer of animal nutrition 
products, premixes and milk replacers, 
has extended our capability in alternative 
protein development. Agro Korn produces 
AlphaSoy, a protein that has been enzyme 
enriched and made easier to digest 
through heat treatment and mechanical 
manufacture. This means less soya 
is required to provide young, growing 
animals with the necessary protein.
Like soya, yeast is rich in high-value protein.  
In partnership with Ohly, another ABF 
business, research is underway into the 
nutritional value and digestibility of yeast 
protein products for use in animal feed. 
We have also developed a yeast-based 
protein product using the residual grain 
from whisky and ethanol production, 
traditionally sold as a feed for beef and dairy 
cattle, that extends its use into aquaculture 
and the pig and poultry sectors.
A cornerstone of this new operation is 
our ability to demonstrate our commitment 
to the AD market and our in-depth 
understanding of the sector. To that end 
we have built our own 3MWe AD plant at 
South Milford in Yorkshire which will use 
60,000 tonnes of blended food and green 
waste each year as its material source and 
produce 50,000 tonnes of digestate that 
will be sold as an organic fertiliser. This is 
a ‘gas to grid’ plant, enabling methane to 
be injected directly into the gas network 
for maximum carbon efficiency.
Whilst expected to generate a financial 
return in its own right, this investment will 
also provide invaluable specialist insight, 
that we can pass on to our customer base, 
on how to consistently ‘feed’ an AD process, 
something we believe is required in order 
to maximise returns and outputs. This is 
fundamentally no different to what we do 
with livestock feeding. Indeed AD plants are 
often referred to as ‘concrete cows’ given 
the similarity of the biological processes.
Significant investment has also been made 
to ensure we can provide comprehensive 
advice on the relevant range of feedstocks, 
additives and how to operate an AD facility 
at optimum capacity, to underpin the 
credentials of Amur. This business will drive 
innovation by bringing new ‘fully tested’ 
products into the sector which promote 
increased gas production. AB Agri has 
30 years’ experience in managing and 
adding value to feedstocks and a key feature  
in embarking on this development has been 
our success in bringing together existing 
group expertise in nutrition, biology, 
chemistry, environmental legislation, 
safety, risk management, energy policy 
and procurement.
South Milford plant in Yorkshire will use
60,000 tonnes
of blended food and green waste  
each year as its material source
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
29
Strategic report – operating review CASE 
STUDY
AGRICULTURE
Meeting demand cost-efficiently, 
safely and in an ethically 
responsible manner is a major 
challenge facing all businesses 
that operate in today’s agri-food 
production industry.
EFFICIENCY  
AND INNOVATION  
IN AGRI-FOOD 
PRODUCTION
30
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc Agri-food production is increasingly 
operating in a global marketplace with 
strong but changing demand patterns  
and a volatile and resource-constrained 
supply dynamic. The strong correlation 
between increased disposable income 
and the consumption of animal protein such 
as chicken, pork and beef, is very visible in 
developing markets such as China. This is 
putting increasing pressure on the livestock 
sector to meet the growing demand for 
high-value products whilst challenging 
the way the industry operates.
Meeting demand cost-efficiently, safely 
and in an ethically responsible manner 
is a major challenge facing all businesses 
that operate in today’s agri-food production 
industry. It is requiring those businesses to 
be increasingly transparent and to evidence, 
to consumers and stakeholders, not only 
their role in delivering efficiency but also 
how they are innovating and collaborating.
This is not an easy task when today’s global 
agri-food supply chains are often complex 
and multi layered, beginning with farms 
of varying size and sophistication through 
to a variety of primary and secondary 
processors and distributors.
AB Agri at the forefront of development
AB Agri has a 30 year history of responding 
to market changes, leading the development 
of innovative, science-based products 
and not being afraid to challenge the 
status quo. Our contribution to driving ever 
higher standards of feed safety and actively 
transferring best practice into global markets 
such as China is unrivalled. Standing still 
without innovation in products and services 
has never been an option for us, which 
means that today’s business has a real 
breadth of operations, skills, technologies, 
customers, products and services. It has 
also led to an overarching culture within 
our people of being curious and continually 
looking for, and enabling, a better way.
For AB Agri the chain starts with the 
crop farmer who buys seed, fertiliser and 
agrochemicals and sells grain. Frontier 
Agriculture, our joint venture with Cargill, 
is the UK’s leading crop inputs and grain 
marketing operation and provides AB Agri 
with a unique insight into that key sector. 
Frontier is recognised for its close customer 
relationships, both with farmers and grain 
customers, and for its risk management 
expertise which is essential in driving 
value for grain buyers and sellers in today’s 
volatile global commodity markets.
The business has its foundations in working 
with food and drink processors to design, 
trial and manage multiple co-product 
streams and to manufacture animal feed 
consistently to meet specifications 
crucial for efficient livestock production. 
Traffordgold ruminant feed is a good 
example of co-product delivery through 
innovation and customer collaboration. 
First introduced in 2001, it created value 
in the co-product space by combining 
a range of skills to manage complexity, 
raw material variability, animal nutrition 
and safety. This year we have used these 
well-established core skills and capabilities, 
added new science and technology and 
applied the resulting combination to 
open up the emerging renewable energy 
market to AB Agri with investment in 
anaerobic digestion.
To read more about our investment 
in anaerobic digestion go to page 29
Further down the protein supply chain, 
the nutritional design of animal feed 
recipes and the selection and optimisation 
of ingredients chosen has a major impact 
on the cost, efficiency and safety of animal 
protein food products. The use of specialist, 
highly technical, assured ingredients, such 
as enzymes and yeasts, has been a real 
growth area over the last five years.
Through investment in people and 
technology and through collaboration 
with other ABF businesses, academics 
and innovative businesses globally, 
we have developed a deeper capability 
in animal nutrition. This has enabled us to 
build the world’s third largest feed enzyme 
business and extend our geographic 
footprint and reach.
The same approach is being used to 
bring highly technical, precision feeds 
to the market, targeted at, for example, 
the specific nutritional requirements of 
baby animals – so called, neonate feeding 
regimes. The impact of these changes 
has been immense. Since 2010 the rate at 
which pigs convert their feed into pork has 
improved by more than 5% thereby reducing 
the quantity of feed needed over a typical 
lifecycle by 13kg/pig. This has been delivered 
by a combination of increased data analysis, 
investment in product design, and trials 
with, and knowledge transfer to, producers. 
This focus has led to a range of truly 
innovative products being brought to market 
such as Quantum Blue and Axcelera P. 
AB Agri has also pioneered new approaches 
to the use of these ingredients such as 
enzyme superdosing.
Another unique feature of the AB Agri 
business is its deep understanding 
of the responsibilities of operating in 
today’s food supply chains. For more than 
15 years we have helped brand owners 
and retailers to build insights and develop 
tools to understand the efficacy, safety and 
risks within their agri-chains and to drive 
continuous improvement. To ensure that 
the food processing industry is able to meet 
today’s higher standards and increasing 
scrutiny, we are continually developing 
new tools that enable better management 
and visibility across the whole agricultural 
supply chain.
A contributory factor to the success of 
AB Agri is the way in which the business 
is structured. Quite deliberately, AB Agri 
is organised with a specific focus on each 
link within the agri-food supply chain. This is 
supplemented with overarching innovation 
and participation in collaborative species 
nutrition and strategy forums that aim to 
push the thinking along and nurture ideas.
The future
Over the last ten years AB Agri has 
achieved compound annual profit 
growth of almost 14%. We have ambitious 
plans to build on existing core products 
and services but also to leverage our 
increasingly global footprint to move into 
new markets and territories. With innovative 
technologies, a collaborative structure 
and an entrepreneurial culture, we have 
every reason to believe that our track 
record of growth will continue.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
31
Strategic report – operating review INGREDIENTS
FINDING  
THE RIGHT
CHEMISTRY
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
32 About Ingredients
Ingredients comprises a number 
of businesses that supply a range 
of ingredients to food and non-food 
manufacturers. Together they employ 
8,000 people in more than 70 plants 
in 26 countries.
AB Mauri has a global presence in 
bakers’ yeast with significant market 
positions in The Americas, Europe 
and Asia, and is a technology leader 
in, and supplier of, bread improvers, 
dough conditioners and bakery mixes. 
The business employs experts who 
have an unrivalled knowledge and 
understanding of the yeast and bakery 
ingredients business, the equipment, 
the processes and the raw materials.
ABITEC – FOCUSED  
ON FORMULATION
Developing drug delivery systems 
that enable the body to absorb and 
effectively utilise the active ingredients.
IN THE HANDS  
OF EXPERTS
How AB Mauri manages its yeast 
cultures to ensure safe and 
consistent products.
ABF Ingredients comprises businesses 
focusing on high-value ingredients 
for food, feed, pharmaceutical and 
industrial applications: AB Enzymes 
(enzymes); ABITEC (speciality 
lipids and surfactants); Ohly (yeast 
extracts and seasoning powders); 
PGP International (extruded ingredients 
and speciality rice flours); and SPI 
Pharma (pharmaceutical excipients 
and antacids).
ABF Ingredients operates a global 
footprint with production facilities  
in Europe, The Americas and India 
and has customers in more than 
50 countries.
35 35
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
33
Strategic report – operating review INGREDIENTS
PROVIDING INNOVATIVE, HIGH-QUALITY, 
INGREDIENTS GLOBALLY
Ingredients’ revenues were 4% ahead 
of last year and operating profit was 
again substantially ahead with a 
further improvement in margin.
AB Mauri, our bakery ingredients  
and yeast business, delivered a third  
year of significant profit recovery with  
The Americas being a major contributor 
to its success. In North America, new 
bakery ingredient products targeted 
at the faster growing market segments, 
such as tortillas and flatbreads, were well 
received. A robust performance in Latin 
America, despite continuing economic 
difficulties, was driven by higher output 
from the yeast factory in Veracruz and 
strong operational execution.
A focus on the development of new 
products to meet changing consumer 
tastes included the creation of organic 
bread ingredient solutions and a range  
of natural ferments and flavours. We also 
successfully introduced new shelf-life 
extension products aimed at reducing 
food waste in the supply chain.
We made further progress in China 
this year including the rationalisation 
of production facilities with the closure 
of our old factory site at Harbin. In 
the rest of Asia good revenue growth 
drove higher profit and further factory 
optimisation initiatives drove efficiencies  
in manufacturing operations.
A key driver of the development  
of the business has been the recent 
investment in the US and UK Centres  
of Excellence. Opened in November  
2015 in response to customer  
requests for support in developing  
their products, the UK facility in  
Corby, Northamptonshire provides  
an opportunity for customers to  
access the latest innovations in  
bakery development. This mirrors  
the successful US bakingHUB™  
which was opened in January last  
year in St Louis, Missouri. Expansion  
of the bakery ingredients research  
and development centre in the 
Netherlands will be completed  
next year.
ABF Ingredients made further progress 
with margin improvement driven by 
lower raw material costs and tight 
control of overheads. Our speciality 
lipids business, Abitec in North America, 
had an excellent year with increased 
sales in human nutrition applications 
for cognitive health and weight 
management, and success for its 
range of products designed to 
enhance bioavailability of molecules 
in pharmaceutical and nutraceutical 
applications.
Yeast extracts came under some 
price pressure in the more mature 
European and North American markets 
but the effects were, in part, mitigated 
by tight cost control. Sales of SPI’s 
excipients and drug delivery solutions 
increased in line with market growth 
for pharmaceutical reformulations 
and, at PGPI, the cereal crisp  
extrusion business continued to  
develop, fuelled by the consumer  
trend for healthy snacking.
Our range of bakery enzymes  
was extended during the year with  
a number of new product launches 
including a new glucose oxidase enzyme 
for the bakery sector. Increased sales 
into the detergent sector were driven  
by a focus on the speciality enzymes 
segments and a broadening of our 
customer base. The food enzyme 
business in South America and Asia  
was also expanded with a particular 
emphasis on bakery. Expansion of the 
enzymes plant in Finland is on schedule  
for completion next year.
Revenue
£1,294m
2015: £1,247m
Actual fx: +4% 
Constant fx: +5%
Adjusted operating profit margin
7.2%
2015: 6.1%
Adjusted operating profit
£93m
2015: £76m
Actual fx: +22% 
Constant fx: +24%
Return on average capital employed
13.1%
2015: 11.1%
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
34 Differentiating 
our offering  
Merging two baking ingredients companies 
to form MAURI anz created a unique, integrated 
business with capabilities, scale and knowledge 
far beyond the sum of its parts… ROBYN MURRAY, HEAD OF RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT, MAURI ANZ
 “The merger between Weston Milling and AB Mauri in Australia  
and New Zealand gave us access to industry-leading expertise, 
to the benefit of our customers, our business and our people.
We have established strong links with AB Mauri’s global baking 
ingredients and yeast technical centres. This enables us to link into 
new and emerging technologies and to the latest consumer and 
customer insights. By developing local applications of such global 
knowledge, we have been able to create innovative and bespoke 
baking solutions for our customers. This is a key differentiator for  
us. Access to the latest technology and learning is also proving 
exciting and motivating for our employees.”
Sharing the 
knowledge for  
a perfect bake CASE 
STUDY
CASE 
STUDY
The majority of new active pharmaceutical 
ingredients are poorly water soluble. 
However, excipients that are lipid based 
offer many advantages including the 
complete dissolving of the active ingredient, 
enhanced dispersion of the active ingredient 
in the body, and flexibility that allows the 
development of delivery systems specific 
to the characteristics of individual 
active ingredients.
ABITEC produces cGMP lipid-based 
excipients that enhance the bioavailability 
of active pharmaceutical ingredients that 
are either poorly soluble in water or have 
low permeability. These lipid excipients 
are critical components across a multitude 
of drug formulations and are used in 
various dosage forms for oral, transdermal, 
ophthalmic and topical delivery.
ABITEC’s specialty lipids are also used 
in a wide array of other markets including, 
sports nutrition, weight management, dietary 
supplements and overall healthy living, and 
its speciality chemicals business serves 
the industrial and chemical markets by 
offering a full range of non-toxic surfactants, 
solubilisers, couplers and emollients.
ABITEC’s core focus on technical 
and knowledge innovation, in combination 
with an extensive product portfolio, enables 
the organisation to address effectively 
the demands of a variety of industries 
and market sectors globally. The business 
remains at the forefront of these new 
technologies and continually strives 
to provide the most effective solutions 
in the market.
ABITEC – FOCUSED 
ON FORMULATION
ABITEC Corporation is based in the US 
and is a global leader in the development 
and manufacture of high-quality 
functional lipids and surfactants for 
the pharmaceutical, nutraceutical and 
specialty chemical markets. Through 
its offerings of world-class technical, 
scientific, regulatory, and manufacturing 
expertise, ABITEC delivers the highest 
quality product-based solutions in 
solubilisation, emulsification and 
lubrication to its customers globally.
As drug development technology 
advances, so must the complex 
delivery systems that enable the body 
to absorb and effectively utilise the 
active ingredients.
from a single site employing a stringent 
sub-culturing and maintenance programme. 
This ensures that end use application 
performance is inseparably linked to the 
specific yeast strain contained within the 
product; that the product does not degrade 
over time; and that all products carrying 
the same branding are derived from the 
same parent strain.
A centralised strain management and 
delivery strategy is critical to minimising 
the risk of changes in a strain’s genetic 
make-up. Running separate or discrete 
culturing practices would increase the 
risk of strain change and genetic variation 
across the business. Supplying an impure 
strain or a contaminated culture would 
have a dramatic impact on plant economics 
and product performance in the end 
use application, with a knock-on impact 
on reputation and profitability. Whilst 
maintenance of a single strain collection 
inevitably carries with it a site dependency 
risk, this is mitigated by a detailed business 
continuity programme which is regularly 
tested and is designed to reduce the 
possibility of culture loss or changes 
in strain performance.
IN THE HANDS  
OF EXPERTS
At the heart of AB Mauri’s yeast products 
is the yeast strain which accounts for 
between 60% and 80% of the product’s 
functionality. The yeast strain can be 
isolated from nature; acquired from 
fermentations, product or culture 
collections; bred via natural spore 
cultivation; or generated via recombinant 
DNA techniques.
Our yeast strain collection, located in 
our Yeast Technology Centre in Sydney, 
contains a wide range of yeasts with 
different characteristics that determine 
a product’s ability to function in traditional 
bakery applications and in the production 
of wine, beer, whisky, animal feed and 
biofuels. Some strains are more appropriate 
for use in cream products due to their 
very high gas generation ability, some are 
better for compressed products due to 
their intrinsic stability, while others are 
more suited for use in dry yeast products 
due to their desiccation tolerance.
Our culture collection currently contains 
in excess of 1,600 distinct yeast strains 
representing a sizeable investment in 
intellectual property. The strains can be 
used to develop new yeast products or 
as a source of genetic material for strain 
breeding programmes. All of AB Mauri’s 
commercial yeast is derived from starter 
cultures routinely distributed from Sydney 
to all of AB Mauri’s production facilities, 
typically quarterly.
To ensure finished product integrity and 
purity, the culture collection is managed 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
35
Strategic report – operating review RETAIL
36
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc About Retail
Primark is one of the largest clothing 
retailers in Europe. It has 315 stores 
and employs 68,000 people in the UK, 
Republic of Ireland, Spain, Portugal, 
Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, 
Austria, France, Italy and the USA. 
It was founded in June 1969 in the 
Republic of Ireland where it continues  
to trade as Penneys.
Primark’s organic growth has been 
achieved through a combination of 
like-for-like growth and increasing 
selling space. The like-for-like 
growth reflects investment in buying, 
merchandising and our success 
in constantly refreshing the stores to 
ensure they remain exciting places 
to shop. The increase in selling space 
has been driven by capital investment 
in freehold and leasehold properties 
as they have become available, first 
A WINNING BLEND  
OF STYLE AND 
FUNCTIONALITY
With the increasing trend for looking 
fashionable while working out, 
Primark responds with a range of 
‘athleisure’ wear.
WORN IN THE USA
Primark’s successful entry into 
the north east of the USA followed 
two years of painstaking planning 
and research.
PHENOMENAL GROWTH
In a global beauty market  
worth over £290bn,  
Primark’s PS Beauty is  
firmly making its mark.
on the high streets of the UK and 
Ireland, and more recently on the  
high streets and in the shopping 
centres of continental Europe and  
the USA. 2006 saw Primark’s first  
foray into continental Europe with the 
opening of a store in Madrid and it  
now operates from over 12 million sq ft 
of selling space across 11 countries.
With a unique combination of the 
latest fashion and lean operations, 
Primark offers customers quality, 
up-to-the-minute designs at 
value-for-money prices. Buying 
and merchandising teams travel 
internationally to source and  
buy garments that best reflect  
each season’s key fashion trends.  
Primark’s range includes womenswear, 
lingerie, childrenswear, menswear, 
footwear, accessories, hosiery  
and homeware.
40
41
39
ALWA YS  
ON TREND
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc
37
Strategic report – operating review RETAIL
OFFERING CUSTOMERS QUALITY, 
UP-TO-THE-MINUTE FASHION AT 
VALUE-FOR-MONEY PRICES
Sales at Primark were 9% ahead of 
last year at constant currency driven 
by a weighted average increase in 
selling space of 9% with a much 
higher proportion of this year’s 
new store openings being in the 
second half.
Revenue benefited by two percentage 
points from the 53rd week this year. 
Unseasonable weather and cautious 
consumer sentiment led to value declines 
in the clothing retail sector in some of 
our important markets, particularly the 
UK and Germany. Warm weather in the 
pre-Christmas period was followed by 
a very cold March and April. Like-for-like 
sales were 2% negative overall. The UK 
like-for-like performance was in line with 
this but Ireland delivered a strong sales 
performance throughout the year, Spain, 
France and Austria traded well and the 
Netherlands and Germany were less 
affected by cannibalisation as the year 
progressed. As a result of the weakening 
of sterling, sales were 11% ahead when 
translated at actual exchange rates.
The operating profit margin reduced from 
12.6% to 11.6% driven by the devaluation 
of the euro against the US dollar early in 
calendar 2015. Primark buys a substantial 
proportion of its garments in US dollars 
and sells them in euros and sterling and is 
therefore subject to transactional currency 
exposures. Forward currency contracts 
are taken out to cover these exposures 
when orders are placed and as a 
consequence last year’s results were 
largely unaffected by this devaluation 
and the impact was felt throughout this 
financial year. A large part of the gross 
impact was mitigated by a good buying 
performance and also a lower level 
of mark-downs as a result of tight 
stock management.
Sterling’s weakening against the US dollar, 
particularly following the EU referendum, 
had little transactional impact on Primark’s 
margins in this financial year. However, 
at current exchange rates the effect will 
be adverse in the new financial year. 
The reaction of UK clothing retailers to 
this major movement in exchange rates 
Revenue
£5,949m
2015: £5,347m
Actual fx: +11%  
Constant fx: +9%
Adjusted operating profit margin
11.6%
2015: 12.6%
Adjusted operating profit
£689m
2015: £673m
Actual fx: +2%  
Constant fx: +1%
Return on average capital employed
30.2%
2015: 31.1%
is currently uncertain but Primark is 
committed to leading the value sector 
of the market with its on-trend product 
offering and maintenance of its price 
leadership position in clothing.
In the US, awareness of the Primark 
brand started at a low level and has 
continued to grow. The brand has 
been well received with very positive 
customer feedback, particularly for 
its exceptional value-for-money and 
the breadth of its product range. We 
are encouraged by the most recent 
openings in the regional malls at Danbury, 
Willow Grove and Freehold Raceway.
NEW STORE OPENINGS
UK
Banbury
Birmingham Fort
Broughton Park, Chester
Fort Kinnaird
Fosse Park, Leicester
Lancaster
Monk’s Cross, York
Spain
Gran Via, Madrid
Portugal
Almada Forum, Lisbon
France
Cagnes-sur-Mer
La Valette-du-Var
Lyon
Italy
Arese
Germany
Leipzig
The Netherlands
Alkmaar
Dordrecht
Groningen
Austria
Linz
USA
Danbury, Connecticut
Freehold Raceway, New Jersey
King of Prussia, Philadelphia
Willow Grove, Philadelphia
RELOCATIONS
UK
Oxford
Grimsby
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
38 Building an 
international 
retailer
Primark went from newcomer to Spanish  
market leader in just ten years, a template  
for growth that is now fuelling the brand’s 
continued expansion… STEPHEN MULLEN, DIRECTOR GENERAL 
OF IBERIA REGION, PRIMARK
 “I’m very lucky to have been part of our Spanish project since 
the beginning, having relocated here from Ireland in 2006 as  
the then-area manager.
All our people in Spain are really proud of what we’ve achieved. 
We have created an exciting business that tailors its products to 
the local market and delivers fantastic prices and value, we have 
41 stores employing more than 5,000 staff and are planning more 
openings, we’re number one in market share, and our learnings 
are helping us grow in other countries. It’s been an amazing 
journey and we’re not finished yet.”
A decade of  
growth in Spain
We have
41
stores in Spain
employing more than 
5,000
staff CASE 
STUDY
During this financial year we opened 
1.2 million sq ft of selling space, 
bringing the total estate to 315 stores 
and 12.3 million sq ft at the financial 
year end. A net 22 new stores were 
opened and two stores, in Oxford and 
Grimsby, were temporarily relocated 
to smaller premises pending 
redevelopment. This was another very 
active year for store development, 
particularly in the second half when 16 
new stores and 0.9 million sq ft of selling 
space were opened. New stores this 
year comprised our first store in Italy, at 
Arese north west of Milan, a 135,000 sq ft 
Spanish flagship on Gran Via in Madrid, 
three stores in each of France and the 
Netherlands, seven in the UK, four 
stores in the north east of the US and 
a store in each of Germany, Portugal 
and Austria. Four stores were extended 
including a 49,000 sq ft increase in the 
selling space at Creteil in Paris, which 
doubled the size of the store only two 
years after its opening.
Store development has also focused 
this year on upgrading the back-of-house 
area to create a more motivating work 
environment for our employees. First 
trialled with the opening of the Leeds 
Trinity store in 2013, we have now rolled 
out this concept in 59 new stores and, 
to date, 34 existing stores have been 
upgraded as part of their planned 
refurbishment. Designed with a 
A WINNING BLEND 
OF STYLE AND 
FUNCTIONALITY
Changing consumer lifestyles  
coupled with a focus on health, fitness 
and wellbeing has seen a growth in the 
demand for Primark’s ‘athleisure’ and 
active wear. The desire to look fashionable 
while working out first invaded the world 
of fitness, but active wear has fast become 
an everyday, must-have, fashion item.
Our customers are wearing athleisure 
and trainers not just to the gym but also 
out shopping, meeting friends and around 
town. Comfort and versatility through 
fabric innovation, functionality, colour, 
styling and accessories have broadened 
customer appeal and made athleisure 
a fashion statement.
Key product features include moisture 
wicking, which keeps the body dry and cool; 
fabrics that are breathable, fast absorbent, 
quick drying and water repellent; and designs 
that are figure flattering with durable, 
multi-way stretch for support, comfort and 
mobility. Hidden zip pockets, power mesh at 
inside waistband for core support and internal 
cords are all integral features of our products.
Active wear trends for the season were 
interpreted from fashion apparel trends. 
Colour blocking in black and white, and 
bold typography in oversize text, gave the 
products a cool, street-style, sports edge. 
In menswear, garments were designed 
for endurance runs, extreme workouts 
and were adaptable, functioning no matter 
what the conditions. In footwear, lightweight 
construction and good foot support are key.
Our Sportswear/Active wear range has 
gone from strength to strength, helping 
to drive sales across all regions. The trend 
of healthy living, wellbeing and fitness 
is a global phenomenon and is gaining 
momentum. The Primark customer has 
joined this lifestyle journey and we are 
continually re-inventing and developing 
exciting new products and fabric 
innovation to meet their expectations.
completely open plan, fresh, modern 
look and feel, the effect has been 
dramatic. Wi-fi throughout the area 
has made it easier for key tasks to be 
undertaken ‘on-the-go’; the open-plan 
environment encourages team 
interaction, collaboration and efficiency 
– staff briefings and inductions take 
less time leaving more time to be 
spent on the shop floor; and instances 
of paid absence are lower than in 
similar stores. 
1.3 million sq ft of new space 
is currently planned to be opened 
next year. Five stores are planned 
for Germany, two more Italian stores 
in Florence and Brescia, and notably 
an 89,000 sq ft store in the centre 
of Amsterdam. Three more stores 
will be opened in the north east of 
the US, bringing the total to eight, 
and an extension to the Downtown 
Crossing store in Boston is planned 
which will increase selling space by 
20%. A 32,000 sq ft extension to 
the Oxford Street East store will also 
be opened ahead of the important 
Christmas period.
Our new warehouse at Islip, 
Northamptonshire is now operational 
and relocation of capacity from Magna 
Park will be completed early in the 
new financial year. The new distribution 
centre at Roosendaal in the Netherlands 
is on track to open early in the new 
calendar year.
Year ended 17 September 2016 Year ended 12 September 2015
# of stores sq ft 000 # of stores sq ft 000
UK 171 6,362 164 6,083
Spain 41 1,503 40 1,369
Germany 20 1,272 19 1,194
Republic of Ireland 36 1,032 36 1,028
Netherlands 15 679 12 547
France 8 407 5 231
USA 5 322 1 77
Portugal 9 300 8 267
Austria 5 243 4 193
Belgium 4 166 4 166
Italy 1 56 – –
315 12,342 293 11,155
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
39
Strategic report – operating review PHENOMENAL
CASE 
STUDY
RETAIL
In a global beauty market worth over 
£290bn, Primark’s PS Beauty is firmly 
making its mark.
Now one of Primark’s fastest growing 
departments, all stores feature a 
comprehensive Beauty offering with 
a range of more than 1,000 colour 
cosmetics, accessories, fragrance 
and skincare products. 
Sales of eye, lip and face cosmetics 
continue to grow – responding to the 
latest trends for contouring, matte lips 
and colour correcting – while expansion 
of our product range across foundations, 
lips and brows has broadened our 
customer base. New categories launched 
this year include: PS Pro (professional 
level cosmetics), PS Sun Protect 
(sun care range), Skincare, PS Love 
(fragrances) and PS Bronze (self-tan 
and cosmetics).
Within stores, the space dedicated 
to beauty has been expanded and the 
department has been given a fresh look. 
‘How to’ guides have been introduced 
creating a new approach to range 
collections and making products 
easier to shop.
The reaction from customers, press 
and key influencers has been one of high 
praise with favourable comparison to 
big name brand equivalents. The level 
of engagement across social media 
channels in particular has been very high, 
with Instagram posts regularly achieving 
in excess of 40,000 likes and Snapchats 
reaching an average of more than 
1.5 million views.
Pippa O’Connor  
Fashion and beauty blogger
Itssabrinaaa  
Beauty blogger
what the bloggers say
Love Laugh and Make Up
I love love love the 
illuminating primer, mascara 
and the lip scrub from the 
PS…Pro range. The 
packaging looks great,  
really simple, but chic.”
It’s totally perfect!
The Penneys beauty 
range just keeps getting 
bigger and better!”
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
40 CASE 
STUDY
Primark’s successful entry into the 
north east of the USA in late 2015 
followed two years of painstaking 
planning and research.
To prepare ourselves for the US 
retail environment, our dedicated ‘new 
markets’ group established 15 different 
workstreams covering every aspect 
of Primark’s business – from product PR 
to property, from risk and compliance 
to social media.
The group identified and considered 
the wide-ranging costs and process 
implications of entry into this new market. 
The legal environment offered particular 
challenges, with new laws and regulations 
spanning all areas of the business and the 
federal legal system meaning that laws 
varied across our five target states.
We invested enormous effort in 
establishing the Primark brand that, 
pre-entry, was little known in the USA. 
To promote our unique story, promise, 
value proposition and customer experience 
– and what differentiates us – we worked 
hard to nurture trust with government, 
business influencers, businesses, 
educational establishments and the media. 
Brand-building will remain an on-going focus 
as we seek to bring the Primark name to a 
wider audience and where a strong brand 
is key to recruiting the best employees.
Despite our thorough preparation, 
inevitably, some differences between 
the new market and our European 
WORN 
IN THE 
USA
heartland only became apparent when 
we began trading. We are reacting swiftly 
to these learnings, for example, we are 
adapting our ranges as some lines do not 
sell as well, and developing a different 
coaching model to familiarise US staff with 
our empowering and high-velocity culture.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
41
Strategic report – operating review JOHN BASON, FINANCE DIRECTOR
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Group performance
Group revenue increased by 5% to 
£13.4bn and adjusted operating profit 
was 3% higher at £1,118m. In calculating 
adjusted operating profit, the amortisation 
charge on non-operating intangibles, 
profits or losses on disposal of non-current 
assets and any exceptional items are 
excluded. On an unadjusted basis, 
operating profit was £1,103m, 18% higher 
than last year which included a £98m 
exceptional charge. Revenue and operating 
profit both benefited to a small extent from 
a 53rd week’s trading activity in some 
of our businesses this year but this  
was offset by the consolidation of only  
11 month’s results for Illovo as a 
consequence of the alignment of its  
year end with the rest of the group.
These results take into account a change 
in our accounting policy for the valuation 
of Illovo’s sugar cane roots following the 
amendment of IAS 41 which now permits 
the valuation of such assets at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. This change 
reduced both adjusted and unadjusted 
operating profit in the current year 
by £8m and in the prior year, which  
has been restated, by £10m.
The currency markets in this financial 
year have been more volatile than in 
recent years, especially for sterling, our 
reporting currency. Sterling’s strength in 
the first half of the year had an adverse 
translation effect on the group’s results. 
In the second half, and particularly 
after the result of the EU referendum, 
sterling weakened and we benefited 
from translation, resulting in little net 
effect for the financial year as a whole. 
The biggest transactional exposures 
in our group are in British Sugar and 
Primark. Margins at British Sugar benefit 
from euro strength while margins at 
Primark are adversely affected by sterling 
or euro weakness against the US dollar. 
Because Primark hedges its exposures 
when orders are placed, the impact 
of sterling’s weakness will not be felt 
until the new financial year.
Finance expense less finance income 
of £50m was lower than last year’s 
net charge of £53m reflecting a lower 
average level of debt during the year. 
Profit before tax increased from  
£707m to £1,042m with the benefit of  
a substantially lower level of losses on 
disposal of businesses and exceptional 
items. On our adjusted basis which 
excludes these items, profit before 
tax rose by 5% to £1,071m.
Acquisitions and disposals
Some ten years after the acquisition of 
51 % of Illovo Sugar Limited, we acquired 
the non-controlling interests of the 
company on 28 June for a purchase 
consideration of £247m. The transaction 
was immediately earnings accretive 
for the group. The business rationale is 
explained in the operating review and 
moving to full ownership presented 
the opportunity to align management 
and financial reporting including a 
change of year end.
The disposal of our cane sugar business 
in south China is subject to regulatory 
approvals but is expected to complete 
later this year. The sale of ACH’s herbs 
and spices business in the US is due 
to complete by the end of this month. 
The combined proceeds net of costs are 
expected to be over £0.5bn with little 
impact on the group’s adjusted operating 
profit after these disposals and some 
overhead rationalisation.
Assets and liabilities which will be 
disposed of when these transactions 
complete are shown separately on the 
balance sheet as assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale. The net assets 
are held at their net book value without 
impairment as these values are lower 
than the expected disposal proceeds.
Taxation
We recognise the importance of 
complying fully with all applicable tax 
laws as well as paying and collecting 
the right amount of tax in every country  
in which the group operates. Our 
board-adopted tax policy is based on 
seven tax principles that are embedded in 
the financial and non-financial processes 
and controls of the group. These tax 
principles are included in the appendix  
to our Corporate Responsibility report 
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.
As a substantial UK tax payer, the group 
will benefit from the future reductions 
in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% 
from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 
2020. These reductions were enacted 
before our balance sheet date and their 
effect on our UK deferred tax liability 
is therefore taken into account in the 
current year and will be reflected in 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
42 our current tax charge in the years 
in which the lower rates apply.
This year’s tax charge of £221m includes 
an underlying charge of £227m at an 
effective rate of 21.2% (2015 – 21.3%) on 
the adjusted profit before tax. This year’s 
effective rate includes the beneficial 
effect of the revaluation of UK deferred 
tax balances. This will not be repeated 
next year and, combined with profit 
increasing in businesses subject to a 
corporation tax rate higher than that in the 
UK, we expect the group’s effective tax 
rate to increase a little from this level. The 
overall tax charge for the year benefited 
from a credit of £5m (2015 – £8m) for tax 
relief on the amortisation of non-operating 
intangible assets and goodwill arising 
from previous acquisitions.
Earnings and dividends
Last year’s earnings per share have been 
restated for the change of accounting 
policy for the valuation of sugar cane 
roots with a reduction of 0.5p. Earnings 
attributable to equity shareholders in 
the current year were £818m and the 
weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the year, which is 
used to calculate earnings per share, 
was 791 million (2015 – 790 million). 
Earnings per ordinary share were 55% 
higher than last year at 103.4p with 
the benefit of substantially lower losses 
on sale of businesses and exceptional 
items this year. Adjusted earnings per 
share, which provides a more consistent 
measure of trading performance, 
increased by 5% from 101.5p to 106.2p.
The interim dividend was increased 
by 3% to 10.3p and a final dividend 
has been proposed at 26.45p which 
represents an overall increase of 5% 
for the year. The proposed dividend is 
expected to cost £209m and will be 
charged next year. Dividend cover, on 
an adjusted basis, remains at 2.9 times.
Balance sheet
Non-current assets of £6.9bn were 
£0.6bn higher than last year driven by 
substantially higher capital expenditure 
than depreciation this year and as a result 
of the translation of overseas assets 
at a weaker sterling exchange rate. The 
change of accounting policy for sugar 
cane roots resulted in the reclassification 
of these assets from non-current 
biological assets to property, plant and 
equipment where they are now carried 
at historic cost rather than fair value.
Working capital at the year end was at 
a similar level to last year. Year-on-year 
changes in the carrying values of inventory, 
trade receivables and payables were 
largely the result of currency translation. 
Average working capital as a percentage 
of sales at 8.4% was lower than last 
year’s 9.4%. Net debt at the year end 
was £121m higher than last year at 
£315m reflecting the buyout of the 
Illovo minorities and a £53m increase 
attributable to the effect of translating 
foreign currency denominated net debt 
at weaker sterling exchange rates.
The group’s net assets increased by 
£611m to £7,122m.
Return on capital employed for the 
group, which is calculated by expressing 
adjusted operating profit as a percentage 
of the average capital employed for the 
year, was 18.1% compared with 17.6% 
last year. This reflected the higher profit 
and only a small increase in average 
capital employed which was primarily 
the consequence of Primark’s expansion.
Cash flow
The group generated a net cash flow from 
operating activities of £1,310m this year 
with tight management of working capital 
throughout the year. Gross expenditure 
on property, plant and equipment and 
intangibles amounted to £796m compared 
with £613m last year. Primark spent 
£435m on the acquisition of new stores 
and the fit-out of new and existing 
stores, while a number of expansion 
projects increased the expenditure in  
the food businesses. £27m was realised 
from the sale of property, plant and 
equipment, the major elements of which 
were the sale of farmland in South Africa 
and the continued redevelopment of a 
former factory site in Western Australia 
where further lots were sold for housing 
development during the year.
£10m was incurred on the acquisition 
of two small businesses for AB Agri and 
£252m was spent on the buyout of the 
minority interests in Illovo Sugar Limited 
which is shown in the cash flow statement 
under financing activities inclusive of 
costs associated with the buyout.
Financing
The financing of the group is managed 
by a central treasury department. The 
group has total committed borrowing 
facilities amounting to £2.1bn, which 
comprise: £0.6bn of US private 
placement notes maturing between 
2017 and 2024, with an average fixed 
rate coupon of 4.7%, £15m of which is 
payable in March 2017; £1.2bn provided 
under a syndicated, revolving credit 
facility which matures in July 2021; and 
£0.3bn of local committed facilities in 
Africa and Spain. During the financial 
year we repaid, from existing cash 
resources, £78m of private placement 
notes. At the year end, £740m was 
drawn down under these committed 
facilities. The group also had access 
to £0.8bn of uncommitted credit lines 
under which £142m was drawn at the 
year end. Cash and cash equivalents, 
including cash within assets held for 
sale, totalled £581m at the year end.
Pensions
The deficit in the group’s defined benefit 
pension schemes increased from £16m 
last year to £303m, including liabilities 
held for sale, this year end. The UK 
scheme accounts for 88% of the group’s 
gross liabilities and its deficit was £138m. 
Long-term bond yields, which are used to 
value defined benefit pension obligations 
for accounting purposes, have been falling 
for some time, with a marked decline 
in UK yields at the balance sheet date 
following the EU referendum. This had a 
material impact on the discounted value 
of pension liabilities. When considered 
in the context of gross pension assets of 
£4bn, and with the group’s strong balance 
sheet and substantial cash generating 
ability, it is well within the group’s 
capacity to fund the future requirements 
of all these schemes. However, bond 
yields at current levels will result in an 
increased service cost and a higher 
interest charge next year.
The next triennial valuation of the UK 
scheme is due in April 2017 and it is 
expected that appropriate contribution 
plans, designed to fund the scheme 
and any deficit over the long term, 
will be implemented. The last valuation 
of the UK scheme was undertaken 
as at 5 April 2014 which was agreed 
by the trustees in December 2014, 
and revealed a surplus of £79m.
The charge for the year for the group’s 
defined contribution schemes, which 
was equal to the contributions made, 
amounted to £74m (2015 – £76m). 
This was substantially greater than the 
cash contribution to the defined benefit 
schemes of £38m (2015 – £39m) 
reflecting the changing shape of 
pension provision in the group.
John Bason
Finance Director
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
MEASURING OUR SOCIAL IMPACT
Ever since Associated British Foods was incorporated, our 
businesses have been making a difference to people’s lives.
As we have grown and evolved into an international food, 
ingredients and retail business, we have been able to hire 
more people, work with more businesses and support more 
communities. We are proud that Associated British Foods 
is a force for good in the world, helping to make people’s 
lives better. Some examples are:
TO SEE ALL THE WAYS WE 
ARE MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO 
PEOPLE’S LIVES, DOWNLOAD 
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT 2016
To view a copy of the Corporate  
Responsibility report visit 
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility
We RECYCLED
of our
78%
waste
In 2016...
5,880 created
NEW 
jobs
we’ve
Our NUTRITION 
EDUCATION
 websites have helped
informed
choices
about what they eat
consumers make more
8 million
72,367 
people 
health
 initiatives
have been helped by
we’ve funded
in OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
44
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Associated British Foods plc OPERATING ETHICALLY
OUR ENVIRONMENT
OUR PEOPLE
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
OUR NEIGHBOURS
OUR CUSTOMERS
Our purpose is 
to provide safe, 
nutritious, affordable 
food, and clothing 
that is great value 
for money. In  
doing these things  
well we know we 
contribute to making 
millions of people’s 
lives better.”
George Weston
Chief Executive
THE FIVE PILLARS OF OUR 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
APPROACH ARE:
This is the first year that we have 
chosen to separate our work with 
suppliers into a distinct pillar. In previous 
years, this content has been spread 
between Neighbours and People 
but, as it is an increasingly significant 
part of our corporate responsibility 
agenda, it deserves greater prominence. 
As part of this, we are publishing 
our first Modern Slavery Statement 
(see www.abf.co.uk/modern_slavery_
statement) which details our work 
to eradicate this activity within our 
supply chain.
As well as detailing our group priorities, 
our 2016 Corporate Responsibility  
report also reviews the activities of 
each of the five divisions, providing an 
overview of their ongoing efforts to 
make a difference to people’s lives.
In the following pages, we share only 
the topics required by our reporting 
obligations. However, we encourage 
you to read a fuller account of 
our corporate responsibility projects, 
initiatives, investments and the 
impact we are making in our 2016 
Corporate Responsibility report 
which can be downloaded at:  
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.
Energy use
In 2016, our absolute use of energy 
was 22,800GWh Δ, down from 
25,000GWh in 2015. This 9% reduction 
in energy use is partly the consequence 
of a 5% reduction in production and 
partly due to energy-efficiency projects.
A number of our sites not only generate 
their own energy but also export surplus 
electricity to national grids. In 2016, 
we exported 765GWh which is an 8% 
reduction on last year, mainly due to 
lower sugar production and therefore 
bagasse, the residual fibre which is 
used as an energy source across our 
southern African operations.
This year, we are publishing our first 
full corporate responsibility report 
since 2013. For the first time, we have 
sought to quantify our social impact 
in order to show the benefits of our 
collective endeavour on people’s 
lives. This includes our own people, 
our suppliers, our neighbours and our 
customers. To do this, we have asked 
our businesses to collect data on a 
range of measures. This is the first 
time we have requested this data 
and it is our intention to expand this 
information in the coming years so that 
we can provide a more comprehensive 
picture in future.
Our businesses have common areas 
of interest: every business strives 
to minimise its environmental impact; 
look after its employees, customers 
and suppliers; and be a good neighbour. 
We have categorised our corporate 
responsibility programmes into five 
pillars, which you will see reflected 
throughout our communications.
We engaged Ernst & Young to provide limited 
assurance over the reliability of 13 KPIs for the 
year ended 31 July 2016. These are marked 
with the symbol Δ in the following pages.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
45 Types of energy used in 2016 (%) 
Renewable fuels 49%
Natural gas 28%
Solid fuels 10%
Electricity 8%
Imported steam 3%
Liquid fuels 2%
49
28
10
8
3
2
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Our greenhouse gas emissions
 2016 emissions
(tCO2e)
2015 emissions
(tCO2e)
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 7,645,000 Δ 8,526,000
Purchased electricity and steam 1,054,000 Δ 1,081,000
Total gross emissions 8,699,000 Δ 9,607,000
Generation and use of renewable energy 3,807,000 Δ 4,361,000
Total net emissions 4,892,000 Δ 5,246,000
Emission intensity (gross) 649 tonnes per
£1m of revenue
751 tonnes per
£1m of revenue
Gross emissions by business division
Sugar 6,468,000 Δ 74% 6,802,000 71%
Other 2,231,000 Δ 26% 2,805,000 29%
Total gross emissions includes emissions from the use of energy within our factories and stores, 
our manufacturing processes, the operation of owned and third-party vehicles and from directly controlled 
agricultural activities. See our ‘CR Reporting Guidance 2016’ at www.abf.co.uk/responsibility for our 
GHG methodology and more detail about how we quantify our emissions including emission scopes.
For the same reason, we generated less 
energy from renewable sources this year: 
11,300GWh Δ compared with 12,500GWh 
in 2015. However, 49% of the total 
energy consumed across the group this 
year was from renewable fuel sources.
Greenhouse gas emissions
In 2016, our total greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions fell by 9% to 8.7 million tonnes 
of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) Δ. 
Gross emissions from energy, transport, 
our processes and agriculture all fell.
79% of our total emissions came 
from the energy we use in factories, 
offices, warehouses and stores. 11% 
were generated by the transportation 
of our goods and people, by owned 
or third-party vehicles. We report the 
emissions and fuel types associated 
with vehicle movement of materials for 
which we are responsible including: raw 
materials, ingredients, packaging, waste, 
processing aids, and finished products by 
land, sea or air. Process emissions from, 
for example, the production of enzymes, 
bread baking or the on-site treatment 
of waste water, accounted for 8% of the 
total emissions. Agricultural emissions 
accounted for the remaining 2%.
As the combustion of sugar cane biomass 
is regarded as carbon neutral, we also 
disclose our net emissions, i.e. those 
from conventional fossil fuels, which 
were 4.9 million tonnes of CO2e Δ. This 
is 7% lower than last year which reflects 
the overall decrease in energy used.
Of the 6.5 million tonnes of CO2e Δ 
emitted by our Sugar division, 
59% was generated from the use of 
bagasse and other renewable sources.
We developed detailed reporting guidance 
for our companies including estimation 
methodologies and assumptions which 
have taken into account guidance from 
ISO 14064/1 and the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. See our ‘CR Reporting Guidance 
2016’ at www.abf.co.uk/responsibility for 
our GHG methodology and more detail 
about how we quantify our emissions 
including emission scopes.
Water usage and disposal  
of waste water
In 2016, we abstracted 800 million m
3
 
of water, a decrease of 14% compared 
with 2015. In the main, this is due to 
Illovo’s reduction in water abstracted for 
agricultural use because of the extreme 
dry weather in many parts of southern 
Africa. There was inadequate water 
in the rivers and other water sources 
to fulfil irrigation requirements.
Of the total amount abstracted 
by the group, 30% was used in our 
premises and 70% was for agricultural 
purposes, primarily to irrigate our 
extensive own-grown sugar cane fields 
in southern Africa and sugar beet fields 
in Spain. Of the water we abstract, a 
large amount returns to the watercourse 
as part of the natural water cycle.
This year, 20 sites reused treated waste 
water for a beneficial purpose before 
returning it to the natural watercourse. 
27% was reused mainly for irrigation. 
This reduces the amount of water the 
sites need to abstract.
Waste management
In 2016, we generated just over 
1 million tonnes of waste Δ. Of this, 78% 
(or 787,000 tonnes) Δ was diverted from 
landfill because we reused or recovered it 
for a beneficial purpose. Of the remainder, 
5,500 tonnes Δ was hazardous waste, 
a 6% reduction on the previous year, 
and 211,000 tonnes was non-hazardous 
waste Δ, a decrease of 4%.
Environmental compliance
In 2016, 93% of our sites operated 
without any environmental complaints. 
We received 62 complaints during 
the year, 12 more than last year. 
We also received ten environmental 
fines Δ totalling £41,000 Δ, six more 
than we received in 2015.
The majority of complaints related 
to odour, noise, discharge standards for 
effluent, and transportation. The sites are 
engaged with relevant stakeholders to 
maintain good relations and are working 
with regulators to help us meet or 
exceed regulatory standards.
Fatal injuries
This year, over 130,000 employees 
and numerous contractors worked 
for Associated British Foods across 
50 countries, with a range of skills, 
expertise and backgrounds. Safeguarding 
the wellbeing, health and safety of 
our people and those who work with 
us continues to be a group priority.
Loss of life in our operations is entirely 
unacceptable and we deeply regret 
that there were three fatalities Δ 
this year, all in Africa. They were the 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
46 Reportable injuries
Details of our health and safety reporting can 
be found in our ‘CR Reporting Guidance 2016’ 
at www.abf.co.uk/responsibility
445 443 372 465 454
13 12 14 15 16
result of a vehicle accident, a fall from 
height and an accident involving large 
moving machinery. Training continues 
to be provided to all employees and 
contractors on the importance of 
following safe working procedures 
and using safety equipment such as 
safety harnesses and seat belts.
Thorough root cause investigations 
of all fatalities are conducted to identify 
opportunities to strengthen our controls. 
The findings are shared beyond the site 
with the rest of the group to ensure that 
all of our businesses learn from their 
experience. All work-related fatalities 
are reported to the group board and 
local management is held to account.
Injuries to employees
During 2016, we recorded 454 
reportable injuries to employees Δ. 
This represents a reduction in our 
reportable injuries to 0.47%. We also 
had a 2% decrease in employee Lost 
Time Injuries (LTIs). Overall, 61% of 
our factories and stores achieved a 
year’s operation without any reportable 
injuries and 48% did not have an LTI.
During 2016, our businesses invested 
£36m in health and safety, including 
£14m specifically on major safety 
improvement projects.
Health and safety fines
During 2016, we received two safety 
fines Δ totalling £4,600 Δ for breaches 
of safety regulations. The number of 
fines is half that of last year despite an 
increase in the number of operating 
sites during the year. The fines were 
for not maintaining relevant authority 
permissions and for breaching noise 
at work regulations. The businesses 
involved were required to report 
to the Group Safety and Environment 
Manager on their remedial actions 
and are now compliant.
Gender diversity
We are committed to running 
businesses which attract and retain 
the best female talent by creating a 
culture that is welcoming to women. 
The proportion of women in each 
of our businesses varies but, overall, 
the split is close to equal – in the last 
year the percentage of women in the 
workforce was 48%. A third of our 
senior management positions (32%) 
are held by women and we continue 
to strive to increase this.
Human rights
Associated British Foods promotes 
human rights and dignity through the 
employment we create, both directly 
and indirectly in our global supply chains, 
and through the positive contribution 
our products make to people’s lives. 
Our commitment to respect human 
rights is founded on a strong ethos of 
workplace safety and employee wellbeing, 
and is supported by our commitment to 
ensure compliance with The Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. We value 
our ongoing engagement and collaboration 
with a broad range of interested and 
concerned stakeholder groups. We 
are active in our collaborative approach, 
seeking to remain sensitive to the risk 
of breaching human rights resulting from 
our products, services and operations.
As a matter of good practice, we 
risk-assess the impact that our operations 
may have on the protection and respect 
of human rights. We ensure a greater 
focus on operations under the jurisdiction 
of governments that have a lesser 
commitment to the protection of 
human rights.
Addressing modern slavery
Modern slavery is a global issue that 
requires global action. It can occur in many 
different forms including, but not limited 
to, forced labour, child labour, domestic 
servitude or human trafficking. As an 
international business we have a role to 
play in eliminating these practices as well 
as respecting human rights across our 
own operations and supply chains.
We value our ongoing engagement 
and collaboration with a broad range of 
interested and concerned stakeholder 
groups. We operate in 50 countries 
and our supply chains are far-reaching 
and complex. The steps we take to 
try to ensure that any forms of modern 
slavery are not present within our own 
operations or supply chains are set 
out in our Modern Slavery Statement 
which can be downloaded from our 
website at www.abf.co.uk/modern_
slavery_statement.
Gender metrics
Associated British Foods plc board directors are not included in the table below. We currently have two women and seven men 
on the Company’s board.
Total
employees*
Men in
workforce
Women in
workforce
Percentage
of women in
workforce
Number
of senior
management
roles**
Number 
of men 
in senior 
management 
roles
Number
of women
in senior
management
roles
Percentage
of senior
management
who are 
women
Sugar 34,856 29,026 5,830 17% 229 180 49 21%
Grocery 17,444 11,769 5,675 33% 841 526 315 37%
Ingredients 6,720 5,032 1,688 25% 547 402 145 27%
Agriculture 2,320 1,725 595 26% 216 150 66 31%
Retail 68,262 19,644 48,618 71% 232 143 89 38%
Central 314 185 129 41% 68 44 24 35%
Total 129,916 67,381 62,535 48% 2,133 1,445 688 32%
* Full-time, part-time and seasonal/contractors. ** Includes directorships of subsidiary undertakings.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
47 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT IS CENTRAL 
TO THE BOARD’S ROLE IN PROVIDING STRATEGIC 
OVERSIGHT AND STEWARDSHIP OF THE GROUP
Risk management
In order to deliver our strategic plans, 
we believe we must understand and 
respond appropriately to risks and also 
consider whether additional business 
opportunities can be realised through 
effective risk management.
We require all of our businesses to 
implement appropriate levels of risk 
management to ensure compliance 
with relevant legislation, our overriding 
business principles and group policies 
relating to them.
We have embedded a process 
for identifying risks and put in place 
activities to mitigate them. Our 
decentralised business model 
empowers the management of our 
businesses to identify, evaluate and 
manage the risks they face on a 
timely basis. The collated risks from 
each business are shared with the 
respective divisional chief executives 
who present their divisional risks to 
the group executive.
The group’s Director of Financial Control 
receives the risk assessments on an 
annual basis and, with the Group Finance 
Director, reviews them with the divisional 
chief executives. These risks and their 
impact on business performance are 
reported during the year and are 
considered as part of the monthly 
management review process.
Group functional heads including 
Legal, Treasury, Tax, IT, Pensions, 
HR and Insurance also provide input to 
this process, sharing with the Director 
of Financial Control their view of key 
risks and what activities are in place or 
planned to mitigate them. A summary 
of these risk assessments is then 
shared and discussed with the Group 
Finance Director and Chief Executive 
at least annually.
The board undertakes an annual 
review of the material risks facing our 
businesses together with the internal 
control procedures and resources 
devoted to them. It also monitors the 
group’s exposure to these risks as part 
of the performance reviews undertaken 
at each board meeting. Financial risks 
are reviewed by the Audit committee 
and all other risks are reviewed by 
the board.
The Director of Financial Control holds 
meetings with each of the non-executive 
directors seeking their feedback on 
the reviews performed and discussing 
the key risks and mitigating activities. 
Once all non-executive directors have 
been consulted, a board report is 
prepared summarising the full process 
and providing an assessment of the 
status of risk management across the 
group. The key risks, mitigating controls 
and relevant policies are summarised. 
This report also details when formal 
updates, relating to the key risks, will 
be provided to the board throughout 
the year.
Reporting our principal risks 
and uncertainties
The group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties identified by the above 
process during 2016 are detailed in the 
following tables. They are grouped into 
external risks, which may occur in the 
markets or environment in which we 
operate, and operational risks, which 
are related to internal activity linked to 
our own operations and internal controls. 
The ‘Changes since 2015’ highlight 
the significant variations in the profile 
of our principal risks or describe our 
experience and activity over the  
last year.
These are the principal risks of the 
group as a whole and are not in any 
order of priority. The operational 
and product diversity of the group 
reduces the impact that any one 
business risk can have on the 
group’s results.
The UK’s decision to leave the 
European Union has had some 
immediate impact on our results as a 
consequence of the effect on currency 
markets, but the extent to which our 
operations and financial performance 
are affected in the longer term will only 
become apparent as details emerge 
of how the exit is to be engineered. 
Both at a group and individual business 
level, we are preparing for changes 
in legislation, trade agreements and 
working practices and formulating plans  
to take advantage of the changing 
landscape and to mitigate risk.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
48 EXTERNAL RISKS
MOVEMENT IN EXCHANGE RATES 
AND INFLATION
Mitigation
Businesses impacted by exchange rate 
volatility, specifically those manufacturing 
or purchasing in one currency and selling in 
another, constantly review their currency 
related exposures.
Board approved policies require businesses 
to hedge, using foreign exchange forward 
contracts, all transactional currency exposures, 
and long-term supply or purchase contracts 
which give rise to currency exposures.
Borrowings are largely maintained in the 
functional currency of the local operations.
Cross currency swaps are used to align 
borrowings with the underlying currencies 
of the group’s net assets; (refer to note 25 to 
the financial statements in the annual report 
for more information).
Changes since 2015
Exchange rates between sterling and some 
of our major trading currencies have changed 
markedly this year.
The net impact on adjusted operating profit  
for 2015/16 from the translation of overseas 
results into sterling was a gain of £5m 
compared with the prior year but, as a 
result of our hedging strategies, this has 
had only a limited transactional impact in  
the financial year although the impact on 
margins will be more evident next year.
The fall in long-term bond yields, particularly 
since the EU referendum, had a substantial 
impact on the valuation of the group’s 
defined benefit pension obligations. 
However, it is well within the group’s 
capacity to fund the future requirements 
of all of the group’s pension schemes.
Context and potential impact
Associated British Foods is a 
multinational group with operations 
and transactions in many currencies.
Changes in exchange rates give rise 
to transactional exposures within 
the businesses and to translation 
exposures when the assets, liabilities 
and results of overseas entities 
are translated into sterling 
upon consolidation.
Risk trend
Increased 
FLUCTUATIONS IN COMMODITY 
AND ENERGY PRICES
Mitigation
We constantly monitor the markets in which 
we operate and manage certain of these 
exposures through the use of exchange 
traded contracts and hedging instruments.
The commercial implications of commodity 
price movements are continuously assessed 
and, where appropriate, are reflected in the 
pricing of our products.
Changes since 2015
Our businesses have been less affected 
by changes in commodity prices this year. 
EU and world sugar prices have increased 
and are expected to benefit our EU sugar 
business in the coming year.
Context and potential impact
Changes in commodity and energy 
prices can have a material impact 
on the group’s operating results, 
asset values and cash flows.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
OPERATING IN GLOBAL MARKETS
Mitigation
Our approach to risk management 
incorporates potential short-term market 
volatility and evaluates longer-term 
socio-economic and political scenarios.
The group’s financial control framework 
and board adopted tax and treasury 
policies require all businesses to comply 
fully with relevant local laws. Provision 
is made for known issues based on 
management’s interpretation of country-
specific tax law and the likely outcome.
We engage with governments, local 
regulators and community organisations 
to contribute to, and anticipate important 
changes in, public policy.
Extensive research is conducted into 
each new market that Primark enters, 
and, in the case of its entry into the 
US where there was no existing local 
infrastructure, care has been taken to 
limit capital investment to a minimum. 
Expansion into new markets in Europe 
is supported by our existing business 
which has extensive experience of 
developing a successful retail business 
model across western Europe.
Changes since 2015
AB Sugar continued to reduce its cost 
base with the benefit of its performance 
improvement programme. It is preparing 
for the removal of sugar quotas in the EU 
from October 2017 and consideration is 
being given to the implications for British 
Sugar of the EU referendum.
Primark continues to learn from its early 
experience in the US and has taken this 
into account when opening the further 
four stores there this year.
Context and potential impact
Operating in 50 countries with a 
supply chain covering even more, 
we are exposed to global market 
forces, fluctuations in national 
economies, societal and political 
changes, a range of consumer 
concerns and evolving legislation.
Failure to recognise and respond 
to any of these factors could 
directly impact the profitability 
of our operations.
Entering new markets is a risk 
to any business.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
49 EXTERNAL RISKS CONTINUED
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Mitigation
Recipes are regularly reviewed and 
reformulated to improve the nutritional 
value of our grocery products, all of which 
are labelled with nutritional information.
We develop partnerships with other 
organisations to help educate consumers 
about making healthy choices.
Changes since 2015
Our businesses continued to review 
their products and to partner with others 
to enable a swift and innovative response 
to changing consumer needs.
Our Sugar and Grocery businesses have 
supported healthy eating campaigns during 
the year to help consumers make informed 
choices about their food.
Context and potential impact
Failure to respond appropriately 
to health and nutrition concerns in 
the formulation of our products could 
result in adverse consumer reaction.
We must also act responsibly across 
the spectrum of food poverty and 
malnutrition to obesity.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
OPERATIONAL RISKS
WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY
Mitigation
Safety continues to be the number one 
priority for our businesses with active 
endorsement and accountability from 
the chief executives of each business.
Our Health and Safety policy and 
practices are firmly embedded in each 
business, supporting a strong ethos 
of workplace safety.
Independent audits are conducted 
to verify implementation and support 
continuous improvement.
Best practice safety and occupational 
health training and guidance are shared 
across the businesses, co-ordinated from 
the corporate centre, to supplement the 
delivery of their own training programmes.
Changes since 2015
Regrettably, there were three fatalities 
this year all of which were unrelated 
and occurred in our African operations. 
Two were the result of contractors failing 
to comply with group health and safety 
policies. A thorough root-cause analysis 
was undertaken following each accident 
and lessons learned have been widely 
shared across the business.
Context and potential impact
Many of our operations, by their 
nature, have the potential for injuries 
and fatal accidents to employees, 
contractors and visitors.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY
Mitigation
Across the group, product safety is 
put before economic considerations.
Our businesses employ quality control 
specialists and operate strict policies 
within an organisational culture of 
hygiene and product safety to ensure that 
consistently high standards are maintained 
in our operations and in the sourcing and 
handling of raw materials and garments.
We monitor the regulatory environment 
and emerging scientific research while 
reviewing our food safety systems for 
efficacy and legal compliance.
A programme of independent food 
quality and safety audits is undertaken 
across all of our manufacturing sites 
and a due diligence programme is 
in place to ensure the safety of our 
retail products.
Changes since 2015
In the UK, AB Agri implemented 
a process to track the compliance of 
all suppliers with a range of product 
quality assurance schemes.
Context and potential impact
As a leading food manufacturer 
and retailer it is fundamental that 
we manage the safety and integrity 
of our products throughout the 
supply chain.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
50 OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED
OUR USE OF NATURAL 
RESOURCES AND MANAGING 
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Mitigation
We aim to go beyond environmental 
compliance.
Our businesses employ environmental 
specialists who use the best available 
technologies and techniques to reduce 
our use of consumables, adapt operations 
to climate change and reduce our 
environmental footprint.
We report group environmental 
performance every year in our Corporate 
Responsibility and Annual Reports as 
well as the voluntary CDP disclosure 
(formerly Carbon Disclosure Project).
Changes since 2015
The environmental performance of 
the group, with updates by division, 
is reported in the 2016 Corporate 
Responsibility report at  
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility. 
Context and potential impact
Our businesses rely on a stable 
supply of natural resources some 
of which are vulnerable to external 
factors such as natural disasters 
and climate change.
Our operations give rise to a 
range of emissions including dust, 
waste water and waste which, 
if not controlled, could lead to a 
risk to the environment and our 
local communities.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN AND 
ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
Mitigation
Our Supplier Code of Conduct is designed 
to ensure suppliers, representatives and all 
with whom we deal, adhere to our values 
and standards. The full Code is available 
at the Company’s website www.abf.co.uk/
supplier_code_of_conduct.
Adherence to the Code is verified 
through ABF’s supplier audit system with 
our procurement and operational teams 
establishing strong working relationships 
with suppliers to help them meet 
our standards.
All businesses are required to comply 
with the group’s Business Principles 
including its Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption Policy.
Changes since 2015
Our businesses have continued to 
engage with key suppliers on a range 
of shared issues such as maximising 
environmental and cost efficiencies, 
maintaining safe workplaces, supporting 
steady employment and increasing 
transparency across the wider  
supply chain.
All of our businesses have undertaken 
risk assessments to identify supply 
chains at high risk from modern slavery.
The steps we take to try to ensure that 
any forms of modern slavery are not 
present within our own operations or 
our supply chain are reported in the 
2016 Corporate Responsibility report  
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.
Context and potential impact
Our suppliers are essential to the 
successful operation of the group. 
We therefore work with them to 
ensure reliability and to help them 
meet acceptable standards of product 
quality and safety, financial stability, 
ethics, technical competence and 
people safety. 
Potential supply chain and ethical 
business practice risks include:
• reputational damage through 
supply chain weaknesses  
e.g. poor conditions for workers;
• unacceptable and unethical 
behaviour, including bribery 
and corruption;
• impact on reliability of supply 
and business continuity due 
to unforeseen incidents  
e.g. natural disasters; and
• long-term sustainability of 
key suppliers.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
51 OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED
BREACHES OF IT AND 
INFORMATION SECURITY
Mitigation
We seek to understand the changing 
cyber risks faced by our businesses 
and take appropriate action.
We have established processes, group 
IT security policies and technologies in  
place all of which are subject to regular 
internal audit.
Access to sensitive data is restricted 
and closely monitored.
Robust disaster recovery plans are in 
place for business critical applications.
Technical security controls are in place 
over key IT platforms with the Head of 
IT Security tasked with identifying and 
responding to potential security risks.
Changes since 2015
During the year there has been an 
ongoing focus on raising the awareness 
of all employees of the risks associated 
with the use of IT.
Our IT security capability has been 
strengthened with the appointment of 
specialist resource and consolidation of 
existing personnel under the direction 
of the Head of IT Security.
We have instigated regular security 
scanning of all websites. Remediation 
of any identified vulnerabilities is treated 
as a high priority and there has been a 
focus on the development of incident 
management plans across the businesses.
Context and potential impact
Our delivery of efficient and 
effective operations is enhanced 
by the use of relevant technologies 
and the sharing of information. 
We are therefore subject to potential 
internal and external cyber threats 
such as computer viruses and the 
loss or theft of data.
There is also the potential for 
disruption to operations from 
unforeseen IT and system 
malfunctions or external attack.
Risk trend
Unchanged 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
52 VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the directors 
are required to assess the prospects 
of the Company taking account of 
its current position and principal risks. 
The guidance published by the Financial 
Reporting Council suggests that 
the period of assessment should be 
significantly longer than the 12 months 
from the approval of the financial 
statements that is applied in the 
directors’ going concern consideration 
(page 61).
Consistent with the group’s business 
model which devolves operational 
decision making to the businesses, 
each of them sets a strategic planning 
time horizon appropriate to its activities 
which are typically of three years’ duration. 
In determining the appropriate period 
over which to make their assessment, 
the directors considered the duration  
of these strategic plans, the diverse 
nature of the group’s activities and the 
degree to which the businesses change  
and evolve in the relatively short term. 
A period of three years beyond the 
balance sheet date was considered 
appropriate for the group.
The directors considered the group’s 
profitability, cash flows and key financial 
ratios over this period and the potential 
impact that the Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties set out on pages 48 to 52 
could have on the solvency or liquidity of 
the group. Sensitivity analysis was applied 
to these metrics and the projected cash 
flows were stress tested against a range 
of scenarios.
The directors considered the level 
of performance that would cause the 
group to breach its debt covenants, 
the financial implications of making any 
strategic acquisitions and a variety of 
factors that have the potential to reduce 
profit substantially. These included the 
rate and success of Primark’s expansion, 
actions which could damage the 
group’s reputation for the long term, 
and macroeconomic influences such 
as fluctuations in world currency and 
commodity markets. Consideration was 
given to the currently benign interest 
rate environment in Europe and the US.
The implications of the referendum 
on the UK’s continued membership 
of the EU were specifically considered. 
The group’s business model aligns 
production, wherever possible, 
with the end markets for its products. 
Primark operates discrete supply 
chains for its stores in each of the UK, 
US and eurozone and relatively little 
cross border trading is undertaken 
between the UK and the rest of the 
EU. Specifically, the decline in sterling 
exchange rates against our major 
trading currencies will have both 
positive and negative effects on the 
group’s profit and the long-term viability 
of the group is unlikely to be affected.
Such is the diversity of the group, 
with operations across 50 countries 
and sales in more than 100, that none 
of the principal risks or uncertainties 
individually is considered likely to 
have a material impact on the group’s 
profitability or extensive cash resources. 
Furthermore, the group’s business 
model means that no significant reliance 
is placed on any one group of customers 
or suppliers and its diversity reduces 
the risk that issues affecting a particular 
sector will have a material impact on 
the group as a whole. 
At 17 September 2016, £1.3bn 
of committed borrowing facilities 
available to the group were undrawn 
and the directors are of the opinion 
that substantial further funding could 
be secured, at relatively short notice, 
should the need arise. The revolving 
credit facility is not due for renewal 
until July 2021 and £316m of the 
private placement funding matures 
beyond the period under consideration.
The group has a sound track record 
of delivering strong cash flows, with 
well in excess of £1bn of operating  
cash being generated annually in each 
of the last five years. This has been more 
than sufficient to fund expansionary 
capital investment and, specifically, has 
enabled the development of Primark in 
continental Europe and, more recently, 
the US. The group’s cash flows have 
supported 7% compound annual 
growth in the dividend over the last 
ten years.
Even in a worst case scenario,  
with risks modelled to materialise 
simultaneously and for a sustained 
period, the likelihood of the group  
having insufficient resources to meet  
its financial obligations is remote. 
Based on this assessment, the directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will be 
able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period to 14 September 2019.
On behalf of the board
Charles Sinclair
Chairman
George Weston
Chief Executive
John Bason
Finance Director
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
53 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board committees key
N Nomination committee
A Audit committee
R Remuneration committee
EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP  
AND STRONG GOVERNANCE
George Weston
Chief Executive (age 52)
George was appointed to the board in 1999 
and took up his current appointment as Chief 
Executive in April 2005. In his former roles at 
Associated British Foods, he was Managing 
Director of Westmill Foods, Allied Bakeries 
and George Weston Foods Limited 
(Australia).
Other appointments:
He is a non-executive director of Wittington 
Investments Limited and a trustee of the 
Garfield Weston Foundation.
John Bason
Finance Director (age 59)
John was appointed as Finance Director in 
May 1999. He has extensive international 
business experience and an in-depth 
knowledge of the industry. He was previously 
the finance director of Bunzl plc and is a 
member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales.
Other appointments:
He is a non-executive director of Compass 
Group PLC, a trustee of Voluntary Service 
Overseas and chairman of the charity 
FareShare.
Charles Sinclair
Chairman (age 68)
Charles was appointed a non-executive 
director in October 2008 and as Chairman 
in April 2009. With wide business experience 
of both the UK and overseas, his executive 
career was latterly with Daily Mail and 
General Trust plc, where he was chief 
executive from 1989 until he retired from 
that role and the board in September 2008.
Other appointments:
He is Warden of Winchester College.
N R
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
54 Richard Reid 
Independent non-executive  
director (age 60)
Richard was appointed a director in 
April 2016. He was formerly a partner 
at KPMG LLP, having joined the firm 
in 1980. From 2008, Richard served 
as London Chairman at KPMG until 
he retired from that role and KPMG in 
September 2015. Previously, Richard 
was KPMG’s UK chairman of the High 
Growth Markets Group and chairman 
of the firm’s Consumer and Industrial 
Markets group.
Other appointments:
He is chairman of National Heart and 
Lung Institute Foundation and senior 
advisor to Bank of China UK. 
Wolfhart Hauser
Independent non-executive  
director (age 66)
Wolfhart was appointed a director in 
January 2015. Starting his career with 
various research activities, he went on 
to establish and lead a broad range of 
successful international service industry 
businesses. He was chief executive  
of Intertek Group plc for ten years until 
he retired from that role and the board  
in May 2015. He was previously chief 
executive officer and president of TÜV 
Süddeutschland AG for four years and 
chief executive officer of TÜV Product 
Services for ten years.
Other appointments:
He is chairman of FirstGroup plc and 
senior independent director of RELX 
Group plc and its listed parent 
companies RELX PLC and RELX NV.
Javier Ferrán
Independent non-executive  
director (age 60)
Javier was appointed a director in 
November 2006. He spent the earlier 
part of his career with Bacardi Group, 
where latterly he served as president 
and chief executive officer. He has 
in-depth knowledge of consumer 
brands on an international basis and 
in international financing.
Other appointments:
He is a partner at Lion Capital LLP, 
a London-based private equity firm. 
He is also a non-executive director and 
chairman designate of Diageo plc and 
a non-executive director of Coca-Cola 
European Partners plc.
Timothy Clarke
Independent non-executive  
director (age 59)
Tim was appointed a director in 
November 2004 and has been Senior 
Independent Director since December 
2007. Tim has extensive experience 
of retailing. Until 2009, he was chief 
executive of Mitchells & Butlers plc, 
following its demerger from Six 
Continents PLC where he also held the 
position of chief executive. Previously 
he had been a partner of Panmure 
Gordon & Co before joining Bass PLC 
in 1990.
Other appointments:
He is a non-executive director of two 
pub and brewing companies, Hall & 
Woodhouse Limited, and Timothy 
Taylor & Company Limited, and also 
Triple Point VCT 2011 PLC.
Ruth Cairnie
Independent non-executive  
director (age 62)
Ruth was appointed a director in 
May 2014. She has extensive overseas 
experience including international 
marketing and supply chain. Ruth was 
formerly Executive Vice President 
Strategy & Planning at Royal Dutch Shell Plc. 
This role followed a number of senior 
international roles within Shell, including 
Vice President of their Global Commercial 
Fuels business. She is a physicist  
by qualification.
Other appointments: 
She is a non-executive director of 
Keller Group plc and of Rolls-Royce 
Holdings plc.
N A R
N A R A R
N R
N R
Emma Adamo 
Non-executive director (age 53)
Emma was appointed as a director in 
December 2011. She was educated 
at Stanford University and INSEAD 
in France.
Other appointments:
She is a director of Wittington 
Investments Limited, and of the 
W Garfield Weston Foundation 
in Canada.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
I am pleased to present the Associated British Foods corporate governance 
report for the year ended 17 September 2016.
As I have highlighted in my Chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5, we were 
delighted to welcome Richard Reid to the board in April 2016 as an independent 
non-executive director and as successor to Peter Smith as chairman of the Audit 
committee. We report on the formal process by which Richard was appointed 
in the Nomination committee report on page 64.
Richard Reid’s appointment represents further progress towards refreshing 
the membership of the board but we are of course mindful that two of our 
independent non-executive directors, Tim Clarke and Javier Ferrán, have been 
members of the board for more than nine years. On page 59 we set out our 
reasoning for determining their continued independence notwithstanding their 
length of service. In considering the future shape of the board, it remains our 
intention that the transition of the board should continue to be phased carefully, 
so that we maintain an appropriate degree of continuity while our more recently 
appointed non-executive directors build their knowledge of the Company’s 
diverse businesses.
This year we chose to undertake an internal evaluation of the board and its 
committees, following a successful externally-facilitated board evaluation last year. 
It is the Company’s practice, whenever the review is carried out internally, for this to 
be led by a different non-executive director on each occasion. This year’s evaluation 
was headed by Ruth Cairnie. A summary of the process, key outcomes as well 
as progress from the previous year’s exercise is provided on page 60.
We are very much aware of the recent focus on, and debate around, the importance 
of good corporate culture. The Company has a strong, constant, corporate culture, 
referred to within the group as the ‘essence‘ of Associated British Foods. Essence 
refers to the solid ethical foundations on which the Company is built including the 
approach to guiding its decentralised and diversified group of businesses. It has been 
a vital factor in creating and protecting long-term shareholder value and is described 
in more detail on pages 6 and 7 of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility report, which 
is available for download at www.abf.co.uk/responsibility. In order to assure the 
ethical culture in which we operate, the board and the corporate centre provide an 
important governance function which sets a framework for, and complements, 
our decentralised structure.
In the following pages, we set out our approach to corporate governance and 
explain how our governance practices support sustainable, responsible long-term 
growth for our shareholders. We will continue to keep our governance practices 
under review, keeping in mind developing market practice. As always, we 
welcome feedback or comments from shareholders either through the website 
www.abf.co.uk or in person at the annual general meeting.
Charles Sinclair
Chairman
DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
As a premium listed company on the 
London Stock Exchange, the Company 
is reporting in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in 
September 2014 (the ‘Code’) which sets 
out standards of good practice in relation 
to board leadership and effectiveness, 
remuneration, accountability and relations 
with shareholders. The Code is published 
by the UK Financial Reporting Council 
(‘FRC’) and a copy of the Code is 
available from the FRC website  
(www.frc.org.uk).
An updated version of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code was published in 
April 2016 and first applies to companies 
with financial years commencing on 
or after 17 June 2016 (‘the 2016 Code’). 
The Company has already taken account 
of the small number of changes required 
and will report formally in accordance 
with the 2016 Code in its 2017 
annual report.
The board considers that the 
Company has, throughout the year 
ended 17 September 2016, applied 
the main principles and complied with 
the provisions set out in the Code, 
with the following exception:
Code provision
D.2.1 – The Chairman should not 
chair the Remuneration committee
Status
Charles Sinclair is both Chairman of 
the Company and chairman of the 
Remuneration committee.
Explanation
The board of Associated British Foods plc 
continues to consider that Charles Sinclair, 
due to his experience, is best suited to 
chair this committee. No director has any 
involvement in the determination of his 
own remuneration. The board believes 
that the Company has maintained robust 
governance while at the same time 
benefiting from having Charles Sinclair 
as the chairman of the Remuneration 
committee.
Leadership
The board
The board of directors is collectively 
responsible to the Company’s 
shareholders for the direction and 
oversight of the Company to ensure 
its long-term success. The board 
met regularly throughout the year to 
approve the group’s strategic objectives, 
to lead the group within a framework 
of effective controls which enable risk 
to be assessed and managed and to 
ensure that sufficient resources are 
available to meet the objectives set.
There are a number of matters which 
are specifically reserved for the board’s 
approval. These are set out in a clearly 
defined schedule and include: matters 
relating to the group’s strategic plan; 
approving the annual business strategy 
and objectives; the nature and extent 
of principal risks to be taken to achieve 
the strategic objectives; changes 
relating to structure and capital; 
approval of trading statements, interim 
results, final results and annual report 
and accounts; declaring interim dividends 
and recommending final dividends; the 
group’s policies and systems of internal 
control and risk management; approving 
capital projects, acquisitions and 
disposals valued at over £30m; provision 
of adequate succession planning, 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
56 approving major group policies and 
matters relating to the compliance with 
the terms of the Relationship Agreement 
between the Company and its controlling 
shareholders dated 14 November 2014. 
The schedule of matters reserved 
is available to view on the corporate 
governance section of the Company’s 
website (www.abf.co.uk).
Certain specific responsibilities are 
delegated to the board committees, 
notably the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination committees, which 
operate within clearly defined terms 
of reference and report regularly to the 
board. For further details, please see 
‘Board committees’ section below.
Authority for the operational 
management of the group’s business 
has been delegated to the Chief 
Executive for execution or further 
delegation by him for the effective 
day-to-day running and management 
of the group. The chief executive of 
each business within the group has 
authority for that business and reports 
directly to the Chief Executive.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive are separately held 
and the division of their responsibilities 
is clearly established, set out in writing, 
and agreed by the board to ensure 
that no one has unfettered powers of 
decision. The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, 
is responsible for the operation and 
leadership of the board, ensuring its 
effectiveness and setting its agenda. 
The Chief Executive, George Weston, 
is responsible for leading and managing 
the group’s business within a set of 
authorities delegated by the board 
and for the implementation of board 
strategy and policy.
Senior Independent Director
Tim Clarke is the Company’s recognised 
Senior Independent Director. The role 
of the Senior Independent Director is to 
act as a sounding board for the Chairman 
and to serve as an intermediary for other 
directors where necessary. He is also 
available to shareholders should a need 
arise to convey concerns to the board 
which they have been unable to convey 
through the Chairman or through the 
executive directors. During the year, 
led by the Senior Independent Director, 
the non-executive directors have met 
without the presence of the Chairman 
(including to appraise the Chairman’s 
performance).
The non-executive directors
In addition to their responsibilities 
for strategy and business results, the 
non-executive directors play a key role 
in providing a solid foundation for good 
corporate governance and ensure that 
no individual or group dominates the 
board’s decision-making. They each 
occupy, or have occupied, senior 
positions in industry, bringing valuable 
external perspective to the board’s 
deliberations through their experience 
and insight from other sectors enabling 
them to contribute significantly to board 
decision-making. The formal letters of 
appointment of non-executive directors 
are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office.
Election and re-election of directors
In accordance with the Code’s 
recommendations, all directors currently 
in office will be proposed for election or 
re-election at the 2016 annual general 
meeting to be held in December.
Board meetings
The board held a total of eight meetings 
during the year. Periodically, board 
meetings take place away from the 
corporate centre in London. During the 
year under review, one of the meetings 
was held at Primark’s offices in Dublin, 
providing the non-executive directors in 
particular with the opportunity to meet 
local management and other employees. 
The board held another of its meetings 
away from the centre and visited the 
AB Vista Marlborough site for a tour 
and to meet local management.
Senior executives below board 
level are invited, when appropriate, 
to attend board meetings and to 
make presentations on the results 
and strategies of their business units. 
Papers for board and committee 
meetings are generally provided to 
directors for board and committee 
meetings a week in advance.
The attendance of the directors 
at board and committee meetings 
during the year to 17 September 2016 
is shown in the table below. Where 
a director was unable to participate in 
a meeting either in person or remotely, 
the Chairman solicited their views on 
key items of business in advance of 
the relevant meeting and shared these 
with the meeting so that they were 
able to contribute to the debate.
Board committees
The board has established 
three principal board committees, 
to which it has delegated certain 
of its responsibilities. These are the 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
committees. The membership, 
responsibilities and activities of these 
committees are described later in 
this corporate governance report 
and, in the case of the Remuneration 
committee, in the Remuneration 
report which starts on page 69. 
Membership of these committees 
is reviewed annually. Minutes of 
committee meetings are made 
available to all directors on a  
timely basis.
Board
Audit 
committee
Nomination
committee
Remuneration 
committee
Charles Sinclair 8/8 – 1/1 6/6
George Weston 8/8 – – –
John Bason 8/8 – – –
Emma Adamo 8/8 – – –
Ruth Cairnie
1
8/8 4/4 1/1 6/6
Tim Clarke 8/8 – 1/1 6/6
Javier Ferrán
2
8/8 1/1 1/1 6/6
Wolfhart Hauser
3
8/8 4/4 1/1 6/6
Lord Jay
4
1/1 1/1 – 1/1
Richard Reid
5
3/3 1/1 – 3/3
Peter Smith
6
4/5 3/3 – 2/3
1
 Ruth Cairnie was appointed as a member of the Nomination committee on 1 November 2015.
2
 Javier Ferrán stepped down as a member of the Audit committee on 26 October 2015.
3
 Wolfhart Hauser was appointed as a member of the Nomination committee on 13 April 2016.
4
  Lord Jay retired as a director and ceased to be a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
committees on 30 November 2015.
5
  Richard Reid was appointed as a non-executive director, chairman of the Audit committee 
and a member of the Remuneration committee with effect from 14 April 2016.
6
  Peter Smith retired and ceased to be chairman of the Audit committee and a member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration committees on 13 April 2016. He was unable to attend one board  
and Remuneration committee meeting but he reviewed the relevant information and provided 
comments to the Chairman.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration committees were 
present at the 2015 annual general 
meeting and intend to be present at this 
year’s meeting to answer questions on 
the work of their respective committees.
The written terms of reference for the 
Nomination, Audit and Remuneration 
committees are available on the 
Company’s website (www.abf.co.uk) 
and hard copies are available on request.
Directors’ insurance
The Company has in place 
appropriate directors’ and officers’ 
liability insurance cover in respect 
of legal action against its executive 
and non-executive directors, 
amongst others.
The work of the board  
during the year 
During the financial year, key activities 
of the board included:
Effectiveness
Board composition
At the date of this report, the board 
comprises the following directors:
Chairman
Charles Sinclair
Executive directors 
George Weston (Chief Executive)
John Bason (Finance Director)
Non-executive directors
Emma Adamo
Ruth Cairnie 
Tim Clarke
Javier Ferrán
Wolfhart Hauser 
Richard Reid
Emma Adamo is not considered by 
the board to be independent in view 
of her relationship with Wittington 
Investments Limited, the Company’s 
majority shareholder. She was appointed 
in December 2011 to represent this 
shareholding on the board of the 
Company. The board considers that 
the other non-executive directors are 
independent in character and judgement 
and that they are each free from any 
business or other relationships which 
would materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement. 
Richard Reid was appointed as an 
independent non-executive director 
on 14 April 2016. The board considered 
Richard’s independence by reference 
to the relevant provisions of the Code 
and concluded that he is independent 
notwithstanding his past relationship with 
KPMG, which was formerly the group’s 
auditor. KPMG LLP ceased to be the 
Company’s auditor in November 2015, 
following a competitive tender for the 
external audit. Richard was formerly a 
partner at KPMG, retiring from that role in 
September 2015. He had no personal 
engagement with any business within 
the Associated British Foods group 
during a period of the four years prior to 
his appointment by the Company in April 
2016. Before the four-year period, Richard 
was client liaison partner on behalf of 
KPMG for Associated British Foods, 
but at no time did he have responsibility 
for signing off an audit report on the 
Company. His prior knowledge of the 
diversity and complexity of the group 
is of significant value to the board. 
Although the audit relationship between 
the Company and KPMG and the 
employment relationship between 
Richard Reid and KPMG ended within the 
last three years, the board has concluded 
Strategy
• Conducting regular strategy update sessions in board meetings.
• Holding an annual ‘away-day’ focused on strategy.
Acquisitions/disposals
• Approving the increased ownership of Illovo Sugar Limited.
• Receiving regular updates on acquisitions/disposals, including disposal of the group’s 
cane sugar business in south China and of the North American herbs and spices business 
of ACH Foods.
Performance monitoring
• Receiving regular reports to the board from the Chief Executive.
• Receiving, on a rolling basis, senior management presentations from each of the 
group business areas. 
• Approving the group budget for the 2016/17 financial year.
• Receiving regular feedback on directors’ meetings held with institutional investors.
• Receiving reports from the board committee chairmen.
Governance and risk
• Approving the Company’s full year and interim results.
• Recommending the 2015 final dividend and approving the 2016 interim dividend.
• Annual review of the material financial and non-financial risks facing the 
group’s businesses.
• Receiving regular divisional food safety updates.
• Half yearly review of progress in implementing actions arising from the 2015 
board evaluation.
• Participating in the 2016 annual board performance evaluation and receiving a report 
on the evaluation.
• Reviewing and approving new inside information and share dealing policies and 
procedures following implementation of the EU Market Abuse Regulation in July 2016.
• Receiving regular updates on regulatory matters.
Corporate responsibility
• Approving the 2016 Corporate Responsibility report.
• Receiving regular management reports on health, safety and environmental issues.
• Receiving updates on Primark ethical sourcing.
People
• Appointing Richard Reid as an independent non-executive director.
• Receiving updates on and considering senior succession planning and people activities 
with presentation from the Group HR Director.
• Confirming directors’ independence.
• Appointing Wolfhart Hauser to the Nomination committee.
• Appointing Ruth Cairnie to the Nomination committee.
Various
• Receiving updates on procurement, information technology and communications 
from the heads of the relevant functions.
• Undertaking appropriate preparations for the holding of the annual general meeting 
including considering and approving an ‘outlook’ statement and subsequently, discussing 
issues arising from the annual general meeting.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
58 and is satisfied that, on the basis of 
the facts outlined above, the former 
KPMG relationship would not in any way 
compromise Richard’s independence 
and that it was in the best interests 
of the group to appoint him as an 
independent non-executive director of the 
Company. Further details of the process 
by which Richard was appointed are 
given in the Nomination committee 
report on page 64.
The Code requires that, if a director 
has served on the board for more than 
nine years, the board should state its 
reasons why it considers the director, 
notwithstanding his or her length 
of service, to be independent. 
Accordingly, the board has considered 
the independence of Tim Clarke and 
Javier Ferrán as follows:
• as at 3 November 2016, Tim 
Clarke had served 12 years as a 
director of the Company. The board 
has continued to keep Tim’s 
independence under close review 
given his length of service. Having 
given careful consideration to the 
matter, the board is satisfied that Tim 
continues to demonstrate the 
qualities of independence in carrying 
out his role as a non-executive director 
and Senior Independent Director, 
supporting the team in an objective 
and independent manner. The 
board considers that he continues 
to be independent in character and 
judgement and that there are no 
relationships or circumstances which 
are likely to affect, or could appear to 
affect, his judgement. Tim retains his 
role as Senior Independent Director 
and is offering himself for re-election 
at the annual general meeting. 
The board will continue to keep 
his independence under review.
• as at 1 November 2016, Javier Ferrán 
had served ten years as a director 
of the Company. Javier’s service 
and consequent knowledge and 
experience of the group, together with 
the invaluable retail experience he 
brings to the role, are highly regarded 
by the board. Notwithstanding his 
length of service and, having given 
due deliberation to the matter, the 
board is satisfied that Javier 
continues to demonstrate the 
qualities of independence and 
objectivity in carrying out his role 
as a non-executive director. The 
board considers that he continues 
to be independent in character 
and judgement and that there are no 
relationships or circumstances which 
are likely to affect, or could appear 
to affect, his judgement. Javier 
is offering himself for re-election 
at the annual general meeting and 
the board will continue to keep 
his independence under review.
During the year, Lord Jay and Peter Smith 
retired from the board as non-executive 
directors, on 30 November 2015 and 
13 April 2016, respectively. As at the 
date of this report, the board comprises 
the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance 
Director and six non-executive directors.
Biographical and related information 
about the directors is set out on pages 
54 and 55.
Appointments to the board
There is a formal and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new 
directors to the board. Details are 
available in the Nomination committee 
report set out on page 63 which also 
provides details of the committee’s 
role and activities.
Commitment
The letters of appointment for the 
Chairman and the non-executive directors 
set out the expected time commitment 
required of them and are available for 
inspection by any person during normal 
business hours at the Company’s 
registered office and at the annual general 
meeting. Other significant commitments 
of the Chairman and non-executive 
directors are disclosed on appointment 
and require approval thereafter.
Board development
The Chairman, with the support of the 
Company Secretary, is responsible for 
the induction of new directors and the 
continuing development of directors.
Board induction
Richard Reid joined the board as 
a non-executive director on 14 April 
2016 and undertook a formal, tailored 
programme of induction, facilitated by the 
Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Richard’s induction took account of 
his prior knowledge of the group, his 
experience and business perspectives 
and the committees on which he serves. 
The aim of the programme was to allow 
Richard to refresh and develop his 
knowledge of how the group operates 
through its five strategic business 
segments and to familiarise him with 
its governance policies and procedures 
and his duties as a director.
All new directors are encouraged to 
accelerate their knowledge of the group 
by visiting a variety of its businesses 
and operations. Key elements of the 
induction programme undertaken by 
Richard to date following his appointment 
are set out below:
Board and governance
• Legal and regulatory duties of a UK 
listed company director.
• Group governance framework including 
matters reserved to the board for 
its decision and committee terms 
of reference.
• Inside information policy and procedures, 
restrictions and procedures for dealing 
in the Company’s shares.
• Procedure for dealing with board 
conflicts, guidance and procedures on 
related party transactions and transactions 
with controlling shareholders.
• The group’s approach to corporate 
responsibility.
Management meetings and site visits
• Individual meetings with members of the 
senior management team at the group 
centre including an Audit committee 
briefing with Group Financial Controller.
• Meetings with the chief executives of 
AB Mauri, ABF Ingredients and George 
Weston Foods.
• Visits to a number of group businesses 
for meetings with local management 
including AB Sugar and AB Agri in 
Peterborough, a bakery site tour at 
Allied Bakeries in Stevenage and a 
tour of the Twinings Andover factory.
• Tour of a number of Primark stores with 
the Primark CEO and senior management. 
Attended Lancaster and Leicester 
store openings.
• Attending a session of the ABF 
Women’s Business Education Forum.
Following his appointment in January 
2015, Wolfhart Hauser’s induction 
programme continued during the year 
under review with further site visits and 
management meetings including to AB 
World Foods in Leigh for an introduction 
to its operations and supply chain; 
attending a Primark sourcing, technical 
and compliance meeting in Dublin; 
a factory tour and site presentation at 
AB Mauri in Hull; a visit to Vivergo Fuels 
in Hull to receive an overview of the 
business and plant tour; a visit to Twinings 
in Andover to discuss a broad agenda 
including tea procurement and supply 
chain-related issues and a site visit 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
to AB Enzymes at Roal Oy in Rajamäki, 
Finland, involving an introduction to each 
of ABF Ingredients and AB Enzymes from 
senior management, factory tours and an 
overview of research and development.
Training and development
The Chairman has overall responsibility 
for ensuring that the directors receive 
suitable training to enable them to carry 
out their duties and is supported in this 
by the Company Secretary. Directors are 
also encouraged personally to identify 
any additional training requirements 
that would assist them in carrying out 
their role. Training is provided in briefing 
papers, such as the regular update 
from the Company Secretary as part of 
the board pack ahead of each meeting 
covering developments in legal, 
regulatory and governance matters, and 
by way of presentations and meetings 
with senior executives or other external 
sources. During the year, the Market 
Abuse Regulation which took effect in 
July 2016 was a particular point of focus 
and the board was fully briefed on the 
updated inside information and share 
dealing policies and procedures arising 
from the new regulation and its 
implementing measures.
Information flow
The Company Secretary manages the 
provision of information to the board 
at appropriate times in consultation 
with the Chairman and Chief Executive. 
In addition to formal meetings, the 
Chairman and Chief Executive maintain 
regular contact with all directors. 
The Chairman holds informal meetings 
with non-executive directors, without 
any of the executives being present, 
to discuss issues affecting the group, 
when appropriate. Regular management 
updates are sent to directors to keep 
the non-executive directors informed 
of events throughout the group between 
board meetings and to ensure that they 
are kept fully advised of the latest 
issues affecting the group.
Board performance evaluation
An evaluation to assess the performance 
of the board as a whole, its committees 
and the individual directors is conducted 
annually with the aim of improving 
the effectiveness of the board and its 
members and the performance of 
the group.
Progress on objectives  
from the 2015 evaluation
During the year, the Chairman 
oversaw the implementation of 
various recommendations arising from 
the 2015 evaluation, which included 
the actions set out in the table below.
2015 objectives
Role of the board
The quality of strategic conversations in 
regular board meetings was reinforced and 
enhanced with a greater focus on strategic 
issues at a group level. There was an 
increased focus on reputational risk.
Engagement with divisional 
level executive
The regular programme of presentations to 
the board by divisional heads was enhanced 
through prior disclosure of information to 
the board and more time being set aside 
at the meetings to discuss the issues and 
the strategic choices arising from the 
respective presentations.
Succession and resource
Progress on board transition during the 
year was acknowledged to have been 
successful and the ongoing work on 
talent development was valuable and 
well managed. There was an appetite 
for further consideration of succession 
planning (see 2016 objectives opposite).
Board support
Trialling of electronic board papers was 
considered during the year but it was 
concluded that this should be postponed 
pending an anticipated enhancement to 
the security of the preferred software. 
2016 evaluation
Following the externally-facilitated 
performance evaluation carried out in 
2015, this year’s review was conducted 
internally and was led, at the invitation 
of the Chairman, by Ruth Cairnie, 
one of the independent non-executive 
directors. The review took place in 
the final quarter of the financial year.
A framework was prepared outlining 
the priority areas and points of 
particular focus for discussion. This was 
circulated to each director, the Company 
Secretary, the group HR Director, the 
Chief Executive of Primark and the audit 
engagement partner of the Company’s 
auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, each of 
whom were invited to take part in a 
confidential interview with Ruth Cairnie. 
Ruth’s own performance review was 
undertaken by the Chairman.
A discussion guide was circulated to 
each interviewee which formed the 
agenda for the meetings and included 
the following topics:
• Key issues addressed during 
the year – such as the change 
of auditor; the revising of the 
remuneration policy; and refreshing 
the membership of the board;
• Governance and risk management 
– including information flow to the 
board; the effectiveness of group 
corporate governance processes; 
and the board’s approach to 
risk management;
• Board organisation, structure 
and dynamics – including the 
approach to determining the future 
board composition; the effectiveness 
of the induction process; maintenance 
and development of skills of board 
members; familiarity with the business; 
and creating the environment for 
effective debate;
• Effectiveness and efficiency –  
in particular, the quality and extent 
of the input and challenge received 
by the executive directors, and 
whether the skills and experience 
of the individual board members 
are used effectively;
• Business performance – including 
clarification on the role of the board 
with respect to business 
performance; the adequacy of the 
information provided to the board; 
and the quality of the discussion 
and decision-making process;
• People – the role of the board in 
addressing people, talent, diversity 
and succession planning issues; and
• Broader themes – including what the 
board can learn from the experience 
of members on other boards.
Following the conclusion of the interviews, 
Ruth produced a written report which 
was discussed with the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive before being sent to 
board members for discussion at the 
following board meeting.
A list of recommended actions arising 
from this year’s evaluation is being 
implemented under the direction of 
the Chairman and includes those 
identified in the table opposite.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
60 2016 objectives
Board meetings
More time to be taken for reflective 
discussion and debate after divisional 
presentations with feedback provided 
to the Chief Executive to share, as 
appropriate, with divisional management. 
Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors encouraged 
to take more opportunities to engage 
with the businesses (beyond the initial 
visits organised as part of the induction 
programme) to enable them to build 
a deeper understanding of the 
group’s operations.
Recognising that the involvement of 
the non-executive directors could be of 
benefit to the individual businesses, and 
given their willingness to provide advice 
based on their business experience, a 
more detailed description of their areas 
of expertise to be compiled and made 
available to the businesses to facilitate 
knowledge and skills transfer. 
Risk management
The non-executive directors desired 
greater visibility of emerging strategic 
risks. Future divisional presentations 
to include more detail in this area. 
Succession and talent
There should be further emphasis and 
discussion, with input from all members, 
on the future shape of the board through 
more frequent meetings of the Nomination 
committee. A need to spend more time 
on the critical issue of non-board executive 
succession was also highlighted.
Audit committee
Acknowledging the opportunity, with 
a change of committee chairman, to 
make a few practical changes to facilitate 
the running of the meetings and the 
functioning of the committee. 
Based on the outcome of the 2016 
review, it was concluded that the board 
and its committees were continuing to 
function very effectively with a good 
balance of support, challenge and mutual 
trust between the executives and the 
non-executives. Each of the directors 
was considered to be making a valuable 
contribution and with proper commitment, 
including of time, to their respective roles. 
Conflicts of interest procedure
The Company has procedures in 
place to deal with the situation where 
a director has a conflict of interest. 
As part of this process, the board:
• considers each conflict situation 
separately on its particular facts;
• considers the conflict situation 
in conjunction with the rest of the 
conflicted directors’ duties under 
the 2006 Act;
• keeps records and board minutes as 
to authorisations granted by directors 
and the scope of any approvals 
given; and
• regularly reviews conflict authorisation.
Accountability
Financial and business reporting
The board is required by the Code 
to present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy. In relation 
to this requirement, reference is made to 
the statement of directors’ responsibilities 
for preparing the financial statements set 
out on page 91 of this annual report and 
accounts. The board recognises that its 
responsibility to present a fair, balanced 
and understandable assessment extends 
to interim and other price-sensitive 
public reports, reports to regulators, 
and information required to be 
presented by statutory requests.
Business model
A description of the Company’s business 
model for sustainable growth is set out 
in the group business model and strategy 
section on pages 8 and 9 and in the 
business strategies section on pages 
10 and 11. These sections provide an 
explanation of the basis on which the 
group generates value and preserves 
it over the long term and its strategy 
for delivering its objectives.
Going concern and viability
After making enquiries the directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational 
existence for a period of at least 12 
months from the date of approval of 
these annual financial statements. 
Accordingly, and consistent with the 
guidance contained in the document 
titled ‘Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial 
and Business Reporting’ published by 
the FRC in 2014, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing 
the annual financial statements.
The Code requires the directors to 
assess and report on the prospects 
of the group over a longer period. 
This longer term viability statement 
is set out on page 53.
Internal control and risk management
The directors confirm that the board has 
undertaken a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the group, including 
those that could threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity. A description of the principal 
risks and how they are being managed 
and mitigated is set out on pages 48 
to 52.
The board acknowledges its 
responsibilities for monitoring the 
group’s risk management and internal 
control systems to facilitate the 
identification, assessment and 
management of risk, the protection 
of shareholders’ investments and the 
group’s assets. The directors recognise 
that they are responsible for providing 
a return to shareholders, which is 
consistent with the responsible 
assessment and mitigation of risks.
Effective controls ensure that the 
group’s exposure to avoidable risk 
is minimised, that proper accounting 
records are maintained, that the 
financial information used within 
the business is reliable and that the 
consolidated accounts preparation and 
financial reporting processes comply 
with all relevant regulatory reporting 
requirements. The dynamics of the 
group and the environment within 
which it operates are continually 
evolving together with its exposure 
to risk. The systems are designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the 
risk of assets being unprotected and to 
guard against their unauthorised use 
and the failure to achieve business 
objectives. Internal controls can 
only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The directors confirm that there is a 
process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the risks faced by the group 
and the operational effectiveness of 
the related controls, which has been 
in place for the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of the annual 
report and accounts. They also confirm 
that they have regularly monitored the 
effectiveness of the risk management 
and internal control systems (which 
cover all material controls including 
financial, operational and compliance 
controls) utilising the review process 
set out on the following page.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Standards
There are guidelines on the minimum 
groupwide requirements for health and 
safety and environmental standards. 
There are also guidelines on the 
minimum level of internal control that 
each of the divisions should exercise 
over specified processes. Each business 
has developed and documented policies 
and procedures to comply with the 
minimum control standards established, 
including procedures for monitoring 
compliance and taking corrective action. 
The board of each business is required 
to confirm twice yearly that it has 
complied with these policies 
and procedures.
High level controls
All operations prepare annual operating 
plans and budgets which are updated 
regularly. Performance against budget 
is monitored at operational level and 
centrally, with variances being reported 
promptly. The cash position at group and 
operational level is monitored constantly 
and variances from expected levels are 
investigated thoroughly.
Clearly defined guidelines have been 
established for capital expenditure and 
investment decisions. These include the 
preparation of budgets, appraisal and 
review procedures and delegated 
authority levels.
Financial reporting
Detailed management accounts 
are prepared every four weeks, 
consolidated in a single system and 
reviewed by senior management 
and the board. They include a 
comprehensive set of financial reports 
and key performance indicators covering 
commercial, operational, environmental 
and people issues. Performance against 
budgets and forecasts is discussed 
regularly at board meetings and at 
meetings between operational and 
group management. The adequacy and 
suitability of key performance indicators 
is reviewed regularly. All chief executives 
and finance directors of the group’s 
operations are asked to sign an annual 
confirmation that their business has 
complied with the Group Accounting 
Manual in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements and specifically 
to confirm the adequacy and accuracy 
of accounting provisions.
being both to develop shareholders’ 
understanding of the Company’s 
strategy, operations and performance 
and to provide the board with awareness 
of the views of significant shareholders. 
At each board meeting, the directors are 
briefed on shareholder meetings that 
have taken place and on feedback 
received, including any significant 
concerns raised. 
Each year, the Chairman issues an 
invitation to the Company’s largest 
institutional shareholders to hear 
their views and discuss any issues 
or concerns on governance, strategy 
and remuneration. During the year, 
the Chairman held meetings with a 
number of institutional shareholders 
and advisory bodies to discuss a range 
of topics including the Company’s draft 
update of its remuneration policy which 
is to be presented for approval at the 
2016 annual general meeting. A full 
discussion of the issues, including how 
the feedback was taken into account 
in finalising the policy, is set out in the 
Remuneration report on page 69.
On the day of the announcement of the 
final and interim results, the Company’s 
largest shareholders, together with 
financial analysts, are invited to a 
presentation with a question and 
answer session by the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director, with webcast 
presentations of the results available for 
all shareholders through the Company’s 
website. Following the results, the 
executive team hold one-to-one and 
group meetings with institutional 
shareholders and potential investors.
The Company Secretary acts as a focal 
point for communications on matters 
of corporate responsibility. During the 
year, the Company responded to requests 
for meetings, telephone meetings or 
written information from both existing and 
potential institutional shareholders on a 
broad range of environmental, social and 
governance risk matters including food 
and beverage safety, nutrition, additives 
and packaging, climate change related 
matters, supply chain management, 
water risk management, animal welfare, 
corporate ethics, gender balance and 
succession planning.
The Senior Independent Director is 
available to shareholders in the event 
that communication with the Chairman, 
Chief Executive or Finance Director 
has failed to resolve concerns or 
where such contact is inappropriate. 
Internal audit
The group’s businesses employ internal 
auditors (both employees and resources 
provided by major accounting firms other 
than the firm involved in the audit of the 
group) with skills and experience relevant 
to the operation of each business. 
All of the internal audit activities are 
co-ordinated centrally by the group’s 
Director of Financial Control, who is 
accountable to the Audit committee.
All group businesses are required to 
comply with the group’s financial control 
framework that sets out minimum control 
standards. A key function of the group’s 
internal audit resources is to undertake 
audits to ensure compliance with the 
financial control framework and make 
recommendations for improvement 
in controls where appropriate. Internal 
audit also conducts regular reviews to 
ensure that risk management procedures 
and controls are observed. The Audit 
committee receives regular reports on 
the results of internal audit’s work and 
monitors the status of recommendations 
arising. The committee reviews annually 
the adequacy, qualifications and 
experience of the group’s internal audit 
resources and the nature and scope of 
internal audit activity in the overall context 
of the group’s risk management system. 
The Director of Financial Control meets 
with the chairman of the Audit committee 
as appropriate but at least annually, 
without the presence of executive 
management, and has direct access 
to the Chairman of the board. 
Remuneration
A separate Remuneration report is set 
out on pages 69 to 87 which provides 
details of our remuneration policy and 
how it has been implemented, together 
with the activities of the Remuneration 
committee.
Articles of association  
and share capital
Information in relation to share capital, 
the appointment and powers of 
directors, the issue and buy back of 
shares and significant interests in share 
capital is set out in the Directors’ report 
on pages 88 to 90.
Relations with shareholders
Shareholder engagement
The board recognises its responsibility 
for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue 
takes place with shareholders. During 
the year, the board has continued to 
maintain an active programme of 
engagement with investors, the aim 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
62 The Senior Independent Director 
attended sufficient meetings with a 
range of major shareholders to listen 
to their views in order to develop 
a balanced understanding of 
their concerns.
The Company reports formally to 
shareholders in a number of ways. 
Significant matters relating to trading 
or development of the business, 
and routine reporting obligations, are 
disseminated by way of Stock Exchange 
announcements and by press releases. 
Interim results are announced in April 
each year and full year results in 
November, followed by the publication 
of the formal annual report and accounts.
In line with best practice, the Company’s 
default means of communication is 
online although shareholders can opt 
in to receive documents in paper form 
at any time. The Company’s website 
(www.abf.co.uk) provides current and 
historical financial information, including 
trading statements, news releases, 
financial results’ presentations, and a 
wealth of other information regarding 
Associated British Foods.
Annual general meeting (AGM)
The 2016 AGM will be held on Friday, 
9 December 2016 at 11.00 am at the 
Congress Centre in London. The board 
considers that the AGM provides a 
valuable communication opportunity 
for private shareholders, in particular, 
to hear about the general development 
of the business and to ask questions 
of the Chairman and, through him, 
the chairmen of the key committees 
and other directors. All members 
of the board are available to talk to 
shareholders after the meeting.
A trading update is provided at the 
meeting and, each year, the Company 
shows a short film at the meeting 
highlighting a particular area of the 
group’s business. At this year’s AGM, 
the film will focus on the move to full 
ownership by Associated British Foods 
of Illovo Sugar Limited.
The Notice of AGM, which sets out in 
full the resolutions for consideration by 
shareholders together with explanatory 
notes, has been sent to shareholders 
and is also available on the Investors 
section of the Company’s website 
(www.abf.co.uk). All resolutions for 
which notice has been given will 
be decided on a poll.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Members
During the year and at the date of this report:
Charles Sinclair (Chairman)
Ruth Cairnie (from 1 November 2015)
Tim Clarke
Javier Ferrán
Wolfhart Hauser (from 13 April 2016)
Lord Jay (until 30 November 2015)
Peter Smith (until 13 April 2016)
Primary responsibilities
In accordance with its terms of reference, 
the Nomination committee’s primary 
responsibilities include:
• leading the process for board 
appointments and making 
recommendations to the board;
• regularly reviewing the board 
structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge, 
independence, experience and 
diversity), recommending any 
necessary changes; 
• considering plans for orderly 
succession for appointments to the 
board and to senior management 
to maintain an appropriate balance 
of skills and experience within the 
Company and to ensure progressive 
refreshment of the board; 
• keeping under review the leadership 
needs of the group, both executive 
and non-executive, to ensure 
the continued ability of the group 
organisation to compete efficiently 
in the marketplace; and
• being responsible for identifying 
and nominating, for the approval 
of the board, candidates to fill board 
vacancies as and when they arise.
Governance
Members of the Nomination 
committee are appointed by the 
board from amongst the directors of 
the Company, in consultation with the 
Chairman. The committee comprises 
a minimum of three members at 
any time, a majority of whom are 
independent non-executive directors. 
A quorum consists of two members 
being either two independent 
non-executive directors or one 
independent non-executive director 
and the Chairman.
Only members of the committee 
have the right to attend committee 
meetings. Other individuals such as 
the Chief Executive, members of 
senior management, head of human 
resources and external advisors may 
be invited to attend meetings as 
and when appropriate.
The Chairman does not chair the 
Nomination committee when it is 
dealing with the appointment of his 
successor. In these circumstances 
the committee is chaired by an 
independent non-executive director 
elected by the remaining members.
The committee may take independent 
professional advice on any matters 
covered by its terms of reference at 
the Company’s expense.
The committee chairman reports the 
outcome of meetings to the board.
The terms of reference of the Nomination 
committee are available on the Investors 
section of the Company’s website 
(www.abf.co.uk).
Board appointments process
The process for making new 
appointments is led by the Chairman. 
Where appropriate, external, independent 
consultants are engaged to conduct a 
search for potential candidates, who are 
considered on the basis of their skills, 
experience and fit with the existing 
members of the board. The Nomination 
committee has procedures for appointing 
a non-executive or an executive director 
and these are set out in its terms 
of reference.
Meetings
The committee met once during the 
year under review.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Committee activities during the year
Appointment of a new independent 
non-executive director
The Nomination committee and the 
board adhere to the principle that 
appointments to the board should 
be made on the basis of merit.
During the year, as part of an ongoing 
programme for the progressive 
refreshing of the board, the Chairman 
led the process for the appointment 
of a new independent non-executive 
director, who could also take on the 
role of Audit committee chairman.
It is generally the committee’s practice 
to engage the services of an independent 
executive search consulting firm, or to 
consider open advertising, to assist in 
the search for potential candidates from 
a range of backgrounds. Cognisant of the 
fact that the Audit committee chairman 
role, vacated on the retirement from the 
board of Peter Smith on 13 April 2016, 
required a particular set of financial skills, 
expertise and experience, the board 
considered potential candidates from 
the very highest level of the accounting 
profession. On this occasion the 
committee took the view that this 
approach would achieve the right outcome 
for the Company and accordingly that 
it was not necessary to use the services 
of a search consulting firm or to utilise 
open advertising.
Richard Reid, formerly a partner at 
KPMG, was identified as the outstanding 
candidate who best fulfilled the brief 
developed by the committee. Following 
a series of rigorous interviews with 
members of the board, on the 
recommendation of the Nomination 
committee, the board approved the 
appointment of Richard Reid with 
effect from 14 April 2016. Biographical 
details about Richard can be found 
on page 55. Information about how 
the board determined his independence 
is set out in the section on board 
composition on page 58.
Diversity policy
As a board, we recognise that 
diversity is key for introducing different 
perspectives into board debate and 
decision-making. A genuinely diverse 
board comprises individuals with 
a range of personal attributes, 
perspectives, skills, experience and 
backgrounds, as well as representing 
differences in nationality, race and gender. 
The board has decided against setting 
any measurable objectives in relation 
to its diversity policy but candidates 
for future board appointments will be 
considered from the widest possible 
pool. Gender remains an important 
aspect of the overall diversity, and it is 
our policy to ask any executive search 
agencies engaged to ensure that half 
of the candidates they put forward 
for consideration are women.
Looking beyond the board to the 
group’s wider workforce, we recognise 
that true diversity can only be achieved 
when the entire workforce is committed 
to delivering it. There are a number of 
ongoing initiatives across Associated 
British Foods which aim to promote 
diversity. A groupwide gender diversity 
task force, which includes representation 
from across the five divisions of the 
business, has as one of its principal 
objectives the aim of ensuring that 
there are no barriers preventing talented 
people from succeeding. Senior and 
high-potential women are invited to 
join another initiative, the Women’s 
Business Education Forum, which 
meets several times a year providing 
a chance for networking, learning 
and support for personal career 
development. For a number of years, 
training in ‘unconscious bias’ has been 
included in the group’s leadership 
development programme and this 
training is now being extended to a 
wider group of managers; the training 
aims to build awareness and challenge 
commonly held myths around diversity.
Re-election of  
non-executive directors
The committee reviewed the results 
of the annual board performance 
evaluation that related to the 
composition of the board and the 
time needed to fulfil the roles of 
Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and non-executive director. 
It was satisfied that all members 
of the board are devoting sufficient 
time to their duties.
The committee considered the 
re-election of directors prior to 
their recommended approval by 
shareholders at the annual general 
meeting. The non-executive directors 
who have been on the board for 
more than six years were subject 
to particularly rigorous review.
The committee’s effectiveness 
is reviewed on an annual basis as 
part of the board’s performance 
evaluation process.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Members
During the year and at the date of this report:
Richard Reid (member and chairman  
from 14 April 2016)
Peter Smith (member and chairman 
until 13 April 2016)
Ruth Cairnie
Javier Ferrán (until 26 October 2015)
Lord Jay (until 30 November 2015)
Wolfhart Hauser
Primary responsibilities
In accordance with its terms of 
reference, the Audit committee’s 
primary responsibilities include:
Financial reporting
• monitoring the integrity of the group’s 
financial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the 
Company’s performance, reviewing 
significant financial reporting 
judgements contained in them 
before their submission to  
the board;
• informing the board of the outcome  
of the group’s external audit and 
explaining how it contributed to the 
integrity of financial reporting;
• reviewing and challenging, where 
necessary, the consistency of, and 
changes to, accounting and treasury 
policies; whether the group has 
followed appropriate accounting 
policies and made appropriate 
estimates and judgements; 
the clarity and completeness of 
disclosure; significant adjustments 
resulting from the audit; the going 
concern assumption, the viability 
statement, and compliance with 
auditing standards;
Narrative reporting
• at the board’s request, reviewing 
the content of the annual report and 
accounts and advising the board on 
whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, 
balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business 
model and strategy;
• where requested by the board, 
assisting in relation to the board’s 
assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Company and the prospects 
of the Company for the purposes of 
disclosures required in the annual 
report and accounts;
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
64 Primary responsibilities continued
Internal financial controls
• reviewing the effectiveness of the 
group’s internal financial controls, 
including the policies and overall 
process for assessing established 
systems of internal financial control 
and timeliness and effectiveness 
of corrective action taken 
by management;
Whistleblowing and fraud
• overseeing the group’s policies, 
procedures and controls for preventing 
bribery, identifying money laundering, 
and the group’s arrangements 
for whistleblowing;
Internal audit
• monitoring and reviewing the role, 
effectiveness and independence 
of the group’s internal audit function 
in the context of the group’s overall 
financial risk management system; and
External audit
• overseeing the relationship with the 
group’s external auditors, including 
reporting to the board each year whether 
it considers the audit contract should be 
put out to tender, adhering to any legal 
requirements for tendering or rotation of 
the audit services contract as appropriate, 
reviewing and monitoring the external 
auditors’ objectivity and independence, 
agreeing the scope of their work and 
fees paid to them for audit, assessing 
the effectiveness of the audit process, 
and agreeing the policy in relation 
to the provision of non-audit services.
The committee invites the Group 
Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller, Director of Financial 
Control and senior representatives 
of the external auditors to attend its 
meetings in full, although it reserves 
the right to request any of these 
individuals to withdraw. Other senior 
managers are invited to present 
such reports as are required for the 
committee to discharge its duties.
During the year, the committee 
held four meetings with the external 
auditors without any executive 
members of the board being present.
The committee has unrestricted 
access to Company documents and 
information, as well as to employees 
of the Company and the external 
auditors.
The committee may take independent 
professional advice on any matters 
covered by its terms of reference at 
the Company’s expense.
The committee chairman reports the 
outcome of meetings to the board.
The committee’s effectiveness 
is reviewed on an annual basis as 
part of the board’s performance 
evaluation process.
The terms of reference of the 
Audit committee were reviewed 
and updated during the year and can 
be viewed on the Investors section  
of the Company’s website  
(www.abf.co.uk).
Meetings
The Audit committee met four times 
during the year. The committee 
agenda are linked to events in the 
group’s financial calendar.
Activities during the year
In order to fulfil its terms of reference, 
the Audit committee receives and 
reviews presentations and reports 
from the group’s senior management, 
consulting as necessary with the 
external auditors.
Monitoring the integrity of  
reported financial information
Ensuring the integrity of the 
financial statements and associated 
announcements is a fundamental 
responsibility of the Audit committee.
Governance
The Audit committee comprises a 
minimum of three members, all of whom 
are independent non-executive directors 
of the Company. Two members constitute 
a quorum. Appointments are for a period 
of three years after which they are subject 
to annual review, extendable by two 
further three-year periods so long as 
members continue to be independent. 
Any term beyond six years is subject to 
particularly rigorous review. No members 
of the committee have served a term of 
more than six years. Membership of the 
Audit committee was refreshed during 
the year: Richard Reid was appointed to 
the committee as its chairman on 14 April 
2016 following the retirement of Peter 
Smith as a non-executive director and 
chairman of the Audit committee on 
13 April 2016; Javier Ferrán stepped 
down as a member on 26 October 2015; 
and Lord Jay ceased to be a member 
of the committee on his retirement 
as a non-executive director on 
30 November 2015.
The committee structure requires 
the inclusion of at least one financially 
qualified member (as recognised 
by the Consultative Committee of 
Accountancy Bodies) with recent 
and relevant financial experience and 
competence in accounting or auditing 
(or both). The committee chairmen 
fulfilled this requirement during 
the year. All committee members 
are expected to be financially literate 
and to have an understanding of 
the following areas:
• the principles of, and developments 
in, financial reporting including the 
applicable accounting standards 
and statements of recommended 
practice;
• key aspects of the Company’s 
operations including corporate 
policies and the group’s internal 
control environment;
• matters which may influence 
the presentation of accounts 
and key figures;
• the principles of, and developments 
in, company law, sector-specific 
laws and other relevant corporate 
legislation;
• the role of internal and external 
auditing and risk management; and
• the regulatory framework for the 
group’s businesses.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Significant accounting issues material  
to the group financial statements
Audit committee assurance
Impairment of goodwill, intangible 
and tangible assets
Assessment for impairment involves 
comparing the book value of an asset with 
its recoverable amount (being the higher of 
value in use and fair value less costs to sell). 
Value in use is determined with reference 
to projected future cash flows discounted 
at an appropriate rate. Both the cash flows 
and the discount rate involve a significant 
degree of estimation uncertainty.
The committee considered the reasonableness of cash flow projections which were 
based on the most recent budget approved by the board and reflected management’s 
expectations of sales growth, operating costs and margins based on past experience and 
external sources of information. Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the 
annual budget were challenged to ensure they were appropriate for the products, industries 
and countries in which the relevant cash generating units operate. The committee also 
reviewed and challenged the key assumptions made in deriving these projections: discount 
rates, growth rates, and expected changes in production and sales volumes, selling prices 
and direct costs. The committee also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in 
respect of the key assumptions and sensitivities. Refer to notes 8 and 9 to the financial 
statements for more details of these assumptions.
The committee was satisfied that the discount rate assumptions appropriately reflected 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with 
the particular assets. The other key assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.
The external auditor explained the results of their own review of the estimate of value in 
use, including their challenge of management’s underlying cash flow projections as well 
as the long-term growth assumptions and discount rates. On the basis of their audit work, 
and their challenge of the key assumptions and associated sensitivities, they concurred 
with management’s conclusion that no impairments were required.
Tax provisions
The level of current and deferred tax 
recognised in the financial statements is 
dependent on subjective judgements as to 
the outcome of decisions by tax authorities 
in various jurisdictions around the world 
and the ability of the group to use tax 
losses within the time limits imposed by 
the various tax authorities. See also 
reference to taxation on page 42.
The committee reviews the Company’s tax policy and principles for managing tax 
risks annually.
The committee reviewed and challenged the provisions recorded at the balance sheet 
date and management confirmed that they represent their best estimate of the likely 
financial exposure faced by the group.
The external auditor explained to the committee the work they had conducted during 
the year, including how their audit procedures were focused on those provisions requiring 
the highest degree of judgement. The committee discussed with both management and 
the external auditor the key judgements which had been made. It was satisfied that the 
judgements were reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded 
were appropriate.
During the year it formally reviewed 
the group’s interim and annual reports, 
including the associated pre-close 
period trading updates, and the trading 
updates issued for the first and third 
quarters. These reviews considered:
• the accounting principles, policies 
and practices adopted in the group’s 
financial statements, any proposed 
changes to them, and the adequacy 
of their disclosure;
• important accounting issues, areas 
of complexity and the actions, 
estimates and judgements of 
management in relation to financial 
reporting and in particular the 
assumptions underlying the going 
concern and viability statements;
• any significant adjustments to 
financial reporting arising from 
the audit;
• litigation and contingent liabilities 
affecting the group; and 
• potential tax contingencies, 
compliance with statutory tax 
obligations and the group’s  
tax policy.
Significant accounting 
issues considered by the Audit 
committee in relation to the 
group’s financial statements
A key responsibility of the committee 
is to consider the significant areas of 
complexity, management judgement 
and estimation that have been applied 
in the preparation of the financial 
statements. The committee has, 
with support from Ernst & Young as 
external auditor, reviewed the suitability 
of the accounting policies which have 
been adopted and whether management 
has made appropriate estimates 
and judgements.
Set out below are the areas considered 
by the Audit committee to be the most 
significant accounting issues and a 
description of how the committee 
concluded that such judgements and 
estimates were appropriate. These 
are divided between those that could 
have a material impact on the financial 
statements and those that are less 
likely to have a material impact 
but nevertheless, by their nature, 
required a degree of estimation.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
66 Other accounting areas requiring 
management judgement or estimation
Audit committee assurance
Biological assets
The valuation of growing sugar cane 
requires management to estimate:
• the sucrose content in the cane and 
the expected cane and sucrose yields 
for the following season taking into 
account weather conditions, harvesting 
programmes, and an assessment of 
the maturity of the cane at the balance 
sheet date; and
• the sucrose price, which depends on 
the markets to which the forthcoming 
crop is likely to be sold, the probable 
domestic and export prices, and related 
foreign currency exchange rates.
The sugar business has a good track record of calculating reliable estimates and any 
significant over or under-estimation becomes apparent in subsequent profit realisation.
Actual results were reviewed for consistency of measurement in the light of profit budgets 
and forecasts and the actual results of prior periods. The committee was satisfied that 
appropriate assumptions had been made and consistently applied. As growing sugar cane 
represents less than 1% of total assets and 1% of net assets, material misstatement of 
the financial statements was considered unlikely.
The committee also reviewed the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivities 
to unobservable inputs on the fair valuation of biological assets (note 16) and the change 
of accounting policy for cane roots (page 106).
Post-retirement benefits
Valuation of the group’s pension 
schemes and post-retirement medical 
benefit schemes require various subjective 
judgements to be made including mortality 
assumptions, discount rates, general and 
salary inflation, and the rate of increase 
for pensions in payment and those 
in deferment.
Actuarial valuations of the group’s pension scheme obligations are undertaken every 
three years by independent qualified actuaries who also provide advice to management 
on the assumptions to be used in preparing the accounting valuations each year. Details 
of the assumptions made in the current and previous year are disclosed in note 11 of the 
financial statements together with the bases on which those assumptions have been made.
The committee reviewed the assumptions by comparison with externally derived data 
and also considered the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the 
surplus or deficit to changes in these key assumptions.
Misstatements
Management reported to the committee 
that they were not aware of any material 
or immaterial misstatements made 
intentionally to achieve a particular 
presentation. The auditors reported to 
the committee the misstatements that 
they had found in the course of their 
work. After due consideration the 
committee concurred with management 
that these misstatements were not 
material and that no adjustments 
were required.
Internal financial control  
and risk management 
The committee is required to assist 
the board to fulfil its responsibilities 
relating to the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the control environment, 
controls over financial reporting and the 
group’s compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. To fulfil 
these duties, the committee reviewed:
• the external auditors’ management 
letters and their Audit committee 
reports;
• internal audit reports on key audit 
areas and significant deficiencies in 
the financial control environment;
• reports on the systems of internal 
financial control and risk management;
• reports on fraud perpetrated 
against the group;
• the group’s approach to IT, cyber 
security and whistleblowing; and
• reports on significant systems 
implementations.
Internal audit
The Audit committee is required 
to assist the board to fulfil its 
responsibilities relating to the adequacy 
of the resourcing and plans of internal 
audit. To fulfil these duties, the 
committee reviewed:
• internal audit’s reporting lines and 
access to the committee and all 
members of the board;
• internal audit’s plans and its 
achievement of the planned activity;
• the results of key audits and other 
significant findings, the adequacy 
of management’s response and 
the timeliness of their resolution;
• statistics on staff numbers, 
qualifications and experience 
and timeliness of reporting;
• the nature and extent of non-audit 
activity performed by internal 
audit; and
• changes since the last annual 
assessment of the significant 
financial risks and the group’s 
ability to respond to changes 
in its business and the 
external environment.
Whistleblowing and Fraud
The group’s ‘whistleblowing’ 
policy contains arrangements for an 
independent external service provider 
to receive, in confidence, complaints 
on accounting, risk issues, internal 
controls, auditing issues and related 
matters for reporting to the Audit 
committee as appropriate. The Audit 
committee reviewed reports from 
internal audit and the external 
service provider and the actions 
arising therefrom.
The group’s anti-fraud policy has 
been communicated to all employees 
and states that all employees have 
a responsibility for fraud prevention 
and detection. Any suspicion of fraud 
should be reported immediately 
and will be investigated vigorously. 
The Audit committee reviewed all 
instances of fraud perpetrated against 
the Company and the action taken 
by management both to pursue 
the perpetrators and to prevent 
recurrences.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
External audit
Auditor independence
The Audit committee is responsible for 
the development, implementation and 
monitoring of policies and procedures 
on the use of the external auditor 
for non-audit services, in accordance 
with professional and regulatory 
requirements. These policies are kept 
under review to meet the objective 
of ensuring that the group benefits 
in a cost-effective manner from the 
cumulative knowledge and experience 
of its auditors whilst also ensuring that 
the auditors maintain the necessary 
degree of independence and objectivity. 
The committee has revised its policy on 
the use of the external auditor to provide 
non-audit services, in accordance with 
applicable laws and taking into account 
the relevant ethical guidance for auditors. 
Any non-audit work to be undertaken 
by the auditor now requires authorisation 
by the Group Finance Director and 
the Audit committee prior to its 
commencement. The committee also 
ensures that fees incurred, or to be 
incurred, for non-audit services both 
individually and in aggregate, do not 
exceed any limits in applicable law and 
take into account the relevant ethical 
guidance for auditors.
The committee is required to approve 
the use of the external auditor to 
provide: accounting advice and training; 
corporate responsibility and other 
assurance services; financial due 
diligence in respect of acquisitions 
and disposals; and will consider other 
services when it is in the best interests 
of the Company to do so, provided they 
can be undertaken without jeopardising 
auditor independence. With effect 
from 18 September 2016, tax services 
including tax compliance, tax planning 
and related implementation advice 
may not be undertaken by the external 
auditor. The aggregate expenditure 
with the group auditor is reviewed by 
the Audit committee. No individually 
significant non-audit assignments 
that would require disclosure were 
undertaken in the financial year.
The Company has a policy that any 
partners, directors or senior managers 
hired directly from the external auditors 
must be pre-approved by the Group 
HR Director, and the Group Finance 
Director or Group Financial Controller, 
with the chairman of the Audit 
committee being consulted as 
appropriate.
The Audit committee has formally 
reviewed the independence of its 
auditors. Ernst & Young LLP has 
provided a letter confirming that 
it believes it remained independent 
throughout the year, within the 
meaning of the regulations on this 
matter and in accordance with their 
professional standards.
To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the 
independence of the external auditors, 
the Audit committee reviewed:
• a report from the external auditors 
describing their arrangements to 
identify, report and manage any 
conflicts of interest, and their policies 
and procedures for maintaining 
independence and monitoring 
compliance with relevant 
requirements; and
• the extent of non-audit services 
provided by the external auditors.
The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP 
for the year ended 17 September 2016 
were £6.7m of which £1.2m related 
to non-audit work. Further details 
are provided in note 2 to the 
financial statements.
Consideration is also given by the Audit 
committee to the need to include the 
risk of the withdrawal of the external 
auditors from the market in its risk 
evaluation and planning.
Auditor effectiveness
To assess the effectiveness of the 
external auditors, the committee 
reviewed:
• the external auditors’ fulfilment of 
the agreed audit plan and variations 
from it; 
• reports highlighting the major 
issues that arose during the course 
of the audit; 
• feedback from the businesses 
evaluating the performance of 
each assigned audit team; and
• a report from the Audit Quality 
Review Team of the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC).
The Audit committee holds private 
meetings with the external auditors 
after each committee meeting to 
review key issues within their sphere 
of interest and responsibility.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight 
of the external audit process, the Audit 
committee reviewed:
• the terms, areas of responsibility, 
associated duties and scope of 
the audit as set out in the external 
auditors’ engagement letter;
• the overall work plan and fee proposal;
• the major issues that arose during the 
course of the audit and their resolution;
• key accounting and audit judgements;
• the level of errors identified during 
the audit; and
• recommendations made by the 
external auditors in their management 
letters and the adequacy of 
management’s response.
Auditor appointment
The Audit committee reviews 
annually the appointment of the 
auditor, taking into account the auditor’s 
effectiveness and independence, 
and makes a recommendation to the 
board accordingly. Any decision to 
open the external audit to tender is taken 
on the recommendation of the Audit 
committee. There are no contractual 
obligations that restrict the Company’s 
current choice of external auditor.
In accordance with the requirements 
of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code and other changes to the EU and 
UK regulatory framework, the Audit 
committee undertook a comprehensive 
competitive tender for the external 
audit during 2015 and the appointment 
of Ernst & Young LLP to replace the 
Company’s previous auditors was 
approved by shareholders at the AGM 
on 4 December 2015. Accordingly, 
the Company has no current 
retendering plans.
Compliance with the CMA Order
The Company confirms that, during 
the period under review, it has complied 
with the provisions of The Statutory 
Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use 
of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) 
Order 2014.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
68 REMUNERATION REPORT
Annual statement by the Remuneration committee chairman
I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration report for the year 
ended 17 September 2016 on behalf 
of the board.
This Remuneration report is split 
into two sections:
• a new directors’ remuneration 
policy; and
• the annual implementation 
report on remuneration.
Review of remuneration policy
Last year I explained that we had 
decided to undertake a complete 
review of the group’s incentive 
arrangements during the course 
of this year.
The starting point of our review was 
a reflection on the shape and nature of 
the group’s portfolio and the challenges 
that our business model presents in 
designing incentives that align with 
our remuneration principles and fairly 
reward performance. Whilst we 
considered advice on market practice 
from our remuneration advisors, 
Willis Towers Watson, the main 
elements of this plan were developed 
by the committee. This is consistent 
with the subsequent report of the 
Executive Remuneration Working 
Group of the Investment Association 
(ERWG) and enabled us to focus on 
what would drive business performance 
rather than aligning with a ‘one size  
fits all’ external norm.
Our businesses are diverse, not only 
in terms of their products and services 
but also in terms of their life cycles and 
their contribution to total shareholder 
return. Financial analysts value the 
Company’s shares on a ‘sum of 
the parts’ basis, attributing a greater 
price-earnings multiple to Primark 
than to Sugar. Profitability in the Sugar 
business in recent years has been 
volatile. World and European sugar 
prices, which are outside management 
control, can have an impact on incentive 
outcomes that is disproportionate to 
their impact on shareholders. 
To address the above concerns we 
propose introducing a second adjusted 
earnings per share (eps) measure into 
the long term incentive plan (LTIP), 
which excludes the performance 
of the Sugar businesses. Across the 
total incentives package, 68% of 
the maximum financial performance 
measurement will remain based on 
the performance of the whole group 
and 32% will be based on performance 
excluding Sugar. We believe that it is 
right to make this change now in view 
of the uncertainties faced by the EU 
sugar industry over the next few years.
We propose adopting a return on 
average capital employed (ROCE) 
modifier on the LTIP. The modifier will 
be used to adjust the calculated outcome 
based on eps performance downwards 
if ROCE targets have not been delivered. 
We are seeking shareholder approval 
for a new set of LTIP rules at this year’s 
AGM to ensure that the LTIP can be 
operated consistently with the 
remuneration policy.
We considered the market-
competitiveness of our reward package 
and concluded that, whilst our salaries 
are well aligned with companies of a 
comparable size in the FTSE 100 and 
reflect the tenure and experience of our 
executive directors, our incentives have 
fallen materially behind market levels. 
We are a global organisation with 
businesses in 50 countries operating in 
different industries. We therefore need 
experienced leaders to run the group 
well, in the interests of all of our 
stakeholders. Although wishing to guard 
against the inflationary effect of using 
market data, the committee believes it 
has a duty to investors to ensure that 
remuneration arrangements for senior 
executives are sufficiently attractive to 
retain the talented individuals that run 
our businesses.
We are therefore proposing the 
addition of a new incentive element 
with a maximum value of 50% of 
salary in the form of a deferred award 
of shares that will be released to 
participants three years from the start 
of the Short Term Incentive Plan (STIP) 
performance period. We have chosen 
a share-based incentive to reflect the 
performance of the business over 
time and provide a link between short 
and long-term performance. We have 
a strong history of setting stretching 
performance targets on the STIP 
and this will continue.
George Weston has requested 
that his incentive opportunity as a 
percentage of salary be consistent 
with that of the Group Finance 
Director rather than being aligned 
with the higher market levels typical 
for Chief Executives. Bearing in 
mind that we intend these incentive 
arrangements to endure without 
material change for many years, 
the committee needs to ensure 
that the remuneration policy is not a 
barrier to future succession. As such, 
we are allowing flexibility within our 
remuneration policy for our incentive 
plans to offer a fully market-competitive 
package to any future Chief Executive.
Shareholder engagement
In May and June 2016 we consulted 
extensively with our largest shareholders 
and their representative bodies on our 
remuneration structure. We welcomed 
the constructive feedback provided 
and have taken full account of it in 
our final proposals.
Shareholders appreciated:
• the introduction of a return-based 
performance measure on the LTIP;
• the increase (from 100% of salary 
to 250% of salary) in the level 
of shareholding required of our 
executive directors;
• the agreement to disclose STIP 
targets retrospectively; and
• the addition of value in the form 
of shares rather than cash.
We discussed with our investors 
ways of ensuring that sugar price 
volatility is properly dealt with in our 
incentives. A significant majority 
agreed with our proposed approach. 
Some other alternatives that were 
suggested included:
• measuring group eps over the 
length of the sugar cycle or on 
a rolling multi-year basis;
• using strategy-aligned metrics; or
• substituting eps with a total 
shareholder return (TSR) measure.
DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
69 REMUNERATION REPORT
Annual statement by the Remuneration committee chairman
We considered these suggestions 
and concluded that:
• phasing in a longer eps cycle would 
be problematic as there is no clearly 
defined fixed length of sugar cycle 
and, at the outset, judgement would 
be required to determine whether 
to include historic performance 
or build up the average from 
that point;
• in our decentralised model, 
long-term qualitative strategic 
metrics are more appropriately 
used to incentivise divisional 
management; and
• making awards in the form 
of shares gives absolute TSR 
alignment without the challenges 
of a relative TSR measure when 
there are no truly comparable 
companies against which to 
measure ourselves.
We also considered the use of 
restricted shares (i.e. a share allocation 
that vests after a certain time without 
any performance conditions applying) 
but concluded that for such senior 
roles in our organisation, performance 
related targets as set out in our 
policy are more appropriate. Our 
discussions with shareholders noted 
the importance of setting stretching 
performance targets and acknowledged 
that we are an organisation that seeks 
to drive long-term performance.
Taking into account all of the 
feedback received, some of which 
was contradictory, we determined 
that the proposed approach to 
incentives is aligned with shareholder 
interests and is appropriate.
Performance targets
In setting our incentive targets 
we have regard to the performance 
potential of the different parts of 
the business and of the whole. 
The on-target performance level 
for STIP is set at the start of each 
financial year and is at, or close to, 
the budgeted level of performance. 
The committee then sets a range 
around the target to both incentivise 
delivery of a stretching performance and 
allow for limited under performance due 
to events beyond management control. 
The range itself varies each year, 
taking into account the risks and 
opportunities facing the business.
As outlined above, we are adopting 
two performance measures for the LTIP 
as Sugar profitability has been more 
volatile than that of our other businesses. 
When setting the LTIP targets, the 
committee conducts an analysis of the 
challenges and growth opportunities 
facing each of the divisions over the 
performance period. Target eps ranges 
are tested to ensure that they are 
sufficiently stretching.
We are in a period of exceptional 
economic uncertainty in the post 
EU referendum environment and our 
performance ranges for the 2016–19 
LTIP cycle will reflect this. The eps target 
range with Sugar removed is wider  
this year than we would expect it to be  
in future as a result of the volatility in 
foreign exchange rates and the risks 
and opportunities facing our portfolio 
of non-Sugar businesses. The ranges 
and targets with Sugar in and Sugar out 
are very similar this year, reflecting the 
above and the operating profit of Sugar 
in 2015/16. We would not normally 
expect this to be the case.
2015/16 performance  
and incentive outcomes
Our performance expectations 
at the start of 2015/16 were for a 
modest decline in adjusted eps. 
This was taken into account when 
setting the STIP adjusted operating 
profit targets, which were intended 
to drive the best performance 
outcomes for our investors over  
the year.
The actual adjusted eps for the year 
was better than expected benefiting 
from the delivery of substantial cost 
reduction and efficiency improvements 
in a number of businesses but 
particularly in Sugar; a further profit 
recovery in Ingredients; an excellent 
performance in Primark where the 
impact on garment purchases of 
last year’s euro devaluation against 
the US dollar was heavily mitigated 
by good buying and tight stock 
management; and a benefit from the 
translation of overseas results into 
sterling following its substantial 
weakening against most of our 
trading currencies during the year.
The 2013–16 LTIP target range was 
set when the profit in the Sugar 
business was £435m. With the 
subsequent fall in world and European 
sugar prices, the profit of our Sugar 
business has decreased to £34m 
this year. In this context, delivering 
significant eps growth over the 
performance period has been 
challenging. As a result, no shares 
will vest to executive directors under 
the LTIP this year. This pattern could 
be repeated for 2016/17 hence our 
proposal to treat Sugar, in part, 
separately for future incentives.
I trust that this provides a 
helpful overview of the work of 
the committee this year and the 
decisions it has made. We trust that 
you will support our remuneration 
policy which we firmly believe 
balances the need to be fair and 
provide appropriate reward with the 
over-arching requirement to ensure 
alignment with shareholder interests.
Charles Sinclair
Remuneration committee chairman
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
70 This report
This report sets out:
• the remuneration policy that, if approved, will apply to executive and non-executive directors from the date of the 2016 AGM;
• how the existing policy, approved in 2014, was implemented;
• the amounts earned by our executive and non-executive directors in the year ended 17 September 2016; and
• how we expect to implement the proposed remuneration policy.
The Directors’ remuneration policy (set out on pages 75 to 81) will be subject to a binding vote at the 2016 AGM of the Company.
The committee chairman’s letter, this introduction and the annual implementation report on directors’ remuneration (set out on 
pages 82 to 87) will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM of the Company. The vote will have advisory status in 
respect of overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Compliance
Where information in this report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP it has been clearly indicated. The report has been 
prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Role of the Remuneration committee
The committee is responsible to the board for determining:
• the remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Chairman taking into account remuneration trends across the Company;
• the specific terms and conditions of employment of each individual director;
• the overall policy for remuneration for the Chief Executive’s first and second line reports;
• the design and monitoring of the operation of any Company share plans;
• stretching incentive targets for executive directors to encourage enhanced performance;
• an approach that rewards fairly and responsibly contribution to the Company’s long-term success; and
• other provisions of the executive directors’ service agreements and ensuring that contractual terms, and payments made, 
on termination are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded and loss is mitigated.
The committee’s remit is set out in detail in its terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly and were last updated in 
September 2015. They are available at www.abf.co.uk/investorrelations, or from the Company Secretary’s office on request.
Members of the Remuneration committee
The committee comprises the Chairman, who was independent on appointment, and the following members, all of whom 
are independent non-executive directors:
Role on committee Independence Year of appointment Meetings attended 
Charles Sinclair Chairman Chairman
4
2008 6/6
Tim Clarke Member Senior Independent Director 2004 6/6
Lord Jay
1
Member Independent Director 2006 1/1
Peter Smith
2
Member Independent Director 2007 2/3
Javier Ferrán Member Independent Director 2006 6/6
Ruth Cairnie Member Independent Director 2014 6/6
Wolfhart Hauser Member Independent Director 2015 6/6
Richard Reid
3
Member Independent Director 2016 3/3
1
 Lord Jay retired in November 2015 and attended the one meeting held before his retirement.
2
 Peter Smith retired in April 2016 and attended two of the three meetings held before that date.
3
 Richard Reid joined the board on 14 April 2016.
4
  The Chairman was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration committee as he had the greatest prior experience of executive reward of any  
of the non-executive directors. The Chairman ensures that all board members are kept informed of the remuneration setting process.
George Weston (Chief Executive), Des Pullen (Group HR Director) and Julie Withnall (Group Head of Reward) attended all  
of the meetings of the committee. No individual was present when their own remuneration was being considered.
Remuneration committee advisors and fees
Following a competitive tender in 2003, Willis Towers Watson (WTW, then Towers Perrin) was selected to provide independent 
advice to the committee. The committee has retained WTW in this role because it values the robust data and continuity of advice 
provided over the long term. The fourth recommendation of ERWG is that the committee should regularly put their remuneration 
advice out to tender. The committee remains satisfied that the advice from WTW is independent, thoughtful and challenging 
and so has not put this out to tender. The committee will keep this position under review.
WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code in relation to executive remuneration consulting. 
The only other advice that WTW provides to the Company is in survey provision and remuneration benchmarking. The fees paid 
to WTW for committee assistance over the past financial year totalled £105,852.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
71 REMUNERATION POLICY REVIEW
It became clear in 2015 that we would need a different approach to remuneration in future to ensure that our incentive  
outcomes remain fully aligned with the delivery of stretching performance across our portfolio. 
Challenges with previous remuneration policy
Over the years since we implemented an LTIP, the vesting outcomes have been as follows:
LTIP Cycle 2006–09 2007–10 2008–11 2009–12 2010–13 2011–14 2012–15 2013–16
Vesting as % of maximum 0% 99% 84% 100% 100% 100% 19% 0%
The exceptional performance in 2012 to 2014 reflected steady growth in our foods business, outstanding performance by Primark 
and a Sugar performance that benefited from exceptionally high sugar prices. Primark’s contribution to the results in these years 
meant that we would have been at, or very close to, maximum vesting in this period even without the sugar impact. However, 
the level of profit in the Sugar business inflated the starting point for eps targets set at the end of 2012, 2013 and 2014 and the 
subsequent sugar price declines substantially reduced, or removed entirely, any chance of long-term incentive targets being 
achieved over the following three years.
We do not intend to make any changes to the LTIP target ranges that have already been set but we believe it is in the interests 
of all our investors for us to address the volatility in incentive outcomes for future allocations.
Our Sugar business has delivered an acceptable average return on capital employed (ROCE) for a number of years and is a 
strong generator of cash. Its financial performance is, however, affected by agricultural influences which can result in price and 
often profit volatility, despite its focus on being a very efficient sugar producer. This has informed our proposals on incentive 
design for the future. In particular, it has led us to conclude that we should operate a split eps measure, part of which will 
exclude the impact of Sugar, and to adjust the outcome of the LTIP downwards if average ROCE for the year is unacceptable.
Remuneration principles
Our review of incentives has taken into account our portfolio model, our market positioning for executive remuneration and our 
remuneration principles.
ALIGNMENT, 
ACCOUNTABILITY AND  
DOING THE RIGHT THING
Our board is accountable for ensuring that the portfolio that we operate is the right one to  
deliver optimal returns to shareholders and for ascertaining that the businesses are well run.
Our remuneration policy aims to align executive rewards with shareholder value creation.
LINE OF SIGHT
We aim to align remuneration and business objectives through performance measures  
to which individuals have line of sight.
CLARITY AND SIMPLICITY
We believe that executive pay should be clear and simple for participants to understand.  
The best way to achieve this is through alignment with business performance.
FAIRNESS
Total remuneration should fairly reflect the performance delivered and efforts made  
by executives.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
72 Summary of remuneration approach
Under these principles we developed our new remuneration proposals, key components of which for the 2016/17 STIP and 
2016–19 LTIP are shown below.
STIP Cash – 
Personal objectives 20%
Performance and release timing
% of base Yr 5 Yr 4 Yr 3 Yr 2 Yr 1
Performance
Share Ownership 
Requirement 250%
Absolute TSR alignment
STIP Cash – Financial
Adjusted operating proﬁt x 
working capital modiﬁer 
(0.8 to 1.2) 130%
Performance
Deferred award – Financial 
As above 50%
Absolute TSR alignment
Performance Deferral
Release of shares (subject to malus/clawback).
Disclosure of performance range that applied to STIP.
LTIP – adjusted EPS excluding 
Sugar x downwards adjustment
based on three-year average 
ROCE excluding Sugar (0.8 to 1x) 120%
1
Absolute TSR alignment
Performance
Vests at end of year 3
Holding 
Release of 
shares (subject 
to malus/
clawback). 
LTIP – adjusted EPS x downwards 
adjustment based on three-year 
average ROCE (0.8 to 1x) 80%
1
Absolute TSR alignment
Performance
Vests at end of year 3
Holding 
Release of 
shares (subject 
to malus/
clawback). 
Cash payment (subject to malus/clawback).
Cash payment (subject to malus/clawback).
1
 Weighting shown applies for 2016–19 but may change each year.
Alignment to strategy
Our remuneration structure is directly aligned with our strategic goals so that pay supports what we are trying to achieve.
Operating model
Strong Balance  
Sheet and Investments
Role of Corporate 
Centre
Do the right thing Organic Growth
The corporate centre 
agrees strategy and 
budgets with our 
businesses and closely 
monitors performance. 
Operational decisions 
are made locally. The 
corporate centre creates 
the framework for 
leaders to have freedom 
in decision-making and 
ensures activities are 
supported and monitored.
The STIP personal 
targets for executive 
directors are aligned with 
the above. The ROCE 
and EPS measures on 
the LTIP will be achieved 
if the divisions deliver 
on their strategies.
We manage our balance 
sheet to deliver long- 
term financial stability. 
We ensure capital 
funding is available to all 
of our businesses where 
returns meet/exceed 
defined criteria.
The robust management 
of the balance sheet 
ensures that we are 
able to deliver a strong 
performance.
The LTIP EPS and ROCE 
targets hold executives 
to account for the 
performance outcomes 
of their investment 
decisions.
The corporate centre 
provides selected 
services and value 
adding capabilities 
to the businesses.
Retention of the 
individuals with these 
key skills at the centre 
is critical to our success.
STIP and LTIP 
performance measures 
under the new policy 
should ensure that 
outcomes are linked with 
successful performance 
outcomes resulting from 
management effort.
We manage the business 
for the long term.
In the short term we 
may make decisions that 
reduce profit or increase 
working capital. This 
impacts STIP outcomes.
The new deferred 
awards mean that making 
the right decisions in the 
short term will deliver 
value through share 
price growth in the 
following years.
We will disclose the 
STIP performance range 
when the deferred 
awards vest. We will 
then be in a position to 
describe the short-term 
outcome in the context 
of its long-term impact.
We look for long-term 
opportunities to invest 
in the business.
We are committed to 
increasing shareholder 
value through sound 
commercial responsibility 
and sustainable business 
decisions that deliver 
steady growth in 
earnings and dividends.
The STIP deferred awards 
and LTIP shares will 
benefit from a dividend 
equivalent, paid at vesting. 
This gives closer TSR 
alignment. The number 
of shares vesting will 
reflect the outcomes of 
the decisions made in 
the performance period.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
73 New remuneration structures at a glance
The table below sets out a summary of how the new remuneration structure will apply during the 2016/17 financial year. 
Further details are set out in the directors’ remuneration policy and in the annual implementation report for 2016/17.
Remuneration element New remuneration structure
Base salary
Approach is unchanged
2017 salaries as follows:
• CEO £1,072,000 (2.0% increase effective from 1 December 2016); and
• Finance Director £706,000 (2.0% increase effective from 1 December 2016).
Pension
Approach is unchanged
No change to current pension arrangements for existing executive directors who have benefits under 
the Company’s defined benefit scheme and/or Employer Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme 
(EFRBS), which deliver a retirement benefit target of around two-thirds of final pensionable salary at 
normal retirement age.
Future executive directors who are not already entitled to our defined benefit pension at the time 
of appointment would benefit from a defined contribution arrangement with a Company contribution 
(or cash equivalent) of 25% of salary.
Cash STIP
Approach is unchanged
Maximum cash STIP 150% of salary:
• 20% of salary based on personal performance linked to strategic goals; and
• 130% of salary based on financial performance (currently adjusted operating profit with a working 
capital multiplier).
Deferred award (shares)
Proposed change
Maximum deferred award 50% of salary:
• based on the same financial targets as the cash STIP financial element;
• shares vest three years after grant;
• a dividend equivalent payment is made, pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date; and
• following release, at least 50% of net shares must be held until the shareholding requirement is met.
Awards are settled using shares purchased in the market.
LTIP
Proposed new measures 
and introduction of dividend 
equivalent payments and 
exceptional maximum
Maximum shares LTIP 200% of salary:
• awards made annually;
• target vesting is half of maximum and threshold vesting is 10% of maximum;
• a portion (60% for the 2016 allocation) of the shares vest based on performance against an adjusted 
eps range with a three-year average ROCE moderator. For both measures the Sugar profit will 
be removed and, for the eps measure, interest and tax attributable to Sugar will be removed on 
a pre-defined basis;
• a portion (40% for the 2016 allocation) of the shares vest based on performance against a group 
adjusted eps range with a three-year average group ROCE moderator;
• a dividend equivalent payment is made, pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date;
• the committee will retain discretion to ensure that outcomes under the plan are consistent with 
overall performance and to ensure that the element with Sugar performance removed does not 
lead to unintended consequences;
• the LTIP performance range for 2016–19 is shown on page 87; and
• following release, and the payment of any taxes due, at least 50% of any post-tax vested shares 
must be held until the shareholding requirement is met.
Awards are settled using shares purchased in the market.
Shareholding requirement
Proposed increase
Shareholding target of 250% of salary for the CEO and Finance Director to be met using beneficially 
owned shares. Conditional share awards, including deferred awards, do not count towards this limit as 
shown on page 84. Shares that have vested and are subject to a holding period do count towards this limit.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
74 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
This report sets out our new remuneration policy. Assuming that this policy is approved, it will apply from the close of the 
AGM on 9 December 2016. The committee does not expect to present a revised remuneration policy to investors until  
the 2019 AGM.
The previous remuneration policy for executive directors applied from the date of the 2014 AGM and will continue to apply 
until the 2016 AGM. For unvested share awards only, the provisions of the remuneration policy presented in the 2013 and 
2014 Remuneration reports will continue to apply until such time as all long-term incentive awards granted under those 
policies have vested or lapsed.
BASE SALARY  
(100% CASH)
Operation and link to business strategy
Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following 
a significant change in responsibilities. Factors taken into account 
include market pay movements, the level of increases awarded 
to UK employees across the group and the impact of any increase 
on the total remuneration package. If there is a significant change 
in role scope, remuneration will be adjusted to reflect this.
Maximum opportunity
Increases will be aligned 
with those available for 
other UK employees.
Element and purpose
To provide core reward for the 
role, recognising responsibility 
for setting and delivering 
the strategy.
BENEFITS  
(EXCLUDING RELOCATION 
AND PENSION)
Operation and link to business strategy
Benefits are restricted to typical UK market levels for executive 
directors and include, but are not limited to, death in service 
payment, permanent health insurance, company car plus private 
fuel, family healthcare and, where relevant, fees to maintain 
professional memberships.
Maximum opportunity
The cost of benefits is not 
expected to exceed 10% of 
salary but is dependent on 
factors that can vary.
Element and purpose
To provide a competitive 
and cost-effective benefits 
package appropriate to  
the role.
PENSION
Operation and link to business strategy
Defined benefit (DB) pension arrangements –  
closed to new members
The current executive directors are members of the Company’s 
DB pension scheme. The scheme is designed to provide retirement 
benefits of around two-thirds of final pensionable salary at age 65 
(62 for John Bason). Both executive directors opted out of the 
scheme on 5 April 2006, but retain their accrued benefits. Since 
then they have earned benefits in an EFRBS. The EFRBS is designed 
to broadly mirror the provisions of the DB pension scheme.
Defined contribution pension arrangements
Future executive directors, who are not already entitled to DB pension 
arrangements at the time of appointment, will benefit from a defined 
contribution arrangement, with a Company contribution of 25% of 
base salary.
Cash alternative
Where a UK-based pension arrangement is not possible, or is not 
tax efficient, a cash supplement equivalent to the normal pension 
contribution may be paid in lieu of pension contributions.
Maximum opportunity
For directors entitled to benefits 
under the DB scheme and/or 
EFRBS, a retirement benefit 
target of c. two-thirds of final 
pensionable salary is payable 
at normal retirement age.
Otherwise, executives may 
receive Company contributions 
(or cash equivalent) up to 
a maximum of 25% of 
base salary.
Element and purpose
To provide a competitive 
retirement benefit in line with 
best practice standards adopted 
by major companies in the UK 
and continental Europe.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
75 REMUNERATION REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
CASH SHORT-TERM 
INCENTIVE PLAN (STIP)
Operation and link to business strategy
Performance measures and target setting
Group financial performance is assessed against prime financial/
strategic measures used across the group on a day-to-day basis 
to drive and monitor performance. The personal element of the 
STIP is based on personal targets aligned to our strategic goals.
The on-target performance level is set at the start of each financial 
year and is at or around the budgeted level of performance, taking 
into account any early re-forecasts. The committee then sets a range 
around the target to incentivise delivery of stretching performance.
Retrospective disclosure of targets
Achievement against financial targets will be disclosed after the 
end of the relevant financial year in that year’s Remuneration report 
and the performance range that applied to financial targets will be 
disclosed when the deferred awards vest.
Discretion, clawback and malus
Please refer to the notes that follow this table.
Maximum opportunity
STIP cash of 150% of 
base salary.
In exceptional circumstances, 
such as the appointment of 
a new CEO, this could be 
increased to 200% of base 
salary to correct any shortfall 
against market. Any increase 
would take into account 
adjustments in other elements 
of the package to ensure that 
the total was not excessive.
Element and purpose
To encourage and reward 
the attainment of challenging 
financial targets and the 
achievement of personal 
performance objectives 
over a one-year period.
DEFERRED AWARDS 
(SHARES) – NEW  
THIS YEAR
Operation and link to business strategy
Performance measures and target setting
Annual allocations of conditional shares vest based on performance in 
year one and a further service period of two years. The performance 
measures and targets are the same as for the financial element of 
the cash STIP.
Vesting period
Shares vest following the announcement of results three years 
after the start of the relevant STIP performance period. 
Calculation of outcomes, discretion, clawback and malus
As for the financial element of the cash STIP.
Dividend equivalents
A cash or shares dividend equivalent payment will be made, 
pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date.
Maximum opportunity
Shares worth 50% of base 
salary at allocation.
In exceptional circumstances, 
such as the appointment of 
a new CEO, this could be 
increased to 100% of base 
salary to correct any shortfall 
against market. Any increase 
would take into account 
adjustments in other elements 
of the package to ensure that 
the total was not excessive.
Element and purpose
To encourage and reward 
the attainment of challenging 
financial targets.
To facilitate the operation 
of malus and clawback.
To align the interests of 
executives and shareholders.
To promote executive retention.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE 
PLAN (LTIP) –  
NEW MECHANISM  
FOR TARGETS
Operation and link to business strategy
Vesting period
Annual allocations of conditional shares will be free of restrictions 
after a five-year period, comprising a three-year performance 
period and a two-year holding period for the net of tax award. 
Performance measures and target setting
% of award Measure
To be set 
annually 
Growth in adjusted eps. The calculated outcome can then 
be adjusted downwards to reflect ROCE performance
Growth in adjusted eps with the operating profit, 
tax and interest of Sugar removed. The calculated 
outcome may then be adjusted downwards to reflect 
ROCE performance with the profit and average capital 
employed of Sugar removed
These measures reflect our strategy and take into account feedback 
from investors. They are well understood both by participants and 
shareholders and reduce the impact of sugar price volatility on 
long-term growth-based incentive outcomes. 
Targets are set for each allocation, taking into account the shape 
of the portfolio, market expectations and internal forecasts for 
the next few years, and the scale of investments made. 
Discretion, clawback and malus
Please refer to the notes that follow this table.
Dividend equivalents – new this year
A cash or shares dividend equivalent payment will be made, 
pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date.
Maximum opportunity
200% of base salary 
at allocation.
In exceptional circumstances, 
such as the appointment of 
a new CEO, this could be 
increased to 300% of base 
salary to correct any shortfall 
against market. Any increase 
would take into account 
adjustments in other elements 
of the package to ensure that 
the total was not excessive.
At maximum, 100% of the 
allocated shares vest; at target 
50% vest; at threshold 10% 
vest; and below threshold 
awards lapse.
Element and purpose
To reward long-term 
business growth.
To promote executive retention.
To align the interests of 
executives and shareholders.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
76 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
SHAREHOLDING  
REQUIREMENT
Operation and link to business strategy
This is not part of our formal remuneration policy. Details of our current requirement are provided  
in our annual implementation report on page 84.
Element and purpose
To demonstrate commitment 
to the success of the Company 
and to align executives’ interests 
with those of shareholders we 
require executives to build up a 
significant level of shareholding. 
NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS’ FEES
Operation and link to business strategy
Non-executives
The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors’ fees every other year in the 
light of fees payable in comparable companies and by reference to the time commitment, responsibility 
and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective board. Fees are paid in 
cash on a quarterly basis and are not varied for the number of days worked. Non-executive directors 
receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion concerning their own fees.
The Senior Independent Director and committee chairmen are each paid an additional fee to reflect 
their extra responsibilities and greater time commitment. As the chair of the Remuneration committee 
and the Nomination committee is currently the Company Chairman, no fee is paid for these roles 
at present.
Chairman
The Remuneration committee (under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director) reviews 
the Chairman’s fees, which are paid monthly. In addition to his fee, the Chairman also receives private 
medical insurance for himself and his spouse.
Shareholding – new this year
We encourage our non-executive directors to build up a shareholding of at least 100% of their 
annual fee.
Expenses
We reimburse reasonable expenses incurred in travelling on behalf of the business. As HMRC 
regards travel to the head office as a benefit in kind, we pay any tax due on such expenses on 
a grossed up basis.
Element and purpose
To attract and retain a  
high-calibre chairman and 
non-executives by providing 
a competitive core reward 
for the role.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
77 REMUNERATION REPORT
Notes to the remuneration policy table
Changes to the remuneration policy
The rationale for the changes shown in the remuneration policy table is detailed in the letter from the chairman of the 
committee on pages 69 and 70 and in the remuneration policy review section on pages 72 to 74.
Malus and clawback
The committee may, at any time within two years of an LTIP vesting or STIP being paid, determine that clawback shall apply 
if the committee determines that performance outcomes were misstated or an erroneous calculation was made in assessing 
the extent to which performance targets were met. LTIP and STIP payments can be clawed back if the participant is found at 
any time prior to vesting/payment, including prior to grant, to have committed an act or omission which, in the opinion of the 
committee, would have justified summary dismissal.
As a condition of participating in the STIP and LTIP, all participants are required to agree that the committee may cause any 
STIP or LTIP award in which they participate to lapse (in whole or in part); and/or operate clawback under any LTIP or STIP in 
which they participate; and/or reduce any amounts otherwise payable to them; and/or require the participant to immediately 
transfer shares or cash back to the Company.
Discretion
The committee will apply discretion, where necessary and by exception, to ensure that there are no unintended consequences 
from the operation of the remuneration policy. The committee applies a robust set of principles to ensure that incentive outcomes 
are consistent with business performance and aligned with shareholder interests. Any material exercises of discretion by the 
committee in relation to the STIP and LTIP will be in line with scheme rules, or other applicable contractual documentation, 
and will be fully disclosed and explained in the relevant year’s annual implementation report.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors
To encourage self-development and allow external insight and practice, the committee has determined that, with the consent 
of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive, executive directors may serve as non-executive directors of other companies 
in an individual capacity, retaining any fees earned.
Remuneration for other employees compared with that of executive directors
The group is geographically dispersed and therefore subject to very different pay markets. As a result, it is difficult to make 
sensible comparisons with all employees across the group and the salaries of executive directors are therefore reviewed in line 
with the group’s UK employees. In December 2015, when the on-target salary increase for employees in the UK was between 
1.25% and 3.4%, the Chief Executive received a salary increase of 2.2%.
The executive directors have a greater proportion of their total reward package at risk than other employees. This means that 
in years of very good performance, the Chief Executive’s package increases proportionately more than that of other employees 
and conversely in years of lower performance it may be proportionately less. However, the structure and principles of incentives 
are consistent further down the organisation.
How pay and conditions of employees were taken into account when setting the directors’ remuneration policy
As outlined in the policy table, the committee limits the range of salary increases for executive directors to the range of 
increases available to UK-based employees unless there has been a change of role. In addition, the design of incentives is 
broadly consistent across the group.
The committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for two tiers of senior management below the executive 
directors and uses this information to work with the Company to ensure consistency of approach. In addition, the committee 
approves all share-based LTIP awards across the group.
The Company did not consult with employees when drafting this remuneration policy. Employees are able to feed back their 
opinions through employee opinion surveys or directly to the Company’s management.
Statement of consideration of shareholders’ views
Each year the chairman of the committee invites our larger institutional shareholders to discuss with him their views on the 
group’s remuneration, strategy and governance.
Ahead of the 2015 AGM, we received feedback from some investors who did not feel that our earnings per share targets were 
sufficiently stretching. The committee undertakes a robust review of targets each year, with detailed input from our advisors 
and from the Company. We have satisfied ourselves, in the context of the challenges facing the Sugar business, that the targets 
that we set for the LTIP were extremely challenging and that achieving these targets would represent a very good performance 
by the executive directors on behalf of shareholders.
During 2016 we have conducted a more detailed consultation with our largest shareholders. We were grateful for the 
constructive feedback throughout the process, which was taken into account in our final proposals.
The committee chairman is available to discuss with shareholders any remuneration matters that will help shape our policy 
and practice.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
78 Approach to recruitment remuneration
Area Policy and operation 
Overall As we may need to recruit future executive directors from outside the UK or from companies with 
more aggressive incentive policies than our own, the arrangements below are intended to provide 
the necessary flexibility to recruit the right individuals.
For internal appointments, awards in respect of the prior role may be allowed to vest according to 
the terms of the scheme, adjusted as relevant to take account of the new appointment. In addition, 
ongoing prior remuneration obligations may continue.
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the subsequent annual implementation report.
Unlike our previous policy, our new approach applies the same remuneration policy for new joiners 
as for existing executive directors.
Salary Salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate, based on their skills, 
experience and current remuneration, taking into account market data and internal salary relativities.
Relocation If a new executive director needs to relocate, the Company may pay:
• actual relocation costs and other reasonable expenses relating to moving house;
• disturbance allowance of up to 5% of salary, some of which may be tax-free for qualifying expenditure;
• school fees for dependent children where there are cultural or language considerations;
• medical costs for the overseas family, where relevant;
• one business class return fare per annum each for the executive, his/her partner and dependent 
children in order to maintain family or other links where an executive is recruited from outside the UK;
• reasonable fees and taxes for buying and/or selling a family home and/or appropriate rental costs; and
• any tax due, grossed up, on any relocation related payments listed above.
Buy-out awards In addition to normal incentive awards, buy-out awards may be made to reflect value forfeited through 
an individual leaving their current employer. If a buy-out award is required, the committee would aim 
to reflect the nature, timing and value of awards foregone in any replacement awards. Awards may 
be made in cash or shares. Where performance conditions applied to the forfeited award, they will be 
applied to the replacement award.
In establishing the appropriate value of any buy-out, the committee would also have regard to the value 
of the other elements of the new remuneration package. The committee would aim to minimise the 
cost to the Company, however, buy-out awards are not subject to a formal maximum. Any awards 
would be broadly no more valuable than those being replaced.
Where possible, we would specify that 50% of any vested buy-out awards should be retained until 
the shareholding requirement is met.
Other elements Benefits, Pension, STIP, deferred awards, LTIP and share ownership requirements will operate in line 
with the remuneration policy.
Non-executives Fees would be in line with the remuneration policy.
We would not pay to relocate a non-executive director to the head office location.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
79 REMUNERATION REPORT
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office
Provision Policy and operation 
Notice period 12 months’ notice by either the director or the Company. 
Contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s offices. Contracts and service agreements 
are not reissued when base salaries or fees are changed. Pension arrangements have been amended, 
as described in the policy table, without reissuing contracts.
Non-compete During employment and for 12 months thereafter.
Executive directors – 
Contractual termination 
payments
Resignation
No payments on departure, even if, by mutual agreement, the notice period is cut short.
Departure not in the case of resignation
Service contracts allow for the Company to terminate employment by paying the director in lieu of 
some or all of their notice period. The Company may determine that such a payment is made in monthly 
instalments or as a lump sum. A payment in lieu of notice will comprise the salary, benefits and pension 
provision that the director would otherwise have received during the relevant period. The Company is 
committed to the principle of mitigation and would reduce monthly instalments to take account of 
amounts received from alternative employment. 
In limited circumstances, the Company may permit an executive director to work for us as a contractor  
or employee after the end of their notice period for a limited period to ensure an effective hand-over  
and/or to allow time for a successor to be appointed.
Settlement agreement
The committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims. This may 
include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection 
legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions. The committee may also include in such payments reasonable 
reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
In this, or the above scenario, the committee may make reasonable payments in respect of outplacement 
and may also agree to provide other ancillary or non-material benefits in connection with departure 
(including for a defined period after departure) not exceeding a value of £5,000 in aggregate.
Relocation support Good leaver*
If an executive was recruited from overseas and relocated to the UK at the start of his/her employment, 
his/her repatriation may be paid.
Leaver due to resignation/misconduct/poor performance
No payment would be made.
STIP Good leaver*
The committee will consider making a payment pro rata for time and performance, for the financial year 
in which the termination/death took place. Any agreed payment will be made in the December following 
the year end. In the case of death, payment may be accelerated. This is consistent with the approach 
for other STIP/LTIP participants.
Resignation
If an executive director ceases to be employed before/is under notice when full year results are 
published, no award will be made.
Leaver due to gross misconduct/poor performance
No payment will be made.
LTIP and deferred awards Good leaver*
Where the performance condition on deferred awards has already been achieved and the award 
is subject to a service condition, it will vest at the usual vesting date.
For other allocations, the committee will decide the extent to which they vest having regard to the 
extent to which any performance condition is satisfied and, unless the committee determines otherwise, 
pro-rating to reflect the period from the start of the performance period until the date of cessation. 
Such awards will vest on the normal vesting date or at such other date as the committee determines. 
In the case of death, vesting may be accelerated. Awards/portions of awards that do not vest will lapse.
Leaver due to resignation/misconduct
All conditional awards lapse.
Change of control of the Company
In the event of a change of control, all unvested awards under the LTIP would vest, subject to the 
committee taking into account the extent that any performance conditions attached to the relevant 
awards have been achieved and, unless the committee determines otherwise, the proportion of 
the performance period worked by the director prior to the change of control. For deferred awards 
under the STIP, all will vest on the event of a change of control.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
80 Provision Policy and operation 
Non-executives –  
Contractual termination 
payments
Appointment is for three years unless terminated by either party on six months’ notice. Continuation of 
the appointment is contingent on satisfactory performance and re-election at annual general meetings. 
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the board may 
invite them to serve for an additional period.
Our Articles of Association require that all directors retire from office if they have not retired at either 
of the preceding two annual general meetings. In any event, at this year’s annual general meeting, 
all directors are standing for election or re-election in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where an individual retires at the annual general meeting and does not stand for re-election, they are 
not paid in lieu of notice.
*  Good leavers are those leaving by reason of ill health/injury/disability/death, redundancy, retirement or because their employing company is being transferred 
outside the group or for any other reason determined by the committee.
Executive directors’ reward potential – 2016/17 policy
 
George Weston (£000)
6,000
5,000
3,000
1,000
4,000
2,000
0 Minimum Threshold On-target Maximum
Annual variable element (STIP cash) Fixed elements
Annual variable element (Deferred awards) Long-term variable element (LTIP shares)
100% 81%
6%
3%
10%
43%
22%
7%
28%
28%
27%
9%
36%
 
Notes 2016/17 Policy:
1
  Fixed elements for George Weston comprise salary of £1,044,765, benefits of £16,000 and pension of £608,775 and applies to minimum, threshold, 
on-target and maximum performance.
2
  Fixed elements for John Bason comprise salary of £680,265, benefits of £21,000 and pension of £505,865 and applies to minimum, threshold, on-target 
and maximum performance.
3
  STIP cash bonus is calculated on base salary at the end of the financial year and both the deferred awards and LTIP share values are calculated 
on base salary at the date of allocation and exclude share price movement and dividend equivalents.
4
  M in im u m :  
No STIP, deferred awards or LTIP payment for failure to achieve threshold performance.
5
  T h r e sh o l d :  
STIP cash of 12% of base salary (12% of base salary for threshold financial performance and 0% for failure to achieve threshold personal performance).  
Deferred awards vesting at 10% of maximum (i.e. 5% of grant date base salary).  
LTIP vesting at 10% of maximum (i.e. 20% of grant date base salary) following achievement of threshold performance targets.
6
  O n - t a r g et :  
STIP cash of 78.3% of base salary (65% for target financial performance and 13.3% for target personal performance).  
Deferred awards vesting at 50% of maximum (i.e. 25% of grant date base salary).  
LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum (i.e. 100% of grant date base salary).
7
  M a x im u m :  
STIP cash of 150% of base salary (130% for maximum financial performance and 20% for achieving maximum personal performance).  
Deferred awards vesting at 100% of maximum (i.e. 50% of grant date base salary).  
LTIP vesting at 100% of maximum (i.e 200% of salary).
John Bason (£000)
6,000
5,000
3,000
1,000
4,000
2,000
0 Minimum Threshold On-target Maximum
Annual variable element (STIP cash) Fixed elements
Annual variable element (Deferred awards) Long-term variable element (LTIP shares)
100% 82%
6%
2%
45%
21%
7%
27%
30%
26%
9%
35%
10%
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
81 REMUNERATION REPORT
Annual implementation report on directors’ remuneration
This report sets out the elements of remuneration paid to directors in respect of the financial year 2015/16. The notes to the 
single figure table provide further detail on the elements that make up the total single figure of remuneration in respect of each 
of the executive directors.
This report is subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
Single total figure of remuneration – executive directors (audited information)
Salary or fees Taxable benefits Pensions STIP
6
LTIP
7
Single  
total figure
8
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
2016
1,2
2015
2
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Executive directors
George Weston 1,038 998 16
3
15 711 592 1,368 686 – 848 3,133 3,139
John Bason 676 649 21
4
19 576 486 945 456 – 558 2,218 2,168
Non-executive directors
Charles Sinclair 395 380 1
5
1 396 381
Tim Clarke 94 90 – – 94 90
Lord Jay
9
16 71 – – 16 71
Javier Ferrán 74 71 – – 74 71
Peter Smith
10
54 90 – – 54 90
Emma Adamo 74 71 – – 74 71
Ruth Cairnie 74 71 – – 74 71
Wolfhart Hauser
11
74 48 – – 74 48
Richard Reid
12
40 – – – 40 –
1
  For all directors, the salary or fee shown reflects the fact that in this financial year there was a 53rd week. These numbers are disclosed on an accruals 
basis, consistent with the calculation of financial results. The actual cash amounts paid were in line with the annual amounts stated in the policy and 
implementation reports.
2
  For executive directors, the salary in the year is not the same as a weighted average of the headline salaries, since salary actually paid is reduced for 
pension-related salary sacrifices. The benefit of these salary sacrifices are captured in the increase in pension entitlements for which a remuneration value 
is shown in the pensions line. For non-executive directors, the value shown reflects the split across the year from the previous fee rate to the revised rates of 
£72,500 for non-executive directors, £92,500 for the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit committee and £390,000 for the Chairman.
³ The value of George Weston’s benefits comprised £1,787.81 taken in cash and £14,397.18 taxed as benefits-in-kind.
4
 The value of John Bason’s benefits comprised £6,175.58 taken in cash and £14,397.18 taxed as benefits-in-kind.
5
 The value of Charles Sinclair’s benefits is taxed as a benefit-in-kind.
6
 The annual bonus is paid in December in respect of the preceding financial year. None of the incentive is subject to deferral.
7
  As required by UK regulations, vesting under the LTIP for 2012–15 has been recalculated to update last year’s estimates using the actual share price of 
3451.794p that applied on vesting. Information relating to performance targets, weightings and outcomes can be found on page 84 of the 2015 annual report. 
No shares will vest under the LTIP for 2013–16.
8
 The single total figure for 2015 has been updated to reflect the LTIP adjustment noted in (7) above.
9
 Lord Jay retired from the board on 30 November 2015.
10
 Peter Smith retired from the board on 13 April 2016.
11
 Wolfhart Hauser joined the board on 14 January 2015.
12
 Richard Reid joined the board on 14 April 2016.
Additional notes to the single total figure of remuneration – executive directors (audited information)
Single total figure – base salary
Executive directors’ salaries were reviewed on 1 December 2015 in accordance with normal policy and were increased in line 
with average increases for the Company’s UK-based employees.
Dec 2014 Increase in Dec 2015 Dec 2015
George Weston £1,028,000 2.2% £1,051,000
John Bason £677,000 2.2% £692,200
Single total figure – taxable benefits
The taxable values of a fully expensed company car, family private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance 
and an annual medical check-up are included in the table of directors’ remuneration.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
82 Pensions
Both directors opted out of the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme, on 5 April 2006, 
and since then have earned benefits in an EFRBS. 
George Weston
George Weston has an overall benefit promise of a minimum of 
2
/3rds of final pay or 
1
/45th of final pensionable earnings for each year 
of pensionable service. He opted out of the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme on 5 April 2006 and has a deferred benefit in the 
Scheme; the balance of the promise is provided under an EFRBS. His pension benefits are payable from age 65. There is no additional 
benefit entitlement for members if they take early retirement. His accrued pension at 17 September 2016 was £548,225.
John Bason
John Bason has an overall benefit promise of a minimum of 
2
/3rds of final pay or 
1
/45th of final pensionable earnings for each year 
of pensionable service, less an allowance for retained benefits from his previous employment. He opted out of the Associated British 
Foods Pension Scheme on 5 April 2006 and has a deferred benefit in the Scheme; the balance of the promise is provided under an 
EFRBS. His pension benefits are payable from age 62. There is no additional benefit entitlement for members if they take early 
retirement. His accrued pension at 17 September 2016 was £340,576.
Short-Term Incentive Plan – 2015/16
The table below shows outcomes against the specific measures in the year. None of the incentive is subject to deferral.
A – Operating proﬁt 15.0 108.3
Measures Achievements against performance measures
Threshold 15% salary Target 65% salary Maximum 108.3% salary
108.3%
B – Working capital as % of sales 0.8 1.2
Threshold x 0.8 Target x 1 Maximum x 1.2
x 1.0759
A x B – Total ﬁnancial 12 130
Threshold 12% salary Target 65% salary Maximum 130% salary
116.56%
C – Personal – George Weston
C – Personal – John Bason
0 20
Threshold 0% salary Target 13.3% salary Maximum 20% salary
13.61%
20%
(A x B) + C – Total STIP – George Weston
(A x B) + C – Total STIP – John Bason
12 150
Threshold 12% salary Target 78.3% salary Maximum 150% salary
130.17%
136.56%
The committee considered whether it would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to disclose the precise 
targets agreed for each of the performance measures for 2015/16. Their conclusion was that retrospective detail on financial 
targets set will not be disclosed at this stage. In future we will disclose the target ranges that apply to STIP when the deferred 
awards are released two years from the end of the performance period. We expect that the directors will make the right 
decisions for the long-term performance of the business, even if this reduces their incentive pay-out under the STIP . When we 
disclose the performance range that applied to the STIP, we wish to be able to add any commentary that will help investors 
to understand the performance. In most cases, this is not appropriate immediately following the end of the year and remains 
commercially sensitive. For these reasons, we believe that this delayed disclosure is appropriate. A discussion of performance 
against financial targets for STIP 2015/16 can be found on page 70.
Following a review of personal performance against specific objectives for the 2015/16 financial year, the committee determined 
that George Weston will receive 13.61% of salary in relation to performance that was on-target against set objectives, with cost 
reduction and efficiency improvements in a number of businesses but especially in Sugar, a further profit improvement in 
Ingredients and an excellent performance in Primark. John Bason will receive 20% of base salary for the individual element 
of the annual bonus, reflecting a very strong overall performance, delivering positive outcomes on a number of important 
transactions. Personal objectives set for each of the executive directors were closely aligned to the overall strategy of the 
group but additional details will not be disclosed because of commercial sensitivity.
Long-Term Incentive Plan – 2013–16
The performance measures for each three-year LTIP cycle are set by the committee. Awards are made annually, at the discretion 
of the committee, and eligible executives receive shares at the end of the performance period, subject to achievement of the 
performance measures. For the 2013–16 cycle the adjusted eps performance range was 113.6p for threshold vesting, 123.6p 
for target vesting and 134.2p for maximum vesting.
Actual eps was 106.2p. In November 2016 executive directors will therefore receive no shares.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
83 REMUNERATION REPORT
Scheme interests awarded in 2015/16 (audited information)
Under the remuneration policy that was approved in 2014, conditional share awards were granted under the LTIP each year at the 
end of November, following announcement of the Company’s results. In addition, further awards were made, following approval 
by the committee, during the year to new starters or newly promoted individuals who were eligible to participate. The share price 
used to determine the number of shares in an allocation was the average of the closing share prices on the five trading days 
immediately preceding the award date.
All awards are settled using shares bought in the market.
The table below details the conditional share interests awarded to the executive directors during the year in respect of the 
2015-18 LTIP. The awards made were in line with the existing remuneration policy and are subject to performance conditions 
over the vesting period.
Executive directors Award date Vesting date
Maximum award
Market price 
at grant
Shares vesting
% salary
Face value
£000 Maximum
Target
(50% of 
maximum)
Threshold
(10% of 
maximum)
Below 
threshold
(0% of 
maximum)
George Weston 23/11/15 23/11/18 200% 2,056 3462.0p 59,388 29,694 5,939 0
John Bason 23/11/15 23/11/18 200% 1,354 3462.0p 39,110 19,555 3,911 0
As disclosed in the annual report and the Remuneration committee chairman’s letter last year, the Company was forecasting 
a modest decline in eps for 2015/16. Taking this into account together with volatility in currency markets and uncertainty of 
Sugar profitability as the 2017 reform of the EU sugar regime approaches, the committee determined that the eps performance 
range for the 2015-18 award should be 112.5p for threshold vesting, 119p for target vesting and 125.7p for maximum vesting. 
The committee believed that this range was extremely stretching. In setting this target, the committee also took into account:
• the volatility present in many of the non-sugar markets in which the group operates;
• the scale of investment made in the pursuit of long-term growth;
• the results of the long-term incentives to date; 
• market expectations;
• internal forecasts for the next few years; and
• advice from their appointed remuneration advisors.
As outlined in the remuneration policy, there will be a further two-year holding period in place for the net of tax shares after vesting.
Executive directors’ shareholding requirements and share interests (audited information)
Under our new remuneration policy, the executive directors are required to build up a beneficially owned shareholding of 250% 
of salary. This requirement has been met. The interests below remained the same at 8 November 2016.
Executive directors
Holding 
requirement 
Beneficial  
17 September 
2016
Beneficial 
as % of 
salary
1
Conditional 
17 September 
2016
2
Total
17 September 
2016
Total
12 September
2015
George Weston
3
 
Wittington Investments Limited, 
ordinary shares of 50p n/a 2,613 n/a n/a 2,613 2,613
Associated British Foods plc, 
ordinary shares of 5
15
/22p 250% of salary 3,561,936 9,188% 208,189 3,770,125 3,830,300
John Bason 
Associated British Foods plc, 
ordinary shares of 5
15
/22p 250% of salary 130,502 511% 137,076 267,578 309,220
1
 Calculated using share price as at 17 September 2016 of 2711p and base salary as at 17 September 2016.
2
 The awards, in the preceding and following tables are conditional allocations under the LTIP described in the policy section of last year’s Remuneration report.
3
  George Weston is a director of Wittington Investments Limited which, together with its subsidiary, Howard Investments Limited, held 431,515,108 ordinary 
shares in Associated British Foods plc as at 17 September 2016.
In addition to the interests granted in the year, the executive directors have the following conditional interests in ABF shares.
Scheme name
Dates of award 
and vesting
Market price 
at award Maximum (shares)
Face value at grant
£000
End of performance 
period
George Weston Share incentive plan 25/11/13 – 25/11/16 2321.2p 84,181 1,954 17.09.16
Long -Term Incentive Plan 24/11/14 – 24/11/17 3101.2p 64,620 2,004 16.09.17
John Bason Share incentive plan 25/11/13 – 25/11/16 2321.2p 55,402 1,286 17.09.16
Long -Term Incentive Plan 24/11/14 – 24/11/17 3101.2p 42,564 1,320 16.09.17
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
84 Non-executive directors’ shareholding requirements and share interests (audited information)
Under our new remuneration policy, non-executive directors are encouraged to hold shares to a value equal to their annual fees. 
The following shareholdings are ordinary shares of Associated British Foods plc unless stated otherwise. The interests below 
remained the same at 8 November 2016.
2016 total holding as a %
of annual fee
4
Total
17 September 2016
Total
12 September 2015
Charles Sinclair 89% 12,760 12,760
Tim Clarke 117% 4,000 4,000
Javier Ferrán 90% 2,400 2,400
Emma Adamo
1
Wittington Investments Limited, ordinary shares of 50p n/a 1,322 1,322
Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5
15
/22p 18,864% 504,465 504,465
Ruth Cairnie 56% 1,507 1,500
Wolfhart Hauser
2
147% 3,918 1,283
Richard Reid
3
98% 3,347 n/a
Peter Smith No longer in role
Lord Jay No longer in role
1
  Emma Adamo is a director of Wittington Investments Limited which, together with its subsidiary, Howard Investments Limited, held 431,515,108 
ordinary shares in Associated British Foods plc as at 17 September 2016.
2
 Wolfhart Hauser was appointed a director on 14 January 2015.
3
 Richard Reid was appointed a director on 14 April 2016.
4
 Calculated using share price as at 17 September 2016 of 2711p and fee rate as at 17 September 2016.
Payments to past directors (audited information)
No payments were made to past directors in the year.
Payments for loss of office (audited information)
No payments were made for loss of office in the year.
TSR performance and Chief Executive’s pay
The performance graph below illustrates the performance of the Company over the seven years from September 2009 to 
September 2016, in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index. 
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies. 
In addition, the table below the graph provides a summary of the total remuneration of the Chief Executive over the same period. 
For the purpose of calculating the value of the remuneration of the Chief Executive, data has been collated on a basis consistent 
with the ‘single figure’ methodology as defined in the applicable UK directors’ reporting regulations.
0
100
150
200
300
350
400
500
450
50
250
2011 2010 2009 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
ABF
£411
FTSE 100
£189
Source: DataStream Return Index
Value of a hypothetical £100 investment
Single total figure remuneration 
variable element (£000) 3,886 3,182 3,859 5,832 7,470 3,139 3,133
Annual variable element (£000) 1,266 438 864 1,219 894 686 1,368
Potential maximum annual 
variable element (£000) 1,310 1,373 1,425 1,466 1,503 1,542 1,577
Annual variable element  
(% of maximum) 96.68% 31.91% 60.63% 83.15% 59.49% 44.46% 86.75%
Long-term variable element – 
shares vesting as % of maximum 99.12% 83.80% 97.42% 85.00% 100.00% 18.54% 0%
At close of business on 16 September 2016, the last trading day before the end of the financial year, the market value of the 
Company’s ordinary shares was 2711p. During the previous 12 months, the market value ranged from 2350p to 3599p.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
85 REMUNERATION REPORT
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive
Between 2015 and 2016, the increase in the Chief Executive’s salary was 2.2% and the average increase in salaries for our 
UK employees was between 1.25–3.4%. 
The total reward for the Chief Executive remained broadly the same as last year, reflecting 0% vesting on the LTIP compared 
with 18.54% vesting in the previous year and an above target payment on the STIP. 
The overall increase in expenditure on reward for all employees was 7%. This number is based on aggregate data presented 
in the table below, which include increases in headcount, as it is neither practical nor worthwhile, in a decentralised group 
of our size, to separate the increase in expenditure on incentives and taxable benefits.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors
During the year, George Weston served as a non-executive director of Wittington Investments Limited, for which he received 
no compensation. 
John Bason is a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Compass Group PLC, for which he received 
a fee of £106,000 in the 2015/16 financial year. He also served as a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and as chairman 
of the charity FareShare, but received no compensation in respect of either of these roles.
Relative importance of spend on pay
A year-on-year comparison of the relative importance of pay with significant distributions to shareholders and others is shown below.
Expenditure
2016
£m
2015
£m Change
Pay spend for the group 2,208 2,058 +7%
Dividends relating to the period 290 277 +5%
Taxes paid 211 230 -8%
Implementation of policy 2016/17
Base salary
Executive directors’ salaries are subject to review on 1 December 2016 and will be increased as shown in the table below.
Dec 2015 Increase in Dec 2016 Increase in Dec 2016 Dec 2016
George Weston £1,051,000 2.0% £21,000 £1,072,000
John Bason £692,200 2.0% £13,800 £706,000
Benefits and pension
No change to current operation.
Short-Term Incentive Plan – 2016/17
The STIP will be operated in 2016/17 in line with the remuneration policy.
Payout based
 on operating
 profit only
Modification to
 payout based
on average
working capital
Overall
financial
payout
Personal
 element Total bonus
Maximum 108.3% x1.2 130% 20.0% 150.0%
On-target (budget) 65.0% x1.0 65% 13.3% 78.3%
Threshold 15.0% x0.8 12% 0.0% 12.0%
Below threshold 0.0% x0.8 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
As detailed in our remuneration policy, we believe that the targets used for our 2016/17 STIP are commercially sensitive but are 
set at a stretching level. Achievement against financial targets will be disclosed retrospectively in our 2017 Remuneration report 
as we have done in this report for 2015/16. In addition, when the shares element is released, we will disclose the related target 
range.
Deferred Awards (Shares) – 2016–19
The STIP Shares element will be operated in line with the remuneration policy. Performance will be measured using the 
financial performance target range that applies to the cash element.
Vesting based
 on operating
 profit only as
 % of shares
 allocated 
Modification to
 payout based
on average
working capital
Overall
vesting
as %
of shares
 allocated
Maximum 83.3% x1.2 100%
Shares vest after a further two years. 
No further performance conditions 
apply but shares will lapse if the 
individual resigns from the Company.
On-target (budget) 50% x1.0 50%
Threshold 12.5% x0.8 10%
Below threshold 0.0% x0.8 0.0%
+ =
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
86 Long-Term Incentive Plan – 2016–19
The LTIP will be operated in line with the remuneration policy, assuming that this is approved by shareholders. Awards over 
shares with a value of 200% of salary will be allocated as soon as possible following the AGM. The performance targets that 
will apply are set out below.
Primary Measure Multiplier
Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Maximum
Shares vesting as % of award 10% 50% 100%
Adjustment to % of shares vesting 80% 100%
Adjusted eps range in 2018/19 (p) 40% of award 116 134 153
Three-year average ROCE range (%) 12% 15%
Adjusted eps without Sugar range in 2018/19 (p) 60% of award 115 133 152
Three-year average ROCE without Sugar range (%) 13.5% 16.5%
When setting the above ranges, the committee conducted an analysis of the growth potential and challenges facing each 
of the divisions over the performance period. These ranges were then tested to ensure that they were sufficiently stretching. 
We are in a period of exceptional economic uncertainty in the post EU referendum environment and the above ranges reflect 
this. The proposed eps range for the Company as a whole takes into account the operating profit of Sugar in 2015/16. The eps 
range with Sugar removed is wider this year than we would expect it to be in future as a result of the volatility in foreign exchange 
rates and the risks and opportunities facing our portfolio of non-Sugar businesses. The ranges and targets with Sugar in and 
Sugar out are very similar this year; we would not usually expect this to be the case.
Service contracts
Date of appointment
Date of current contract/
letter of appointment Notice from Company Notice from individual
Unexpired period of 
service contract
Executive directors
George Weston 19.04.99 01.06.05 12 months 12 months Rolling contract
John Bason 04.05.99 16.03.99 12 months 12 months Rolling contract
Non-executive directors
Charles Sinclair 01.10.08 21.04.09 6 months 6 months Rolling contract
Tim Clarke 03.11.04 03.11.04 6 months 6 months Rolling contract
Javier Ferrán 01.11.06 01.11.06 6 months 6 months Rolling contract
Emma Adamo 09.12.11 09.12.11 6 months 6 months Rolling contract
Ruth Cairnie 01.05.14 01.05.14 6 months 6 months Rolling contract
Wolfhart Hauser 14.01.15 14.01.15 6 months 6 months Rolling contract
Richard Reid 14.04.16 13.04.16 6 months 6 months Rolling contract
Lord Jay 01.11.06 Lord Jay has now retired as a non-executive director
Peter Smith 28.02.07 Peter Smith has now retired as a non-executive director
Copies of service contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s head office.
Non-executive directors’ fees for 2016/17
Dec 2015
Increase in
Dec 2016 Dec 2016
Chairman £390,000 £20,000 £410,000
Senior Independent Director £92,500 £2,500 £95,000
Chairman of Audit committee £92,500 £2,500 £95,000
Director £72,500 £1,500 £74,000
Non-executive directors’ fees will be revised as shown above in December 2016. The next review of fees will be in 2018.
Statement on shareholder voting
At the last AGM in December 2015 the voting results on resolution two, to receive and approve the Remuneration report 
for the year ended 12 September 2015, were as follows:
(i) the total number of votes cast in relation to the resolution was 664,298,880: 605,111,819 ‘for’ and 59,187,061 ‘against’
(ii) the percentage ‘for’ was 91.09% and the percentage ‘against’ was 8.91%
(iii) the number of abstentions was 8,793,188
By order of the board
Paul Lister
Company Secretary
8 November 2016
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
87 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Introduction
The directors of Associated British Foods 
plc (the ‘Company’) present their report 
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 
2016, in accordance with section 415 of 
the Companies Act 2006. The UKLA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules and 
Listing Rules also require the Company 
to make certain disclosures, some 
of which have been included in other 
appropriate sections of the annual 
report and accounts.
The information set out on page 91 and 
the following cross-referenced material, 
is incorporated into this directors’ report:
• likely future developments in the 
group’s business (pages 12 to 41);
• greenhouse gas emissions (page 46); 
and
• the board of directors and the 
corporate governance report 
(pages 54 to 68).
Results and dividends
The consolidated income statement 
is on page 98. Profit for the financial year 
attributable to equity shareholders 
amounted to £818m.
The directors recommend a final dividend 
of 26.45p per ordinary share to be paid, 
subject to shareholder approval, on 
13 January 2017. Together with the 
interim dividend of 10.3p per share paid 
on 1 July 2016, this amounts to 36.75p 
for the year. Dividends are detailed 
on page 114.
Directors
The names of the persons who were 
directors of the Company during the 
financial year and as at 8 November 2016 
appear on pages 54 and 55, with the 
exception of Lord Jay and Peter Smith 
who each retired as a non-executive 
director on 30 November 2015 and 13 April 
2016, respectively. All the other directors 
are standing for election or re-election 
at this year’s AGM in December.
Appointment of directors
The Company’s articles of association 
(the ‘Articles’) give the directors power 
to appoint and replace directors. Under 
the terms of reference of the Nomination 
committee, any appointment must 
be recommended by the Nomination 
committee for approval by the board 
of directors. A person who is not 
recommended by the directors may 
only be appointed as a director where 
details of that director have been provided 
at least seven and not more than 35 days 
prior to the relevant meeting by at least 
two members of the Company. The 
Articles require directors to retire and 
submit themselves for election at 
the first AGM following appointment 
and all directors who held office at the 
time of the two preceding AGMs and, 
in any event, not less than one-third 
of the relevant directors (excluding 
those directors who retire other than 
by rotation), to submit themselves for 
re-election. The Articles notwithstanding, 
all directors will stand for election or 
re-election at the AGM this year in 
compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Details of unexpired 
terms of directors’ service contracts 
are set out in the Remuneration report 
on page 87.
Power of directors
The directors are responsible for 
managing the business of the Company 
and may exercise all the powers of the 
Company subject to the provisions of 
relevant statutes, to any directions 
given by special resolution and to the 
Company’s Articles. The Articles, for 
example, contain specific provisions and 
restrictions concerning the Company’s 
power to borrow money. Powers relating 
to the issuing of shares are also included 
in the Articles and such authorities are 
renewed by shareholders at the AGM 
each year.
Directors’ indemnities
Three directors of operating subsidiaries, 
benefited from qualifying third-party 
indemnity provisions provided by the 
Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, 
ABF Investments plc, during the financial 
year and at the date of this report.
The directors of a subsidiary company 
that acts as trustee of a pension scheme 
benefited from a qualifying pension 
scheme indemnity provision during the 
financial year and at the date of this report.
Directors’ share interests
Details regarding the share interests of 
the directors (and their persons closely 
associated) in the share capital of the 
Company, including any interests under 
the long-term incentive plan, are set 
out in the Remuneration report on 
pages 84 and 85.
Employees
During the year under review, the group 
employed an average of 129,916 people 
worldwide (2015–124,036) of whom 
43,954 were employed in the UK. The 
group’s business priority is to safeguard 
the wellbeing, development and safety 
of its employees and those who work 
with it. It also wants employees to have 
opportunities to grow and progress as part 
of an enjoyable career. While the group’s 
approach to human resource management 
is decentralised, with flexibility given 
to each of the businesses, as a group 
it abides by the following principles:
• equal opportunities – the group 
is committed to offering equal 
opportunities in recruitment, training, 
career development and promotion 
to all people, including those with 
disabilities, having regard for their 
particular aptitudes and abilities. 
As a matter of policy, full and fair 
consideration is given to applicants 
with disabilities and every effort 
is made to give employees who 
become disabled whilst employed 
by the group an opportunity for 
retraining and for continuation in 
employment. It is group policy that 
the training, career development 
and promotion of disabled persons 
should, as far as possible, be the 
same as that of other employees;
• health and safety – health and safety 
are considered as equal in importance 
to that of any other function of the 
group and its business objectives and 
the group is committed to providing a 
safe and healthy workplace to protect 
all employees, visitors and the public 
from foreseeable work hazards. The 
health and safety policy is available 
on the Company’s website at  
www.abf.co.uk;
• harassment – sexual, mental or 
physical harassment in the workplace 
will not be tolerated. It is expected 
that incidents of harassment are 
reported to the appropriate human 
resources director;
• human rights – the group provides 
opportunities that promote human 
rights and dignity every day through 
the employment created, both 
directly and indirectly in its global 
supply chains and through the 
positive contribution its products 
make to people’s lives. Ongoing 
engagement and collaboration with 
a broad range of interested and 
concerned stakeholder groups is 
valued and Associated British Foods 
is active in its collaborative approach, 
seeking to remain sensitive to 
the risks of adverse human rights 
impacts resulting from its products, 
services and operations. While 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
88 respecting all human rights throughout 
the business, six priority areas of 
focus to mitigate risk have been 
highlighted, namely: workplace safety; 
gender and diversity; slavery and 
human trafficking; supply chain; use 
of commodities; and access to water. 
It is, however, acknowledged that 
these may change over time due to 
the constantly evolving nature of the 
businesses and environments in 
which the group operates. Further 
details on the group’s approach to 
human rights can be found in the 
2016 Corporate Responsibility 
Report and our Modern Slavery 
Act statement which is available 
on the Company’s website at  
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility;
• communication – employees and 
their representatives are briefed and 
consulted on all relevant matters on 
a regular basis in order to take their 
views into account with regard to 
decision-making and to achieve 
a common awareness of all the 
financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of the 
group. Information relevant to 
the employees will be provided 
systematically to employees; and
• security – the security of our staff and 
customers is paramount and the group 
will at all times take the necessary 
steps to minimise risks to their safety.
Employees are provided with information 
on the performance of their local business 
and their involvement is encouraged in 
a variety of ways, such as through 
engagement surveys, business forums, 
executive leadership programmes and 
management presentations.
The group encourages an open culture in 
all its dealings between employees and 
people with whom it comes into contact. 
Effective and honest communication is 
essential if malpractice and wrongdoing 
are to be dealt with effectively. The 
group’s whistleblowing procedures set 
out guidelines for individuals who feel 
they need to raise certain issues in 
confidence with the Company or their 
own business. Every effort is made to 
protect the confidentiality of those who 
raise concerns, and employees may come 
forward without fear for their position.
Disclosures required under  
Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The following table is included to meet 
the requirements of Listing Rule section 
9.8.4R. The information required to 
be disclosed by that section, where 
applicable to the Company, can be 
located in the annual report and accounts 
at the references set out below.
Information required
Location in  
annual report
(12) Shareholder  
waiver of dividends Note 23 on page 130
(13) Shareholder waiver 
of future dividends Note 23 on page 130
(14) Board statement 
on relationship 
agreement with 
controlling shareholder
Directors’ report 
on page 89
Paragraphs (1), (2), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), 
(10) and (11) of Listing Rule 9.8.4R are 
not applicable.
Relationship agreement with 
controlling shareholders
Any person who exercises or controls, 
on their own or together with any person 
with whom they are acting in concert, 
30% or more of the votes able to be 
cast at general meetings of a company 
are known as a ‘controlling shareholder’ 
under the Listing Rules. The Listing 
Rules require companies with controlling 
shareholders to enter into an agreement 
which is intended to ensure that the 
controlling shareholders comply with 
certain independence provisions in the 
Listing Rules and which must contain 
undertakings that:
• transactions and arrangements with 
the controlling shareholder (and/or 
any of its associates) will be 
conducted at arm’s length and on 
normal commercial terms;
• neither the controlling shareholder 
nor any of its associates will take any 
action that would have the effect of 
preventing the listed company from 
complying with its obligations under 
the Listing Rules; and
• neither the controlling shareholder 
nor any of its associates will 
propose or procure the proposal 
of a shareholder resolution which 
is intended or appears to be intended 
to circumvent the proper application 
of the Listing Rules.
Wittington Investments Limited 
(‘Wittington’) and, through their control 
of Wittington, the trustees of the Garfield 
Weston Foundation (the ’Foundation’) are 
controlling shareholders of the Company. 
Certain other individuals, including certain 
members of the Weston family who hold 
shares in the Company (and including 
two of the Company’s directors, George 
Weston and Emma Adamo) are, under 
the Listing Rules, treated as acting in 
concert with Wittington and the trustees 
of the Foundation and are therefore also 
treated as controlling shareholders of the 
Company. Wittington, the trustees of the 
Foundation and these individuals together 
comprise the controlling shareholders of 
the Company and, at 17 September 2016, 
had a combined interest in approximately 
59.16% of the Company’s voting rights.
The board confirms that, in accordance 
with the Listing Rules, on 14 November 
2014 the Company entered into a 
relationship agreement with Wittington 
and the trustees of the Foundation 
containing the required undertakings 
(the ‘Relationship Agreement’). Under 
the terms of the Relationship Agreement, 
Wittington has agreed to procure 
compliance with the undertakings by 
the other individuals who are treated 
as controlling shareholders (the 
‘Non-signing Controlling Shareholders’). 
The board confirms that, during the 
period under review:
• the Company has complied with the 
independence provisions included 
in the Relationship Agreement;
• so far as the Company is aware, the 
independence provisions included 
in the Relationship Agreement have 
been complied with by the controlling 
shareholders and their associates; and
• so far as the Company is aware, 
the procurement obligation included 
in the Relationship Agreement 
as regards compliance with the 
independence provisions by the 
Non-signing Controlling Shareholders 
and their associates, has been 
complied with by Wittington.
Major interests in shares
As at 17 September 2016, the Company 
had received formal notification, under the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
following material interest in its shares:
Shareholder
Number
of ordinary
shares
% of
issued
share
capital
Date of
notification
of interest
The Capital 
Group 
Companies, 
Inc. 79,392,778 10.03
15 July 
2016
No changes in the holdings of 3% or more 
of the voting rights in the Company’s 
ordinary shares have been notified to the 
Company between 18 September 2016 
and 2 November 2016.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
89 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital 
and the rights attached to the Company’s 
shares are set out in note 21 on page 127. 
The Company has one class of share 
capital: ordinary shares of 5
15
/22p. 
The rights and obligations attaching to 
these shares are governed by UK law 
and the Company’s Articles.
No shareholder holds securities carrying 
special rights with regard to the control 
of the Company. There are no restrictions 
on voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer 
of the ordinary shares other than the 
standard restrictions for a UK-quoted 
company set out in article 32 of the 
Company’s Articles.
Authority to issue shares
At the last AGM, held on 4 December 
2015, authority was given to the directors 
to allot unissued relevant securities in 
the Company up to a maximum of an 
amount equivalent to two-thirds of the 
shares in issue (of which one-third must 
be offered by way of rights issue). This 
authority expires on the date of this 
year’s AGM to be held on 9 December 
2016. No such shares have been issued. 
The directors propose to renew this 
authority at the 2016 AGM for the 
forthcoming year.
A further special resolution passed at that 
meeting granted authority to the directors 
to allot equity securities in the Company 
for cash, without regard to the pre-emption 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This authority also expires on the date 
of the 2016 AGM and the directors will 
seek to renew this authority for the 
forthcoming year.
Authority to purchase own shares
The Companies Act 2006 empowers the 
Company to purchase its own shares 
subject to the necessary shareholder 
approval. The Company has no existing 
authority to purchase its own shares.
Amendment to Company’s 
articles of association 
Any amendments to the Articles may be 
made in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 by way of 
special resolution of the shareholders.
Significant agreements –
change of control
The group has contractual arrangements 
with many parties including directors, 
employees, customers, suppliers 
and banking groups. The following 
arrangements are considered to be 
significant in terms of their potential 
impact on the business of the group as 
a whole and could alter or terminate on 
a change of control of the Company:
• the group has a number of borrowing 
facilities provided by various banking 
groups. These facility agreements 
generally include change of control 
provisions which, in the event of a 
change in ownership of the Company, 
could result in their renegotiation or 
withdrawal. The most significant of 
these are the £1.2bn syndicated loan 
facility signed on 15 July 2014 which 
was undrawn at the year end; and
• in addition to these bank facilities,  
the Company has in issue £588m of 
private placement notes to institutional 
investors. In the event of a change in 
ownership of the Company, the 
Company is obliged to make an offer 
of immediate repayment to the 
remaining note holders.
There are no agreements between the 
Company and its directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of 
office or employment that occurs as 
a result of a takeover bid.
Political donations
The Company did not make any 
political donations during the year.
Financial risk management
Details of the group’s use of financial 
instruments, together with information 
on our risk objectives and policies and 
our exposure to price, credit, liquidity, 
cash flow and interest rate risks, can be 
found in note 25 on pages 131 to 140.
Research and development
Innovative use of existing and emerging 
technologies will continue to be crucial 
to the successful development of new 
products and processes for the group.
The Company has a major technical 
centre in the UK at the Allied Technical 
Centre. Facilities also exist at ACH 
Food Companies in the US, Weston 
Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia 
and the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes 
in Germany. These centres support 
the technical resources of the trading 
divisions in the search for new technology 
and in monitoring and maintaining high 
standards of quality and food safety.
Branches
The Company, through various 
subsidiaries, has established branches 
in a number of different countries in 
which the group operates.
Post-balance sheet events
Significant events affecting the group 
that have arisen between 17 September 
2016 and the date of this report and that 
require disclosure are described in note 
30 on page 148.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the directors who held office at 
the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report confirms that:
• so far as he/she is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• each director has taken all the 
reasonable steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a director to make 
himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditors are aware 
of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit 
information means information needed 
by the Company’s auditors in connection 
with the preparation of their report on 
pages 92 to 97.
Auditors
Resolutions for the appointment of Ernst 
& Young LLP as auditors of the Company 
and to authorise the Audit committee 
to determine their remuneration are to 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual general meeting
The AGM will be held on 9 December 
2016 at 11.00 am at Congress Centre, 
28 Great Russell Street, London 
WC1B 3LS. Details of the resolutions 
to be proposed are set out in a separate 
Notice of meeting which accompanies 
this report for shareholders receiving hard 
copy documents and which is available 
at www.abf.co.uk for those who elected 
to receive documents electronically. 
At the 2016 AGM, all voting will be by 
poll using electronic handsets.
On behalf of the board
Paul Lister
Company Secretary
8 November 2016
Associated British Foods plc  
Registered office:  
Weston Centre, 10 Grosvenor Street  
London W1K 4QY
Company No. 293262
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
90 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities in respect  
of the annual report and the  
financial statements
The directors are responsible for 
preparing the annual report and the 
group and parent company financial 
statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors 
to prepare group and parent company 
financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law they are required to 
prepare the group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the directors must 
not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the group and 
parent company financial statements, 
the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the group financial statements, 
state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial 
statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained 
in the parent company financial 
statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
group and the parent company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company 
and enable them to ensure that its 
financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, 
the directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ 
report, Remuneration report and 
Corporate governance statement 
that complies with that law and 
those regulations.
The directors are responsible for 
the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information 
included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement  
of the directors in respect  
of the annual report 
We confirm that to the best of 
our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss 
of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
• the Strategic report includes a fair 
review of the development and 
performance of the business 
and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as whole, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
We consider the annual report and 
financial statements, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business 
model and strategy.
On behalf of the board
Charles Sinclair
Chairman
George Weston
Chief Executive
John Bason
Finance Director
8 November 2016
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
91 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the members of Associated British Foods plc
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
• Associated British Foods plc’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) 
give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 17 September 2016 and of the 
group’s profit for the 53 weeks then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU);
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Associated British Foods plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated balance sheet as at 17 September 2016 Balance sheet as at 17 September 2016
Consolidated income statement for the 53 weeks then ended Statement of changes in equity for the 53 weeks then ended
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 53 weeks then ended Related notes 1 to 10 to the financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 53 weeks then ended
Consolidated cash flow statement for the 53 weeks then ended
Related notes 1 to 30 to the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements 
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), 
including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material misstatement Audit scope Materiality
• Assessment of the carrying value 
of goodwill, other intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment.
• Tax provisions.
• Revenue recognition, including the 
risk of management override.
• We performed an audit of the complete 
financial information of 125 components 
and audit procedures on specific balances 
for a further 60 components.
• The components where we performed 
full or specific scope audit procedures 
accounted for 93% of profit before 
taxation, 91% of revenue and 92%  
of total assets.
• We used a group materiality of  
£50m, which represents 5%  
of profit before taxation.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit 
strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, 
we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, 
consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
92 Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to  
the Audit committee
Assessment of the carrying value 
of goodwill, other intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment 
(£6,493m, 2015–£5,885m).
The group has a significant value of goodwill, 
other intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment that has arisen from acquisitions 
and capital investments. The AB Mauri 
(carrying value of £696m), Australian meat 
(£156m) and UK bakeries (£281m) businesses 
all experienced challenging trading 
environments in recent years. 
AB Mauri’s profitability has been impacted 
by competitive pricing pressures in some 
of its businesses compounded by 
macroeconomic conditions, including high 
inflation rates and currency devaluations. 
The Australian meat and UK bakeries 
businesses operate in environments of 
significant retailer pressure on price and 
competitor activity.
There is a risk that these cash generating 
units (‘CGUs’) may not achieve the anticipated 
business performance to support their 
carrying value, leading to an impairment 
charge that has not been recognised 
by management.
Significant judgement is required in forecasting 
the future cash flows of each CGU, together 
with the rate at which they are discounted.
Refer to the Audit committee report 
(page 66); accounting policies (pages 105 and 
106); accounting estimates and judgements 
(page 108); and notes 8 and 9 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
We understood the methodology applied by 
management in performing its impairment test for 
each of the relevant CGUs and walked through the 
controls over the process.
For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the 
key inputs and assumptions would need to fluctuate 
before an impairment was triggered and considered 
the likelihood of this occurring. We performed our own 
sensitivities on the group’s forecasts and determined 
whether adequate headroom remained.
For CGUs where there were indicators of impairment or 
low levels of headroom, we performed detailed testing 
to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs to the 
valuations, including:
• analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual 
results to determine whether forecast cash flows are 
reliable based on past experience;
• for certain CGUs, visiting factories to better understand 
the operations and to assess the ability to achieve 
forecast volume growth, operational improvements 
and production yields;
• corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining 
the underlying data used in the calculation and 
benchmarking it against market data and 
comparable organisations; and
• validating the growth rates assumed by comparing 
them to economic and industry forecasts.
We assessed the disclosures in note 8 against the 
requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in 
particular in respect of the requirement to disclose 
further sensitivities for CGUs where a reasonably 
possible change in a key assumption would cause 
an impairment.
For the AB Mauri CGU, the audit procedures performed 
to address this risk were performed by the group audit 
team. The Australian meat and UK bakeries operating 
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment were 
subject to full scope audit procedures by the respective 
component teams and reviewed by the group audit team.
We agreed with 
management’s conclusion 
that no impairments were 
required, based on the results 
of our work. Of the group’s 
goodwill, that relating to the 
AB Mauri business is most 
sensitive to reasonably 
possible changes in key 
assumptions. Management 
has described these 
sensitivities appropriately 
in the ‘Intangible assets’ 
note to the group financial 
statements, in accordance 
with IAS 36.
Tax provisions (included within  
the income tax liability of £147m, 
2015–£126m).
The global nature of the group’s operations 
results in complexities in the payment of 
and accounting for tax.
Management applies judgement in assessing 
tax exposures in each jurisdiction, many of 
which require interpretation of local tax laws.
Given this judgement, there is a risk that 
tax provisions are misstated.
Refer to the Audit committee report 
(page 66); accounting policies (page 105); 
accounting estimates and judgements (page 
108); and note 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
We understood the group’s process for determining 
provisions for tax and calculating the tax charge, 
and walked through management’s controls over 
tax reporting.
The group audit team, including tax specialists, 
evaluated the tax positions taken by management in 
each significant jurisdiction in the context of local tax 
law, correspondence with tax authorities and the status 
of any tax audits. Our work utilised additional support 
from country tax specialists in Australia, China, 
Germany, Ireland, Spain and the US.
We assessed the group’s transfer pricing judgements, 
considering the way in which the group’s businesses 
operate and the correspondence and agreements 
reached with tax authorities.
We consider the amounts 
provided to be within an 
acceptable range in the 
context of the group’s 
overall tax exposures.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
93 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to  
the Audit committee
Revenue recognition, including the risk 
of management override (£13,399m, 
2015–£12,800m).
There continues to be pressure on the group 
to meet expectations and targets. Management 
reward and incentive schemes based on 
achieving profit targets may also place 
pressure to manipulate revenue recognition.
The majority of the group’s sales arrangements 
are generally straightforward, being on a point 
of sale basis and requiring little judgement 
to be exercised. However, in the Grocery 
segment, management estimates the level 
of trade promotions and rebates to be 
applied to its sales to customers, adding a 
level of judgement to revenue recognition. 
Approximately 4% of the group’s gross 
revenue is subject to such arrangements.
There is a risk that management may override 
controls to intentionally misstate revenue 
transactions, either through the judgements 
made in estimating rebates in the Grocery 
segment or by recording fictitious revenue 
transactions across the business.
Refer to the accounting policies (page 104); 
and note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
We understood each business’ revenue recognition 
policies and how they are applied, including the relevant 
controls, and tested controls over revenue recognition 
where appropriate.
We discussed key contractual arrangements with 
management and obtained relevant documentation, 
including in respect of rebate arrangements. Where 
rebate arrangements existed, we obtained third-party 
confirmations or performed appropriate alternative 
procedures, including review of contracts and 
recalculation of rebates. We also performed hindsight 
analysis over changes to prior period rebate estimates 
to challenge the assumptions made, including assessing 
the estimates for evidence of management bias.
For a number of businesses, including Primark, as part of our 
overall revenue recognition testing we used data analysis 
tools to test the correlation of revenue transactions to cash 
receipts for 100% of sales through the year. This provided us 
with a high level of assurance over £8.6bn (64%) of revenue 
recognised. For those in-scope businesses where we did 
not use data analysis tools, we performed appropriate 
alternative procedures over revenue recognition.
We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue 
transactions around the period end date, to check that 
they were recognised in the appropriate period.
Other audit procedures specifically designed to address 
the risk of management override of controls included 
journal entry testing, applying particular focus to the 
timing of revenue transactions.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures 
over this risk area in 101 locations, which covered 91% 
of the group’s revenue.
Based on the procedures 
performed, including those in 
respect of trade deductions 
and rebates in the Grocery 
segment, we did not identify 
any evidence of material 
misstatement in the revenue 
recognised in the year.
The risks of material misstatement as set out in the table above are consistent with those reported by Associated British Foods plc’s 
previous external auditor, with the exception of the inclusion in 2016 of revenue recognition, including the risk of management override.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the members of Associated British Foods plc
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
94 The scope of our audit
Tailoring the scope Involvement with component teams
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality 
and our allocation of performance materiality determine 
our audit scope for each entity within the group. Taken 
together, this enables us to form an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We take into account 
the level of revenue and profit before taxation, risk profile 
(including country risk, controls and internal audit findings 
and the extent of changes in management, systems 
and processes and the business environment) and 
other known factors when assessing the level of 
work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the 
group financial statements and to achieve adequate 
quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the 
financial statements, of the 596 reporting components 
of the group, we selected 185 components, which 
represent the principal business units within the group.
Of the 185 components selected, we performed 
an audit of the complete financial information of 125 
components (‘full scope components’) which were 
selected based on their size or risk characteristics. 
For the remaining 60 components (‘specific scope 
components’), we performed audit procedures on 
specific accounts within that component that we 
considered had the potential for the greatest impact 
on the significant accounts in the financial statements 
either because of the size of these accounts or 
their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed full 
and specific scope audit procedures accounted for 93% 
of the group’s profit before taxation, 91% of the group’s 
revenue and 92% of the group’s total assets. For the 
current period, the full scope components contributed 
87% of the group’s profit before taxation, 81% of the 
group’s revenue and 76% of the group’s total assets. 
The specific scope components contributed 6% of 
the group’s profit before taxation, 10% of the group’s 
revenue and 16% of the group’s total assets. The audit 
scope of these components may not have included 
testing of all significant accounts of the component 
but contributed to the coverage of significant 
accounts tested for the group.
Of the remaining 411 components that together 
represent 7% of the group’s profit before taxation, 
none are individually greater than 1.1% of the group’s 
profit before taxation. For these components, 
we performed other procedures, including analytical 
review, testing of consolidation journals and 
intercompany eliminations and foreign currency 
translation recalculations to respond to any 
potential risks of material misstatement to the 
group financial statements.
Associated British Foods plc’s previous external 
auditor performed full and specific scope audit 
procedures on components accounting for 90% 
of the group’s profit before taxation, 91% of the 
group’s revenue and 91% of the group’s total assets.
The charts illustrate the coverage obtained from 
the work performed by our audit teams.
Proﬁt before taxation (%) 
Full scope components
Speciﬁc scope components
Other procedures
6
7
87
Revenue (%) 
Full scope components
Speciﬁc scope components
Other procedures
10
9
81
Total assets (%) 
Full scope components
Speciﬁc scope components
Other procedures
16
8
76
In establishing our overall approach to 
the group audit, we determined the type 
of work that needed to be undertaken 
at each of the components by us, as 
the group audit team, or by component 
auditors from other EY global network 
firms or other auditors operating under 
our instruction. Of the 125 full scope 
components, audit procedures were 
performed on 77 of these directly by the 
group audit team and 48 by component 
audit teams. For the 60 specific scope 
components, where the work was 
performed by component auditors, 
we determined the appropriate level of 
involvement to enable us to determine 
that sufficient audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on 
the group as a whole.
During the period the Senior Statutory 
Auditor or other members of the 
group audit team visited 36 full and 
specific scope components in the UK, 
Ireland, Australia, the US, Argentina, 
Brazil, China, Italy, Mexico, Poland,  
South Africa, Spain and Thailand.
These visits involved meeting with 
our component team to discuss and 
direct its audit approach, reviewing 
and understanding the significant audit 
findings in response to the risk areas 
including asset impairment, tax 
provisions and revenue recognition, 
holding meetings with local management, 
undertaking factory tours and obtaining 
updates on local regulatory matters 
including tax, pensions and legal. The 
group audit team interacted regularly 
with the component teams where 
appropriate during various stages of 
the audit, reviewed key working papers 
and were responsible for the scope 
and direction of the audit process. This, 
together with the additional procedures 
performed at group level, gave us 
appropriate evidence for our opinion 
on the group financial statements.
Revenue (%) 
Full scope components
Speciﬁc scope components
Other procedures
10
9
81
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
95 Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements 
on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality – “The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for 
determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.”
We determined materiality for the group to be £50m, which is 5% of profit before taxation. We believe that profit before taxation 
is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the group. In 2015, Associated British Foods plc’s previous 
external auditor used a materiality level of £50m, based on 5% of normalised profit before taxation.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the actual profit before taxation did not differ significantly 
from the group’s initial estimates, we did not change our materiality assessment.
Performance materiality – “The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce 
to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.”
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the group’s overall control environment, our judgement 
was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely £25m, reflecting that this is our first period 
as auditor of Associated British Foods plc.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts 
is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is 
based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement 
at that component. In the current period, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was £1m to £11m.
Reporting threshold – “An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.”
We agreed with the Audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £1m, which 
is set at 2% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting 
on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light 
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial period for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the members of Associated British Foods plc
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
96 Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK 
and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report 
and accounts is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider 
the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business model and strategy; 
and whether the annual report and accounts appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to 
the Audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Companies 
Act 2006 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our 
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Listing 
Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
• the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 61, and longer-term viability,  
set out on page 53; and
• the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Statement on the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity
ISAs (UK 
and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or draw attention  
to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation in the annual report and accounts that they have carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures in the annual report and accounts that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated;
• the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements; and
• the directors’ explanation in the annual report and accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects 
of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, 
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have 
nothing 
material  
to add  
or to draw 
attention to.
Andrew Walton
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
8 November 2016
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
97 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Continuing operations Note
2016
£m
2015
(restated
1
)
£m
Revenue 1 13,399 12,800
Operating costs before exceptional item 2 (12,359) (11,821) 
Exceptional item 2 (5) (98)
 1,035 881
Share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates 10 57 48
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets 11 8
Operating profit 1,103 937
  
Adjusted operating profit 1 1,118 1,082
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets 11 8
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles 8 (21) (55) 
Exceptional item 2 (5) (98) 
  
Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses 22 (14) (172) 
Profit before interest 1,089 765
Finance income 4 6 8
Finance expense 4 (56) (61) 
Other financial income/(expense) 4 3 (5) 
Profit before taxation 1,042 707
  
Adjusted profit before taxation 1,071 1,024 
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets 11 8
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles 8 (21) (55) 
Exceptional item 2 (5) (98)
Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses 22 (14) (172) 
Taxation – UK (excluding tax on exceptional item) (73) (88) 
  – UK (on exceptional item) – 22
  – Overseas (148) (125) 
5 (221) (191)
Profit for the period 821 516 
Attributable to  
Equity shareholders 818 528
Non-controlling interests 3 (12) 
Profit for the period 821 516
  
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 7 103.4 66.8
Dividends per share paid and proposed for the period (pence) 6 36.75 35.0
1
 The results of the prior year have been restated to reflect the change of accounting policy for sugar cane roots (see page 106).
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
98 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Profit for the period recognised in the income statement 821 516 
Other comprehensive income 
Remeasurements of defined benefit schemes (258) 27 
Deferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes 50 (5) 
Current tax associated with defined benefit schemes 1 –
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (207) 22
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 610 (444) 
Net (loss)/gain on hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries (75) 22
Deferred tax associated with movements in foreign exchange 8 2 
Current tax associated with movements in foreign exchange 1 1 
Reclassification adjustment for movements in foreign exchange on subsidiaries disposed – (8)
Movement in cash flow hedging position (13) (56)
Deferred tax associated with movement in cash flow hedging position 4 11 
Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates 16 (2) 
Items that are or may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 551 (474) 
 
Other comprehensive income for the period 344 (452) 
 
Total comprehensive income for the period 1,165 64 
Attributable to 
Equity shareholders 1,153 151 
Non-controlling interests 12 (87) 
Total comprehensive income for the period 1,165 64 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
99 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 17 September 2016
Note
2016
£m
2015
(restated
1
)
£m
2014
(restated
1
)
£m
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 8 1,348 1,367 1,467
Property, plant and equipment 9 5,145 4,518 4,701
Investments in joint ventures 10 221 180 180
Investments in associates 10 39 32 32
Employee benefits assets 11 6 125 90
Deferred tax assets 12 139 125 152
Other receivables 13 41 23 164
Total non-current assets 6,939 6,370 6,786
Current assets  
Assets classified as held for sale 14 312 – –
Inventories 15 2,033 1,827 1,631
Biological assets 16 86 70 109
Trade and other receivables 13 1,337 1,176 1,293
Derivative assets 25 105 74 74
Income tax 9 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 17 555 702 519
Total current assets 4,437 3,849 3,626
Total assets 11,376 10,219 10,412
Current liabilities  
Liabilities classified as held for sale 14 (75) – –
Loans and overdrafts 18 (245) (319) (358)
Trade and other payables 19 (2,551) (2,226) (2,046)
Derivative liabilities 25 (73) (33) (15)
Income tax (147) (126) (193)
Provisions 20 (54) (38) (72)
Total current liabilities (3,145) (2,742) (2,684)
Non-current liabilities  
Loans 18 (640) (577) (607)
Provisions 20 (34) (28) (29)
Deferred tax liabilities 12 (139) (220) (251)
Employee benefits liabilities 11 (296) (141) (133)
Total non-current liabilities (1,109) (966) (1,020)
Total liabilities (4,254) (3,708) (3,704)
Net assets 7,122 6,511 6,708
Equity  
Issued capital 21 45 45 45
Other reserves 21 175 175 175
Translation reserve 21 433 (120) 238
Hedging reserve 21 (22) (11) 29
Retained earnings 6,423 6,232 5,933
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 7,054 6,321 6,420
Non-controlling interests 68 190 288
Total equity 7,122 6,511 6,708
1
 Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the change of accounting policy for sugar cane roots (see page 106).
The financial statements on pages 98 to 148 were approved by the board of directors on 8 November 2016 and were signed  
on its behalf by:
Charles Sinclair John Bason
Chairman Director
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
100 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Cash flow from operating activities  
Profit before taxation 1,042 707
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets (11) (8)
Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses 14 172
Finance income (6) (8) 
Finance expense 56 61
Other financial (income)/expense (3) 5
Share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates (57) (48) 
Amortisation 47 81
Depreciation 439 408
Exceptional item 5 98
Net change in the fair value of current biological assets (12) 16
Share-based payment expense 7 11
Pension costs less contributions 7 6
Increase in inventories (62) (310) 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (55) 10
Increase in payables 107 234
Purchases less sales of current biological assets (2) (2) 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 5 (28) 
Cash generated from operations 1,521 1,405
Income taxes paid (211) (230) 
Net cash from operating activities 1,310 1,175
Cash flows from investing activities 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 25 50
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (766) (582) 
Purchase of intangibles (30) (31) 
Purchase of non-current biological assets (8) (10) 
Sale of property, plant and equipment 27 72
Purchase of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (10) (52) 
Sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates – 5
Loans to joint ventures – (7) 
Interest received 6 7
Net cash from investing activities (756) (548) 
Cash flows from financing activities 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (10) (16) 
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (279) (271) 
Interest paid (62) (64) 
Decrease in short-term loans (109) (115) 
Increase in long-term loans 12 15 
Purchase of shares in subsidiary undertaking from non-controlling interests (252) –
Sale of shares in subsidiary undertaking to non-controlling interests – 11
Movements from changes in own shares held (19) –
Net cash from financing activities (719) (440) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (165) 187
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 585 399
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 42 (1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 462 585
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
101 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Note
Attributable to equity shareholders
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
Issued
capital
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Balance as at 13 September 2014 as originally stated 45 175 238 29 5,950 6,437 316 6,753
Impact of change in accounting policy (see page 106) – – – – (17) (17) (28) (45)
Balance as at 13 September 2014 restated 45 175 238 29 5,933 6,420 288 6,708
Total comprehensive income         
Profit for the period recognised in the income statement (restated) – –  – – 528 528 (12) 516 
Remeasurements of defined benefit schemes – – – – 26 26 1 27
Deferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes  – – – – (5) (5) – (5) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss – –  – – 21 21 1 22
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (restated)  – – (371) (1) – (372) (72) (444) 
Net gain on hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries – – 22 – – 22 – 22 
Deferred tax associated with movements in foreign exchange – – – – – – 2 2
Current tax associated with movements in foreign exchange – – 1 – – 1 – 1
Reclassification adjustment for movements in foreign exchange 
on subsidiaries disposed – – (8) – – (8) – (8)
Movement in cash flow hedging position – – – (49) – (49) (7) (56)
Deferred tax associated with movement in cash flow 
hedging position – – – 10 – 10 1 11
Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures  
and associates – –  (2) – – (2) – (2)
Items that are or may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 
(restated) – – (358) (40) – (398) (76) (474)
Other comprehensive income (restated) – – (358) (40) 21 (377) (75) (452)
Total comprehensive income (restated) – – (358) (40) 549 151 (87) 64
Transactions with owners         
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 6 – – – – (271) (271) – (271)
Net movement in own shares held – – – – 11 11 – 11 
Current tax associated with share-based payments – – – – 4 4 – 4 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (16) (16) 
Acquisition and disposal of non-controlling interests (restated) – – – – 6 6 5 11 
Total transactions with owners (restated) – – – – (250) (250) (11) (261) 
Balance as at 12 September 2015 (restated) 45 175 (120) (11) 6,232 6,321 190 6,511 
Total comprehensive income 
Profit for the period recognised in the income statement – – – – 818 818 3 821
Remeasurements of defined benefit schemes – – – – (258) (258) – (258)
Deferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes – – – – 50 50 – 50
Current tax associated with defined benefit schemes – – – – 1 1 – 1
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss – – – – (207) (207) – (207)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – – 603 2 – 605 5 610
Net loss on hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries – – (75) – – (75) – (75)
Deferred tax associated with movements in foreign exchange – – 8 – – 8 – 8
Current tax associated with movements in foreign exchange – – 1 – – 1 – 1
Movement in cash flow hedging position – – – (17) – (17) 4 (13)
Deferred tax associated with movement in cash flow 
hedging position – – – 4 – 4 – 4
Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates – – 16 – – 16 – 16
Items that are or may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss – – 553 (11) – 542 9 551
Other comprehensive income – – 553 (11) (207) 335 9 344
Total comprehensive income – – 553 (11) 611 1,153 12 1,165
Transactions with owners 
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 6 – – – – (279) (279) – (279)
Net movement in own shares held – – – – (12) (12) – (12)
Deferred tax associated with share-based payments – – – – (2) (2) – (2)
Current tax associated with share-based payments – – – – 1 1 – 1
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (10) (10)
Acquisition and disposal of non-controlling interests – – – – (128) (128) (124) (252)
Total transactions with owners – – – – (420) (420) (134) (554)
Balance as at 17 September 2016 45 175 433 (22) 6,423 7,054 68 7,122
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
102 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Associated British Foods plc (‘the 
Company’) is a company domiciled in 
the United Kingdom. The consolidated 
financial statements of the Company 
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 
2016 comprise those of the Company 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to 
as ‘the group’) and the group’s interest 
in associates and joint arrangements.
The financial statements were 
authorised for issue by the directors 
on 8 November 2016.
The consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared and approved by the 
directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU (‘Adopted IFRS’).
The Company has elected to prepare 
its parent company financial statements 
under Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework. These 
are presented on pages 149 to 156.
Basis of preparation
The going concern basis has been applied 
in these accounts. The consolidated 
financial statements are presented in 
sterling, rounded to the nearest million. 
They are prepared on the historical 
cost basis except that current biological 
assets and certain financial instruments 
are stated at fair value. Assets classified 
as held for sale are stated at the lower 
of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements 
under Adopted IFRS requires 
management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about 
the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities, income and expenses and 
the disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on experience. 
Actual results may differ from these 
estimates. Judgements made by 
management in the application of 
Adopted IFRS that have a significant 
effect on the financial statements, 
and estimates with a significant risk 
of material adjustment next year, are 
discussed in Accounting estimates 
and judgements detailed on page 108.
The estimates and underlying 
assumptions are reviewed on a 
regular basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised from the 
period in which the estimates 
are revised.
The accounting policies set out 
below have been applied to all 
periods presented, except where 
detailed otherwise.
Details of new accounting standards 
which came into force in the year are 
set out at the end of this note.
The consolidated financial statements 
of the group are prepared to the Saturday 
nearest to 15 September. Accordingly, 
these financial statements have been 
prepared for the 53 weeks ended 
17 September 2016 (2015 – 52 weeks 
ended 12 September 2015). To avoid delay 
in the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements, the results of 
certain subsidiaries, joint arrangements 
and associates are included up to 
31 August each year. The results of 
Illovo are included for the period to 
31 August 2016, with Illovo’s 2015 
results being included to 30 September. 
Adjustments are made as appropriate 
for significant transactions or events 
occurring between 17 September and 
these other balance sheet dates.
The group’s business activities, 
together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance 
and position are set out in the Strategic 
report on pages 6 to 41. The financial 
position of the group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial review on 
pages 42 and 43. In addition, the Principal 
risks and uncertainties on pages 48 to 52 
and note 25 on pages 131 to 140 provide 
details of the group’s policy on managing 
its financial and commodity risks.
The group has considerable financial 
resources, good access to debt markets, 
a diverse range of businesses and a 
wide geographic spread. It is therefore 
well placed to manage business 
risks successfully.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements 
include the results of the Company 
and all of its subsidiaries from the date 
that control commences to the date 
that control ceases. The consolidated 
financial statements also include the 
group’s share of the after-tax results, 
other comprehensive income and net 
assets of its joint arrangements and 
associates on an equity-accounted 
basis from the point at which joint 
control or significant influence 
respectively commences, to the 
date that it ceases.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled 
by the Company. Control exists when 
the Company has the power, directly 
or indirectly, to direct the activities of 
an entity so as to significantly affect 
the returns of that entity.
Changes in the group’s ownership 
interest in a subsidiary that do not result 
in a loss of control are accounted for 
within equity.
All the group’s joint arrangements 
are joint ventures, which are entities 
over whose activities the group has joint 
control, typically established by contractual 
agreement and requiring the venturers’ 
unanimous consent for strategic financial 
and operating decisions.
Associates are those entities in which 
the group has significant influence, being 
the power to participate in the financial 
and operating policy decisions of the 
entity, but which does not amount 
to control or joint control.
Where the group’s share of losses 
exceeds its interest in a joint venture 
or associate, the carrying amount is 
reduced to zero and recognition of 
further losses is discontinued except 
to the extent that the group has 
incurred legal or constructive 
obligations or made payments on 
behalf of an investee.
Control, joint control and significant 
influence are generally assessed by 
reference to equity shareholdings 
and voting rights.
Business combinations
On the acquisition of a business, 
fair values are attributed to the 
identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired, reflecting 
conditions at the date of acquisition. 
Adjustments to fair values include those 
made to bring accounting policies into 
line with those of the group. Provisional 
fair values are finalised within 12 months 
of the business combination date and, 
where significant, are adjusted by 
restatement of the comparative period 
in which the acquisition occurred. 
Non-controlling interests are measured 
at the proportionate share of the net 
identifiable assets acquired.
Existing equity interests in the acquiree 
are remeasured to fair value as at the 
date of the business combination, 
with any resulting gain or loss taken 
to the income statement.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
103 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Goodwill arising on a business 
combination is the excess of the 
remeasured carrying amount of any 
existing equity interest plus the fair 
value of consideration payable for the 
additional stake over the fair value of 
the share of net identifiable assets and 
liabilities acquired (including separately 
identified intangible assets), net of 
non-controlling interests. Total 
consideration does not include 
acquisition costs, which are expensed 
as incurred. Contingent consideration 
is measured at fair value at the date 
of the business combination, classified 
as a liability or equity (usually as a 
liability), and subsequently accounted 
for in line with that classification. 
Changes in contingent consideration 
classified as a liability resulting other 
than from the finalisation of provisional 
fair values are accounted for in the 
income statement.
Revenue
Revenue represents the value of sales 
made to customers after deduction of 
discounts, sales taxes and a provision for 
returns. Discounts include sales rebates, 
price discounts, customer incentives, 
certain promotional activities and similar 
items. Revenue does not include sales 
between group companies. Revenue 
is recognised when the risks and 
rewards of the underlying products 
have been substantially transferred 
to the customer and when it can 
be measured reliably.
In the food businesses, revenue 
from the sale of goods is generally 
recognised on dispatch or delivery to 
customers, dependent on shipping 
terms. Discounts and returns are 
provided for as a reduction to revenue 
when sales are recorded, based on 
management’s best estimate of the 
amount required to meet claims 
by customers, taking into account 
contractual and legal obligations, 
historical trends and past experience.
In the retail business, revenue from 
the sale of goods is recognised when 
the customer purchases goods in-store. 
Returns are provided for as a reduction 
to revenue when sales are recorded, 
based on management’s best estimate 
of the amount required to meet claims 
by customers, taking into account 
historical trends and past experience.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are accounted for 
using the effective interest method. 
The group capitalises borrowing costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of 
qualifying items of property, plant 
and equipment as part of their cost. 
Interest capitalised is taxed under 
current or deferred tax as appropriate.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are defined as items 
of income and expenditure which are 
material and unusual in nature and 
which are considered to be of 
such significance that they require 
separate disclosure on the face 
of the income statement.
Adjusted profit and 
earnings measures
Adjusted operating profit is stated 
before amortisation of non-operating 
intangibles, profits less losses on 
disposal of non-current assets and 
exceptional items. Adjusted profit 
before tax is stated before amortisation 
of non-operating intangibles, profits 
less losses on disposal of non-current 
assets, profits less losses on sale and 
closure of businesses and exceptional 
items. Both measures are shown on 
the face of the income statement.
Adjusted earnings per share is 
shown in the notes and is stated 
before amortisation of non-operating 
intangibles, profits less losses on 
disposal of non-current assets, profits 
less losses on sale and closure of 
businesses and exceptional items 
together with the related tax effect.
Constant currency
Constant currency is derived by 
translating the prior year results at 
current year weighted average 
exchange rates.
Foreign currencies
In individual companies, transactions 
in foreign currencies are recorded 
at the rate of exchange at the date 
of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities in foreign currencies 
are translated at the rate prevailing 
at the balance sheet date. Any 
resulting differences are taken to 
the income statement.
On consolidation, assets and 
liabilities of foreign operations that 
are denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated into sterling at the rate 
of exchange at the balance sheet date. 
Income and expense items are 
translated into sterling at weighted 
average rates of exchange.
Differences arising from the 
retranslation of opening net assets 
of group companies, together with 
differences arising from the restatement 
of the net results of group companies 
from average rates to rates at the 
balance sheet date, are taken to the 
translation reserve in equity.
Pensions and other  
post-employment benefits
The group’s principal pension 
schemes are defined benefit plans. 
In addition the group has defined 
contribution plans and other unfunded 
post-employment liabilities. For defined 
benefit plans, the amount charged in 
the income statement is the cost of 
benefits accruing to employees over 
the year, plus any benefit improvements 
granted to members by the group 
during the year. It also includes net 
interest expense or income calculated 
by applying the liability discount rate 
to the net pension asset or liability. 
For each plan, the difference between 
market value of assets and present 
value of liabilities is disclosed as an 
asset or liability in the balance sheet. 
Any related deferred tax (to the extent 
recoverable) is disclosed separately in 
the balance sheet. Remeasurements 
are recognised immediately in other 
comprehensive income. Surpluses are 
recognised only to the extent that 
they are recoverable. Movements in 
irrecoverable surpluses are recognised 
immediately as remeasurements in 
other comprehensive income.
Contributions payable by the group 
in respect of defined contribution 
plans are charged to operating profit 
as incurred. Other unfunded 
post-employment liabilities are 
accounted for in the same way as 
defined benefit pension plans.
Share-based payments
The fair value of share awards at 
grant date is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase 
in equity, spread over the period 
during which the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the shares. 
The amount recognised is adjusted 
to reflect expected and actual levels 
of vesting except where the failure 
to vest is as a result of not meeting 
a market condition.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
104 Income tax
Income tax on profit or loss for the 
period comprises current and deferred 
tax. Income tax is recognised in the 
income statement except to the extent 
that it relates to items taken directly  
to equity.
Current tax is the tax expected to be 
payable on taxable income for the year, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted during the period, together 
with any adjustment to tax payable in 
respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using 
the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes. The 
following temporary differences are 
not provided for: initial recognition 
of goodwill; initial recognition of assets 
or liabilities affecting neither accounting 
nor taxable profit other than those 
acquired in a business combination; 
and differences relating to investments 
in subsidiaries to the extent that 
they will probably not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. The amount of 
deferred tax provided is based on 
the expected manner of realisation or 
settlement of the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only 
to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profits will be available 
against which the asset can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise 
from the distribution of dividends are 
recognised at the same time as the 
liability to pay the related dividend.
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities, 
except for other non-current investments 
and derivatives, are measured initially at fair 
value, plus directly attributable transaction 
costs, and thereafter at amortised cost. 
Other non-current investments (classified 
under other non-current receivables) 
comprise available-for-sale investments 
measured at market prices where 
available. Where quoted market prices 
in an active market are not available, 
and where fair value cannot be reliably 
measured, unquoted equity instruments 
are measured at cost less impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise 
bank and cash balances, call deposits 
and short-term investments with original 
maturities of three months or less. 
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on 
demand and form an integral part of the 
group’s cash management are included 
as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents for the purpose of the 
cash flow statement.
Derivatives
Derivatives are used to manage the 
group’s economic exposure to financial 
and commodity risks. The principal 
instruments used are foreign exchange 
and commodity contracts, futures, swaps 
or options (the ‘hedging instrument’). 
The group does not use derivatives 
for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are recognised in the 
balance sheet, at fair value, based on 
market prices or rates, or calculated 
using either discounted cash flow 
or option pricing models.
Changes in the value of derivatives 
are recognised in the income statement 
unless they qualify for hedge accounting, 
when recognition of any change in fair 
value depends on the nature of the 
item being hedged.
The purpose of hedge accounting is 
to mitigate the impact on the group’s 
income statement of changes in 
foreign exchange or interest rates 
and commodity prices, by matching 
the impact of the hedged risk and 
the hedging instrument in the 
income statement.
Changes in the value of derivatives 
used as hedges of future cash flows are 
recognised through other comprehensive 
income in the hedging reserve, with 
any ineffective portion recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
When the future cash flow results 
in the recognition of a non-financial 
asset or liability, the gains and losses 
previously recognised in the hedging 
reserve are included in the initial 
measurement of that asset or liability. 
Otherwise, gains and losses previously 
recognised in the hedging reserve 
are recognised in the income 
statement at the same time as 
the hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is discontinued 
when the hedging instrument expires 
or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss 
on the hedging instrument recognised 
in the hedging reserve is retained in 
the hedging reserve until the forecast 
transaction occurs. Gains or losses 
on hedging instruments relating 
to an underlying exposure that no 
longer exists are taken to the 
income statement.
Hedges of the group’s net investment in 
foreign operations principally comprise 
borrowings in the currency of the 
investment’s net assets.
The group economically hedges foreign 
currency exposure on recognised 
monetary assets and liabilities but does 
not normally seek hedge accounting. 
Any derivatives that the group holds 
to hedge this exposure are classified as 
‘held for trading’ within derivative assets 
and liabilities. Changes in the fair value 
of such derivatives and the foreign 
exchange gains and losses arising on 
the related monetary items are 
recognised within operating profit.
Intangible assets other than goodwill
Non-operating intangible assets are 
intangible assets that arise on business 
combinations and typically include 
technology, brands, customer 
relationships and grower agreements. 
Operating intangible assets are acquired 
in the ordinary course of business and 
typically include computer software, 
land use rights and emissions 
trading licences.
Intangible assets other than goodwill 
are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment charges.
Amortisation is charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of intangible 
assets from the date they are available 
for use. The estimated useful lives 
are generally deemed to be no 
longer than:
Technology and brands – up to 15 years
Customer relationships – up to 5 years
Grower agreements – up to 10 years
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
105 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Where the group is a lessor under 
an operating lease, the asset is 
capitalised within property, plant and 
equipment and depreciated over its 
useful economic life. Payments 
received under operating leases are 
recognised in the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease.
Biological assets
Non-current biological assets are 
sugar cane roots which are stated at 
cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment charges and included 
within property, plant and equipment. 
Depreciation is calculated using the 
same method as for property, plant 
and equipment.
Current biological assets are 
measured at fair value less costs  
to sell.
The basis of valuation for growing 
cane is estimated sucrose content 
valued at estimated sucrose price for 
the following season, less estimated 
costs for harvesting and transport.
When harvested, growing cane is 
transferred to inventory at fair value 
less costs to sell.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower 
of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
includes raw materials, direct labour 
and expenses and an appropriate 
proportion of production and other 
overheads, calculated on a first-in 
first-out basis.
Inventories for the retail businesses 
are valued at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value using the retail 
method, calculated on the basis of 
selling price less appropriate trading 
margin. All retail inventories are 
finished goods.
New accounting policies
The group has adopted early the 
amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant 
and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture 
which were not otherwise applicable 
until the 2017 financial year. This 
follows the acquisition of the remaining 
minority stake in Illovo Sugar Limited 
and the change of Illovo’s year end 
to 31 August to align it more closely 
with the rest of the group.
Goodwill
Goodwill is defined under ‘Business 
combinations’ on page 103. Certain 
commercial assets associated with the 
acquisition of a business are not capable 
of being recognised in the acquisition 
balance sheet. In such circumstances, 
goodwill is recognised, which may 
include, but is not necessarily limited 
to, workforce assets and the benefits 
of expected future synergies.
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject 
to an annual impairment review.
Research and development
Research expenditure is expensed as 
incurred. Development expenditure is 
capitalised if the product or process is 
technically and commercially feasible 
but is otherwise expensed as incurred. 
Capitalised development expenditure 
is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment charges.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group’s 
intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date to determine whether there is 
any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. For goodwill and 
intangibles without a finite life, the 
recoverable amount is estimated at  
least annually.
An impairment charge is recognised in 
the income statement whenever the 
carrying amount of an asset or its 
cash-generating unit (CGU) exceeds 
its recoverable amount.
Impairment charges recognised in 
respect of CGUs are allocated first to 
reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to that CGU and then 
to reduce the carrying amount of the 
other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of assets 
is the greater of their fair value less 
costs to sell and their value in use. In 
assessing value in use, estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. For an asset that 
does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, recoverable amount is 
determined for the CGU to which 
the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment
An impairment charge in respect of 
goodwill is not subsequently reversed. 
For other assets, an impairment charge 
is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount, but only to the 
extent that the new carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, 
net of depreciation or amortisation, 
if no impairment charge had 
been recognised.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment 
are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment charges.
Depreciation is charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of items of 
property, plant and equipment sufficient 
to reduce them to estimated residual 
value. Land is not depreciated. Estimated 
useful lives are generally deemed to 
be no longer than:
Freehold buildings 66 years
Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings
–  sugar factories, yeast plants, 
mills and bakeries 20 years
– other operations 12 years
Vehicles 10 years
Leases
A lease is an agreement whereby the 
lessor conveys to the lessee, in return 
for a payment or a series of payments, 
the right to use a specific asset for 
an agreed period of time.
Where the group is a lessee and has 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of an asset, the arrangement 
is considered a finance lease. Finance 
leases are recognised as assets of 
the group within property, plant and 
equipment at the inception of the 
lease at the lower of fair value and the 
present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Depreciation on leased assets 
is charged to the income statement 
on the same basis as owned assets. 
Payments made under finance leases 
are apportioned between capital 
repayments and interest expense 
charged to the income statement. Other 
leases where the group is a lessee are 
treated as operating leases. Payments 
made under operating leases are 
recognised in the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease, as is the benefit of 
lease incentives.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
106 The amendments bring bearer plants 
(which for the group are sugar cane 
roots) into the scope of IAS 16 rather 
than IAS 41. The previous valuation 
of these non-current biological assets 
is replaced by a cost or revaluation 
approach. The group has selected the 
historic cost approach as this removes 
subjective judgement from the accounting 
calculation. The change of policy has 
been applied retrospectively as if the 
amendments had always applied.
Sugar cane roots are now shown 
in the consolidated balance sheet at 
cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment charges as a separate 
category within property, plant and 
equipment. The net changes in fair 
value of sugar cane roots previously 
credited to the consolidated income 
statement have been reversed and 
replaced with historic cost depreciation. 
There is no net change to the consolidated 
cash flow statement, but the adjustment 
to profit before tax for the net change 
in fair value of sugar cane roots has 
been reversed and replaced with an 
adjustment for historic cost depreciation 
and increased capital expenditure.
The impact of the changes prior to 
the 2014 balance sheet date have been 
reflected in retained earnings in equity 
in the restated 2014 consolidated 
balance sheet, together with the 
related impact on non-controlling 
interests. In the 2014 consolidated 
balance sheet, non-current biological 
assets reduced from £96m to £36m 
and are now disclosed as sugar cane 
roots within property, plant and 
equipment. Deferred tax liabilities 
decreased from £266m to £251m. 
The reduction in consolidated net assets 
of £45m comprised £17m attributable 
to equity shareholders and £28m 
attributable to non-controlling interests.
In the 2015 consolidated income 
statement, the impact was an increase 
of £10m in cost of sales and a decrease 
of £2m in the overseas tax charge. 
Of the net reduction of £8m in profit 
after tax, £4m was attributable 
to equity shareholders and £4m to 
non-controlling interests. 2015 basic 
earnings and adjusted earnings per 
share both decreased by 0.5p, from 
67.3p to 66.8p, and 102.0p to 
101.5p, respectively.
In the 2015 consolidated balance sheet, 
non-current biological assets reduced 
from £83m to £30m. Deferred tax 
liabilities decreased from £233m to 
£220m. The reduction in consolidated 
net assets of £40m comprised £15m 
attributable to equity shareholders, 
with £(5)m reflected in the translation 
reserve and £20m in retained 
earnings, and £25m attributable 
to non-controlling interests.
In the 2015 consolidated cash flow 
statement, the previously reported 
£12m adjustment to profit before tax 
for the net change in fair value of 
sugar cane roots has been reversed 
and replaced with a £7m adjustment 
for historic cost depreciation and 
£9m of increased capital expenditure.
These adjustments affect only 
the Sugar operating segment and the 
Europe & Africa geographic segment.
There were no other changes to 
accounting policies during the year. 
The group is also assessing the 
impact of the following standards, 
interpretations and amendments that 
are not yet effective. Where already 
endorsed by the EU, these changes 
will be adopted on the effective 
dates noted. Where not yet endorsed 
by the EU, the adoption date is less 
certain. The standards effective in 2017 
are not expected to have any material 
effect on the group. The impact of 
the other standards is currently 
under review.
• Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification 
and Measurement of Share-based 
Payment Transactions effective 2019 
financial year (not yet endorsed by 
the EU)
• Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with 
IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts effective 
2019 financial year (not yet endorsed 
by the EU)
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 
2012–2014 effective 2017 financial year
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: 
Classification and Measurement 
effective 2019 financial year (not yet 
endorsed by the EU)
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 
and IAS 28: Investment Entities – 
Applying the Consolidation Exception 
effective 2017 financial year 
(endorsed by the EU since the 
balance sheet date)
• Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting 
for Acquisitions of Interests in 
Joint Operations effective 2017 
financial year
• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers effective 2019 financial 
year (endorsed by the EU since the 
balance sheet date)
• IFRS 16 Leases effective 2020 
financial year (not yet endorsed 
by the EU)
• Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure 
Initiative effective 2017 financial year
• Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure 
Initiative effective 2018 financial year 
(not yet endorsed by the EU)
• Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition 
of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised 
Losses effective 2018 financial year 
(not yet endorsed by the EU)
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: 
Clarification of Acceptable Methods 
of Depreciation and Amortisation 
effective 2017 financial year
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
107 ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
In applying the accounting policies 
detailed on pages 103 to 107, 
management has made estimates in a 
number of areas and the actual outcome 
may differ from those calculated. Key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
balance sheet date, with the potential for 
material adjustment to the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year, are set out below.
Forecasts and discount rates
The carrying values of a number of items 
on the balance sheet are dependent on 
estimates of future cash flows arising 
from the group’s operations which, 
in some circumstances, are discounted 
to arrive at a net present value.
Assessment for impairment involves 
comparing the book value of an asset 
with its recoverable amount (being the 
higher of value in use and fair value less 
costs to sell). Value in use is determined 
with reference to projected future cash 
flows discounted at an appropriate rate. 
Both the cash flows and the discount 
rate involve a significant degree of 
estimation uncertainty.
The realisation of deferred tax assets 
is dependent on the generation of 
sufficient future taxable profits. The 
group recognises deferred tax assets to 
the extent that it is considered probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available in the future. Deferred tax 
assets are reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer considered probable that 
the related tax benefit will be realised.
Post-retirement benefits
The group’s defined benefit pension 
schemes and similar arrangements are 
assessed annually in accordance with 
IAS 19. The accounting valuation, which 
has been assessed using assumptions 
determined with independent actuarial 
advice, resulted in a net liability of 
£303m being recognised as at 
17 September 2016. The size of this net 
liability is sensitive to the market value of 
the assets held by the schemes, to the 
discount rate used in assessing liabilities, 
to the actuarial assumptions (which 
include price inflation, rates of pension 
and salary increases, mortality and other 
demographic assumptions) and to the 
level of contributions. Further details are 
included in note 11.
Biological assets
In valuing growing cane, estimating 
sucrose content requires management to 
assess expected cane and sucrose yields 
for the following season considering 
weather conditions and harvesting 
programmes; estimating sucrose price 
requires management to assess into 
which markets the forthcoming crop will 
be sold and assess domestic and export 
prices as well as related foreign currency 
exchange rates. The carrying value of 
growing cane is disclosed in note 16.
Taxation
The group makes provision for open 
tax issues including, in a number of 
jurisdictions, routine tax audits which are 
by nature complex and can take a number 
of years to resolve. Provisions are based 
on management’s interpretation of tax 
law in each country and reflect the 
best estimate of the liability. The group 
believes it has made adequate provision 
for such matters.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
108 Geographical information
In addition to the required disclosure for operating segments, disclosure is also given of certain geographical information about 
the group’s operations, based on the geographical groupings: United Kingdom; Europe & Africa; The Americas; and Asia Pacific.
Revenues are shown by reference to the geographical location of customers. Profits are shown by reference to the geographical 
location of the businesses. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Revenue
Adjusted
operating profit
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Operating segments    
Grocery 3,274 3,177 304 285 
Sugar 1,798 1,818 34 33 
Agriculture 1,084 1,211 58 60 
Ingredients 1,294 1,247 93 76 
Retail 5,949 5,347 689 673 
Central – – (60) (45) 
13,399 12,800 1,118 1,082 
Geographical information  
United Kingdom 5,375 5,444 484 535 
Europe & Africa 4,564 4,080 364 325 
The Americas 1,403 1,269 168 148 
Asia Pacific 2,057 2,007 102 74 
13,399 12,800 1,118 1,082 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
1. Operating segments
The group has five operating segments, 
as described below. These are the 
group’s operating divisions, based on 
the management and internal reporting 
structure, which combine businesses 
with common characteristics, primarily 
in respect of the type of products 
offered by each business, but also the 
production processes involved and the 
manner of the distribution and sale of 
goods. The board is the chief operating 
decision-maker.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on 
an arm’s length basis. Segment result 
is adjusted operating profit, as shown 
on the face of the consolidated income 
statement. Segment assets comprise 
all non-current assets except employee 
benefits assets, income tax assets 
and deferred tax assets, and all current 
assets except cash and cash equivalents. 
Segment liabilities comprise trade and 
other payables, derivative liabilities 
and provisions. 
Segment results, assets and liabilities 
include items directly attributable to 
a segment as well as those that can 
be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Unallocated items comprise mainly 
corporate assets and expenses, cash, 
borrowings, employee benefits balances 
and current and deferred tax balances. 
Segment non-current asset additions 
are the total cost incurred during the 
period to acquire segment assets that 
are expected to be used for more than 
one year, comprising property, plant 
and equipment, operating intangibles 
and biological assets.
Segment assets and liabilities are 
presented before the reclassification 
of assets and liabilities held for sale.
The group is comprised of the following 
operating segments:
Grocery
The manufacture of grocery  
products, including hot beverages,  
sugar & sweeteners, vegetable oils, 
bread & baked goods, cereals, ethnic 
foods, herbs & spices, and meat 
products, which are sold to retail, 
wholesale and foodservice businesses.
Sugar
The growing and processing of sugar 
beet and sugar cane for sale to industrial 
users and to Silver Spoon, which is 
included in the grocery segment.
Agriculture
The manufacture of animal feeds and  
the provision of other products and 
services for the agriculture sector.
Ingredients
The manufacture of bakers’ yeast, 
bakery ingredients, enzymes, lipids, 
yeast extracts and cereal specialities.
Retail
Buying and merchandising value  
clothing and accessories through the 
Primark and Penneys retail chains.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
109 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
1. Operating segments continued
For the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Grocery
£m
Sugar
£m
Agriculture
£m
Ingredients
£m
Retail
£m
Central
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from continuing businesses 3,277 1,898 1,090 1,444 5,949 (259) 13,399
Internal revenue (3) (100) (6) (150) – 259 –
Revenue from external customers 3,274 1,798 1,084 1,294 5,949 – 13,399
Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures  
and associates 272 32 44 84 689 (60) 1,061
Share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates 32 2 14 9 – – 57
Adjusted operating profit 304 34 58 93 689 (60) 1,118
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets 3 8 – – – – 11
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles (19) (1) – (1) – – (21)
Exceptional item – (5) – – – – (5)
Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses – – – (5) – (9) (14)
Profit before interest 288 36 58 87 689 (69) 1,089
Finance income 6 6
Finance expense (56) (56)
Other financial income 3 3
Taxation (221) (221)
Profit for the period 288 36 58 87 689 (337) 821
Segment assets (excluding joint ventures and associates) 2,503 2,139 333 1,359 3,942 95 10,371
Investments in joint ventures and associates 52 21 129 58 – – 260
Segment assets 2,555 2,160 462 1,417 3,942 95 10,631
Cash and cash equivalents 581 581
Income tax 13 13
Deferred tax assets 145 145
Employee benefits assets 6 6
Segment liabilities (522) (498) (106) (274) (1,166) (156) (2,722)
Loans and overdrafts (896) (896)
Income tax (147) (147)
Deferred tax liabilities (180) (180)
Employee benefits liabilities (309) (309)
Net assets 2,033 1,662 356 1,143 2,776 (848) 7,122
       
Non-current asset additions 116 141 27 69 466 9 828
Depreciation (98) (78) (10) (47) (202) (4) (439)
Amortisation (38) (4) (1) (3) – (1) (47)
Exceptional item – (5) – – – – (5)
       
Geographical information  
United
Kingdom
£m
Europe
& Africa
£m
The
Americas
£m
Asia
Pacific
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from external customers  5,375 4,564 1,403 2,057 13,399
Segment assets  4,108 3,804 1,239 1,480 10,631
Non-current asset additions  315 349 99 65 828
Depreciation (195) (144) (35) (65) (439)
Amortisation  (30) (4) (3) (10) (47)
Exceptional item – (5) – – (5)
Segment disclosures given above are stated before reclassification of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale (see note 14).
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
110 1. Operating segments continued
For the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2015 (restated)
Grocery
£m
Sugar
£m
Agriculture
£m
Ingredients
£m
Retail
£m
Central
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from continuing businesses 3,179 1,887 1,213 1,402 5,347 (228) 12,800 
Internal revenue (2) (69) (2) (155) – 228 – 
Revenue from external customers 3,177 1,818 1,211 1,247 5,347 – 12,800 
       
Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures  
and associates 259 33 48 66  673 (45) 1,034 
Share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates 26 – 12 10  – – 48 
Adjusted operating profit 285 33 60 76  673 (45) 1,082 
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets 19 3 1 –  (8) (7) 8 
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles (19) (35) – (1)  – – (55) 
Exceptional item – (98) – – – – (98)
Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses 6 (181) 3 –  – – (172) 
Profit before interest 291 (278) 64 75  665 (52) 765 
Finance income     8 8 
Finance expense      (61) (61) 
Other financial expense (5) (5)
Taxation      (191) (191) 
Profit for the period 291 (278) 64 75 665  (301) 516 
Segment assets (excluding joint ventures and associates) 2,369 2,016 318 1,142 3,126  84 9,055 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 22 17 125 48 –  – 212 
Segment assets 2,391 2,033 443 1,190 3,126  84 9,267
Cash and cash equivalents     702 702 
Deferred tax assets     125 125 
Employee benefits assets     125 125 
Segment liabilities (451) (391) (115) (230) (1,034) (104) (2,325) 
Loans and overdrafts     (896) (896) 
Income tax     (126) (126) 
Deferred tax liabilities     (220) (220) 
Employee benefits liabilities     (141) (141) 
Net assets 1,940 1,642 328 960 2,092 (451) 6,511 
       
Non-current asset additions 104 130 17  58 351 6 666 
Depreciation (94) (83) (9) (45) (173) (4) (408) 
Amortisation (37) (39) (2)  (3) – – (81) 
Exceptional item – (98) – – – – (98)
Impairment of goodwill on disposal of business – (46) –  – – – (46) 
Impairment of intangible on closure of business – (11) – – – – (11)
       
Geographical information  
United
Kingdom
£m
Europe
& Africa
£m
The
Americas
£m
Asia
Pacific
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from external customers  5,444 4,080 1,269 2,007 12,800
Segment assets  3,977 3,006 1,009 1,275 9,267
Non-current asset additions  216 298 91 61 666
Depreciation  (185) (125) (27) (71) (408)
Amortisation  (29) (38) (4) (10) (81)
Exceptional item (98) – – – (98)
Impairment of goodwill on disposal of business  – – – (46) (46)
Impairment of intangible on closure of business – – (11) – (11)
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
111 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
2. Operating costs
Note
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Operating costs   
Cost of sales (including amortisation of intangibles) 10,258 9,781
Distribution costs 1,265 1,259
Administration expenses 836 781
Exceptional item 5 98
 12,364 11,919
Operating costs are stated after charging/(crediting):  
Employee benefits expense 3 2,208 2,058 
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles 8 21 55 
Amortisation of operating intangibles 8 26 26 
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets (11) (8) 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9 439 408 
Exceptional impairment of non-current loans and receivables – 98 
Exceptional charge 5 –
Operating lease payments under property leases 222 192 
Operating lease payments for hire of plant and equipment 14 14 
Other operating income (19) (25) 
Research and development expenditure 36 37 
Fair value gains on financial assets and liabilities held for trading (12) (11) 
Fair value losses on financial assets and liabilities held for trading 16 12 
Foreign exchange gains on operating activities (55) (68) 
Foreign exchange losses on operating activities 58 69 
The exceptional item in 2016 is a charge of £5m for costs associated with the buyout of the Illovo Sugar Limited non-controlling 
interests.
In 2015, the exceptional item was a £98m non-cash charge to impair the group’s shareholder loans to Vivergo Fuels which, at the 
time of the impairment, was a joint venture in which the group’s equity interest was 47%. Vivergo Fuels is based in the UK and 
is included in the Sugar segment. The impairment was a consequence of the continuing fall in crude oil and bioethanol prices 
and the further weakening of the euro against sterling, both of which affected the group’s assessment of the recoverability 
of the shareholder loans. An exceptional tax credit of £22m arose on this item.
Auditors’ remuneration 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of the audit   
Group audit of these financial statements 0.7 0.7 
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries’ financial statements 4.8 4.9 
Total audit remuneration 5.5 5.6 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of non-audit related services 
Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.3 
Tax compliance services 0.5 0.6 
Tax advisory services 0.3 0.9 
Information technology services – 0.2 
All other services 0.1 0.3 
Total non-audit related remuneration 1.2 2.3 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of the group’s 
pension schemes 
Audit of the pension schemes – 0.1 
 – 0.1 
In 2016 the Company’s auditor was Ernst & Young LLP (2015 – KPMG LLP).
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
112 3. Employees
 2016 2015 
Average number of employees   
United Kingdom 43,954 42,416 
Europe & Africa 64,308 60,629 
The Americas 5,284 4,421 
Asia Pacific 16,370 16,570 
 129,916 124,036 
  
Note £m £m
Employee benefits expense  
Wages and salaries 1,866 1,723 
Social security contributions 216 201 
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 11 74 76 
Charge for defined benefit schemes 11 45 47 
Equity-settled share-based payment schemes 23 7 11 
 2,208 2,058 
Details of directors’ remuneration, share incentives and pension entitlements are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 
69 to 87.
4. Interest and other financial income and expense
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Finance income   
Cash and cash equivalents 6 8 
 6 8 
Finance expense  
Bank loans and overdrafts (26) (34) 
All other borrowings (28) (25) 
Finance leases (1) (1) 
Other payables (1) (1) 
 (56) (61) 
Other financial income/(expense)  
Expected return on employee benefit scheme assets 11 135 140 
Interest charge on employee benefit scheme liabilities 11 (134) (139) 
Interest charge on irrecoverable surplus 11 (1) (1) 
Net financial income from employee benefit schemes – – 
Net foreign exchange gains/(losses) on financing activities 3 (5) 
Total other financial income/(expense)  3 (5) 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
113 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
5. Income tax expense
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Current tax expense 
UK – corporation tax at 20.0% (2015 – 20.5%) 85 74 
Overseas – corporation tax 142 109 
UK – under/(over) provided in prior periods 6 (10) 
Overseas – overprovided in prior periods (17) (15) 
216 158 
Deferred tax expense 
UK deferred tax (14) (6) 
Overseas deferred tax 28 23 
UK – (over)/under provided in prior periods (4) 8 
Overseas – (over)/under provided in prior periods (5) 8 
5 33 
Total income tax expense in income statement 221 191 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 
Profit before taxation 1,042 707 
Less share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates (57) (48) 
Profit before taxation excluding share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates 985 659 
Nominal tax charge at UK corporation tax rate of 20.0% (2015 – 20.5%) 197 135 
Effect of higher and lower tax rates on overseas earnings 5 (29) 
Effect of changes in tax rates on income statement (6) 3 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 38 58 
Disposal of assets covered by tax exemptions or unrecognised capital losses (1) 23 
Deferred tax not recognised 8 10 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (20) (9) 
221 191
Income tax recognised directly in equity 
Deferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes (50) 5 
Current tax associated with defined benefit schemes (1) – 
Deferred tax associated with share-based payments 2 – 
Current tax associated with share-based payments (1) (4) 
Deferred tax associated with movement in cash flow hedging position (4) (11) 
Deferred tax associated with movements in foreign exchange (8) (2) 
Current tax associated with movements in foreign exchange (1) (1) 
(63) (13) 
The UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015 and further reductions to 19% and 17% have also 
now been enacted which will take effect in April 2017 and April 2020 respectively. Accordingly, UK deferred tax has been calculated 
using these rates as appropriate.
In 2015, a tax credit of £22m arose on the exceptional impairment charge, which was included in UK current tax.
Deferred taxation balances are analysed in note 12.
6. Dividends
2016
pence
per share
2015
pence
per share
2016
£m
2015
£m
2014 final – 24.30 – 192 
2015 interim – 10.00 – 79 
2015 final 25.00 – 198 –
2016 interim 10.30 – 81 –
35.30 34.30 279 271 
The 2016 interim dividend was declared on 19 April 2016 and paid on 1 July 2016. The 2016 final dividend of 26.45 pence, 
total value of £209m, will be paid on 13 January 2017 to shareholders on the register on 16 December 2016.
Dividends relating to the period were 36.75 pence per share totalling £290m (2015 – 35.00 pence per share totalling £277m).
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
114 7. Earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 17 September 2016 was based on the net profit attributable to equity shareholders 
of £818m (2015 restated – £528m), and a weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year of 791 million (2015 – 
790 million). The calculation of the weighted average number of shares excludes the shares held by the Employee Share 
Ownership Plan Trust on which the dividends are being waived.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share, which exclude the impact of exceptional items, profits less losses on disposal of 
non-current assets and the sale and closure of businesses, amortisation of non-operating intangibles and any associated tax 
credits, is shown to provide clarity on the underlying performance of the group.
The diluted earnings per share calculation takes into account the dilutive effect of share incentives. The diluted, weighted 
average number of shares is 791 million (2015 – 790 million). There is no difference between basic and diluted earnings.
2016
£m
2015
(restated)
£m
Adjusted profit for the period 840 802 
Disposal of non-current assets 11 8 
Sale and closure of businesses (14) (172) 
Exceptional item (5) (98)
Tax effect on above adjustments 1 19 
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles (21) (55) 
Tax credit on non-operating intangibles amortisation and goodwill 5 8 
Non-controlling interests’ share of the above adjustments 1 16 
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 818 528 
2016
pence
2015
(restated)
pence
Adjusted earnings per share 106.2 101.5 
Disposal of non-current assets 1.4 1.0 
Sale and closure of businesses (1.8) (21.7) 
Exceptional item (0.6) (12.4) 
Tax effect on above adjustments 0.1 2.4 
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles (2.6) (7.0) 
Tax credit on non-operating intangibles amortisation and goodwill 0.6 1.0 
Non-controlling interests’ share of the above adjustments 0.1 2.0 
Earnings per ordinary share 103.4 66.8 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
115 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
8. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Non-operating Operating
Total
£m
Technology
£m
Brands
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Grower
agreements
£m
Other
£m
Other
£m
Cost        
At 13 September 2014 1,223 195 362 97 123 6 248 2,254
Acquisitions – externally purchased – – – – – – 42 42 
Acquired through business combinations 5 – 45 8 – – – 58
Businesses disposed (46) – – – – – (11) (57)
Other disposals –  – – – – – (16) (16) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (36)  (15) (5) (10) (18) (1) (14) (99) 
At 12 September 2015 1,146  180 402 95 105 5 249 2,182 
Acquisitions – externally purchased – – – – – – 38 38
Acquired through business combinations 3 – 2 – – – – 5
Other disposals – – – – – – (7) (7)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (119) – (52) – – – (13) (184)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 107 28 32 14 13 1 36 231
At 17 September 2016 1,137 208 384 109 118 6 303 2,265
Amortisation and impairment        
At 13 September 2014 33 195 255 93 99 6 106 787
Amortisation for the year – – 29 2 24 – 26 81 
Businesses disposed – – – – – – (2) (2)
Impairment on closure of business – – – – – – 11 11
Other disposals – – – – – – (5) (5) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (15) (4) (10) (18) (1) (9) (57) 
At 12 September 2015 33 180 280 85 105 5 127 815 
Amortisation for the year – – 18 3 – – 26 47
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (1) – (52) – – – (4) (57)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 3 28 32 13 13 1 22 112
At 17 September 2016 35 208 278 101 118 6 171 917
Net book value        
At 13 September 2014 1,190 – 107 4 24 – 142 1,467
At 12 September 2015 1,113  – 122  10 – – 122 1,367 
At 17 September 2016 1,102 – 106 8 – – 132 1,348
Impairment
As at 17 September 2016, the consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of £1,220m (2015 – £1,113m), of which £118m is 
classified as held for sale (see note 14). Goodwill is allocated to the group’s cash-generating units (CGUs), or groups of CGUs, 
that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill, as follows:
CGU or group of CGUs Primary reporting segment Discount rate
2016
£m
2015
£m
ACH Grocery 9.8% 292 248 
AB Mauri Ingredients 12.1% 308 268 
Twinings Ovaltine Grocery 9.5% 119 119 
Capullo Grocery 13.4% 46 58 
Illovo Sugar 18.3% 114 102 
AB World Foods Grocery 10.8% 78 78 
Other (not individually significant) Various Various 263 240 
  1,220 1,113 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
116 8. Intangible assets continued
A CGU, or group of CGUs, to which goodwill has been allocated must be assessed for impairment annually, or more frequently 
if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The carrying value of goodwill is assessed by reference to its value in use to perpetuity reflecting the projected cash flows of 
each of the CGUs or group of CGUs. These projections are based on the most recent budget, which has been approved by the 
board and reflects management’s expectations of sales growth, operating costs and margin, based on past experience and 
external sources of information. Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the annual budget reflect the products, 
industries and countries in which the relevant CGU, or group of CGUs, operate.
For some recently acquired intangible assets, management expects to achieve growth over the next three to five years in excess 
of the long-term growth rates for the applicable country or region. In these circumstances, budgeted cash flows are extended, 
generally to between three and five years, using specific growth assumptions and taking into account the specific business risks.
The key assumptions in the most recent annual budget on which the cash flow projections are based relate to discount rates, 
growth rates and expected changes in volumes, selling prices and direct costs.
The cash flow projections have been discounted using the group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country, 
industry and market risk. The rates used were between 8.6% and 18.3% (2015 – between 9.5% and 14.8%).
The growth rates to perpetuity beyond the initial budgeted cash flows, applied in the value in use calculations for goodwill 
allocated to each of the CGUs or groups of CGUs that are significant to the total carrying amount of goodwill, were in a range 
between 0% and 4%, consistent with the inflation factors included in the discount rates applied (2015 – between 0% and 4%).
Changes in volumes, selling prices and direct costs are based on past results and expectations of future changes in the market.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of 
future cash flows, the discount rates selected and expected long-term growth rates. Each of the group’s CGUs had significant 
headroom under the annual impairment review.
Notwithstanding a further substantial improvement in profit in the current year, AB Mauri continued to experience competitive 
pricing pressure in a number of markets around the world as well as challenging macroeconomic conditions in some markets, 
including high inflation rates and currency devaluations. Accordingly, management has again undertaken an impairment review. 
Detailed forecasts for a period of ten years to reflect the time required for completion of the dry yeast production strategy were 
prepared and management concluded that the assets were not impaired. Key drivers of the forecast improvement in performance 
include achievement of price increases in high inflation environments, improved reach and competitiveness in the global dry yeast 
market, implementation of a number of margin improvement initiatives, particularly in cost reduction, and continuing growth in 
the global bakery ingredients business. Headroom was $551m on a CGU carrying value of $911m (2015 – headroom of $190m 
on a CGU carrying value of $947m). The geographic diversity and varying local economic environments of AB Mauri’s operations 
mean that the critical assumptions underlying the detailed forecasts used in the impairment model are wide ranging. It is therefore 
impractical to provide meaningful sensitivities to these assumptions other than the discount rate. The discount rate used was 
12.1% (2015 – 14.7%) and would have to increase to more than 17.0% (2015 – 16.7%) before value in use fell below the CGU 
carrying value. Estimates of long-term growth rates beyond the forecast periods were 2%–3% (2015 – 2%–3%) per annum 
dependent on location.
For all goodwill other than AB Mauri, management has concluded that no reasonably possible change in key assumptions 
on which it has determined value in use would cause carrying values to materially exceed value in use.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
117 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
9. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
machinery
£m
Fixtures and
fittings
£m
Assets under
construction
£m
Sugar cane
roots
£m
Total
£m
Cost     
At 13 September 2014 as originally stated 2,344 3,275 1,856 149 – 7,624
Impact of change in accounting policy (see page 106) – – – – 63 63
At 13 September 2014 restated 2,344 3,275 1,856 149 63 7,687
Acquisitions – externally purchased (restated) 76 114 299 125 10 624 
Acquired through business combinations 2 2 – – – 4 
Businesses disposed (28) (46) – – – (74)
Other disposals (restated) (57) (45) (35) – (4) (141) 
Transfers from assets under construction 21 107 3 (131) – – 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (restated) (103) (223) (74) (18) (17) (435) 
At 12 September 2015 restated 2,255 3,184 2,049 125 52 7,665 
Acquisitions – externally purchased 37 103 419 218 8 785
Interest capitalised – – – 5 – 5
Acquired through business combinations 1 – – – – 1
Other disposals (9) (25) (7) – (3) (44)
Transfers from assets under construction 30 123 3 (156) – –
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (94) (177) (1) (3) – (275)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 190 330 202 15 3 740
At 17 September 2016 2,410 3,538 2,665 204 60 8,877
Depreciation and impairment     
At 13 September 2014 as originally stated 520 1,727 712 – – 2,959
Impact of change in accounting policy (see page 106) – – – – 27 27
At 13 September 2014 restated 520 1,727 712 – 27 2,986
Depreciation for the year (restated) 42 195 164 – 7 408 
Businesses disposed (9) (18) – – – (27)
Other disposals (restated) (14) (26) (35) – (4) (79) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (restated) (43) (74) (16) – (8) (141) 
At 12 September 2015 restated 496 1,804 825 – 22 3,147 
Depreciation for the year 46 194 194 – 5 439
Other disposals (2) (3) (7) – (3) (15)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (41) (130) (1) – – (172)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 59 203 69 – 2 333
At 17 September 2016 558 2,068 1,080 – 26 3,732
Net book value     
At 13 September 2014 restated 1,824 1,548 1,144 149 36 4,701
At 12 September 2015 restated 1,759 1,380 1,224 125 30 4,518 
At 17 September 2016 1,852 1,470 1,585 204 34 5,145
2016
£m
2015
£m
Net book value of finance lease assets 12 11 
Land and buildings at net book value comprise: 
– freehold 1,453 1,360 
– long leasehold 326 301 
– short leasehold 73 98 
1,852 1,759 
Capital expenditure commitments – contracted but not provided for 498 323 
Land and buildings at net book value classified as held for sale comprise £23m of freehold and £30m of short leasehold.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
118 9. Property, plant and equipment continued
Impairment
The methodology used to assess property, plant and equipment for impairment is the same as that described for impairment 
assessments of goodwill. See note 8 for further details.
An impairment of A$150m (£98m) was recorded in 2012 in the Australian meat business. Further progress was made in the 
current year with volume growth, a focus on higher margin products, further reduction in manufacturing costs and improving 
efficiency. Following a detailed assessment, management has concluded that the carrying value of the assets in the meat 
business is not further impaired. Headroom was A$78m on a CGU carrying value of A$273m (2015 – headroom of A$30m  
on a CGU carrying value of A$284m). The discount rate used was 9.7% (2015 – 10.5%). Estimates of long-term growth rates 
beyond the forecast periods were 2.0% (2015 – 2.0%) per annum. A sensitivity of plus or minus 1% applied to volume 
assumptions after 2017 impacts headroom by plus or minus A$65m.
Low bread prices and strong continuing competition in the UK bakery sector led to low profitability at Allied Bakeries and resulted  
in the need for an assessment of impairment. Headroom was £43m on a CGU carrying value of £281m (2015 – headroom of 
£27m on a CGU carrying value of £294m). The discount rate used was 10.4% (2015 – 11.0%). Estimates of long-term growth 
rates beyond the forecast periods were 0.4%. A sensitivity of plus or minus 1% applied to bread prices impacts headroom by  
plus or minus £25m.
10. Investments in joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures
£m
Associates
£m
At 13 September 2014 180 32
Transfer to subsidiary 4 –
Profit for the period 44 4
Dividends received (47) (3) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (1) (1) 
At 12 September 2015 180 32 
Profit for the period 51 6
Dividends received (22) (3)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 12 4
At 17 September 2016 221 39
Details of joint ventures and associates are listed in note 29.
Included in the consolidated financial statements are the following items that represent the group’s share of the assets, 
liabilities and profit of joint ventures and associates:
Joint ventures Associates
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current assets 95 75 19 15
Current assets 316 296 195 157
Current liabilities (188) (166) (171) (139) 
Non-current liabilities (21) (42) (5) (2) 
Goodwill 19 17 1 1
Net assets 221 180 39 32
  
Revenue 1,268 1,245 576 526
  
Profit for the period 51 44 6 4
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
119 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
11. Employee entitlements
The group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement benefit schemes in the UK and overseas. 
The defined benefit schemes expose the group to a variety of actuarial risks including demographic assumptions such as 
mortality and financial assumptions such as discount rate, inflation risk and market (investment) risk. The group is not exposed  
to any unusual, entity-specific or scheme-specific risks. All schemes comply with local legislative requirements.
UK defined benefit scheme
The group’s principal UK defined benefit scheme is the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme, which is a funded final salary 
scheme that is closed to new members. Defined contribution arrangements are in place for other employees. The UK defined 
benefit schemes represent 91% (2015 – 92%) of the group’s defined benefit scheme assets and 88% (2015 – 89%) of defined 
benefit scheme liabilities. The Scheme is governed by a trustee board which is independent of the group and which agrees 
a schedule of contributions with the Company each time a formal funding valuation is performed.
The most recent triennial funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 5 April 2014, using the current unit method, 
and revealed a surplus of £79m. The market value of Scheme assets was £3,085m, representing 103% of members’ accrued 
benefits after allowing for expected future salary increases.
The Scheme’s assets are managed using a risk-controlled investment strategy, which includes a liability-driven investment policy 
that seeks to match, where appropriate, the profile of the liabilities. This includes the use of derivative instruments to hedge 
inflation, interest and foreign exchange risks. The Scheme utilises both market and solvency triggers to develop the level 
of hedges in place. To date, the Scheme is fully hedged for 48% of inflation sensitivity and 21% of interest rate risk. It is 
intended to hedge 80% of total exposure.
The Scheme is forbidden by the trust deed from holding direct investments in the equity of the Company, although it is possible  
that the Scheme may hold indirect interests through investments in some equity funds. The Scheme owned the freehold of 
an office building in London which was leased to the group at an open market rent. The property was sold during the year. 
The fair value of this building in 2015 was £7m.
Overseas defined benefit schemes
The group also operates defined benefit retirement schemes in a number of overseas businesses, which are primarily funded 
final salary schemes, as well as a small number of unfunded post-retirement medical benefit schemes, which are accounted 
for in the same way as defined benefit retirement schemes.
Defined contribution schemes
The group operates a number of defined contribution schemes for which the charge was £36m in the UK and £38m overseas, 
totalling £74m (2015 – UK £36m, overseas £40m, total £76m).
Actuarial assumptions
The principal actuarial assumptions for the group’s defined benefit schemes at the year end were:
2016
UK
%
2016
Overseas
%
2015
UK
%
2015
Overseas
%
Discount rate 2.5 0.2–16.2 3.8 0.9–16.3 
Inflation 2.1–3.1 0–9.2 2.8–3.3 0–7.4 
Rate of increase in salaries 3.1 0–12.0 3.8 0–12.0 
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.2–2.9 0–6.5 2.3–3.1 0–4.5 
Rate of increase for pensions in deferment (where provided) 2.1 0–2.0 2.4–2.8 0–2.0 
The mortality assumptions used to value the UK defined benefit schemes in both years are derived from the S2 mortality tables 
with improvements in line with the 2015 projection model (2015 – 2013 projection model) prepared by the Continuous Mortality 
Investigation of the UK actuarial profession, with no rating for males and a +0.7-year rating down for females, both with a 
long-term trend of 1.25% (2015 – 1.5%). These mortality assumptions take account of experience to date, and assumptions for 
further improvements in life expectancy of scheme members. Examples of the resulting life expectancies in the UK defined 
benefit schemes are as follows:
Life expectancy from age 65 (in years)
2016 2015
Male Female Male Female
Member aged 65 in 2016 (2015) 22.2 24.8 22.7 25.4 
Member aged 65 in 2036 (2035) 23.9 26.7 25.0 27.7 
An allowance has been made for cash commutation in line with emerging scheme experience. Other demographic assumptions 
for the UK defined benefit schemes are set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data. 
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic funding valuation of the schemes.
For the overseas schemes, regionally appropriate assumptions for mortality, financial and demographic factors have been used.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
120 11. Employee entitlements continued
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure UK defined benefit scheme liabilities at 17 September 2016 is:
Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate decrease/increase by 0.5% increase/decrease by 10.2%
Inflation increase/decrease by 0.5% increase/decrease by 8.9%
Rate of increase in salaries increase/decrease by 0.5% increase/decrease by 2.0%
Rate of mortality reduce by one year increase by 3.4%
A sensitivity to the rate of increase in pensions in payment and pensions in deferment is represented by the inflation sensitivity, 
as all pensions increases and deferred revaluations are linked to inflation.
The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes in the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the period and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the specific 
assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivities, the same method used to calculate 
scheme liabilities recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The method and assumptions used in preparing the 
sensitivity analysis have not changed since the prior year.
Balance sheet
2016 2015
UK
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Equities 1,278 162 1,440 1,213 127 1,340 
Government bonds 974 41 1,015 669 36 705 
Corporate and other bonds 558 73 631 627 56 683 
Property 295 16 311 259 10 269 
Cash and other assets 534 61 595 575 62 637 
Scheme assets 3,639 353 3,992 3,343 291 3,634 
Scheme liabilities (3,777) (507) (4,284) (3,253) (391) (3,644) 
Aggregate net deficit (138) (154) (292) 90 (100) (10) 
Irrecoverable surplus* – (11) (11) – (6) (6) 
Net pension (liability)/asset (138) (165) (303) 90 (106) (16) 
   
Analysed as   
Schemes in surplus – 6 6 120  5 125 
Schemes in deficit (138) (171) (309) (30)  (111) (141) 
(138) (165) (303) 90  (106) (16) 
   
Unfunded liability included in the present value of scheme 
liabilities above (42) (58) (100) (30) (43) (73) 
*  The surpluses in the plans are only recoverable to the extent that the group can benefit from either refunds formally agreed 
or from future contribution reductions.
Included within the group’s overseas net pension liabilities analysed above is a deficit of £13m (£25m of assets and £38m 
of liabilities) which is classified as held for sale (2015 – £nil), see note 14.
Corporate and other bonds relating to UK schemes of £558m (2015 – £627m) include £52m (2015 – £49m) of assets whose 
valuation is not derived from quoted market prices. The valuation for all other equity assets, government bonds, corporate and 
other bonds is derived from quoted market prices. The carrying value of UK property assets is based on a 31 March market 
valuation, adjusted for purchases, disposals and price indexation between the valuation and the balance sheet dates. Cash 
and other assets contains £296m (2015 – £185m) of assets whose valuation is not derived from quoted market prices.
For financial reporting in the group’s accounts, liabilities are assessed by actuaries using the projected unit method. The 
accounting value is different from the result obtained using the funding basis, mainly due to different assumptions used to 
project scheme liabilities.
The defined benefit scheme liabilities comprise 30% (2015 – 28%) in respect of active participants, 24% (2015 – 23%) for 
deferred participants and 46% (2015 – 49%) for pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit scheme liabilities at the end of the year is 20 years for both UK and overseas 
schemes (2015 – 18 years for both UK and overseas schemes).
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
121 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
11. Employee entitlements continued
Income statement
The charge to the income statement for employee benefit schemes comprises:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Charged to operating profit:  
Defined benefit schemes
Current service cost (44) (48)
Past service cost (1) (2)
Gain on settlements – 3
Defined contribution schemes (74) (76) 
Total operating cost (119) (123) 
Reported in other financial expense: 
Net interest income on the net pension asset/(liability) 1 1 
Interest charge on irrecoverable surplus (1) (1)
Net impact on profit before tax (119) (123) 
Cash flow
Group cash flow in respect of employee benefits schemes comprises contributions paid to funded schemes of £38m (2015 – £39m) 
and benefits paid in respect of unfunded schemes of £nil (2015 – £nil). Contributions to funded defined benefit schemes are subject 
to periodic review. Contributions to defined contribution schemes amounted to £74m (2015 – £76m).
Total contributions to funded schemes and benefit payments by the group in respect of unfunded schemes in 2017 are currently 
expected to be approximately £26m in the UK and £8m overseas, totalling £34m (2016 – UK £28m, overseas £9m, totalling £37m).
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurements of the net asset/liability recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest in the income statement 288 118 
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (805) (151) 
Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in demographic assumptions 257 (6) 
Experience gains on scheme liabilities 6 60 
Change in unrecognised surplus (4) 6 
Remeasurements of the net pension asset/liability (258) 27 
Reconciliation of change in assets and liabilities
2016
assets
£m
2015
assets
£m
2016
liabilities
£m
2015
liabilities
£m
2016
net
£m
2015
net
£m
At beginning of year 3,634 3,485 (3,644) (3,516) (10) (31) 
Current service cost – – (44) (48) (44) (48) 
Employee contributions 10 10 (10) (10) – – 
Employer contributions 38 39 – – 38 39 
Benefit payments (160) (135) 160 135 – – 
Settlements – (6) – 9 – 3 
Past service cost – – (1) (2) (1) (2) 
Interest income/(expense) 135 140 (134) (139) 1 1 
Return on scheme assets less interest income 288 118 – – 288 118 
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions – – (805) (151) (805) (151) 
Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions – – 257 (6) 257 (6) 
Experience gains on scheme liabilities – – 6 60 6 60 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 47 (17) (69) 24 (22) 7 
At end of year 3,992 3,634 (4,284) (3,644) (292) (10) 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
122 11. Employee entitlements continued
Reconciliation of change in irrecoverable surplus
2016
£m
2015
£m
At beginning of year (6) (12) 
Change recognised in other comprehensive income (4) 6 
Interest charge on irrecoverable surplus (1) (1)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – 1 
At end of year (11) (6) 
12. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Property,
plant and
equipment
£m
Intangible
assets
£m
Employee
benefits
£m
Financial
assets and
liabilities
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Tax value of
carry-forward
losses
£m
Total
£m
At 13 September 2014 as originally stated 138 86 (16) 9 (30) (73) 114
Impact of change in accounting policy (see page 106) – – – – (15) – (15)
At 13 September 2014 restated 138 86 (16) 9 (45) (73) 99
Amount charged/(credited) to the income 
statement (restated) (6) 4 (2) – 26 6 28
Amount charged/(credited) to equity – – 5 (11) (2) – (8)
Acquired through business combinations (42) 4 – – – – (38)
Businesses disposed – – – – – 5 5
Effect of changes in tax rates on income statement (1) – – – 5 1 5
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (restated) (9) 1 2 – – 10 4
At 12 September 2015 restated 80 95 (11) (2) (16) (51) 95
Amount charged/(credited) to the income statement 8 11 1 – (19) 11 12
Amount charged/(credited) to equity – – (51) (4) (8) – (63)
Acquired through business combinations (1) – – – 1 – –
Effect of changes in tax rates on income statement (6) – – – (2) 1 (7)
Effect of changes in tax rate on equity – – 3 – – – 3
Transfer to assets/liabilities classified as held for sale 1 (41) 5 – – – (35)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 6 12 (5) – (10) (8) (5)
At 17 September 2016 88 77 (58) (6) (54) (47) –
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) 
for financial reporting purposes:
2016
£m 
2015
(restated)
£m 
Deferred tax assets (139) (125) 
Deferred tax liabilities 139 220
– 95
The recoverability of deferred tax assets is supported by the expected level of future profits in the countries concerned. 
Other deferred tax assets totalling £99m (2015 – £86m) have not been recognised on the basis that their future economic 
benefit is uncertain.
In addition, there are temporary differences of £2,645m (2015 – £1,992m) relating to investments in subsidiaries. No deferred tax 
has been provided in respect of these differences, since the timing of the reversals can be controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse in the future.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
123 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
13. Trade and other receivables
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current – other receivables 
Loans and receivables 37 19 
Other non-current investments 4 4 
41 23 
Current – trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables 1,032 898 
Other receivables 115 110 
Accrued income 8 12 
1,155 1,020 
Prepayments and other non-financial receivables 182 156 
1,337 1,176 
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, there are £10m of trade and other receivables classified as assets held for sale (see note 14).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of receivables approximates fair value.
For details of credit risk exposure on trade and other receivables, see note 25.
Trade and other receivables include £36m (2015 – £19m) in respect of finance lease receivables, with £33m in non-current loans 
and receivables and £3m in current other receivables (2015 – £16m in non-current loans and receivables and £3m in current other 
receivables). Minimum lease payments receivable are £4m within one year, £5m between one and five years and £28m in more 
than five years (2015 – £3m within one year and £16m between one and five years).
The finance lease receivables relate to property, plant and equipment leased to a joint venture of the group (see note 28).
14. Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale
In September 2016, the group announced that it had reached agreement to sell its cane sugar business in southern China,  
subject to third-party consents and regulatory approvals, and ACH’s North American herbs and spices business. ACH is in the 
Grocery segment. The US disposal is expected to complete in mid-November 2016.
Both businesses have been classified as a disposal group at year end. Neither business qualifies as a discontinued operation.
The proceeds of disposal for each business are expected to exceed the book value of the related net assets and accordingly 
no impairment losses have been recognised on the classification of these operations as held for sale.
2016
£m 
Assets classified as held for sale
Intangible assets 127
Property, plant and equipment 103
Deferred tax assets 6
Inventories 36
Trade and other receivables 10
Income tax 4
Cash and cash equivalents 26
 312
Liabilities classified as held for sale
Loans and overdrafts 11
Trade and other payables 10
Deferred tax liabilities 41
Employee benefits liabilities 13
75
15. Inventories
2016
£m 
2015
£m 
Raw materials and consumables 369 283 
Work in progress 26 28 
Finished goods and goods held for resale 1,638 1,516 
2,033 1,827 
Write down of inventories (113) (102) 
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, there are £36m of inventories classified as assets held for sale (see note 14). 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
124 16. Biological assets
Growing
cane
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 13 September 2014 96 13 109
Transferred to inventory (95) (29) (124) 
Purchases – 2 2 
Changes in fair value 87 21 108 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (24) (1) (25) 
At 12 September 2015 64 6 70 
Transferred to inventory (75) (20) (95)
Purchases – 2 2
Changes in fair value 88 19 107
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1 1 2
At 17 September 2016 78 8 86
Growing cane
The fair value of growing cane is determined using inputs that are unobservable, using the best information available in the 
circumstances for using the growing cane, and therefore falls into the level 3 category of fair value measurement. The following 
assumptions were used in the determination of the estimated sucrose tonnage at 17 September 2016:
South Africa Malawi Zambia Swaziland Tanzania Mozambique
Expected area to harvest (hectares) 5,205 19,701 16,351 8,536 9,676 6,018
Estimated yield (tonnes cane/hectare) 67.2 92.9 109.2 85.1 77.5 80.0
Average maturity of growing cane 46.4% 68.2% 65.7% 67.7% 46.2% 71.6%
The following assumptions were used in the determination of the estimated sucrose tonnage at 12 September 2015:
South Africa Malawi Zambia Swaziland Tanzania Mozambique
Expected area to harvest (hectares) 5,277 19,611 16,671 8,647 9,576 5,907 
Estimated yield (tonnes cane/hectare) 66.3 101.3 114.6 94.0 81.0 85.8 
Average maturity of growing cane 45.1% 68.5% 65.7% 67.7% 46.2% 71.6% 
A 1% change in the unobservable inputs could increase or decrease the fair value of growing cane as follows:
2016 2015
+1%
£m
-1%
£m
+1%
£m
-1%
£m
Estimated sucrose content 1.0 (1.0) 1.0 (1.0) 
Estimated sucrose price 1.3 (1.3) 1.4 (1.4) 
17. Cash and cash equivalents
Note
2016
£m 
2015
£m 
Cash  
Cash at bank and in hand 376 286 
Cash equivalents 205 416 
Cash and cash equivalents 25 581 702 
Reconciliation to the cash flow statement  
Bank overdrafts 18 (119) (117) 
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement  462 585 
Cash and cash equivalents on the face of the balance sheet 555 702
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale 14 26 –
581 702
Cash at bank and in hand generally earns interest at rates based on the daily bank deposit rate.
Cash equivalents generally comprise deposits placed on money markets for periods of up to three months which earn interest at 
a short-term deposit rate; and funds invested with fund managers that have a maturity of less than or equal to three months and 
are at fixed rates.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
125 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
18. Loans and overdrafts
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current loans and overdrafts  
Secured loans 45 28 
Unsecured loans and overdrafts 210 291
Finance leases 26 1 – 
 256 319 
Non-current loans  
Secured loans 36 23 
Unsecured loans 591 542 
Finance leases 26 13 12 
 640 577 
25 896 896 
Note
2016
£m 
2015
£m 
Secured loans   
– USD floating rate 26 19 
– EUR floating rate – 3 
– Other floating rate 51 27 
– Other fixed rate 4 2
Unsecured loans and overdrafts  
– Bank overdrafts 17 119 117 
– GBP floating rate 4 4 
– GBP fixed rate 177 177 
– USD floating rate – 18 
– USD fixed rate 428 444 
– EUR floating rate 55 29 
– RMB floating rate 11 35 
– Other floating rate 5 8 
– Other fixed rate 2 1 
Finance leases (fixed rate) 14 12 
 896 896 
Loans and overdrafts on the face of the balance sheet 885 896
Loans and overdrafts classified as held for sale 14 11 –
896 896
Secured loans comprise amounts borrowed from commercial banks and are secured by floating charges over the assets of subsidiaries. 
Bank overdrafts generally bear interest at floating rates.
19. Trade and other payables
2016
£m
2015
£m
Trade payables 1,136 1,029 
Accruals 1,149 901 
2,285 1,930 
Deferred income and other non-financial payables 266 296 
2,551 2,226 
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, there are £10m of trade and other payables classified as liabilities held for sale (see note 14).
For payables with a remaining life of less than one year, carrying amount is deemed to reflect fair value.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
126 20. Provisions
Restructuring
£m
Deferred
consideration
£m
Other
£m 
Total
£m
At 12 September 2015 41 7 18 66
Created 35 – 4 39
Utilised (14) (2) (2) (18)
Released (5) – (1) (6)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 3 2 2 7
At 17 September 2016 60 7 21 88
Current 38 3 13 54
Non-current 22 4 8 34
60 7 21 88
Financial liabilities within provisions comprised deferred consideration in both years (see note 25).
Restructuring
Restructuring provisions relate to the cash costs, including redundancy, associated with the group’s announced reorganisation plans.
Deferred consideration
Deferred consideration comprises estimates of amounts due to the previous owners of businesses acquired by the group which 
are often linked to performance or other conditions.
Other
Other provisions mainly comprise litigation claims and warranty claims arising from the sale and closure of businesses. The extent 
and timing of the utilisation of these provisions is more uncertain given the nature of the claims and the period of the warranties.
21. Share capital and reserves
Share capital
At 12 September 2015 and 17 September 2016, the Company’s issued and fully paid share capital comprised 791,674,183 
ordinary shares of 5
15
⁄22p, each carrying one vote per share. Total nominal value was £45m.
Other reserves
£173m of other reserves arose from the cancellation of share premium account by the Company in 1993. The remaining £2m 
arose in 2010 as a transfer to capital redemption reserve following redemption of two million £1 deferred shares at par. Both are 
non-distributable.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the group’s net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises all changes in the value of derivatives to the extent that they are effective cash flow hedges, 
net of amounts recycled from the hedging reserve on occurrence of the hedged transaction or when the hedged transaction 
is no longer expected to occur.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
127 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
22. Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisitions
2016
During the year the group acquired two small European Agriculture businesses which, together, increased net assets by 
£8m satisfied in cash. Pre-acquisition carrying amounts were the same as recognised values on acquisition apart from a £2m 
non-operating intangible asset recognised in respect of brands. The acquisitions contributed aggregate revenues of £13m and 
no adjusted profit before tax for the period between the dates of acquisition and 17 September 2016. Aggregate contributions 
to revenue and adjusted profit before tax, had the acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the period, have not been disclosed 
as appropriate financial information, prepared under Adopted IFRS, is not available.
The £8m of cash consideration differs by £2m from the cash outflow of £10m on the purchase of subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates in the cash flow statement. The difference comprises payment of deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions.
In June 2016, the group paid £252m, including costs, to acquire the minority shareholding in Illovo Sugar Limited. As Illovo and its 
subsidiaries have been consolidated in the group financial statements since the acquisition of the original controlling interest in 
2006, this was treated as a transaction with owners and recorded in equity rather than as an acquisition. The cash flow is shown 
within financing activities.
2015
Acquisitions had the following effect on the group’s assets and liabilities:
Pre-acquisition
carrying
values
£m
Recognised
values on
acquisition
£m
Net assets  
Intangible assets 32 53
Property, plant and equipment 4 4
Inventories 10 10
Trade and other receivables 18 18
Cash and cash equivalents 8 8
Trade and other payables (38) (40)
Loan interest (48) (3)
Overdrafts (3) (3)
Loans (323) (18)
Taxation 82 20
Net identifiable assets and liabilities (258) 49
Goodwill 5
Non-controlling interests 1
Total consideration 55
  
Satisfied by  
Cash consideration 57
Deferred consideration 6
Interest in joint venture (8)
 55
  
Net cash  
Cash consideration 57
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (8)
Overdrafts acquired 3
 52
In October 2014, the group acquired Dorset Cereals in the UK for gross cash consideration of £68m, but with cash acquired of 
£8m. Non-operating intangible assets of £21m in respect of brand and customer relationships together with the related deferred 
tax were recognised as fair value adjustments.
In May 2015, the group acquired BP’s 47% interest in Vivergo Fuels in the UK, in which the group already held an 
equity-accounted joint venture interest of 47%. Fair value adjustments comprised the valuation of shareholder loan obligations 
and associated interest accruals together with the related tax consequences.
A non-cash charge of £75m was recorded in line with accounting requirements to remeasure the group’s interest at fair value 
prior to the acquisition. This was charged to loss on sale and closure of business.
The acquisitions contributed aggregate revenues of £81m and an adjusted loss before tax of £1m for the period between 
the dates of acquisition and 12 September 2015. Aggregate contributions to revenue and adjusted profit before tax, had the 
acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the period, were not disclosed as appropriate financial information, prepared under 
Adopted IFRS, was not available.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
128 22. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Disposals
2016
The group closed a small number of Ingredients businesses during the year, incurring closure costs of £4m in the Asia Pacific 
segment and £1m in Europe & Africa. The group also charged a £9m onerous lease provision to sale and closure of business 
(in the Central segment) as a result of lease reversions following the administration of the BHS retail chain in the UK.
2015
The group sold and closed businesses which had the following impact on adjusted operating profit by segment:
United
Kingdom
£m
Europe
& Africa
£m
The
Americas
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Total
£m
Sugar     
– North China – – – (100) (100)
– Vivergo Fuels (75) – – – (75)
– Other (including warranties) – 4 (11) 1 (6)
(75) 4 (11) (99) (181)
     
Grocery (warranties) 6 – – – 6
Agriculture (warranties) 3 – – – 3
(66) 4 (11) (99) (172)
The group sold the Yi’an and BoCheng beet sugar factories in Heilongjiang province in north China and restructured the 
associated head office in Beijing. This reduced the group’s assets and liabilities as follows:
£m
Net assets 
Intangible assets 9
Property, plant and equipment 47
Inventories 3
Trade and other payables (1)
Loans (1)
Taxation 5
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 62
Goodwill 46
Non-controlling interests (2)
Recycle of effect of movements in foreign exchange (8)
Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses (100)
Total consideration (2)
 
Satisfied by 
Cash consideration 3
Provisions made (5)
(2)
 
Net cash 
Cash consideration 3
The group incurred a net £75m non-cash charge arising on the acquisition of BP’s 47% interest in Vivergo Fuels. Accounting 
standards required the remeasurement of the group’s interest at fair value prior to the acquisition, resulting in a loss on the 
deemed disposal of the group’s original interest prior to its immediate re-acquisition at fair value.
Also in the Sugar segment, an intangible asset with a carrying value of £11m was written off on closure of a small business 
in North America.
£14m of warranty provisions relating to disposals made in previous years were no longer required and were released during 
the year. These comprised £6m in Grocery (all in the UK), £5m in Sugar (£4m in Europe & Africa and £1m in Asia Pacific) and £3m 
in Agriculture (all in the UK).
The cash consideration received for the disposal was £3m which compared with a cash inflow of £5m on the sale of subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates shown in the cash flow statement. The difference related to deferred consideration received in 
respect of prior year disposals.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
129 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
23. Share-based payments
The group had the following principal equity-settled share-based payment plans in operation during the period:
Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 (‘the Share Incentive Plan’)
The Share Incentive Plan was approved and adopted by the Company at the annual general meeting held on 5 December 2003. 
It takes the form of conditional allocations of shares which are released if, and to the extent that, performance targets are 
satisfied, typically over a three-year performance period. The Share Incentive Plan expired in December 2013, with the last 
grant of allocations made in November 2013. Conditional shares allocated under the Share Incentive Plan will vest under 
the terms of that plan.
Associated British Foods Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘the LTIP’)
The LTIP was approved and adopted by the Company at the annual general meeting held on 6 December 2013. It takes the form 
of conditional allocations of shares which are released if, and to the extent that, performance targets are satisfied, typically over 
a three-year performance period.
Further information regarding the operation of the above plans can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 69 to 87.
Total conditional allocations under the group’s equity-settled share-based payment plans are as follows:
Balance
outstanding at
the beginning
of the year
Granted/
awarded Vested
Expired/
lapsed
Balance
outstanding
at the end
of the year
2016 3,330,356 849,566 (626,879) (872,096) 2,680,947
2015 4,365,341 911,832 (1,572,229) (374,588) 3,330,356 
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust
Ordinary shares subject to allocation under the group’s equity-settled share-based payment plans are held in a separate 
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust. The Trust is funded by the Company. Voting rights attached to shares held by the 
Trust are exercisable by the trustee, who is entitled to consider any recommendation made by a committee of the Company. 
At 17 September 2016 the Trust held 1,513,339 (2015 – 1,490,218) ordinary shares of the Company. The market value of these 
shares at the year end was £41m (2015 – £46m). The Trust has waived its right to dividends. Movements in the year were 
releases of 626,879 shares and purchases of 650,000 shares (2015 – releases of 1,572,229 shares).
Fair values
The weighted average fair value of conditional grants made was determined by taking the market price of the shares at the time 
of grant and discounting for the fact that dividends are not paid during the vesting period. The weighted average fair value of the 
conditional shares allocated during the year was 3,185 pence (2015 – 2,873 pence) and the weighted average share price was 
3,425 pence (2015 – 3,089 pence). The dividend yield used was 2.5%.
24. Analysis of net debt
At
12 September
2015
£m
Cash flow
£m
Non-cash
items
£m
Exchange
adjustments
£m
At
17 September
2016
£m
Cash at bank and in hand, cash equivalents and overdrafts 585 (165) – 42 462
Short-term loans (202) 109 (26) (18) (137)
Long-term loans (577) (12) 26 (77) (640)
(194) (68) – (53) (315)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank and cash balances, call deposits and short-term investments with original maturities 
of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand of £119m form an integral part of the group’s cash 
management and are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
£26m of cash at bank and cash in hand and £11m of short-term loans disclosed above are included within assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale (see note 14).
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
130 25. Financial instruments
Financial instruments include £26m of cash, £10m of trade and other receivables, £10m of trade and other payables and £11m  
of loans and overdrafts (2015 – £nil) which are classified as held for sale, see note 14. All disclosures in this note are given gross, 
before the held for sale reclassification is made.
a) Carrying amount and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
2016
£m
2015
£m
Financial assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 581 702 
Loans and receivables 
Trade and other receivables 1,165 1,020 
Other non-current receivables 41 23 
At fair value through profit or loss 
Derivative assets not designated in a cash flow hedging relationship: 
– currency derivatives 14 3 
Designated net investment hedging relationships 
Derivative assets designated as net investment hedging instruments: 
– currency derivatives 1 33 
Designated cash flow hedging relationships 
Derivative assets designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments: 
– currency derivatives 86 37 
– commodity derivatives 4 1 
Total financial assets 1,892 1,819 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 
Trade and other payables (2,295) (1,930) 
Secured loans (81) (51) 
Unsecured loans and overdrafts (fair value 2016 – £851m; 2015 – £889m) (801) (833) 
Finance leases (fair value 2016 – £19m; 2015 – £17m) (14) (12) 
Deferred consideration (7) (7) 
At fair value through profit or loss 
Derivative liabilities not designated in a cash flow hedging relationship: 
– currency derivatives (8) (6) 
– commodity derivatives (1) (1) 
Designated net investment hedging relationships
Derivative liabilities designated as net investment hedging instruments:
– currency derivatives (16) –
Designated cash flow hedging relationships 
Derivative liabilities designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments: 
– currency derivatives (36) (19) 
– commodity derivatives (12) (7) 
Total financial liabilities (3,271) (2,866) 
Net financial liabilities (1,379) (1,047) 
Except where stated, carrying amount is equal to fair value.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
131 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
25. Financial instruments continued
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
Financial asset/liability Fair value determination
Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other 
receivables and accrued income, trade payables, other 
payables and accruals
Fair values have been stated at book values due to short maturities 
or otherwise immediate or short-term access and realisability.
Other non-current investments (recorded within 
other non-current receivables)
These comprise minority shareholdings in privately owned, unquoted 
companies where there is no active market available to value them. 
Where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, 
they are recorded at cost.
Other non-current receivables, loans and overdrafts  
and finance leases
Fair values for these level 2 financial instruments have been estimated 
by discounting expected future cash flows (see below).
Derivatives Fair values are typically determined either by reference to third-party 
valuations (usually from a bank), or by reference to readily observable 
market prices.
The group’s derivatives primarily cover a period of no more than 12 months 
from the balance sheet date, and information derived from an active market 
is almost always available to assist with the valuation of derivatives.
Deferred consideration Deferred consideration is measured at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, 
discounted to present value where material. Fair value is therefore 
equivalent to book value.
Valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value
Financial instruments carried at fair value in the balance sheet comprise other non-current investments and derivatives. The group 
classifies these financial instruments using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the relative significance of both objective evidence 
and subjective judgements on the inputs used in making the fair value measurements:
• Level 1: financial instruments are valued using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices in an active 
market for identical instruments. An example of an item in this category is a widely traded equity instrument with a normal 
quoted market price.
• Level 2: financial instruments are valued using techniques based on observable inputs, either directly (i.e. market prices and 
rates) or indirectly (i.e. derived from market prices and rates). An example of an item in this category is a currency derivative, 
where forward exchange rates and yield curve data, which are observable in the market, are used to derive fair value.
• Level 3: financial instruments are valued using techniques involving significant unobservable inputs.
b) Derivatives
All derivatives are classified as current on the face of the balance sheet. The table below analyses the carrying amount of 
derivatives and their contractual/notional amounts, together with an analysis of derivatives by the level in the fair value hierarchy 
into which their fair value measurement method is categorised.
2016 2015
Contractual/
notional
amounts
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
Contractual/
notional
amounts
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
Financial assets    
Currency derivatives 1,330 – 101 101 1,311 – 73  73
Commodity derivatives 39 1 3 4 24 1 –  1
1,369 1 104 105 1,335 1 73  74
Financial liabilities    
Currency derivatives 1,353 – (60) (60) 929 –  (25) (25) 
Commodity derivatives 112 – (13) (13) 108 (1)  (7) (8) 
1,465 – (73) (73) 1,037 (1)  (32) (33) 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
132 25. Financial instruments continued
c) Cash flow hedging reserve
The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year, and the periods in which the cash 
flows are expected to occur. The periods in which the cash flows are expected to impact profit or loss are materially the same.
2016 2015
Currency
derivatives
£m
Commodity
derivatives
£m
Total
£m
Currency
derivatives
£m
Commodity
derivatives
£m
Total
£m
Opening balance 6 6 12 (30) (4) (34) 
(Gains)/losses recognised in the hedging reserve (82) 12 (70) (174) 20 (154) 
Amount removed from the hedging reserve and 
included in the income statement:   
 – revenue (21) 1 (20) 39 – 39 
 – cost of sales – (9) (9) – (16) (16) 
 – other financial income/expense 46 – 46 13 1 14 
Amount removed from the hedging reserve and 
included in equity:
 – retained earnings 15 – 15 – – –
Amount removed from the hedging reserve and 
included in a non-financial asset:   
 – inventory 56 (5) 51 164 9 173 
Deferred tax (4) – (4) (7) (4) (11) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – 1 1 1 – 1
Closing balance 16 6 22 6 6 12 
Cash flows are expected to occur:   
 – within six months 5 6 11 3  5 8 
 – between six months and one year 8 – 8 – 1 1
 – between one and two years – – – 1 – 1 
 – between two and five years 1 – 1 1 – 1 
 – after five years 2 – 2 1 – 1
16 6 22 6 6 12 
The closing balance of £22m is wholly attributable to equity shareholders (2015 – £11m attributable to equity shareholders and 
£1m to non-controlling interests). Of the net movements including foreign exchange in the year of £10m, £11m is attributable 
to equity shareholders and £(1)m to non-controlling interests (2015 – £40m attributable to equity shareholders and £6m to 
non-controlling interests).
d) Financial risk identification and management
The group is exposed to the following financial risks from its use of financial instruments:
• market risk;
• credit risk; and
• liquidity risk.
The group’s financial risk management process seeks to enable the early identification, evaluation and effective management of 
key risks facing the business. Risk management policies and systems have been established and are reviewed regularly to reflect 
changes in market conditions and the group’s activities. The group, through its standards and procedures, aims to develop a 
disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The group sources and sells products and manufactures goods in many locations around the world. These operations expose the 
group to potentially significant price volatility in the financial and commodity markets. Trading and risk management teams have 
been established in the group’s major businesses to manage this exposure by entering into a range of products, including physical 
and financial forward contracts, futures and, where appropriate, options. These teams work closely with group Treasury and 
report regularly to executive management.
Treasury operations and commodity procurement are conducted within a clearly defined framework of board-approved policies 
and guidelines to manage the group’s financial and commodity risks. Treasury works closely with the group’s procurement teams 
to manage commodity risks. Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available to the group at all 
times, for the management and development of the group’s businesses, whilst effectively managing its market risk and credit 
risk. The group’s risk management policy explicitly forbids the use of financial or commodity derivatives (outside its risk 
management framework of mitigating financial and commodity risks) for speculative purposes.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
133 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
25. Financial instruments continued
e) Foreign currency translation
The group presents its financial statements in sterling. As a result of its worldwide operations, the group is exposed to foreign 
currency translation risk where overseas operations have a functional currency other than sterling. Changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates impact the translation into sterling of both the income statement and net assets of these foreign operations.
Where appropriate, the group finances its operations by borrowing locally in the functional currency of its operations. This 
reduces net asset values reported in functional currencies other than sterling, thereby reducing the economic exposure to 
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on translation.
The group also finances its operations by obtaining funding at group level through external borrowings and, where they are not 
in sterling, these borrowings may be designated as net investment hedges. This enables gains and losses arising on retranslation 
of these foreign currency borrowings to be charged to other comprehensive income, providing a partial offset in equity against 
the gains and losses arising on translation of the net assets of foreign operations.
The group does not actively hedge the translation impact of foreign exchange rate movements on the income statement 
(other than via the partial economic hedge arising from the servicing costs on non-sterling borrowings).
The group designates certain of its intercompany loan arrangements as quasi-equity for the purposes of IAS 21. The effect of 
the designation is that any foreign exchange volatility arising within the borrowing entity and/or the lending entity is accounted 
for directly within other comprehensive income.
At year end, the group had $160m of borrowings (2015 – $280m) that were designated as hedges of its net investment in foreign 
operations in US dollars.
A net foreign exchange loss of £26m (2015 – loss of £7m) on retranslation of these loans has been taken to the translation 
reserve on consolidation, all of which was attributable to equity shareholders. The group also held currency forwards and cross 
currency swaps that have been designated as hedges of its net investments in Australian dollars and euros, whose change in 
fair value of £46m has been debited to the translation reserve, all of which was attributable to equity shareholders (2015 – £29m 
credited to the translation reserve).
f) Market risk
Market risk is the risk of movements in the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument or forecast transaction as 
underlying market prices change. The group is exposed to changes in the market price of commodities, interest rates and foreign 
exchange rates. These risks are known as ‘transaction’ (or recognised) exposures and ‘economic’ (or forecast) exposures.
(i) Commodity price risk
Commodity price risk arises from the procurement of raw materials and the consequent exposure to changes in market prices.
The group purchases a wide range of commodities in the ordinary course of business. Exposure to changes in the market price of 
certain of these commodities including wheat, edible oils, soya beans, meat, sugar raws, cocoa, rice, tea and energy is managed 
through the use of forward physical contracts and hedging instruments, including futures and options contracts, primarily to 
convert floating or indexed prices to fixed prices. The use of such contracts to hedge commodity exposures is governed by the 
group’s risk management policies and is continually monitored by group Treasury. Commodity derivatives also provide a way 
to meet customers’ pricing requirements whilst achieving a price structure consistent with the group’s overall pricing strategy.
Some of the group’s commodity derivatives are treated as ‘own use’ contracts, since they are both entered into, and continue to 
be held, for the purposes of the group’s ordinary operations, and the group takes physical delivery of the commodity concerned. 
‘Own use’ contracts do not require accounting entries until the commodity purchase actually crystallises. Certain other 
commodity derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges, but some are not eligible for treatment as ‘own use’ contracts and 
are not contracts for which the strict requirements of hedge accounting can be satisfied. This occurs typically where the group 
does not take physical delivery of the commodity concerned. Such commodity derivatives are used only where the business 
believes they provide an economic hedge of an underlying exposure. These instruments are classified as held for trading 
and are marked to market through the income statement.
The majority of the group’s forward physical contracts and commodity derivatives have original maturities of less than one year.
The group does not have significant sensitivities in respect of the accounting for its on-balance sheet commodity contracts.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
134 25. Financial instruments continued
(ii) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk comprises two primary elements:
• interest price risk results from financial instruments bearing fixed interest rates. Changes in floating interest rates therefore 
affect the fair value of these fixed rate financial instruments; and
• interest cash flow risk results from financial instruments bearing floating rates. Changes in floating interest rates affect cash 
flows on interest receivable or payable.
The group’s policy is to maintain floating rate debt for a significant proportion of its bank finance, although it periodically assesses 
its position with respect to interest price and cash flow risk.
At 17 September 2016, £625m (70%) (2015 – £636m and 71%) of total debt was subject to fixed rates of interest, the majority 
of which is the US private placement loans of £588m (2015 – £601m).
Floating rate debt comprises bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance, for various time periods up to 12 months, 
by reference to official market rates (e.g. LIBOR).
The group does not have significant sensitivities to the impact of interest rates on derivative valuations, nor to the impact of 
interest rates on floating rate borrowings.
(iii) Foreign currency risk
The group conducts business worldwide and consequently in many foreign currencies. As a result, it is exposed to movements 
in foreign currency exchange rates which affect the group’s transaction costs. The group also publishes its financial statements 
in sterling and is therefore exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates on the translation of the results and underlying net 
assets of its foreign operations into sterling.
Translation risk is discussed in section e) on page 134.
Transaction risk
Currency transaction exposure occurs where a business makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional 
currency. It also arises where monetary assets and liabilities of a business are not denominated in its functional currency, and 
where dividends or surplus funds are remitted from overseas. The group’s policy is to match transaction exposures wherever 
possible, and to hedge actual exposures and firm commitments as soon as they occur by using forward foreign currency 
contracts. All foreign currency instruments contracted with non-group entities to manage transaction exposures are undertaken 
by group Treasury or, where foreign currency controls restrict group Treasury acting on behalf of subsidiaries, under its guidance. 
Identification of transaction exposures is the responsibility of each business.
The group uses derivatives (principally forward foreign currency contracts and time options) to hedge its exposure to movements 
in exchange rates on its foreign currency trade receivables and payables. The group does not seek formal fair value hedge 
accounting for such transaction hedges. Instead, such derivatives are classified as held for trading and marked to market through 
the income statement. This offsets the income statement impact of the retranslation of the foreign currency trade receivables 
and payables.
Economic (forecast) risk
The group also uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge its exposure to movements in exchange rates on its highly 
probable forecast foreign currency sales and purchases on a rolling 12-month basis. The group does not formally define the 
proportion of highly probable forecast sales and purchases to hedge, but agrees an appropriate percentage on an individual basis 
with each business by reference to the group’s risk management policies and prevailing market conditions. The group documents 
currency derivatives used to hedge its forecast transactions as cash flow hedges. To the extent that cash flow hedges are 
effective, gains and losses are deferred in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point the gains and losses are 
recycled either to the income statement or to the non-financial asset acquired.
The majority of the group’s currency derivatives have original maturities of less than one year.
The group’s most significant currency transaction exposures are:
• sugar prices in British Sugar to movements in the sterling/euro exchange rate;
• sugar prices in Illovo to movements in the South African rand/US dollar/euro exchange rates; and
• sourcing for Primark – costs are denominated in a number of currencies, predominantly sterling, euros and US dollars.
Elsewhere, a number of businesses make sales and purchase a variety of raw materials in foreign currencies (primarily US dollars 
and euros), giving rise to transaction exposures. In all other material respects, businesses tend to operate in their functional currencies.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
135 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
25. Financial instruments continued
The analysis of the group’s foreign currency exposure to financial assets and liabilities by currency of denomination is as follows:
2016
Sterling
£m
US dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1 23 11 11 46
Trade and other receivables – 32 66 13 111
1 55 77 24 157
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (18) (346) (38) (9) (411)
Unsecured loans and overdrafts – (428) (1) – (429)
Finance leases – – – (1) (1)
Deferred consideration – (2) – (1) (3)
(18) (776) (39) (11) (844)
Currency derivatives
Gross amounts receivable 75 1,521 197 168 1,961
Gross amounts payable (4) (49) (598) (73) (724)
71 1,472 (401) 95 1,237
54 751 (363) 108 550
2015
Sterling
£m
US dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Financial assets     
Cash and cash equivalents 1 19 4 8 32 
Trade and other receivables – 22 50 12 84 
1 41 54 20 116 
Financial liabilities     
Trade and other payables (30) (286) (40) (10) (366) 
Unsecured loans and overdrafts (8) (444) – (3) (455) 
(38) (730) (40) (13) (821) 
Currency derivatives     
Gross amounts receivable 73 1,207  91 104 1,475 
Gross amounts payable (2) (96)  (638) (66) (802) 
71 1,111  (547) 38 673 
     
34 422 (533) 45 (32) 
The following major exchange rates applied during the year:
Average rate Closing rate
2016 2015 2016 2015
US dollar 1.43 1.55 1.31 1.54 
Euro 1.29 1.34 1.17 1.37 
Rand 21.17 18.42 18.74 20.99 
Renminbi 9.35 9.62 8.74 9.83 
Australian dollar 1.96 1.96 1.75 2.18 
Sensitivity analysis
The following sensitivity analysis illustrates the impact that a 10% strengthening of the group’s operating currencies against 
local functional currencies would have had on profit and equity. The analysis covers currency translation exposures at year end 
on businesses’ financial assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currencies of those businesses. A similar 
but opposite impact would be felt on both profit and equity if the group’s main operating currencies weakened against local 
functional currencies by a similar amount.
The exposure to foreign exchange gains and losses on translating the financial statements of subsidiaries into sterling is not 
included in this sensitivity analysis, as there is no impact on the income statement, and the gains and losses are recorded directly  
in the translation reserve in equity (see opposite page for a separate sensitivity). This sensitivity is presented before taxation 
and non-controlling interests.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
136 25. Financial instruments continued
10% strengthening against other currencies of
2016
impact on
profit for
the year
£m
2016
impact on
total equity
£m
2015
impact on
profit for
the year
£m
2015
impact on
total equity
£m
Sterling – 6 (2) 3 
US dollar 11 87 17 52 
Euro 6 (42) 4 (60) 
Other 8 9 4 7 
A second sensitivity analysis calculates the impact on the group’s profit before tax if the average rates used to translate the 
results of the group’s foreign operations into sterling were adjusted to show a 10% strengthening of sterling. A similar but 
opposite impact would be felt on profit before tax if sterling weakened against the other currencies by a similar amount.
10% strengthening of sterling against
2016
impact on
profit for
the year
£m
2015
impact on
profit for
the year
£m
US dollar (13) (10) 
Euro (24) (20) 
Rand (1) 2 
Renminbi (1) 7 
Australian dollar (2) (2) 
g) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that counterparties to financial instruments do not perform according to the terms of the contract or 
instrument. The group’s businesses are exposed to counterparty credit risk when dealing with customers, and from certain 
financing activities.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive 
fair value by counterparty at 17 September 2016. The group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be:
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 581 702 
Loans and receivables 25a 1,206 1,043 
Derivative assets at fair value through profit and loss 14 3 
Derivative assets in designated net investment hedging relationships 1 33 
Derivative assets in designated cash flow hedging relationships 90 38 
1,892 1,819 
The majority of cash balances and short-term deposits are held with strong investment-grade banks or financial institutions.
The group uses market knowledge, changes in credit ratings and other techniques to identify significant changes to the financial 
profile of its counterparties.
Trade and other receivables
Concentrations of credit risk are limited as a result of the group’s large and diverse customer base. The group has an established 
credit policy applied by each business under which the credit status of each new customer is reviewed before credit is advanced. 
This includes external credit evaluations where possible and in some cases bank references. Credit limits are established for 
all significant or high-risk customers, which represent the maximum amount permitted to be outstanding without requiring 
additional approval from the appropriate level of management. Outstanding debts are continually monitored by each business. 
Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis, and at least annually. Customers that fail to meet the group’s benchmark 
creditworthiness may only transact with the group on a prepayment basis. Aggregate exposures are monitored at group level.
Many of the group’s customers have been transacting with the group for many years and the incidence of bad debts has been 
low. Where appropriate, goods are sold subject to retention of title so that, in the event of non-payment, the group may have 
a secured claim. The group does not typically require collateral in respect of trade and other receivables.
The group provides for impairment of financial assets including trade and other receivables based on known events, and makes a 
collective provision for losses yet to be identified, based on historical data. The majority of the provision comprises specific amounts.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
137 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
25. Financial instruments continued
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables at the reporting date by geographic region of origin was:
2016
£m
2015
£m
UK 395 385 
Europe & Africa 289 214 
The Americas 177 146 
Asia Pacific 304 275 
1,165 1,020 
Trade receivables can be analysed as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Not overdue 885 778 
Up to one month past due 109 88 
Between one and two months past due 23 23 
Between two and three months past due 7 7 
More than three months past due 33 24 
Provision for doubtful debts (25) (22) 
 1,032 898 
Based on past experience, the group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables that are 
not past due.
Trade receivables are stated net of the following provision for irrecoverable amounts:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Opening balance 22 36 
Amounts provided for during the year 4 6 
Amounts released during the year (2) (13) 
Amounts utilised during the year (3) (4) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 4 (3) 
Closing balance 25 22 
No trade receivables were written off directly to the income statement in either year.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Banking relationships are generally limited to those banks that are members of the core relationship group. These banks are 
selected for their credit status, global reach and their ability to meet the businesses’ day-to-day banking requirements. The credit 
ratings of these institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. In locations where the core relationship banking group cannot 
be used, operating procedures including choice of bank, opening of bank accounts and repatriation of funds must be agreed with 
group Treasury. The group has not recorded impairments against cash or cash equivalents, nor have any recoverability issues 
been identified with such balances. Such items are typically recoverable on demand or in line with normal banking arrangements.
Other financial assets
Other non-current investments are typically equity investments with no fixed maturity or recoverability date. No impairment 
issues have been identified with respect to other non-current investments.
Since derivative assets are recorded at fair value, either through profit and loss for those not in a designated cash flow hedging 
relationship, or otherwise through the hedging or net investment hedging reserve, no impairment issues have been identified.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
138 25. Financial instruments continued
h) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities 
as they fall due. Group Treasury is responsible for monitoring and managing liquidity and ensures that the group has sufficient 
headroom in its committed facilities to meet unforeseen or abnormal requirements. The group also has access to uncommitted 
facilities to assist with short-term funding requirements.
Available headroom is monitored via the use of detailed cash flow forecasts prepared by each business, which are reviewed 
at least quarterly, or more often, as required. Actual results are compared to budget and forecast each period, and variances 
investigated and explained. Particular focus is given to management of working capital.
Details of the group’s borrowing facilities are given in section i) on page 140.
The following table analyses the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities at the balance sheet date 
and compares them to carrying amounts:
Note
2016
Due within
6 months
£m
Due
between
6 months
 and 1 year
£m
Due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Due after
5 years
£m
Contracted
amount
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables 19 (2,286) (9) – – – (2,295) (2,295)
Secured loans 18 (12) (33) (16) (20) – (81) (81)
Unsecured loans and overdrafts 18 (177) (61) (66) (274) (343) (921) (801)
Finance leases 26 (1) (1) (1) (3) (37) (43) (14)
Deferred consideration 20 (1) (2) (2) (2) – (7) (7)
Derivative financial liabilities 
– Currency derivatives (net payments) (28) (15) (2) – – (45) (60)
– Commodity derivatives (net payments) (25) (4) – – – (29) (13)
Total financial liabilities (2,530) (125) (87) (299) (380) (3,421) (3,271)
Note
2015
Due within
6 months
£m
Due
between
6 months
 and 1 year
£m
Due
between
1 and 2
years
£m
Due
between
2 and 5
years
£m
Due after
5 years
£m
Contracted
amount
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities        
Trade and other payables 19 (1,914) (16) – – – (1,930) (1,930) 
Secured loans 18 (7) (21) (7) (16) – (51) (51) 
Unsecured loans and overdrafts 18 (208) (111) (40) (264) (345) (968) (833) 
Finance leases 26 (1) – (1) (2) (37) (41) (12) 
Deferred consideration 20 (1) (1)  (1) (4) – (7) (7) 
Derivative financial liabilities       
– Currency derivatives (net payments) (7) (3) – – – (10) (25) 
– Commodity derivatives (net payments) (30) (14)  (2) – – (46) (8) 
Total financial liabilities (2,168) (166) (51) (286) (382) (3,053)  (2,866)
The above tables do not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future but which were not contracted 
at 17 September 2016.
The principal reasons for differences between carrying values and contractual undiscounted cash flows are coupon payments 
on the fixed rate debt to which the group is already committed, future interest payments on the group’s finance leases, and cash 
flows on derivative financial instruments which are not aligned with their fair value.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
139 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
25. Financial instruments continued
i) Borrowing facilities
The group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 17 September 2016, 
in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met, amounted to £1,311m (2015 – £1,380m):
2016 2015
Facility
£m
Drawn
£m
Undrawn
£m
Facility
£m
Drawn
£m
Undrawn
£m
£1.2bn syndicated facility 1,200 – 1,200 1,200 – 1,200 
US private placement 588 588 – 601 601 – 
Illovo 143 83 60 187 84 103 
Azucarera 105 54 51 102 29 73 
Other 15 15 – 18 14 4 
2,051 740 1,311 2,108 728 1,380 
Uncommitted facilities available at 17 September 2016 were:
2016 2015
Facility
£m
Drawn
£m
Undrawn
£m
Facility
£m
Drawn
£m
Undrawn
£m
Money market lines 100 – 100 100 – 100 
Illovo 138 69 69 105 75 30 
China banking 424 12 412 353 35 318 
Other 184 61 123 141 46 95 
846 142 704 699 156 543 
In addition to the above facilities there are also £296m (2015 – £212m) of undrawn and available credit lines for the purposes 
of issuing letters of credit and guarantees in the normal course of business.
The group also has £14m (2015 – £12m) of finance lease liabilities which are not included in the tables above, but which are 
included in the group’s loans and overdrafts in note 18.
The group has a £1.2bn syndicated facility which matures in July 2021. In addition to the bank debt, the Company has £588m  
of private placement notes in issue to institutional investors in the US and Europe. At 17 September 2016, these had an average 
remaining duration of 4.4 years and an average fixed coupon of 4.7%. The other significant core committed debt facilities 
comprise local committed facilities in Illovo and Azucarera.
Uncommitted bank borrowing facilities are normally reaffirmed by the banks annually, although they can theoretically be 
withdrawn at any time.
Refer to note 9 for details of the group’s capital commitments and to note 27 for a summary of the group’s guarantees. 
An assessment of the group’s current liquidity position is given in the Financial review on page 43.
j) Capital management
The capital structure of the group is presented in the balance sheet. The statement of changes in equity provides details on 
equity and note 18 provides details of loans and overdrafts. Short and medium-term funding requirements are provided by a 
variety of loan and overdraft facilities, both committed and uncommitted, with a range of counterparties and maturities. Longer 
term funding is sourced from a combination of these facilities, the private placement notes and committed syndicated loan facilities.
The board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to enable 
successful future development of the business. The board monitors return on capital by division and determines the overall level 
of dividends payable to shareholders.
From time to time the trustee of the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust purchases the Company’s shares in the market to 
satisfy awards under the group’s incentive plans. Once purchased, shares are not sold back into the market. The group does not 
have a defined share buy-back plan.
There were no changes to the group’s approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Company nor any of its 
subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
26. Lease commitments
Operating leases
The group acts as a lessee, lessor and sub-lessor for land and buildings, and plant and machinery, under operating leases.
Rental receipts of £9m (2015 – £10m) were recognised in the income statement in the period relating to operating leases. 
The total of future minimum rental receipts expected to be received is £53m (2015 – £53m).
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
140 26. Lease commitments continued
The future minimum lease payments under operating leases are as follows:
2016
land and
buildings
£m
2016
plant and
equipment
£m
2016
total
£m
2015
land and
buildings
£m
2015
plant and
equipment
£m
2015
total
£m
Within one year 255 12 267 203 11 214 
Between one and five years 1,051 17 1,068 816 17 833 
After five years 2,905 – 2,905 2,492 – 2,492 
4,211 29 4,240 3,511 28 3,539 
Finance leases
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2016
minimum
lease
payments
£m
2016
interest
£m
2016
 principal
£m
2015
minimum
lease
payments
£m
2015
interest
£m
2015
 principal
£m
Within one year 2 1 1 1 1 – 
Between one and five years 4 3 1 3 2 1 
After five years 37 25 12 37 26 11 
43 29 14 41 29 12 
27. Contingencies
Litigation and other proceedings against companies in the group are not considered material in the context of these financial statements.
Where group companies enter into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other group companies, 
the group considers these to be insurance arrangements and has elected to account for them as such in accordance with IFRS 4. 
In this respect, the guarantee contract is treated as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the relevant 
group company issuing the guarantee will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
As at 17 September 2016, group companies have provided guarantees in the ordinary course of business amounting to £1,912m 
(2015 – £1,397m).
28. Related parties
The group has a controlling shareholder relationship with its parent company, Wittington Investments Limited, with the trustees 
of the Garfield Weston Foundation and with certain other individuals who hold shares in the Company. Further details of the 
controlling shareholder relationship are included in note 29. The group has a related party relationship with its associates and joint 
ventures (see note 29) and with its directors. In the course of normal operations, related party transactions entered into by the 
group have been contracted on an arm’s length basis.
Material transactions and year end balances with related parties were as follows:
Sub note
2016
 £000 
2015
 £000 
Charges to Wittington Investments Limited in respect of services provided by the Company 
and its subsidiary undertakings 1,226 661 
Dividends paid by Associated British Foods and received in a beneficial capacity by: 
(i)  trustees of the Garfield Weston Foundation and their close family 1 10,012 9,838 
(ii)   directors of Wittington Investments Limited who are not trustees of the Foundation 
and their close family 2,613 1,529 
(iii)  directors of the Company who are not trustees of the Foundation and are not directors 
of Wittington Investments Limited 2 54 50 
(iv) members of the Weston family employed within the Associated British Foods group 3 2 1,011 
Sales to fellow subsidiary undertakings on normal trading terms 4 48 108 
Sales to companies with common key management personnel on normal trading terms 5 16,642 13,343 
Commissions paid to companies with common key management personnel on normal 
trading terms 5 1,490 1,602 
Amounts due from companies with common key management personnel 5 1,748 1,541 
Sales to joint ventures on normal trading terms 13,460 18,288 
Sales to associates on normal trading terms 41,494 29,992 
Purchases from joint ventures on normal trading terms 324,959 314,818 
Purchases from associates on normal trading terms 17,424 16,132 
Amounts due from joint ventures 37,531 18,959 
Amounts due from associates 4,244 2,978 
Amounts due to joint ventures 28,374 28,533 
Amounts due to associates 3,342 2,278 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
141 Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
A.B. Exploration Limited United Kingdom
A.B.F. Holdings Limited United Kingdom
A.B.F. Nominees Limited United Kingdom
A.B.F. Properties Limited United Kingdom
AB (Harbin) Food Ingredients 
Company Limited China
AB Agri Animal Nutrition (Jilin)  
Co., Ltd China
AB Agri Animal Nutrition (Nantong) 
Co., Ltd China
AB Agri Limited United Kingdom
AB Agri, LLC (in liquidation) Russian
Federation
AB Agri Pumeixin Tech (Jiangxi) 
Co. Ltd. China
AB Agri Vietnam Company Limited Vietnam
Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
AB Azucarera Iberia, S.L. Sociedad 
Unipersonal Spain
AB Brasil Indústria e Comércio de 
Alimentos Ltda Brazil
AB Calsa S.A. Ecuador
AB CALSA S.A. de C.V. Mexico
AB CALSA SERVICIOS, S. DE R.L. 
DE C.V. Mexico
AB Enzimas Brasil Comercial Ltda Brazil
AB Enzymes GmbH Germany
AB Enzymes Oy Finland
AB Enzymes Trading (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd China
AB Food & Beverages (Thailand) 
Ltd. Thailand
AB Food & Beverages Australia 
Pty. Limited Australia
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
28. Related parties continued
1.  The Garfield Weston Foundation (‘the Foundation’) is an English charitable trust, established in 1958 by the late W Garfield Weston. 
The Foundation has no direct interest in the Company, but as at 17 September 2016 was the beneficial owner of 683,073 shares 
(2015 – 683,073 shares) in Wittington Investments Limited representing 79.2% (2015 – 79.2%) of that company’s issued 
share capital and is, therefore, the Company’s ultimate controlling party. At 17 September 2016 trustees of the Foundation 
comprised two children and two grandchildren of the late W Garfield Weston and five children of the late Garry H Weston.
2.  Details of the directors are given on pages 54 and 55. Their interests, including family interests, in the Company and its 
subsidiary undertakings are given on pages 84 and 85. Key management personnel are considered to be the directors, 
and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration report on page 82.
3.  Members of the Weston family who are employed by the group and are not directors of the Company or  
Wittington Investments Limited and are not trustees of the Foundation.
4.  The fellow subsidiary undertakings are Fortnum and Mason plc and Heal & Son Limited.
5.  The companies with common key management personnel are the George Weston Limited group, in Canada, and  
Selfridges & Co. Limited.
Amounts due from joint ventures include £36m (2015 – £19m) of finance lease receivables (see note 13). The remainder  
of the balance is trading balances. All but £3m (2015 – £3m) of the finance lease receivables are non-current.
29. Group entities
Control of the group
The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by Wittington Investments Limited 
(‘Wittington’), the accounts of which are available at Companies House, Crown Way, Cardiff CF14 3UZ. It is the ultimate  
holding company, is incorporated in Great Britain and is registered in England.
At 17 September 2016 Wittington, together with its subsidiary, Howard Investments Limited, held 431,515,108 ordinary  
shares (2015 – 431,515,108) representing in aggregate 54.5% (2015 – 54.5%) of the total issued ordinary share capital  
of Associated British Foods plc.
Wittington, and, through their control of Wittington, the trustees of the Garfield Weston Foundation (‘the Foundation’) are 
controlling shareholders of the Company. Certain other individuals, including certain members of the Weston family who hold 
shares in the Company (and including two of the Company’s directors, George Weston and Emma Adamo) are, under the Listing 
Rules, treated as acting in concert with Wittington and the trustees of the Foundation and are therefore also treated as controlling 
shareholders of the Company. Wittington, the trustees of the Foundation and these individuals together comprise the controlling 
shareholders of the Company and, at 17 September 2016, have a combined interest in approximately 59.16% (2015 – 59.06%) 
of the Company’s voting rights. Information on the relationship agreement between the Company and its controlling shareholders 
is set out on page 89 of the Directors’ report.
Subsidiary undertakings
A list of the group’s subsidiaries as at 17 September 2016 is given below. The entire share capital of subsidiaries is held  
within the group except where the group’s ownership percentages are shown. These percentages give the group’s ultimate 
interest and therefore allow for the occasional situation where subsidiaries are owned by partly owned intermediate subsidiaries.  
Where subsidiaries have different classes of shares, this is largely for historical reasons and the effective percentage  
holdings given represent both the group’s voting rights and equity holding. Shares in ABF Investments plc are held directly by  
Associated British Foods plc. All other holdings in subsidiaries are owned by members of the Associated British Foods plc group.  
All subsidiaries are consolidated in the group’s financial statements.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
142 Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
AB Food & Beverages Philippines, 
Inc. Philippines 99
AB Food and Beverages Taiwan, 
Inc. Taiwan
AB Foods Australia Limited United Kingdom
AB Foods Luxembourg S.à r.l.  
(in liquidation) Luxembourg
AB Foods Polska Spólka z 
ograniczona odpowiedzialnoscia 
(AB Foods Polska SP. z o.o.) Poland
AB Ingredients Limited United Kingdom
AB Mauri (Beijing) Food Sales and 
Marketing Company Limited China
AB Mauri (Canada) Limited Canada
AB Mauri (UK) Limited United Kingdom
AB Mauri Belgium NV Belgium
AB Mauri Camellia Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri Europe Limited United Kingdom
AB Mauri Food Inc. United States
AB Mauri Food, S.A Spain
AB Mauri Foods (Shanghai) 
Company Limited China 90
AB Mauri France SAS France
AB Mauri Hispanoamerica S.A. Argentina
AB Mauri India (Private) Limited India
AB Mauri Investments (Asia)  
Pte Ltd Singapore
AB Mauri Italy S.p.A. Italy
AB Mauri Lanka (Private) Limited Sri Lanka
AB Mauri Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 52
AB Mauri Middle East FZE United Arab 
Emirates
AB Mauri Netherlands B.V. Netherlands
AB Mauri Netherlands European 
Holdings B.V. Netherlands
AB Mauri Overseas Holdings 
Limited Australia
AB Mauri Pakistan (PRIVATE) 
Limited Pakistan 60
AB Mauri Pakistan Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri Philippines, Inc. Philippines
AB Mauri Portugal, S.A. Portugal 96
AB Mauri Properties Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri ROW Holdings  
Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri Spain, S.L.U. Spain
AB Mauri South America  
Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri South West Asia  
Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri Technology & 
Development Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri Technology Pty Limited Australia
AB Mauri Vietnam Limited Vietnam 66
AB Sugar Africa Limited United Kingdom
AB Sugar China Holdings Limited United Kingdom
AB Sugar China Limited United Kingdom
AB Sugar China North Limited United Kingdom
AB Sugar Limited United Kingdom
AB Technology Limited United Kingdom
AB Tip Top (Wuhan) Baking Co Ltd China
AB Vista Asia Pte. Limited Singapore
Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
AB Vista Brasil Comércio De 
Alimentação Animal Ltda Brazil 
AB Vista Iberia, S.L. Spain
AB Vista, Inc. United States
AB World Foods (Holdings) 
Limited United Kingdom
AB World Foods Asia Ltd Thailand
AB World Foods Limited United Kingdom
AB World Foods Pty Ltd Australia
Abdale Finance Limited Ireland
ABF (No. 1) Limited United Kingdom
ABF (No. 2) Limited United Kingdom
ABF (No. 3) Limited United Kingdom
ABF Colón Park, S.L.U. Spain
ABF Deutschland Holdings GmbH Germany
ABF Europe Finance Limited United Kingdom
ABF European Holdings & Co SNC Luxembourg
ABF European Holdings Limited United Kingdom
ABF Finance Limited United Kingdom
ABF Funding United Kingdom
ABF Grain Products Limited United Kingdom
ABF Green Park Limited United Kingdom
ABF Grocery Limited United Kingdom
ABF HK Finance Limited United Kingdom
ABF Holdings (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand
ABF Ingredients Limited United Kingdom
ABF Investments plc United Kingdom
ABF Italy Holdings S.r.l. Italy
ABF Japan Limited United Kingdom
ABF MXN Finance Limited United Kingdom
ABF North America Corp. United States
ABF North America Holdings, Inc. United States
ABF Overseas Limited United Kingdom
ABF Overseas Limited, Sucursal 
en España Spain
ABF PM Limited United Kingdom
ABF Twinings Beverages 
(Shanghai) Limited China
ABF UK Finance Limited United Kingdom
ABF US Holdings Limited United Kingdom
ABF Wynyard Park Limited 
Partnership Australia
Abitec Corporation United States
ABN (Overseas) Limited United Kingdom
ABN (Scotland) Limited United Kingdom
ABNA (Shanghai) Feed Co., Ltd. China
ABNA (Tianjin) Feed Co., Ltd. China
ABNA Feed (Anhui) Co., Ltd. China
ABNA Feed (Liaoning) Co., Ltd. China
ABNA Feed Company Limited United Kingdom
ABNA Limited United Kingdom
ABNA Management (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd. China
ABNA Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China
ACH Food Companies of Puerto 
Rico, Inc. Puerto Rico
ACH Food Companies, Inc. United States
ACH Foods Mexico, S. de R.L.  
de C.V. Mexico
ACH Jupiter LLC United States
Agrilines Limited United Kingdom
Agro Korn A/S Denmark
29. Group entities continued
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
143 Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
Fleischmann Foods S.A. Colombia
Food Investments Limited United Kingdom
Food Investments Pty. Limited Australia
Foods International Holding B.V. Netherlands
Foods International S.A.S. France
Foods International Vertriebs- und 
Marketing-Gesellschaft GmbH Germany
G. Costa and Company Limited United Kingdom
G. Costa (Holdings) Limited United Kingdom
Gb Plange UK Limited United Kingdom
George Chapman Proprietary 
Limited Australia
George Weston Foods (NZ) 
Limited New Zealand
George Weston Foods Limited Australia
Germain’s (U.K.) Limited United Kingdom
Germains Seed Technology B.V. Netherlands
Germains Seed Technology, Inc. United States
Germains Seed Technology, S.A. Spain
Glendale Sugar Limited South Africa
Golden Crumpet Co. Australasia 
Pty Ltd Australia
Greensted, S.A. Uruguay
Guangxi Bodong Food Company 
Limited China 60
Guangxi Bohua Food Company 
Limited China 71
Guangxi Boqing Food Company 
Limited China 60
Guangxi Boxuan Food Company 
Limited China 70
Guangxi Boai Agriculture Technical 
Development Company Limited China 70
Harbin Mauri Yeast Co., Ltd. China 85
Hebei Mauri Food Co., Ltd. China
Illovo Distillers (Tanzania) Limited Tanzania 80
Illovo Distributors (Pty) Limited South Africa
Illovo Group Financing Services 
Limited Mauritius
Illovo Group Holdings Limited Mauritius
Illovo Group Marketing Services 
Limited Mauritius
Illovo Sugar (Malawi) Limited Malawi 76
Illovo Sugar (South Africa) Limited South Africa
Illovo Sugar (Zambia) Limited Zambia
Illovo Sugar Espana, S.L. Spain
Illovo Sugar Proprietary Limited South Africa
Illovo Swaziland Limited Swaziland 60
Illovo Tanzania Limited Tanzania
Illprop (Pty) Limited South Africa
Indonesian Yeast Company  
Pty Limited Australia
Innovative Baking Technology B.V. Netherlands
Jacksons of Piccadilly Limited United Kingdom
James Neill Limited United Kingdom
Jasol Asia Pacific Ltd Thailand
John K. King & Sons Limited United Kingdom
Jordan Bros. (N.I.) Limited United Kingdom
Kilombero Holdings Limited Mauritius 73
Kilombero Sugar Company Limited Tanzania 55
Kingsgate Food Ingredients 
Limited United Kingdom
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
Agroteo S.A. Spain 51
Alimentos Fleischmann, C.A., Venezuela
Allied Bakeries Limited United Kingdom
Allied Foods (NZ) Ltd New Zealand
Allied Grain (Scotland) Limited United Kingdom
Allied Grain (South) Limited United Kingdom
Allied Grain (Southern) Limited United Kingdom
Allied Grain Limited United Kingdom
Allied Mills Limited United Kingdom
Allied Technical Centre Limited United Kingdom
Allinson Limited United Kingdom
Alternative Swine Nutrition, S.L. Spain
Anzchem NZ Limited New Zealand
Anzchem Pty Limited Australia
Associated British Foods Asia 
Pacific Holdings Limited Hong Kong
Associated British Foods Holdings 
(China) Co., Ltd. China
Associated British Foods Pension 
Trustees Limited United Kingdom
Atrium 100 Properties Limited United Kingdom
Atrium 100 Stores Holdings 
Limited United Kingdom
Atrium 100 Stores Limited United Kingdom
B.E. International Foods Limited United Kingdom
B.V. ABF Delaware, Inc (USA) United States
Banbury Agriculture Limited United Kingdom
Bar Circle Ranch Limited Swaziland 60
Bodit Tachov S.r.o. Czech Republic
Botian Sugar Industry Co., Ltd. China
Botian Sugar (Chayou Qianqi)  
Co., Ltd. China
Botian Sugar Industry (Zhangbei) 
Co., Ltd. China
Bonuit Investments Limited Jersey
British Sugar (Overseas) Limited United Kingdom
British Sugar Consulting Services 
(ShangHai) Co., Ltd. China
British Sugar plc United Kingdom
BSO (China) Limited United Kingdom
Calsa Chile Inversiones Limitada Chile
CALSA de Peru S.A.C. Peru
Carabello Trading and Investments 
20 Limited South Africa
Cereal Industries Limited United Kingdom
Cereform Limited United Kingdom
CGS Investments (Pty) Limited South Africa
Compañía Argentina De Levaduras 
S.A.I.C. Argentina
Compañía de Alimentos 
Latinoamericana de Venezuela 
(CALSA) S.A. Venezuela
Davjon Food Limited United Kingdom
Dorset Cereals Limited United Kingdom
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation 
Limited Malawi 76
East African Supply (Pty) Limited South Africa
Eastbow Securities Limited United Kingdom
Elsenham Quality Foods Limited United Kingdom
Enzymes Leasing Finland Oy Finland
Fishers Feeds Limited United Kingdom
Fishers Seeds & Grain Limited United Kingdom
29. Group entities continued
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
144 Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
Korway Foods Limited United Kingdom
Korway Holdings Limited United Kingdom
Lacsa (Pty) Limited South Africa 70
LeafTC Limited United Kingdom
Levadura Uruguaya S.A. Uruguay
Lojas Primark Portugal – 
Exploração, Gestão e 
Administração de Espaços 
Comerciais S.A. Portugal
Malawi Sugar Limited Malawi
Maragra Açucar, S.A. Mozambique 90
Mauri Fermentation Argentina  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation Brazil  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation Chile  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation China  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation India  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation Indonesia  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation Malaysia  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation Philippines 
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Fermentation Vietnam  
Pty Limited Australia
Mauri Maya Sanayi A.S. Turkey
Mauri Products Limited United Kingdom
Mauri Research B.V. Netherlands
Mauri Technology B.V. Netherlands
Mauri Yeast Australia Pty Limited Australia
Meishan Mauri Yeast Co., Ltd.  
(in liquidation) China
Mitra Sugar Limited United Kingdom
Mountsfield Park Finance Limited United Kingdom
Moyeni Ranch Limited Swaziland 60
N&C Enterprises Pty Ltd Australia
Nanga Farms PLC Zambia 66
NB Love Industries Pty Ltd Australia
Nere Properties Limited United Kingdom
New Zealand Food Industries 
Limited New Zealand
Noodsberg Sugar Company 
Limited South Africa
Nueva Comercial Azucarera, S.A. Spain 88
Nutrition Services (International) 
Limited United Kingdom
Nutrition Trading (International) 
Limited United Kingdom
Nutrition Trading Limited United Kingdom
Ohly GmbH Germany
Ohly Grundbesitz GmbH Germany
Panyu Mauri Food Co., Ltd. China
Parkstone (Jersey) Limited  
(in liquidation) Jersey
Parkstone Bakeries Limited 
(in liquidation) United Kingdom
Patak (Spices) Limited United Kingdom
Patak Food Limited United Kingdom
29. Group entities continued
Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
Patak’s Breads Limited United Kingdom
Patak’s Chilled Foods Limited United Kingdom
Patak’s Foods 2008 Limited United Kingdom
Patak’s Frozen Foods Limited United Kingdom
PGP International, Inc. United States
Premier Nutrition (Nantong) Co., Ltd. China
Premier Nutrition Products Limited United Kingdom
Pride Oils Public Limited Company United Kingdom
Prima Ireland
Primark Limited Ireland
Primark (U.K.) Limited United Kingdom
Primark Austria Limited United Kingdom
Primark Austria Ltd & Co KG Austria
Primark Fashion B.V. Netherlands
Primark France SAS France
Primark GCM LLC United States
Primark Holdings Ireland
Primark Italy S.r.l. Italy
Primark Mode Limited United Kingdom
Primark Mode Ltd. & Co. KG Germany
Primark Netherlands B.V. Netherlands
Primark Pension Administration 
Services Limited United Kingdom
Primark Pension Trustees Limited Ireland
Primark Property GmbH Germany
Primark SA Belgium
Primark Senior Executive Pension 
Trustees Limited Ireland
Primark Stil B.V. Netherlands
Primark Stores Limited United Kingdom
Primark Tiendas, S.L.U. Spain
Primark US Corp. United States
Primary Diets Limited United Kingdom
Primary Nutrition Limited United Kingdom
Proofex Products Company Ireland
Prospeserv Unipessoal Lda Portugal 88
PT AB Food & Beverages 
Indonesia Indonesia
R. Twining and Company Limited United Kingdom
R. Twining and Company Sp. z o. o. Poland
Relax Limited Malta 70
Reynolds Brothers Limited South Africa
Rheinische Presshefe- und 
Spritwerke GmbH Germany
Roses Nutrition Ltd United Kingdom
S.A. Sugar Distributors (Pty) 
Limited South Africa
Seedcote Systems Limited United Kingdom
Serpentine Securities Limited United Kingdom
Serrol Ingredients Pty Limited Australia
Servicios Alimentos Capullo,  
S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Shanghai AB Food & Beverages 
Co., Ltd. China
Sizzlers Ireland
Sizzlers Limited United Kingdom
Sizzles International Unlimited 
Company Ireland
Sizzles Limited United Kingdom
Smithchem (Pty) Limited South Africa
Speedibake Limited United Kingdom
SPI Pharma SAS France
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
145 Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
Twinings Japan Co Ltd Japan 50
Twinings North America, Inc United States
Twinings Ovaltine Nigeria Limited Nigeria
Twinings Private Limited India
Ubombo Sugar Limited Swaziland 60
Umzimkulu Sugar Company 
Limited South Africa
Vistavet (Ireland) Limited Ireland
Vistavet Limited United Kingdom
Vivergo Fuels Limited United Kingdom 94
W. Jordan & Son (Silo) Limited United Kingdom
W. Jordan (Cereals) Limited United Kingdom
WA Feeds Pty Ltd Australia
Wander AG Switzerland
Wereham Gravel Company 
Limited (The) United Kingdom
Westmill Foods Europe B.V. Netherlands
Westmill Foods Europe GmbH Germany
Westmill Foods Limited United Kingdom
Weston Foods Limited United Kingdom
Weston Research Laboratories 
Limited United Kingdom
Worldwing Investments Limited United Kingdom
Xinjiang Mauri Food Co., Ltd. China 90
Yantai Mauri Yeast Co., Ltd. China 92
Yeast Products Company Ireland
Zambia Sugar plc Zambia 76
Ziggys Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Name Country
% effective
holding if
not 100%
SPI Pharma, Inc. United States
SPI Polyols, LLC United States
SPI Specialities Pharma Private 
Limited India
Sucoma Holdings Limited Mauritius
Sun Blest Crumpet Co. Limited 
(The) United Kingdom
Sunblest Bakeries Limited United Kingdom
Surgras S.A. Argentina
Talisman Guernsey Limited Guernsey
The Bakery School Limited United Kingdom
The Billington Food Group Limited United Kingdom
The Home Grown Sugar Company 
Limited United Kingdom
The Jordans & Ryvita Company 
Limited United Kingdom
The Jordans and Ryvita Company 
Australia Pty Ltd Australia
The Natural Sweetness Company 
Limited United Kingdom
The Roadmap Company Limited United Kingdom
The Silver Spoon Company 
Limited United Kingdom
The Weston Biscuit Company 
Limited United Kingdom
Tip Top Bakeries Limited United Kingdom
Trident Feeds Limited United Kingdom
Tukunka Agricultural Limited Zambia 76
Twining Crosfield & Co. Limited United Kingdom
29. Group entities continued
Lusaka Stock Exchange (LuSE) regulations require all listed companies in Zambia to have a minimum of 25% of their shares held by 
public investors to constitute a free float. As a result, Illovo Sugar was required to reduce its shareholding in Zambia Sugar plc by 
6.6%. Effective 26 September 2014, 5.1% of the shares were sold to local Zambian institutional investors. As agreed with LuSE, 
the remaining 1.5% will be held in a separate account in the LuSE Central Securities Depository. While Illovo will waive its voting 
rights on these shares, it will still be entitled to receive dividends thereon.
The results and balance sheet of Primark Mode Ltd. & Co. KG are included in these financial statements and these financial 
statements will be filed in Germany. As a consequence, Primark Mode Ltd. & Co. KG is exempt from the requirement to file 
its own financial statements under section 264b HGB.
Associated British Foods plc has irrevocably guaranteed all amounts shown as liabilities in the statutory financial statements 
of the subsidiary undertakings registered in Ireland listed below in respect of the financial year ended 17 September 2016.  
As a consequence, these subsidiaries qualify for the exemption under section 357 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland) from 
the provisions of sections 347 and 348 of that Act.
Abdale Finance Limited    Primark Senior Executive Pension Trustees Limited
Prima      Sizzlers
Primark Limited     Sizzles International Unlimited Company
Primark Holdings     Ziggys Ireland Unlimited Company
Primark Pension Trustees Limited
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
146 Joint ventures
A list of the group’s joint ventures as at 17 September 2016 is given below. All joint ventures are included in the group’s financial 
statements using the equity method of accounting.
Name Country % holding
Chiltern Bakeries Limited United Kingdom 44
Compañía de Melazas, S.A. Spain 50
Fortnum & Masons Pty Limited Australia 33
Frontier Agriculture Limited United Kingdom 50
Boothmans (Agriculture) Limited United Kingdom 50
Forward Agronomy Limited United Kingdom 50
G F P (Agriculture) Limited United Kingdom 50
GH2 Limited United Kingdom 50
GH Grain Limited United Kingdom 50
Grain Harvesters Limited United Kingdom 50
Grampian Crop Services Limited United Kingdom 50
Lothian Crop Specialists Limited United Kingdom 50
Nomix Enviro Limited United Kingdom 50
North Wold Agronomy Limited United Kingdom 50
Phoenix Agronomy Limited United Kingdom 50
Southampton Grain Terminal Limited United Kingdom 25
Soyl Limited United Kingdom 50
The Agronomy Partnership Limited United Kingdom 50
Glendale Distilling Company South Africa 50
Levaduras Collico S.A. Chile 50
Qingdao Xinghua Cereal Oil and Foodstuff Co., Ltd China 25
Roal Oy Finland 50
Stratas Foods LLC United States 50
Stratas Receivables I LLC United States 50
Acquisition XVI LLC United States 50
Synchronis France 50
UNIFERM GmbH & Co. KG Germany 50
INA Nahrmittel GmbH Germany 50
Uniferm Polska Sp Z.o.o Poland 50
UNIFERM Verwaltungs GmbH Germany 50
29. Group entities continued
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
147 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Name Country % holding
Bakers Basco Limited United Kingdom 20
C. Czarnikow Limited United Kingdom 43
Czarnikow Group Limited United Kingdom 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Limited United Kingdom 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar Limited United Kingdom 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar (East Africa) Limited Kenya 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar (Eurasia) Limited Russian Federation 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar (Guangzhou) Company Limited China 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar (India) Private Limited India 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar (Mexico), S.A. de C.V. Mexico 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar Inc. United States 43
Czarnikow Futures Inc. (in liquidation) United States 43
C. Czarnikow Sugar Pte. Limited Singapore 43
Czarnikow Brasil Ltda Brazil 43
Czarnikow Israel Sugar Trading Ltd (Sucarim) Israel 43
Czarnikow Italia Srl Italy 43
Czarnikow Servicios de Personal, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 43
Czarnikow Tanzania Limited Tanzania 43
Sucris Limited Israel 21
Sugarworld Limited United Kingdom 43
Gledhow Sugar Company (Pty) Limited South Africa 30
Kilombero Sugar Distributors Limited Tanzania 20
Murray Bridge Bacon Pty Ltd Australia 20
Big River Pork Pty Ltd Australia 20
New Food Coatings Pty Ltd Australia 50
New Food Coatings (New Zealand) Ltd New Zealand 50
New Food Coatings (Philippines) Inc Philippines 50
New Quality Ingredients PTY Limited Australia 50
Newly Weds Foods (Thailand) Ltd Thailand 50
Newly Wed Foods (Trading) Limited Thailand 25
Witwood Food Products Pty Limited Australia 50
PT Indo Fermex Indonesia 49
P.T. Jaya Fermex Indonesia 49
PT Sama Indah Indonesia 49
Sukpak Limited Mauritius 30
29. Group entities continued
30. Subsequent events
On 18 October Stratas Foods, an equity-accounted joint venture in which the group’s interest is 50%, announced that it  
had completed the purchase of Supreme Oil Company in the US. Supreme Oil Company is a supplier of oils, shortenings, 
mayonnaise and dressings to the foodservice and retail industries.
Associates
A list of the group’s associates as at 17 September 2016 is given below. All associates are included in the group’s financial 
statements using the equity method of accounting.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
148 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
at 17 September 2016
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fixed assets  
Intangible assets 1 20 19 
Investments in subsidiaries 2 667 663 
 687 682
Current assets  
Debtors  
– due within one year 3 4,533 4,275 
– due after one year 3 325 345 
Employee benefits assets – due after one year 4 – 120
Deferred tax assets – due after one year 5 31 –
Derivative assets 68 21 
Cash and cash equivalents 273 467 
 5,230 5,228 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
Bank loans and overdrafts – unsecured (17) (81) 
Other creditors 6 (2,168) (2,613) 
 (2,185) (2,694) 
Net current assets 3,045 2,534 
Total assets less current liabilities 3,732 3,216 
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year  
Bank loans – unsecured (570) (520) 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 6 (309) (318) 
Employee benefits liabilities 4 (138) (30)
Deferred tax liabilities 5 – (8)
 (1,017) (876) 
Net assets 2,715 2,340 
Capital and reserves  
Issued capital 7 45 45 
Capital redemption reserve 7 2 2 
Hedging reserve 7 (3) (2) 
Profit and loss reserve 7 2,671 2,295 
Equity shareholders’ funds 2,715 2,340 
The financial statements on pages 149 to 156 were approved by the board of directors on 8 November 2016 and were signed  
on its behalf by:
Charles Sinclair John Bason
Chairman Director
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
149 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Share
capital
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Profit 
and loss
reserve
£m
Total
£m
Balance as at 13 September 2014 45 2 (4) 2,211 2,254 
Total comprehensive income
Profit for the period recognised in the income statement – – – 312 312 
Remeasurement of defined benefit schemes – – – 35 35 
Deferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes – – – (7) (7)
Movements in cash flow hedging position – – 2 – 2 
Other comprehensive income – – 2 28 30
Total comprehensive income – – 2 340 342 
Transactions with owners
Dividends paid to equity shareholders – – – (271) (271)
Net movement in own shares held – – – 11 11 
Deferred tax associated with share-based payments – – – 4 4 
Total transactions with owners – – – (256) (256)
Balance as at 12 September 2015 45 2 (2) 2,295 2,340 
Total comprehensive income
Profit for the period recognised in the income statement – – – 843 843 
Remeasurement of defined benefit schemes – – – (223) (223)
Deferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes – – – 42 42 
Movements in cash flow hedging position – – (1) – (1)
Other comprehensive income – – (1) (181) (182)
Total comprehensive income – – (1) 662 661 
Transactions with owners
Dividends paid to equity shareholders – – – (279) (279)
Net movement in own shares held – – – (12) (12)
Deferred tax associated with share-based payments – – – (2) (2)
Current tax associated with share-based payments – – – 7 7 
Total transactions with owners – – – (286) (286)
Balance as at 17 September 2016 45 2 (3) 2,671 2,715 
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
150 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million. They are prepared under the historical cost  
basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value, and in accordance with Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101) and the Companies Act 2006. These financial statements are the  
first the Company has prepared in accordance with FRS 101. Details of the impact of transition are given in note 10.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard  
in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information  
in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and  
certain related party transactions. Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements.
As permitted by section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006, a separate income statement and statement of comprehensive 
income for the Company has not been included in these financial statements. The principal accounting policies adopted are 
described below. They have all been applied consistently to all years presented.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise goodwill arising on business combinations and operating intangibles. Goodwill is defined under 
‘Business combinations’ on page 103 of the consolidated financial statements. The Companies Act 2006 requires goodwill  
to be amortised on a systematic basis over its useful economic life. Under FRS 101 goodwill is not amortised, but is instead 
reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or whenever there are indicators of impairment. The Company is therefore invoking 
a ‘true and fair view override’ to overcome the requirement to amortise goodwill in the Companies Act 2006. Had the Company 
amortised goodwill, a period of three years would have been chosen as its useful life from the date of transition. The profit for 
the year would have been £5m lower had goodwill been amortised in the year.
Intangible assets other than goodwill are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges. Amortisation 
is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets from 
the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are generally deemed to be no longer than five years.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities, except for derivatives, are measured initially at fair value, plus directly attributable 
transaction costs, and thereafter at amortised cost.
Derivatives
Derivatives are used to manage the Company’s economic exposure to financial risks. The principal instruments used are  
foreign exchange contracts and swaps. Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value based on market prices  
or rates, or calculated using either discounted cash flow or option pricing models. Changes in the value of derivatives are 
recognised in the income statement unless they qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any change in fair value 
depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Company operates one defined contribution and two defined benefit pension schemes. The Company is the principal 
employer of the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme, which is a funded final salary scheme that is closed to new 
members, as well as a small unfunded final salary scheme. For the defined benefit plans, the amount charged in the income 
statement is the cost of benefits accruing to employees over the year, plus any benefit improvements granted to members by  
the Company during the year. It also includes net interest expense or income calculated by applying the liability discount rate  
to the net pension asset or liability. The difference between market value of assets and present value of liabilities is disclosed  
as an asset or liability in the balance sheet. Any related deferred tax (to the extent recoverable) is disclosed separately in the 
balance sheet. Remeasurements are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. Surpluses are recognised  
only to the extent that they are recoverable. Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are 
charged to operating profit as incurred.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
151 Income tax
Income tax on profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items taken directly to equity.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted 
during the period, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
asset can be utilised.
 Share-based payments
The fair value of the share awards at grant date is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity, spread 
over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares. The amount recognised is adjusted  
to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting except where the failure to vest is as a result of not meeting a market condition.
Where the Company grants allocations of shares to employees of its subsidiaries, these are accounted for on the same basis as 
allocations to employees of the Company, except that the fair value is recognised as an increase to investment in subsidiaries 
with a corresponding increase in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank and cash balances, call deposits and short-term investments with original maturities  
of three months or less.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
152 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
1. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Operating
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
At 12 September 2015 14 5 19
Additions – 2 2
At 17 September 2016 14 7 21
Amortisation
At 12 September 2015 – – –
Amortisation – (1) (1)
At 17 September 2016 – (1) (1)
Net book value
At 12 September 2015 14 5 19
At 17 September 2016 14 6 20
2. Investments in subsidiaries
£m
At 12 September 2015 663
Additions 4
At 17 September 2016 667
The additions relate to the allocation of shares under equity-settled share-based payment plans to employees of the Company’s 
subsidiaries. There were no provisions for impairment in either year.
3. Debtors
2016
£m
2015
£m
Amounts falling due within one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 4,483 4,254 
Other debtors 18 5 
Corporation tax recoverable 32 16 
4,533 4,275 
Amounts falling due after one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 325 345 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of debtors approximates their fair value.
4. Employee entitlements
2016
assets
£m
2015
assets
£m
2016
liabilities
£m
2015
liabilities
£m
2016
net
£m
2015
net
£m
Reconciliation of changes in assets and liabilities
At beginning of year 3,343 3,178 (3,253) (3,120) 90 58
Current service cost – – (33) (37) (33) (37)
Employee contributions 9 9 (9) (9) – –
Employer contributions 27 30 – – 27 30
Benefit payments (136) (120) 136 120 – –
Settlements – (6) – 9 – 3
Past service cost – – (1) (2) (1) (2)
Interest income/(expense) 123 129 (121) (126) 2 3
Return on scheme assets less interest income 273 123 – – 273 123
Actuarial losses arising from changes 
in financial assumptions – – (758) (145) (758) (145)
Actuarial gains arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions – – 257 – 257 –
Experience gains on scheme liabilities – – 5 57 5 57
At end of year 3,639 3,343 (3,777) (3,253) (138) 90
Further details of the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme are contained in note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
153 5. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Employee
benefits
£m
Share-based
payments
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 12 September 2015 (18) 5 5 (8)
Amount (credited)/charged to the income statement (1) 1 – –
Amount charged/(credited) to equity 42 (2) – 40
Effect of changes in tax rates on income statement – (1) – (1)
At 17 September 2016 23 3 5 31
6. Other creditors
2016
£m
2015
£m
Amounts falling due within one year 
Other taxation and social security 1 1 
Accruals and deferred income 65 47 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 2,102 2,565 
2,168 2,613 
Amounts falling due after one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 309 318 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of creditors approximates their fair value.
7. Capital and reserves
Share capital
At 12 September 2015 and 17 September 2016, the Company’s issued and fully paid share capital comprised 791,674,183 
ordinary shares of 5
15
⁄ 22p, each carrying one vote per share. Total nominal value was £45m.
Capital redemption reserve
The non-distributable capital redemption reserve arose following redemption of two million £1 deferred shares at par in 2010.
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed are provided in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share-based payments
Details of the Company’s equity-settled share-based payment plans are provided in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises all changes in the value of derivatives to the extent that they are effective cash flow hedges, 
net of amounts recycled from the hedging reserve on occurrence of the hedged transaction or when the hedged transaction 
is no longer expected to occur.
8. Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. The guarantee contract is treated 
as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under 
the guarantee.
The Company had provided £709m of guarantees in the ordinary course of business as at 17 September 2016 (2015 – £538m).
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
154 9. Related parties
The Company has a controlling shareholder relationship with its parent company, Wittington Investments Limited, with the 
trustees of the Garfield Weston Foundation and with certain other individuals who hold shares in the Company. Further details 
of the controlling shareholder relationship are included in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company has a 
related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and directors. In the course of normal operations, 
related party transactions entered into by the Company have been contracted on an arm’s length basis.
Material transactions and year end balances with related parties (excluding wholly owned subsidiaries) were as follows:
Sub note
2016
£000
2015
£000
Charges to Wittington Investments Limited in respect of services provided by the Company 1,226 661 
Charges to fellow subsidiary undertakings on normal trading terms 1 – 60 
Dividends paid by the Company and received in a beneficial capacity by:  
(i)  trustees of the Garfield Weston Foundation 1 10,012 9,838 
(ii)  directors of Wittington Investments Limited who are not trustees of the Foundation 1 2,613 1,529 
(iii)  directors of the Company who are not trustees of the Foundation and are not directors of 
Wittington Investments Limited 1 54 50
(iv) members of the Weston family employed within the Associated British Foods group 1 2 1,011
Charges to non-wholly owned subsidiaries 2 193 116 
Charges to joint ventures 2 3 –
Interest income earned from non-wholly owned subsidiaries 2 211 228 
Amounts due from non-wholly owned subsidiaries 2 31,335 7,077 
Amounts due to non-wholly owned subsidiaries 2 – 8 
1. Details of the nature of the relationships with these bodies are set out in note 28 of the consolidated financial statements.
2.  Details of the Company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are set out in note 29 of the consolidated financial statements.
10. Transition to FRS 101
For all periods up to and including the period ended 12 September 2015, the Company prepared its financial statements in 
accordance with previously extant United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’). These financial 
statements for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016 are the first the Company has prepared in accordance with FRS 101.  
The Company’s transition date to FRS 101 is 13 September 2014, which is the date from which the changes in accounting 
policies, restatements and presentational changes required on adoption of FRS 101 have been made. The comparative  
financial information for the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2015 has been re-presented in line with FRS 101.
The principal differences between previous UK GAAP and FRS 101 are set out below, in addition to which there are minor 
presentational differences in the format of the balance sheet.
Goodwill
Under previous UK GAAP, goodwill was amortised over its useful economic life. Under FRS 101, goodwill is considered to have 
an indefinite life in line with IAS 38 Intangible Assets and is no longer amortised. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment in 
accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. In adopting FRS 101, the Company took advantage of the transitional exemption 
to use the previous UK GAAP carrying value of goodwill at the transition date (£14m) as its deemed cost. The £5m goodwill 
amortisation previously charged to the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2015 has been reversed.
Employee entitlements
Under previous UK GAAP, the Company took advantage of the exemption available in FRS 17 to account for contributions  
arising from its membership of a multi-employer defined benefit scheme as if they were contributions to a defined contribution 
scheme, on the basis that the Company was unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent  
and reasonable basis.
Under FRS 101, members of a multi-employer defined benefit scheme are required to recognise their share of the costs 
and net asset or liability arising under the plan. Where there is no contractual agreement or stated policy for identifying this 
allocation to individual member companies, the full amounts are to be recognised in the individual financial statements of the 
principal employer of the defined benefit scheme. On transition to FRS 101, the Company has been identified as the principal 
employer of the Associated British Foods Pension Scheme and has therefore recognised that scheme in full in its individual 
financial statements.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial statements
155 Deferred tax
Under previous UK GAAP, the liability for a small unfunded defined benefit scheme was presented net of the related deferred  
tax asset. Under FRS 101, the deferred tax assets have been separately disclosed. Other deferred tax assets were previously 
recognised within debtors but under FRS 101 are separately disclosed along with other deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Equity shareholders’ funds as at 13 September 2014
At 13 September 2014, a net defined benefit surplus of £87m was recognised in respect of the Associated British Foods  
Pension scheme, together with a related deferred tax liability of £17m. The net impact of £70m was reflected against the  
profit and loss reserve.
Equity shareholders’ funds as at 12 September 2015
At 12 September 2015, a net defined benefit surplus of £120m was recognised in respect of the Associated British Foods 
Pension scheme, together with a related deferred tax liability of £24m. The net impact of £96m was reflected against the profit  
and loss reserve. In addition, the £5m goodwill amortisation previously charged to the income statement for the 52 weeks  
ended 12 September 2015 has been reversed, together with the related tax impact of £1m.
11. Other information
Emoluments of directors
The remuneration of the directors of the Company is shown in the Remuneration report for the group on page 82.
Employees
The Company had an average of 155 employees in 2016 (2015 – 153).
Auditors’ fees
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements of the group provides details of the remuneration of the Company’s auditors 
on a group basis.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the 53 weeks ended 17 September 2016
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
156 This report contains forward-looking statements. These have been made by the directors in good faith based on the information available 
to them up to the time of their approval of this report. The directors can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have 
been correct. Due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors underlying such forward-looking 
information, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The directors 
undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
Revenue 12,252 13,315 12,943 12,800 13,399
Adjusted operating profit 1,077 1,180 1,163 1,082 1,118
Exceptional items (98) – – (98) (5)
Amortisation of non-operating intangibles (100) (92) (72) (55) (21)
Profits less losses on disposal of non-current assets (6) – (11) 8 11
Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses (9) (128) (2) (172) (14)
Finance income 9 13 15 8 6
Finance expense (114) (100) (73) (61) (56)
Other financial income/(expense) 2 (5) – (5) 3
Profit before taxation 761 868 1,020 707 1,042
Taxation (178) (240) (237) (191) (221)
Profit for the period 583 628 783 516 821
    
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 70.3 74.0 96.5 66.8 103.4
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 87.2 98.1 104.1 101.5 106.2
Dividends per share (pence) 28.5 32.0 34.0 35.0 36.75
Associated British Foods plc
Registered office  
Weston Centre 
10 Grosvenor Street  
London W1K 4QY
Company registered in England, number 293262
Company Secretary
Paul Lister 
Registrar
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing BN99 6DA 
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP Chartered Accountants
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC 
Lloyds Banking Group plc 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Brokers
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 
One Cabot Square 
London E14 4QJ 
Barclays Bank PLC  
5 North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4BB
Timetable
Interim dividend paid  
1 July 2016
Final dividend to be paid  
13 January 2017
Annual general meeting  
9 December 2016
Interim results to be announced  
19 April 2017
Website
www.abf.co.uk
COMPANY DIRECTORY
Figures from 2013 onwards reflect the revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard. Figures from 2015 onwards reflect the 
amendments to IAS 41 Agriculture and IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
PROGRESS REPORT
Saturday nearest to 15 September Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Associated British Foods plc
Weston Centre  
10 Grosvenor Street  
London  
W1K 4QY
Tel + 44 (0) 20 7399 6500  
Fax + 44 (0) 20 7399 6580
For an accessible version of  
the Annual Report and Accounts  
please visit our website
www.abf.co.uk
Design and production
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management 
System is certified to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil 
based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 
99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Revive 50 silk, a paper containing 50% 
recycled fibre and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, 
FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process.
