 Annual Report 2014
Capturing  
growth 
opportunities Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC (BGH or Bank 
of Georgia Holdings) is a UK-incorporated 
holding company of JSC Bank of Georgia 
(the Bank or Bank of Georgia) representing  
the Bank’s subsidiaries making up a group  
of companies (the Group). BGH is a Georgia-
focused banking group with an investment 
arm. (See page 16 for our business model  
and page 18 for our strategy.)
Bank of Georgia 
Holdings PLC 
Investment 
Business
Our Investment Business comprises up to  
20% of BGH’s profit and consists of Georgia 
Healthcare Group (Healthcare Business), m
2
  
Real Estate (Real Estate Business) and Georgia 
Global Utilities (Utility Business) and other  
legacy investments. Georgia’s fast growing 
economy provides opportunities in a number  
of underdeveloped markets and the Group is  
well positioned to capture growth opportunities  
in the Georgian corporate sector. (See page 4  
for the structure of our business.)
Banking 
Business
Our Banking Business comprises at least 80%  
of BGH’s profit and consists of Retail Banking, 
Corporate Banking and Investment Management 
businesses at its core and other banking 
businesses such as P&C Insurance, Leasing, 
Payment Services and Banking operations in 
Belarus (BNB). The Group strives to benefit from 
the underpenetrated banking sector in Georgia 
especially through its Retail Banking services. 
(See page 4 for the structure of our business.)
About us Annual Report 2014
Capturing  
further growth 
opportunities
Read this report online
Find the digital version of this  
report on our corporate website  
at: www.bogh.co.uk
Strategic report
2-63
Governance
64-105
Overview
02 Financial highlights
03 Operating highlights
04 At a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Strategy
12 Market review
16 Our business model
18 Our strategy
22 Key performance indicators  
24 Resources and responsibilities
32 Principal risks and uncertainties
36 Risk management
Performance
44 Business review – overview of financial results
50 Segment discussion
64 Directors’ Governance Statement
 66 Leadership
 74 Effectiveness
  76 Nomination Committee Report
 78 Accountability
  79 Audit Committee Report
  84 Risk Committee Report
86 Directors’ Remuneration Report
100 Directors’ Report
103 Independent Auditor’s Report
Financial statements
106-191
106 Stand-alone statement of financial position
107 Stand-alone statement of changes in equity
108 Stand-alone statement of cash flows
109 Consolidated statement of financial position
110 Consolidated income statement
112 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
113 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
114 Consolidated statement of cash flows
116 Notes to consolidated financial statements 
Additional information
192-196
192 Abbreviations
194 Glossary
196 Shareholder information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 1
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Contents 605.6
Revenue (GEL million)
2012 2013 2014
497.5
544.3
605.6
+11.3% y-o-y
240.8
Prot (GEL million)
2012 2013 2014
179.6
209.3
240.8
+15.0% y-o-y
4,360.7
Net loans (GEL million)
2012 2013 2014
3,092.3
3,522.9
4,360.7
+23.8% y-o-y
3,313.7
Client deposits (GEL million)
2012 2013 2014
2,622.9
3,107.2
3,313.7
+6.6% y-o-y
19.0
*
%
Return on Equity
2012 2013 2014
19.1
18.6
19.0
+0.4ppts y-o-y
6.85
*
Earnings per share (GEL)
2012 2013 2014
5.22
5.93
6.85
+15.5% y-o-y
22.1%
Tier 1 Capital ratio
2012 2013 2014
21.2
23.0
22.1
-0.9ppts y-o-y
42.8%
Cost to Income ratio
2012 2013 2014
44.3
41.2
42.8
+1.5ppts y-o-y
138.5
Healthcare business: healthcare service 
revenue (GEL million, stand-alone)
2012 2013 2014
46.7 
Real estate business: apartment sales 
(US$ million)
2012 2013 2014
63.7
85.2
138.5
21.7
34.7
46.7
+62.5% y-o-y +34.4% y-o-y
The effectiveness of our strategy  
is reflected in the record 2014 
financial results highlighted below.
* Adjusted for results of placing ordinary shares on 4 December 2014 and before one-off impairment of BG Bank Ukraine in Q2 2014.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 2
Financial highlights Healthcare business: 
Number of hospital beds
2,140
+811 (over 2013)
Number of cards
1,156,631
+180,984 (over 2013)
Express Pay terminals
2,239
+1,254 (over 2013)
Number of Retail Banking 
clients
1,451,777
+206,729 (over 2013)
POS terminals
6,320
+1,484 (over 2013)
ATMs
523
+27 (over 2013)
2014 operating highlights reflect the 
expanding footprint of our banking  
and investment businesses in Georgia.
Banking 
branches
219
+17 (over 2013)
Real estate business: 
Number of apartments sold
574
+194 (over 2013)
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 3
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Operating highlights Banking Business
We are a banking group with an 
investment arm. We are uniquely 
positioned to capture growth 
opportunities in the underpenetrated 
banking sector and wider corporate 
landscape in Georgia. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 4
The structure  
of our business
At a glance
 Retail Banking
We operate the largest retail bank in Georgia, serving c. 1.5 million 
customers through 219 branches, 523 ATMs and 2,239 Express Pay 
(self-service) terminals and have a sales force of more than 2,000. In 
order to better serve the varied needs of our customers, in addition  
to traditional banking services, Retail Banking offers differentiated 
products and services. These include the well-recognised brands  
such as Solo Banking, a premier banking service for the mass affluent 
segment and Express Banking service, which is aimed at attracting 
mass market customers with minimal incremental operation costs 
through cost-efficient distance channels such as our Express Pay 
terminals, internet and mobile banking and technology-intensive 
Express branches. We added c.400,000 retail customers and 4.9% 
market share in retail loans to our Retail Banking operations, as a  
result of the acquisition of Privatbank completed in January 2015. 
 Investment Management
Our Investment Management business consists of Wealth Management 
and our newly rebranded brokerage arm, Galt & Taggart. Galt & Taggart 
brings under one brand corporate advisory, private equity and brokerage 
services. Through our Wealth Management business we provide private 
banking services to our high-net-worth individual clients and offer 
investment management products internationally through representative 
offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv. Our Investment 
Management business serves international clients from more than  
70 countries. These businesses leverage our superior knowledge and 
capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms  
of reach and our expertise. Our Research department, which is part  
of Galt & Taggart, currently covers the Georgian and Azeri economies  
and publishes Georgian sector research. 
 Corporate Banking
Bank of Georgia is the country’s largest corporate lender with 
unmatched sector knowledge and local expertise. Our dedicated 
bankers serve more than 6,000 businesses in the country, extending 
loans and other credit facilities to businesses in various sectors  
of the economy such as trade, energy, industry and tourism,  
among others. Our Corporate Banking business offers the most 
comprehensive range of products and services in the country to 
provide flexibility and choice to our corporate clients. Corporate 
Banking serves as the country’s leading trade finance business  
and provides leasing services through the Group’s wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Georgian Leasing Company (GLC).  Share in Group’s revenue 2014 (%) Share in Group’s prot 2014 (%) Share in Group’s assets 2014 (%)
48.5
2.3
10.7
4.0
26.8
55.2
40.4
41.7
0.5
9.3
5.2
2.9
25.5
4.7
5.3
6.1
3.2
7.7
Retail Banking
Corporate Banking
Investment Management
Georgia Healthcare Group
m
2
 Real Estate
Other
Excludes inter-segment eliminations. Other includes P&C Insurance (Aldagi), Belarusky Narodny Bank (BNB), Liberty Consumer and Corporate Centre.
Investment Business
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 5
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
 Georgia Healthcare Group (GHG)
We are the largest private healthcare services provider in the fast-growing 
Georgian market. We operate a synergistic business model that comprises 
healthcare services and health insurance. Our business was established in  
1990 and we have over 25 years’ experience in the insurance market and have 
provided healthcare services since 2006. We primarily focus on the mass market 
segment through our network of 33 hospitals and six ambulatory clinics. Our 
healthcare services business had a 22.0% market share as of 31 December 
2014, with 2, 140 hospital beds and we have the widest geographic coverage 
among our peers with facilities located in six regions that contain two-thirds of  
the population of Georgia. We are also the largest healthcare insurer in Georgia 
with a 36.7% market share as of 30 September 2014, based on revenue and  
with approximately 200,000 people holding our health insurance policies as  
of 31 December 2014. We plan to do an initial public offering of our healthcare 
business in 2015.
 m
2
 Real Estate (m
2
)
Our real estate business, the Bank’s wholly-owned subsidiary 
m
2
 Real Estate, develops residential property in Georgia. For 
the past couple of years it has established itself as one of the 
most recognisable and trustworthy residential housing brands 
in the country. m
2
 Real Estate outsources the construction and 
architecture works while focusing on project management 
and sales. The Bank’s real estate business is in place to meet 
the unsatisfied demand for housing through our well-
established branch network and sales force, while stimulating 
our mortgage lending business. m
2
 Real Estate completed 
sales of 1 ,327 apartments worth US$1 1 1 .2 million since 201 1 
with 99% of apartments sold in two successfully completed 
projects and 66% pre-sales in four ongoing projects. m
2
 Real 
Estate also sold a total of GEL 58.3 million mortgages. 
 Georgian Global Utilities (GGU)
A major player on the market, GGU is a privately owned Tbilisi water utility 
company with 143MW hydropower facilities. In December 2014, we have 
acquired a minority interest in GGU, initially a 25% stake with an option to 
step up to 49.9% within a 10-month period. GGU, through its wholly owned 
subsidiaries, is a natural monopoly that supplies water and provides 
wastewater service to 1.4 million people (approximately 1/3 of Georgia’s  
total population) in Tbilisi, Mtskheta and Rustavi. In addition, GGU owns  
and operates three hydropower generation facilities with a total capacity  
of 143MW. We believe that GGU fits into our strategy to acquire attractive 
businesses which can be monetised within a maximum of six years, via an 
IPO or an M&A trade. GGU posted EBITDA of GEL 51.4 million in 2014. The bank has continued to deliver a strong earnings performance 
this year. You should also note that we have formalised an inflection 
of our strategy to capture further growth opportunities within 
Georgia over the medium term. At the same time, Georgia’s 
regional trading partners have faced significant geopolitical and 
economic challenges.
In this letter, I will address the change in the Company’s strategy 
and the geopolitical issues, before concluding on dividend and 
governance matters. 
Strategy issues
Over the last decade, Bank of Georgia has evolved to become the 
market leader in what is a well regulated and competitive banking 
sector. In what was a year of substantial challenge, Bank of Georgia 
has delivered over 11% revenue growth, 15% earnings growth and  
a 19% return on shareholders’ equity. You will find all details on our 
performance in these assets in this report. 
In 2014, we decided to modify the strategy, structure and governance 
of the institution to profit from attractive investment opportunities in 
healthcare and beyond. Why did we choose to follow this strategy 
when we risked being called by one of the worst epithets possible, 
that of being a conglomerate? 
One way to think about Bank of Georgia is in terms of capabilities. It 
has three macro skills: it knows how to execute well; it knows Georgia 
well; and it is disciplined in thinking in terms of capital allocation and 
return on capital, as opposed to market share and growth. Moreover, 
the institution attracts talent and capital beyond its needs. 
Georgia has sectors of the economy which could be developed 
profitably with an infusion of capital and talent. The first one that we 
developed, and the closest one to our business of banking, was real 
estate. We noticed that as the economy picked up after the 2008 crisis, 
our mortgage portfolio did not keep up with this growth. The reason 
was that there was no supply of houses as builders/promoters had 
gone bust, and nobody was building housing any more. The builders 
had invested their capital in land purchases in a speculative drive, and 
were totally illiquid when the crisis of 2008 hit. We decided to enter  
this market as builders and promoters, and supplied the market with 
apartments. The result was the success of our subsidiary, m
2
 Real 
Estate, which provides affordable housing to a growing middle class. 
You can read all about its excellent performance in this report.
Healthcare was another such sector where we were present through 
Aldagi, our insurance subsidiary. Universal healthcare was being 
introduced in the country, and the offering by providers was uneven, 
inefficient and fragmented. An injection of capital, talent, and best 
practice could change the industry structure in Georgia, and provide 
patients with a much higher quality of care. Good assets could be 
bought relatively cheaply. This made us invest in hospitals and create 
our wholly-owned subsidiary, GHG, Georgia Healthcare Group. It now 
has a 22% market share of hospital beds in the country and is currently 
planning its international stockmarket listing in the second half of 2015.
In my Chairman’s letter to shareholders 
last year, I focused on the many aspects 
of progress made by Georgia over the 
last decade. I am pleased that this 
progress has continued throughout 
2014, namely with the Government 
commitment to the continued effective 
implementation of the Association 
Agreement with the EU. 
A clear strategic direction for the future
Neil Janin
Chairman
6 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014
For more information about our 
governance, see page 64
2014 Chairman’s statement Our strategy is one of buying potentially very high-quality, but 
currently underperforming assets, at a cheap price, bringing best 
practices to them, professionalising their management, and then 
selling them to the market at a higher price. Having access to 
top-quality management, corporate governance and capital in a 
fast-developing country like Georgia creates opportunities to achieve 
substantial value creation for shareholders. Our CEO Irakli Gilauri, 
describes in his letter why we can buy cheaply, what sectors look 
attractive to us today, and the discipline we bring to investment.
Let me reiterate that the banking businesses – retail, corporate and 
investment management – will remain our priority and a minimum  
of 80% of the Group’s earnings. Our goal this year is to prove to the 
market that this strategy delivers by selling to the market a major 
share of our healthcare subsidiary. Our shareholders will be free  
to own this business directly and we will attract new investors who 
specialise in healthcare.
The Bank’s structure has been modified to adapt to this strategy.  
In 2014, we established an investment arm to manage our non-
banking businesses, which include our Healthcare operations, our 
Real Estate subsidiary and our recent pre-IPO purchase of a 25% 
minority interest in the leading Georgian water utility business. Irakli 
Gilauri goes into much more detail with regard to the implementation 
of this strategy later in this Annual Report. The Board is clear that our 
ability to continue leveraging our market-leading banking franchise, 
with an emphasis on the higher return retail business, together with  
a strategy to benefit from other carefully selected investments in the 
development of the Georgian corporate landscape, will provide  
clear and sustainable value creation for shareholders.
There is significant information in the body of this Annual Report 
highlighting the Group’s strategic priorities for 2015 and beyond.  
This stems from a Board review of the Group’s strategy at the end  
of 2014 that aims to ensure that capital continues to be allocated 
effectively, to ensure the sustainability of the Group’s strong returns 
over the long term. Now let us turn to the context in which we operate. 
Geopolitical issues 
Georgia remains a steadfast Euro-Atlantic partner – a stance 
supported by most political parties and a significant majority of the 
population. In June 2014, Georgia signed an Association Agreement 
with the European Union, which included provision for a deep and 
comprehensive free trade agreement that will underpin increased 
future trade growth for Georgia. Additionally, in March 2015, China 
and Georgia signed an agreement on co-operation for the 
development of the “New Silk Road Economic Belt”, which further 
highlights Georgia’s future economic potential. Georgia aims to 
protect itself from Russian regional dominance. This strategy has 
been costly in terms of territory lost (about 20%), but successful in 
terms of economic and standard of living growth (GDP per capita 
based on PPP more than doubled to $7,700 from 2003–2014).
The current Government has succeeded in having a more open and 
pragmatic approach towards Russia, while moving the country towards 
greater integration with the West – a balancing act to say the least. This  
is not to say that all is done inside the country: the EU expects and civil 
society would be better served when the currently ongoing judiciary 
reform will be completed. Nevertheless, we should remember that only 
4% of respondents admitted to having paid bribes in Georgia according 
to the Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2013 Global Corruption 
Barometer, well ahead of many European countries. In addition, the 
World Bank’s latest ranking shows Georgia as 15th in the list of countries 
where it is easiest to do business, between Germany and Canada.
From a macroeconomic perspective, Georgia delivered strong GDP 
growth in 2014, at an estimated 4.8%. The Georgian Lari depreciated 
7 .3% against the US Dollar, but appreciated by 5.3% against the Euro, 
the single largest trading partner currency of Georgia. In early 2015 
there has been some further currency weakness, but this now seems 
to have stabilised. This performance was to be expected and was 
managed skillfully by the Central Bank, which proved once again its 
independence. Overall, 2014 saw a particularly robust performance 
against the backdrop of ongoing geopolitical concerns and 
macroeconomic and currency devaluation pressures in many of 
Georgia’s trading partners, and demonstrates the resilience of the 
Georgian economy. The section on macroeconomics covers our 
prediction on GDP growth next year, in the face of the situation of 
Georgia’s trading partners and the country’s attractiveness to foreign 
investment and tourism. I hope that you will conclude, as we do, that 
this country, which has transformed itself into an economically liberal, 
market-oriented democracy, remains very promising.
In conclusion, I want to highlight and acknowledge the significant 
efforts of the senior management team and the excellent leadership  
of our Chief Executive – Irakli Gilauri. In addition to their clear delivery 
against the existing strategy, having nearly tripled earnings and 
generated substantial returns for shareholders over the last five years, in 
December 2014 they worked with the Board to update the strategy for 
the Group and have established a clear strategic direction for the future. 
Shareholders should take note of 2 key governance features of  
the institution: the alignment of interest between management and 
shareholders, and the division of roles between the Board and 
management. I will summarise our philosophy below. 
Our incentive package to top management features a high percentage 
of stock vested over a long period of time. This scheme creates a 
sharply upward sloping wealth curve – the more a company’s stock 
price improves, the higher the percentage increase to the CEO and  
his top team’s total wealth. It encourages intelligent risk taking, as it 
heavily rewards the CEO and his top team to create long-term value, 
and punishes them if they do not deliver returns to shareholders. In 
summary, it discourages short-term thinking and risky behaviour, and 
encourages thinking like an owner manager. 
My role as a Chair is to run the Board, and the role of the CEO is to 
run the Company. One of the Board’s main roles is to be involved in 
setting the strategy and to monitor the operations of the Company  
to ensure that it is being run to the benefit of all stakeholders and as 
mandated. The second important role of the Board is to determine 
the pay of the CEO and the main executives. 
Finally, the Audit Committee, although composed of independent 
members, reports to the Chair – a further guarantee of independence. 
It should be clear that having the CEO be also the Chairman of the 
Board, opens the door for potential abuse in all three cases above.  
All depends on the quality of the Board.
The Group now has a first-class Board of Directors. Their  
combined experience and support is invaluable to the organisation. 
The Governance section of this Annual Report highlights, amongst 
other things, our Board Diversity Policy. Within this policy the Board 
has stated its aim to increase the number of women on the Board  
to two within the next two years. To end, I would like to thank the 
members for their ongoing support and the provision of guidance 
and mentoring to executive management, at a time of significant 
economic and geopolitical uncertainty.
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Board intends to 
recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.1 per share payable in 
British Sterling at the prevailing rate. This represents an increase  
of 5%, compared to an annual dividend of GEL 2.0 last year. 
2014 was clearly a year of demonstrable delivery and progress.  
The Board is pleased with this progress and is confident about  
the Group’s prospects for 2015 and beyond.
Neil Janin
Chairman
7 April 2015
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 7
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information Our response to this changing and challenging environment in 
2015 is to stay disciplined, until we get some clarity in terms of Lari 
stability and economic growth picking up.
1.   Credit and liquidity risk management: On the credit risk 
side, we are applying stricter underwriting standards and will be 
slightly increasing interest rates on loans. At the same time, we 
are proactively re-profiling US Dollar loans to clients with non-US 
Dollar income. Re-profiling implies effectively increasing the 
tenor of the loan so that monthly payment in Lari stays at the 
same level as it was prior to the recent devaluation of the Lari. 
When re-profiling, we do not change the interest rate of the loan. 
In Retail Banking, our mortgage loan clients are most likely to 
apply for re-profiling, as in total we have 7,500 mortgage loans 
worth of GEL 400 million which are US Dollar loans to Retail 
Banking clients with non-US Dollar income. We consider 
re-profiling applications from our corporate, SME and micro 
borrowers on a case-by-case basis. So far 413 loans totalling 
GEL 35 million have been re-profiled. 
  Even though Bank of Georgia enjoys high liquidity and its positive 
liquidity gap up to six months is GEL 1 billion, we are now working 
with a number of Development Financial Institutions (DFI) to arrange 
further long-term loans to improve our Net Loan to Deposits + DFI 
funding ratio. Because the Euro influence on Lari is increasing and 
the Lari is effectively becoming a Euro proxy, we will be targeting  
to raise Euro funding and try to shift US Dollar loans into Euros.
2 .  Cos t s : Being extra cost conscious in a volatile environment is  
the right thing to do. At the same time we are accelerating the 
integration of the merger with Privatbank in order to start 
extracting cost synergies sooner than originally planned. 
3 .  I n v es t m e nt s : Even though we believe that the Lari has found 
its new equilibrium, we will further observe the Lari’s stability over  
a period of time, before we step up investment activities. During 
this period, we will remain vigilant and will continue to actively 
analyse and consider different opportunities. 
4.  C a pi t a l e x pe ndi t u r e : For our banking operations we are 
targeting capital expenditure at a lower level than our depreciation 
charge. Our key projects for 2015 are Privatbank integration 
(which is not taking much capital expenditure), our Solo roll out  
(a key driver for our capex budget) and further investment in our  
IT infrastructure, to increase the reliability of our system. In the 
Healthcare Business, we will be pursuing a quite aggressive 
capex programme, and will concentrate most of it on new 
equipment purchases and developing high-margin businesses.
We upgraded our strategy from “3x20” to “4x20”
In December 2014 we upgraded our strategy from “3x20” to “4x20” 
– the 4th 20% being the minimum level of IRR we target from 
investments in Georgian corporates. The goal with this upgraded 
strategy is to create sustainable high returns and high growth 
generating a strong platform for our shareholders. With this model 
we are targeting to generate ordinary dividends from the Banking 
Business and continuous special dividends from the Investment 
Business. Both businesses are Georgia focused, where average real 
GDP growth rate was 6.3% from 2003–2014. Most importantly the 
current management team knows Georgia extremely well as a result 
of running the largest bank in the country for the past 10 years and 
the team has demonstrated a track record of successful growth in 
non-banking businesses such as healthcare and real estate. 
 
Why we upgraded our strategy to “4x20”, when at  
first glance all looked good with a “3x20” strategy?
Our key goal is to continue producing high returns in the long  
run for our shareholders. Currently, we see that Retail Banking is 
Dear shareholders,
We have posted yet another record year in terms of profit and 
Earnings Per Share in 2014. You can read about our strong financial 
performance in this Annual Report. In this letter, rather than focusing 
on the past, in view of our upgraded strategy and recent regional 
currency tensions, I would like to focus on three key issues:
1. Regional macro tensions and our response to it.
2. Our upgraded strategy.
3. The way we want to conduct our investment business.
We stay disciplined in the light of a weaker 2015 
macro outlook
With the oil price decrease and the strength of the US Dollar,  
we are witnessing significant changes in the region. In particular, 
capital flows from remittances to Georgia and revenue from exports 
to regional countries are decreasing. Even though the Georgian 
economy is well diversified and resilient to external shocks, we 
believe growth in 2015 will be affected by the weak regional 
economies. Therefore, we have revised our GDP growth targets  
for 2015 to be within the 1.5%–3% range. In our view there are  
three key takeaways from the current environment in the region:
1.  Subdued capital flows in the region have had a short-term 
negative impact on both the Lari and the Georgian economy. 
The Georgian economy is getting rebased in order to stay 
competitive in the new reality. However, in the medium to longer 
term we see lower oil prices as a big positive for Georgia as the 
country will be saving c.US$450 million from oil imports and on 
the back of lower oil prices we will witness efficiency pick-ups  
in a number of different sectors within the economy – making 
Georgia more competitive. 
2.  Our view is that this rebasing will not be significant – in the short 
term, Georgia will weather reduced capital flows better than oil 
producing countries in the region as due to lower oil prices we 
are experiencing much lower inflation than our neighbours. 
Lower inflation is also an outcome of the country’s disciplined 
fiscal and monetary policies. 
3.  As dollar capital has been reduced in the region, it seems that 
Georgia and the Lari are getting more dependent on Eurozone 
economies and the Euro respectively. Two points can be 
highlighted in this regard: firstly, the European Union (EU) is our 
largest trading partner representing more than 26% of trade; 
and secondly, Georgia recently signed a free trade agreement 
with the EU. 
8 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Record performance and updated strategy to capture growth opportunities
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive producing over 30% ROAE while Corporate Banking is producing 
c.10% ROAE. We do not think that in the long run it is possible for 
Retail Banking to keep producing 30% ROAE. Therefore, we see 
the risk of high returns for the Group decreasing over the longer 
term. At the same time we do not want to be forced to lend to 
Corporates in order to show you growth of 20% in the total loan 
book, while growing a business line with an unattractive risk return 
profile. This is why we announced the 20% growth target for the 
retail loan book only. It is noteworthy that penetration of retail loans 
is half of that of corporate loans (when counting in DFI funding  
and outstanding Eurobonds) at 21% of GDP. Due to the superior 
returns in Retail Banking, we expect our Retail Business to continue 
to drive the banking business ROAE. The recent acquisition of 
Privatbank is in line with our updated strategy to further strengthen 
our retail franchise by adding c.400,000 clients, stepping up our 
payments business as well as capturing synergies by merging 
Privatbank with our existing Express Banking franchise. Our other 
two pillars of banking business strategy remain unchanged:  
ROAE at c.20% and Tier I Capital c.20%.
Due to the limited access to capital and management in a small 
frontier economy such as Georgia, we see a much better risk return 
profile when investing in Georgian companies than when lending  
to those same corporates. We also believe that the Group will be 
adding value for our shareholders by investing in opportunities, 
which currently are not accessible to our shareholders, changing 
management and governance, institutionalising and scaling up the 
companies, and most importantly, unlocking value by exiting from 
these companies over time. Our Plan A in exit is to take the company 
public. This way, as far as possible it is our firm intention to create  
an opportunity for our shareholders to participate in such offerings. 
Strategy going forward for the Banking Business
Banking is the crown jewel in our Group and the key driver  
of profitability. We have three segments in the banking business,  
of which Retail Banking will drive most of our banking business 
growth, Corporate Banking and Investment Management will 
improve our ROAE, with the latter also contributing an increasing 
share of our fee and commission income.
1 .  R e t a i l B a n k i n g
In our retail business we are covering 1.6 million individual clients and 
90,000 SME and Micro clients. In order to capture different segments 
of our retail client base we are pursuing a multi-brand strategy for 
mass affluent, mass retail and the emerging bankable population.
a.  Under the Solo brand, we are targeting the mass affluent 
segment. Currently, we have only 8,000 individual clients under 
the Solo brand. In April, we launched a new strategy, where we 
will be providing clients with a superior customer experience  
by giving them access to newly designed Solo lounges and 
providing them with new lifestyle opportunities. Solo personal 
bankers will be offering tailor-made solutions for our Solo clients 
and introducing new financial products such as bonds and  
other capital market products developed by our investment 
management team. We estimate that our current market share  
in this segment is less than 15% and our goal with the new 
strategy is to significantly increase this market share in the  
next three to four years. 
b.  Under the Bank of Georgia brand we target the mass retail 
segment. This is our flagship brand and most significant profit 
contributor, with 1.1 million individual clients and 90,000 SME 
and Micro clients. This segment is very much product driven 
and our biggest challenge is to change the business model  
to become more client centric and therefore increase the 1.7 
current product to client ratio over time.
c.  Under the Express Banking brand we target the emerging 
bankable population. We are currently estimating the market of  
a 1.5 million emerging bankable population, which either do not 
have interaction with a bank or use a limited number of banking 
products. Privatbank clients are part of the latter and we would 
like to integrate the majority of 400,000 Privatbank clients within 
the Express Banking franchise. After the integration we expect 
the number of Express Banking clients to increase to c.500,000. 
Under the Express Banking franchise we are scaling up our 
payments business, which currently is in its nascent stage,  
by increasing our lower-end merchant footprint and thus giving 
more people access to card payments. Through Privatbank we 
will be increasing our footprint from 6,300 merchants to more 
than 7,500 merchants, increasing our coverage ratio to nearly 
85% of the total number of merchants. Also, we are scaling up 
self-service terminals under the Express Banking franchise.  
This way, we plan to introduce a more efficient way to access 
the mass retail segment and allow easy transactional banking to 
the country’s under-banked population. Currently, country-wide 
we operate more than 2,200 self-service terminals.
2. Corporate Banking
 One critical goal in the Corporate Banking business is to increase 
ROAE and we plan to do this by de-concentrating our loan book 
and decreasing the cost of risk. Our experience shows that if, in 
any given year, one of our top 20 clients has some problems, the 
Corporate Banking business ROAE gets depressed. Therefore our 
key goal is to de-concentrate the loan book by:
a. Syndicating loans out.
b. Selling risk.
c.  Helping our large corporate clients to access capital by issuing 
debt securities on the local capital market.
We will focus on further building our fee business through the trade 
finance franchise, which we believe is the strongest in the region. 
3. Investment Management
 We expect to grow our fee income by building our local debt 
capital markets and M&A advisory franchise. As we would like  
to de-concentrate the corporate loan book in corporate banking, 
local debt issuance is one way to go in combination with our 
advisory business enhancing ROAE by generating more off-
balance sheet business. On the M&A side we see the need for 
some sectors to consolidate and Galt & Taggart plans to take  
a leading role in this consolidation process. 
 As Georgia has a pay-as-you-go pension system, we believe that our 
international wealth management franchise can benefit by focusing 
on the distribution of local debt. So far we see that c.70% of the 
demand in local paper issuances comes from our international 
wealth management clients. Further enlargement of the footprint  
of our international wealth management franchise will be critical for 
the success of our strategy to build local capital markets. Therefore, 
we will be investing more in this area. 
 To summarise our Investment Management strategy, we need to 
do the following:
a.  Enhance ROAE through our investment in the issuance of more 
debt paper in the local market.
b.  Enlarge our wealth management footprint internationally to 
further strengthen our distribution channels.
The way we invest and manage
As our Investment Strategy is new for our shareholders, I would  
like to spend more of your time and provide you with more insight 
into how we plan to conduct investments and manage companies. 
Let me outline our key principles, which are derived from our 
experience in running Bank of Georgia:
1. Be opportunistic and disciplined.
2. In scale we trust.
3. Getting our hands dirty.
4. Good governance makes good returns.
5. Liquidity is the king.
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 9
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information Let me expand on each of these points to give you more flavour  
on how we see our job in investing and managing the companies.
1. Be opportunistic and disciplined
 We want to be opportunistic and disciplined when investing,  
by buying cheaply and in small ticket sizes. 
 For us buying assets cheaply is the first and most important 
postulate in our investment strategy. It is difficult to go wrong  
when you buy assets cheaply. The key questions are:
a. How do we define cheap in a small illiquid market?
b. How do we manage to buy cheaply?
 When considering an acquisition, whether it’s pre-IPO or otherwise, 
we look at multiples of listed peers in the same sector and apply at 
least a 40% discount. This is our definition of cheap.
 Georgia is a small frontier economy and access to capital is limited. 
It is difficult to find liquidity for any single asset worth more than 
US$10 million. At the same time, owners of assets are often asset 
rich but cash poor. Georgia’s GDP has grown on average 12% in 
nominal terms over the past 10 years and local businesses have 
been reinvesting over that time to stay competitive. 
We like paying dividends to our shareholders as it creates natural 
self-discipline in buying assets cheaply. Therefore, before investing we 
will always ask ourselves the question: is it worth investing this money  
in this company or opportunity or better to pay/increase dividends?
Another reason for us being disciplined is that we are under no 
pressure to make any new investment as Bank of Georgia is 
producing good returns. If we do not find a good opportunity  
we may not invest for two to three years. We are always following 
different sectors of the economy and if a good opportunity arises we 
would want to capture it. To this end, we would like to sit on at least  
US$30 million of cash (under the current market cap) at the holding 
company level to make sure that cash is available as opportunities 
arise in our existing business lines or new ones. Also cash is very 
handy in slower business cycles and can help to buy assets cheaply. 
We plan to be disciplined not only in terms of finding new 
opportunities through investment appraisals and understanding the 
risk return profile, cyclicality of the business and quality of revenue, but 
also in terms of the size of the initial investment in any new sector. We 
believe that our initial investment in any new sector should not exceed 
c.US$25 million. When and if we get comfortable with the sector, 
only after that would we allow ourselves to increase the ticket size of 
the investment. The small size of the investment is important as we  
are human beings and we may make a mistake. By investing in small 
ticket sizes we will be far away from betting the house. Making a  
small mistake is OK, just learn from it – do not bet the house.
To summarise, Georgia was born 10 years ago and different 
sectors and businesses are in the process of formation, 
access to capital and management is limited, owners of 
businesses are cash poor and therefore good opportunities 
can be captured cheaply. At the same time, we are under no 
pressure to make new investments and we will be extremely 
selective and opportunistic and will not commit more than 
US$25 million in a single investment in a sector where we  
are not already present. Our dividend policy is the natural 
self-discipline mechanism for our investment business. 
2. In scale we trust
We strongly believe that any investee company and/or sector in  
which we invest in should be large and scalable. In case of pre-IPO 
opportunities, EBITDA of the existing business should be at least 
US$25-50 million – depending on the sector. In the case of greenfield 
investment, we need to see an opportunity to scale up and achieve 
US$25-50 million in EBITDA over the next five to six years. 
We like to hold and/or target large market shares in any given sector. 
Our sweet spot is 30% market share in any given sector. This way  
we will have the scale to be efficient and competitive and at the same 
time not be overly dominant to attract the attention of regulators. We 
should be mindful not to abuse the power of a large market share and 
we should be open to share the benefits of scale with our customers. 
In a nutshell, we do not mind sharing success with our clients. 
We like large, but fragmented, sectors to have an opportunity  
to consolidate it – like we are doing in the healthcare sector. We 
also like natural monopolies like GGU. We would consider sectors 
where you have one dominant player with 50%+ market share.  
We like simple business models. 
We had a bad experience of acquiring small companies in 
2005-2007. In a small period of time we acquired 10+ companies  
in total. The good thing was that capital commitment was limited, 
but it took too much senior management time and because of the 
limited size of company we were unable to hire good management 
teams. The strategy proved to be wrong due to the limited size of 
the investee companies.
To summarise, achieving superior economies of scale in a 
small frontier economy is an essential part of the success.  
It actually significantly diminishes the risk of failure. 
3. Getting our hands dirty
Before we undertake an investment we like to take time and get  
our hands dirty to understand inside out the sector and business 
we are targeting. Diligence and modelling in excel is the key before 
entering any business. 
Getting things done is the single most important task for  
our executives.
No matter how great our strategy is, we strongly believe that execution 
is the key. No matter how good the investment opportunity is, we will 
not pursue it if we do not think that we have a first-class management 
team to put in place.
At Bank of Georgia we have spent a lot of time building a top-class 
management team and we have a deep bench of people who have 
grown and are ready to take bigger responsibilities. One of the 
reasons we are confident in our strategy is that we have human 
capital available both on the top and mid-management levels.  
We spend a lot of time coaching and mentoring our talent and  
our Board’s role in this process is invaluable.
Along with selling the companies, we will be selling the management 
team and saying goodbye to our management team, therefore  
we fully understand that our machine of producing new executives 
should not stop. Furthermore, for our top talent we have introduced 
a self-development programme by hiring coaches to help them to 
better understand their strengths and weaknesses. According to our 
policy, no matter how good the performance of our top executive  
is they may get limited bonuses if we do not see progress in 
executive’s self-development and growing their successor(s). 
You have observed rotations in our top management every two to 
three years. In December 2014, we announced another round of 
rotation. We would like our top talent to receive experience in different 
roles and learn and grow. Rotations will continue in the future. 
In some of the sectors where we have limited operational 
experience we would put together a complementary team of talent 
from our Group and sector specialists from outside the Group.  
We are confident that talent from within our Group can learn the 
sector in a short period of time. In the early stage of the investment 
cycle, the management from the holding company level will spend 
more time on coaching and guiding the management team. That  
is exactly what we are doing at Georgian Global Utilities now. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 10
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued The question we need to ask before entering the new sector is  
not whether we are the best, but whether our management team  
is better than that of the next player. This is a relative play game.
At this stage, we do not want to hold more than four investments  
at any given time, as we are limited in terms of oversight as well as 
management resources to put in place in more than four companies. 
To summarise, similarly to limited access to capital in this 
country, the availability of management is limited and by 
being a machine of producing top talent in the country we 
can add value for our shareholders. We understand that 
great management teams make great companies, and 
investing time in growing people continues to be critical  
for the success of our strategy. 
4. Good governance makes good returns 
We have already learned that great institutions are not built without 
robust governance and ultimately without it one cannot deliver 
sustainable value creation for its shareholders. 
We like to institutionalise companies by putting good governance  
in place. We do not like to bet on one person’s judgement and do 
not believe that one person can perform magic. Therefore, we believe 
that first of all the CEO should be surrounded with an outstanding 
management team from below and a first-class Board from above. 
Meritocracy, loyalty to institution rather than to individuals is our 
approach. To this end, our approach is to separate the roles of 
Chairman and CEO. We operate like this at Bank of Georgia and 
we truly believe in healthy checks and balances between the Board 
of Directors and executives. Having separate individuals for the  
top job on both levels is the key signal we are sending to our 
shareholders on governance. 
We think that a high-quality, diversified independent Board is  
extremely important for the success of the Company. We see the 
Board not only as an institution, which is doing its duty of oversight of 
the management and setting strategy, but also the Board is providing 
guidance and coaching of our top and mid-level management team.
In our case, the Board’s role of oversight is made relatively  
straightforward by creating a natural alignment of interest between 
shareholders and management. For that we award long-term vesting 
shares (up to five years) to management and make compensation  
in shares a large proportion of total annual compensation  
(e.g. 85-90%). This way we create long-term alignment of interest 
between management and shareholders. If shareholders make 
money, management makes money and if shareholders lose money, 
management also loses money. With this simple approach, on top  
of being executives, the management team feels and acts more like 
shareholders – because they are.
Even though this compensation structure has a lot of positives  
as outlined above, it has one main drawback: when share prices 
rise too rapidly the risk of management becoming arrogant and 
complacent is high. This is another reason why we think a strong 
Board is essential to bring management back to reality. 
The Nomination Committee is always searching for professionals 
around the world to make sure that we have all the skill-set available 
on the Board. For example, currently we are searching for an 
experienced potential Board member with background in Energy 
and Utilities to give us more guidance for our GGU investment. 
To summarise, we are big believers that robust governance 
is the source of value creation for our shareholders.  
The natural and simple alignment of interest between 
shareholders and management by awarding long-term 
stock works well for value creation and, finally, we want  
to have good balance by having separate people as the 
Chairman and CEO of the Company. 
5. Liquidity is the king 
According to our investment policy, we target to exit from our 
investment through a trade sale (full or partial) or IPO in up to six 
years from the initial investment. Because we are a publicly held 
company our preferred option is to take the Company public to  
give the market the opportunity to participate in the future upside. 
No matter how well our companies do in terms of operating results, 
we want to see their exit to unlock the value and with the generated 
profit pay special dividends and pursue new opportunities – in the 
event that we see one. According to our strategy we will be targeting 
three special dividends in the next five years. Our aim for the size of 
aggregate special dividends is to be at least 50% of ordinary 
dividends paid by the banking business during these five years. 
Because we aim for high returns and not for control, we do not 
mind selling below the 50% shareholding level at the IPO. We fully 
understand that liquidity for both incoming investors and our Group 
is the key. We have learned that increased liquidity of shares itself 
creates value as shares become accessible to a wider investor 
universe. This was indeed the case when we converted from our 
GDR listing to the London Stock Exchange Premium listing in 2012. 
As shares of Bank of Georgia became more accessible, their value 
increased while fundamentals did not change. 
Unlocking the value through IPO is more critical for us than any money we 
leave on the table at the IPO. At the end of the day and as far as possible 
it is our firm intention to create an opportunity for our shareholders  
to participate in the newly IPO’d company by buying its shares. 
As many of you know we are in the process of preparation to IPO our 
healthcare subsidiary Georgia Healthcare Group. The Board and I have 
complete confidence that the management will deliver on our stated 
strategy of doubling 2015 revenue by 2018. Some would argue that  
we might be better off to take the Company public in two to three years’ 
time, as more profits are expected to be generated by then. But we 
want to be disciplined in terms of unlocking value for our shareholders, 
as set out in our 4x20 strategy, and are targeting an IPO in 2015.  
I personally am extremely excited about the prospects of the Company. 
As far as possible, it is our firm intention to allow our shareholders to 
participate in the IPO and I, for one, will definitely be placing an order.
To summarise, in order for our strategy to work we need  
to be disciplined in unlocking the value of companies in 
which we invest and manage. Taking companies public is 
our preferred option for exit, as it is our intention to give  
our shareholders an opportunity to participate. 
In the end, I would encourage you to visit Georgia and meet our 
management team. You can meet and get to know our Board 
members at our annual investor day. We have a saying in Georgia: 
“It is better to see the place once than hear about it 100 times”. 
What I promise you is dinner at a restaurant overlooking beautiful 
old Tbilisi – the place where East meets West at the old Silk Road, 
from where you will be able to feel the future. 
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive
7 April 2015
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 63, has been 
reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 7 April 2015.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive
7 April 2015
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 11
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information 2004 2003 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Chart 1: Real GDP growth rate (%)
Hungary Czech
Republic
Ukraine Estonia Latvia Poland Lithuania Russia Turkey Georgia
Chart 2: Comparative real GDP 
growth rates (2003-2014) (%) 
4.8
3.3
7.2
6.2
-3.7
2.6
12.6
9.4
9.6
5.9
11.1
6.3
1.3
2.5
2.6
3.3
3.6
4.0
4.1
4.1
4.8
6.4
2004 2003 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Chart 1: Real GDP growth rate (%)
Hungary Czech
Republic
Ukraine Estonia Latvia Poland Lithuania Russia Turkey Georgia
Chart 2: Comparative real GDP 
growth rates (2003-2014) (%) 
4.8
3.3
7.2
6.2
-3.7
2.6
12.6
9.4
9.6
5.9
11.1
6.3
1.3
2.5
2.6
3.3
3.6
4.0
4.1
4.1
4.8
6.4
Source: Geostat Source: IMF, Geostat
Growth-oriented reforms and ongoing economic liberalisation 
transformed Georgia into one of the most business friendly 
economies in the world and the EU Deep and Comprehensive Free 
Trade Agreement (DCFTA) creates new investment opportunities. 
Georgia’s key economic drivers
Liberal economic policy. The country was ranked 15th out of 
189 economies in the “Ease of Doing Business” ranking in 2015 by 
the World Bank; 22nd out of 178 countries by Index of Economic 
Freedom measured by Heritage Foundation in 2015 and only 4%  
of people, less than in UK and US, admitted having paid a bribe 
during 2012 according to the 2013 Global Corruption Barometer 
study by Transparency International. The economic Liberty Act, 
effective since January 2014, ensures continuation of a credible 
fiscal and monetary framework for Georgia, by capping 
consolidated Government expenditures at 30% of GDP, fiscal 
deficit at 3% of GDP and public debt at 60% of GDP. The Liberty 
Act also requires electorates’ approval through a nationwide 
referendum for imposing new taxes and raising existing tax rates, 
subject to certain exceptions. Georgia slashed the number of taxes 
from 21 in 2004 to just six now (corporate income tax and personal 
income tax are flat at 15% and 20%, respectively), becoming one  
of the world’s most friendly tax regimes (see charts 1 and 2).
The continued support from the international community. In 
June 2014, Georgia and the EU signed an Association Agreement.  
The deal includes a DCFTA, effective 1 September 2014, which  
will vastly simplify Georgia’s access to the EU market, a common-
customs zone of c.500 million customers, spurring exports and 
enhancing the diversification and competitiveness of Georgian 
products. An EU study of the DCFTA impact on Georgia suggests  
a potential increase in GDP growth of 4.3% in the long run.  
The Government continues maintaining strong relations with 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 12
Georgia – one of the fastest growing 
countries in Eastern Europe, is an open 
and easy emerging market in which  
to do business, with real GDP growth 
averaging 6.3% during 2003-14.
A fast-growing 
economy
Market review
15
th
Source: World Bank-IFC Doing Business  
Up from 115 in 2005, ahead of UK, Australia 
and UAE
Ease of doing business 
ranked Georgia in 2015
22
nd
Source: Heritage Foundation
Ahead of Hungary, France and Italy
Economic Freedom Index 
ranked Georgia in 2015
4%
Source: Transparency International
Ahead of UK, US and Czech Republic
Global Corruption 
Barometer (% admitting 
having paid a bribe in 2013)  international development partners (both bilateral and multilateral), 
focusing in the first place on infrastructure development priorities. 
An ongoing IMF programme helps to implement the Government’s 
economic reform programme aimed at reducing macroeconomic 
vulnerabilities to increase policy buffers and to support growth, 
while making the economy more resilient to external shocks. 
Regional logistics and tourism hub. Developed maritime-air-
land networks of cross-border and in-country connectivity and  
a favourable geographic location (between land-locked energy  
rich countries in the East and the European markets in the West) 
are positioning Georgia to better realise its potential in transport, 
logistics and tourism. Continued public capital spending on  
road, energy, tourism and municipal infrastructure is helping to 
strengthen a platform for businesses willing to trade and work in/
with Georgia. Georgia is a regional energy transit corridor with 
approximately 1.6% of the world’s oil production and diversified  
gas supply passing through the country. Travel inflows, with a 
28.9% CAGR in the number of visitors over 2005-2014, are a 
significant source of foreign currency for Georgia, generating 
US$1.8 billion in 2014. 
Stable energy supply. Georgia has a developed, stable and 
competitively priced energy sector. Georgia has overcome the 
chronic energy shortages and gas supply interruptions of the 
recent past by renovating hydropower plants and by increasingly 
relying on natural gas imports from Azerbaijan instead of from 
Russia. Georgia transformed into a net electricity exporter during 
2007-2011 (a net importer in 2012-2014 due to low precipitation), 
from being net electricity importer for more than a decade before 
2007 as a result of significantly boosted transmission capacity  
in recent years. A 400kv transmission line to Turkey became 
operational in 2013 allowing a 700MW of export capacity to Turkey. 
Other transmission lines to Armenia and Russia have also been 
upgraded. Georgia’s transmission capacity to Russia is expected 
to rise 1.7x to 1,480MW by 2016 after a new 500kv line becomes 
operational. Currently, only 20% of hydropower capacity is utilised. 
66 hydropower plants are being built or are in different stages of 
development (feasibility study, obtaining construction permit). 
Maintaining healthy economic growth is high on the 
agenda. Georgia has experienced high GDP growth rates for  
the past decade, averaging 6.3% annually from 2003 to 2014 and 
reaching US$16.5 billion in 2014, while GDP per capita increased 
4x to US$3,681 in 2014 from US$920 in 2003. Georgia is expected 
to continue similar gains as much of the infrastructural and 
institutional platform has already been put in place. The low point 
of the Georgia/Russian relationship which translated into armed 
conflict in 2008 is now behind us, as Russia lifted a ban on the 
Georgian exports in July 2013 and exports to Russia increased 
44.2% y-o-y in 2014. In late 2012, Georgia pleasantly surprised  
the world when it ensured a peaceful transition of political power, 
and subsequent Presidential (October 2013) and local (June 2014) 
elections show that democratic institutions are working effectively. 
Commitment to fiscal discipline is high on the agenda as after  
an initial increase in social spending (when the new Government 
took office in 2013) current expenditures have been adequately 
contained, achieving healthy fiscal and public debt performance.  
In 2014 public debt to GDP ratio stood at 35% of GDP and fiscal 
deficit reached 3.0% of GDP. The Georgian Government continued 
low-regulation, low-tax, free market policies, strengthening 
anti-trust policy, and amending the labour code (while still 
remaining flexible and providing comfort for private sector 
participants) to comply with International Labour Standards.
Georgia’s diversified export markets and commodities 
are helping to keep Russia’s share in total exports below 
pre-embargo level. After the Russian embargo of 2006, 
Georgia’s exports to Russia decreased from 18% in 2005 to  
8% in 2006 and 2% in 2008-2012 and never recovered to 
pre-embargo levels even after Russia lifted its ban in July 2013. 
The embargo forced Georgian producers to redirect exports  
to other CIS countries, the EU, and the Middle East. Exports  
to Russia picked up in 2013 as Russia opened its borders  
to Georgian wines but accounted for only 6% in total export 
growth in 2013. While dependence on the Russian market 
increased further as Russia’s share in total Georgian exports 
went up to 9.7% in 2014 it is still well below pre-embargo levels 
when Georgian products could not successfully compete in the 
world markets. Even without Russia, Georgian exports have 
increased 4X since 2005 to US$2.6 billion in 2014. 
Estimates by Galt & Taggart Research suggest that  
the negative impact on Georgia arising from Russia’s 
economic troubles could reach a one-time 1.2% of GDP, 
but this is more than offset by the country’s savings  
on oil products, estimated at 1.7% of GDP.
Why Georgia is different from Ukraine. Despite a similar 
political past with Ukraine and similar economic diversity, the 
respective paths of Georgia and Ukraine and their economic 
relations with Russia have split over the last decade. This was  
a result of differences in reform initiatives, in the internal political 
climate, and the Russian embargo on Georgia that forced it  
to redirect its focus. Georgia’s key positives lie in its trade 
diversification and lower export exposure to Russia. The share  
of trade turnover with Russia was 4x higher in Ukraine than in 
Georgia. In 2013, Russia accounted for 6.5% (US$190 million)  
of Georgian exports and 23.8% (US$ 15.1 billion) of Ukrainian 
exports. Furthermore, Georgia’s limited energy dependence on 
Russia, the success of implemented reforms, its macroeconomic 
resilience, lower public debt levels, stronger banking sector, and 
the underdevelopment of the stock market, shields Georgia from 
negative shocks. In short, Georgia is unlikely to experience any  
of the economic troubles Ukraine is currently facing.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 13 Resilient 2014 and outlook for economy in 2015
Relatively limited economic ties with Russia helped  
Georgia maintain strong growth in 2014 in the midst of 
regional uncertainties. In 2014, real GDP expanded by 4.8%, 
outperforming regional peers. The private sector was the significant 
contributor to growth in 2014 with private investments up 38.0% 
y-o-y in nominal terms in 2014, accounting for 83.6% of the total 
investments. As a result, investments as a share of GDP increased 
5.0 ppts y-o-y to 29.8% in 2014. In 2014, Moody’s and Fitch 
upgraded the outlook on Georgia’s sovereign credit rating to 
positive, citing improved economic prospects and the provisional 
application of the DCFTA. Relatively limited economic ties with 
Russia and diversified export markets and products helped 
Georgia to ably absorb the negative impact from the Russian-
Ukrainian crisis. Russia and Ukraine accounted for a relatively 
limited share of goods exports (14.5% in 2014, 2.5% of GDP) and 
FDI (just 4.2% of cumulative FDI over 2004-2014). Remittances 
constitute Georgia’s largest exposure to Russia (4.3% of GDP in 
2014), but strong remittance inflows from other countries largely 
offset the drop in money transfers from Russia in 2014. 
Plunging oil prices and EU DCFTA help Georgia maintain 
positive economic growth outlook in 2015 despite the 
weaker external demand. Given the deepening recession in 
Russia (negatively effecting the region) and devaluations of trading 
partner currencies, Georgia’s economy is slowing (real GDP  
grew by 0.5 % in January 2015). However, with the successful 
implementation of EU DCFTA, Georgia is better placed to weather 
external shocks compared to its regional peers. Growth this year 
could reach 2.0% according to IMF. However, significant upside 
factors are also in place: lower oil prices are expected to help  
the economy to improve growth prospects and save on its oil 
import bill. Additionally, lower fuel prices help to restrain inflation 
growth and support expansionary monetary policy, which  
add stimulus to the economy. 
FDI – a reliable source of current account deficit funding  
in 2014 and beyond. Georgia’s business-friendly environment 
coupled with its sustainable growth prospects continue to attract 
foreign investment. Georgia posted a six-year high FDI growth  
of 35% y-o-y to US$1,273 million in 2014, with the transport and 
communications sector being the largest FDI recipient (27% of 
total). Netherlands topped the list of investors with US$331 million 
(26% of total), with Azerbaijan coming in second at US$302 million 
(24%) in 2014. While FDI from Russia increased considerably  
from US$2 million in 2013 to US$66 million in 2014, its share in 
cumulative FDI (2004-2014) remains limited at just 3.8%. Alongside 
the economic recovery, an increase in imports and the weak 
external environment suggest the current account deficit will widen 
to an estimated 9.7% of GDP in 2014. Nevertheless, FDI related  
to the EU DCFTA and planned investment projects in different 
sectors will be a reliable source of current account funding in  
the coming years.
2015 fiscal parameters are prudent as current expenditures 
are adequately contained fostering sustainable fiscal and 
debt performance. The 2015 fiscal framework keeps the current 
expenditures broadly constant in real terms (increasing just 5.8% 
y-o-y), while growth-enhancing capital expenditures are increasing  
by 15% y-o-y, being the main contributor to deficit formation. To  
keep the fiscal deficit at 3.0% of GDP in 2015, additional revenues  
are expected to mobilise from excise tax increases on tobacco, 
alcohol and telecommunications (total effect of 0.4% of GDP). 
Public debt stock is expected to reach 37.2% of GDP. Based on 
the IMF debt sustainability analysis (January 2015) macroeconomic 
shocks do not jeopardise the sustainability of public debt, and the 
public debt ratio would remain well below a critical level even at  
a hypothetical 30% depreciation of national currency. 
Monetary policy remains accommodative as inflation is 
expected to remain below the Central Bank target of 5.0%  
in 2015. With inflation below the Central Bank target, the policy 
rate has been kept relatively low in 2014. Food prices have  
been rising in 2014 partly driven by strong demand from Russia, 
however, stronger Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) and 
falling world commodity prices contained the overall growth in 
price level; annual inflation reached 2.0 in 2014. Lari depreciation 
since end-2014 increased inflationary expectations, while NEER 
continued to strengthen restraining imported inflation along with 
falling world commodity prices. While annual inflation reached just 
1.4% in January 2015, core inflation increased by 3.2% y-o-y and  
to anchor expectations Central Bank increased the policy rate  
by 50 bps to 4.5% in February 2015 and kept it unchanged at  
the monitory policy committee meeting in March 2015. However, 
monetary policy still remains accommodative with the policy  
rate being still below neutral value (which is 6-7%).
Lari’s floating exchange rate regime mitigates external 
shocks and preserves foreign reserves. The Lari remained 
broadly stable for most of 2014 while other currencies significantly 
lost their values against the Dollar. However, the weaker external 
environment supported depreciation pressures by the end-2014 as 
was anticipated and the Lari lost 7.3% of its value against the Dollar 
in 2014. However, the Lari strengthened by 5.3% against the Euro 
in 2014. The Lari’s 18.4% depreciation against the Dollar since  
the beginning of the year helped the economy to absorb external 
imbalances and the Central Bank’s interventions for defending the 
Lari were limited compared to the last year. A more competitive  
Lari may help reduce the current account deficit along with 
encouraging producers to compete with imports, and the  
resulting profitability may also encourage the production of  
new export goods. 
Looking at Georgia’s growth in 2014 and beyond, we  
believe external challenges can be mitigated by coherent 
economic policies. Today’s Georgia – largely corruption-free, 
open, and flexible, with a clear political vector and signs that 
democratic institutions are working – is well-placed to serve 
regional markets. EU DCFTA is a clear roadmap for fresh  
reforms and the Government’s commitment to the enactment  
of the plan can help the economy reach new heights.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 14
Market review continued Chart 3: Underpenetrated Retail Banking sector 
provides room for further growth (%)
Corporate Loans
/ GDP
External corporate 
indebtedness
Retail Loans
/ GDP
Chart 4: Per capita expenditure on health (US$)
ARM AZE KAZ GEO UKR BEL BUL EST TUR RUS GER FRA UK USA
19.6 16.5
19
333
8,895
887
665
1,010
516
3,647
4,690
4,683
339
293
521
398
150
Ratios calculated based on NBG data as at 31 December 2014.
Retail
loans
GDP
Chart 3: Underpenetrated retail banking sector 
provides room for further growth (%)
Corporate
loans
GDP
21.0
21.8 19.6
External corporate indebtedness
21.0
Retail loans/GDP
41.4
Corporate loans/GDP
Source: World Bank data 2012
Growing and well capitalised banking sector
The Georgian banking sector has been one of the faster 
growing sectors of the Georgian economy, yet still has one  
of the lowest penetration ratios among peer countries, 
particularly in retail. The banking sector assets growth rate  
of 28% (10-year CAGR) has far outstripped the real GDP growth 
rate for the same period. Although on the rise, loan and deposit 
penetration rates still remain low (45% of GDP and 40% of GDP, 
respectively) and only c.50% of the population have bank 
accounts, partly due to high interest rates and the population’s  
low earnings, which is evidenced by the lower penetration of the  
retail segment compared to the corporate segment (see chart 3). 
Penetration is also low as the Central Bank requires banks to  
apply a 175% risk-weighting to FX loans (except for export oriented 
borrower exposures). As a result of the Central Bank’s conservative 
regulations, banking sector liquidity and capitalisation rates  
have been historically high. Despite high levels of liquidity and 
capitalisation, banking sector profitability has remained robust  
at 12% ROAE over the past three years. The banking sector is 
entirely privately owned and quite concentrated with the two 
largest banks accounting for 57% of total assets. 
Significant growth opportunities in the  
healthcare sector
Substantially improved infrastructure and increased  
access to healthcare over the past decade resulted  
in over 2x increased incidence. Georgia’s healthcare sector, 
supported by strong GDP growth and high relative expenditure  
on healthcare (around 10% of GDP), grew at 15.9% CAGR  
between 2001 and 2011. The Georgian healthcare industry  
has undergone a number of reforms and transformations  
during the last two decades and the eventual favourable 
Government policy, resulted in:
 – Renovated and privatised nationwide healthcare 
infrastructure (of nationwide hospital bed capacity,  
over 60% is new and only under 20% is public), both  
brick and mortar and medical equipment, replacing  
rundown Soviet-era facilities.
 – Increased access to healthcare through a  
state-financed universal healthcare programme that  
provides basic coverage of healthcare needs to the  
entire population since 2013. According to the IMF,  
reform should improve health outcomes and is  
estimated to add 1% of GDP per year to existing  
health costs, making health the largest reform area.
Nonetheless, significant growth opportunity remains  
as per capita expenditure and incidence levels lag  
far behind peer benchmarks. Georgia has one of the  
lowest per capita expenditures on health (see chart 4), the  
lowest in the region’s average number of outpatient encounters  
per capita (Georgia: 2.7, CIS: 8.9, EU: 7.7) and incidence levels  
(e.g. malignant neoplasms incidence rate in Georgia: 110.1,  
EU: 543.7). Furthermore, the highly fragmented supply side, 
together with the excessive number of doctors in the country 
(Georgia: 456.3 per 100k population, EU: 345.8) that is still  
to be optimised and a very low nurse to doctor ratio (1:1.6  
in 2013, vs World Health Organization recommendation  
of 4:1) provide room for further system-wide efficiencies  
to be extracted. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 15 Banking  
Business
Investment  
Business
Our business model is 
simple and purpose- 
built to capture growth 
opportunities in Georgia
Our business model
We are a Georgia focused banking group 
with an investment arm. We have a 
successful track record of delivering 
profitable growth for almost a decade, 
growing our market capitalisation by 
more than 60 times to over US$1.3 billion.
Our banking business includes Retail Banking, Corporate Banking 
and Investment Management and comprises at least 80% of our 
profit, and our investment business which includes Healthcare, Real 
Estate development, Utility businesses and legacy investments and 
comprises up to 20% of our profit. We are the number one player on 
the market in all our business lines.
At the core of our success lie our strengths and capabilities that we have 
built over the last decade to create superior value for our shareholders as 
we follow – and in many ways lead – Georgia’s path to prosperity.
Capture 
growth 
opportunities
Unrivalled strength  
of the franchise
Unmatched scale 
and distribution
Strong management 
skills with proven  
track record
Comprehensive 
local knowledge
Leader in banking 
technologies
Robust governance  
aligned with UK corporate 
governance code
Access to capital markets 
and superiority in liability 
management
1
5
3 6
2 7
4
 – Retail Banking
 – Corporate Banking
 – Investment Management
 – Other Banking Business  
lines (P&C Insurance,  
leasing, payment  
services and BNB)
 – Healthcare Business
 – Real Estate Business
 – Utilities 
 – Legacy Investments
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 16 Elements of our business model
1.  Unrivalled strength 
of the franchise
Market leader in all of our businesses offering the most 
comprehensive range of products and services in Georgia
 – No.1 Bank by market share in total assets – 35.5%
1
 – No.1 Bank by market share in client deposits – 31.5%
1
 – No.1 Bank by market share in total loans – 34.9%
1
 – No.1 in healthcare services sector – 22.0%
 – No.1 insurance business – 36.7% (Health), 37.8% (P&C and Life)
 – Leading real estate business 
Undisputed leader in mass retail banking with an unmatched 
segment offering through our Express Banking franchise
 – 560,000 emerging mass market clients attracted and more  
than 720,000 Express cards issued since the launch of Express 
Banking three years ago 
See page 52 for more information on Express Banking
Well-established and trusted brands with distinctive culture 
and values based on entrepreneurial spirit, teamwork and 
professionalism
 – Spontaneous awareness rate of the Bank of Georgia brand at 96%
 – 94% general awareness for Aldagi brand
2
2.  Unmatched scale  
and distribution
Extensive reach through the largest distribution network  
in the country translating into superior cross-selling ability, 
significant economies of scale and efficiency gains
 – 1.5 million Retail Banking customers
 – 219 bank branches, 523 ATMs, 6,320 POS terminals, 2,239  
Express Pay terminals, 2,000 sales force 
 – 39 healthcare facilities and 2,140 hospital beds, located in six  
regions that contain two-thirds of the population of Georgia
 – 87 points of sale and more than 200 account managers servicing 
over 250,000 P&C insurance clients
 – m
2
 Real Estate developed 645 apartments in two completed 
projects and 1,024 apartments in four ongoing projects
3.  Leader in banking 
technologies
Established leader in payment systems such as internet 
banking, mobile banking and Express Pay terminals 
complementing our Express Banking strategy
 – 72,000 active internet banking users, up 33.7% y-o-y
 – 29,000 mobile banking users, up 103.7% y-o-y
 – Transactions executed through remote channels increased  
nearly twofold vs 4.0% decrease through tellers 
See page 52 for more information on Express Banking
Capturing more than half of the merchant acquiring  
network in the country
 – 6,320 POS terminals
4.  C o mp r e h e n si v e  
local knowledge
Exclusive insight into the Georgian market through trusted 
relationships with our extensive client base and coverage 
across all sectors of the economy
 – c.6,000 Corporate Banking customers
 – c.90,000 SME and micro customers
Strong research capabilities through Galt & Taggart  
Research, providing unmatched insight in the main  
sectors of the Georgian economy 
 – Georgian macroeconomic research
 – Azerbaijan macroeconomic research
 – Georgian sector research including: Energy, Real Estate,  
Agriculture, Tourism, Wine
 – Fixed income corporate research including: Georgian Railway  
and Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation
 – Weekly news coverage, including market data and economic updates 
See page 55 for more information on Galt & Taggart
Loan collection systems and an in-house developed and 
maintained credit scoring system, translates into exclusive 
insight into bankable population and customer behaviour  
– a distinctive competitive advantage of the Bank
 – 470,000 individuals scored in 2014
5.  Access to  
capital markets  
and superiority  
in liability 
management
Superior access to both equity and debt capital, provides 
flexibility with liability management and is our key competitive 
advantage in realising our ambition to capture attractive 
investment opportunities in Georgia
 – Premium listing on the LSE in 2012 (first from Georgia)
 – IPO on the LSE in 2006 (first from Georgia and second from the CIS)
 – US$114 million capital raised in 2014
 – US$400 million Eurobond outstanding (only private issue from  
the Caucasus)
 – US$200 million bond issue in 2007 (first from Georgia)
Undisputed leader in the local capital market industry  
through Galt and Taggart and Bank of Georgia custody
 – c.GEL 100 million local corporate bonds placed by Galt & Taggart  
in 2014
 – The only international sub-custodian in the region through  
State Street, Citi and Deutsche Bank
The strength of our franchise and brand name translates  
into pricing power driving down Cost of Deposits. Ability  
to replace more costly borrowings with cheaper funding  
also leads to improved funding costs
 – Lower deposit rates than offered on the market
 – Cost of Client Deposits 4.3% in 2014 down from 7.5% in 2010
 – Cost of Funds 4.9% in 2014, down from 8.2% in 2010
6.  Robust governance 
aligned with  
UK corporate 
governance code
Culture of transparency and adherence to  
robust governance
 – Premium listed company on the LSE
 – Component of FTSE 250 Index
 – Fully independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board 
See page 64 for Governance report
Primarily deferred share-based compensation for top 
executives of the Group, aligning long-term shareholder 
interests with management reward
 – More than 80% of total compensation for each Management Board 
member comprises shares with a vesting period
 – No cash bonuses for senior management since 2011 
See page 86 for Remuneration report
7.  Strong management 
skills with proven 
track record
As an employer of choice, attracts top talent both at  
senior and middle management levels
 – Western educated professionals with work experience at leading 
financial institutions such as Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns, etc
Proven track record in creating superior value for its 
shareholders through banking and investment businesses
 – Market valuation at US$1.3 billion, up x60 since 2004
 – EBITDA of healthcare services business increased 9.5 times  
since 2011
 – IRR of >30% in completed real estate projects
1. Includes Privatbank.
2. Source: ACT research, Mar 2013 (act-gr.com).
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 17 Our strategy combines pushing the most 
lucrative touch points of our business 
model with seizing opportunities 
presented to us in Georgia.
Updating our strategy 
from 3x20 to 4x20
At the end of 2014, we introduced our updated 4x20 strategy, which 
entails a 20% metric for our ROAE, Tier I CAR, retail loan growth and  
IRR for investment business. The updated strategy will allow us to 
capture compelling investment opportunities in Georgia’s corporate 
sector, on top of our continued commitment to growing our strong  
banking business.
Over the last few years we have made strong progress in delivering 
growth in our core Retail Banking, Corporate Banking and Investment 
Management businesses. This growth has been combined with 
maintaining a solid capital and liquidity position and consistently  
high returns on shareholder equity, delivering dividends that have  
more than quadrupled over the last three years and an excellent  
total return to shareholders. In addition, we have made great  
progress in developing and profitably growing our non-banking 
operations: healthcare and real estate businesses. 
Georgia’s economic development has remained robust and the 
Company expects this progress to be maintained in the future.  
The banking sector in Georgia remains relatively underpenetrated  
and we expect our recent strong customer lending growth, particularly 
in the retail bank, to continue. Georgia’s capital markets development, 
which remains in its infancy, will create significant opportunities  
over the next few years to develop more capital efficient growth 
opportunities throughout the business and we expect to be at the 
forefront of that capital market development in the country, thereby 
producing value creation opportunities for our shareholders.
Performance against strategy in 2014
Strategic target 2014 performance
ROAE c.20% Record profitability:
 – Revenue up 11.3% y-o-y to GEL 605.6 milllion in 2014
 – Profit up 15.0% y-o-y to GEL 240.8 milllion in 2014
 – Non-interest income up 13.6% y-o-y to GEL 261.5 milllion in 2014 
 – NIM stood at 7.4%
 – ROAE
1
 stood at 19.0% in 2014 
Operational efficiency and scale: 
 – Cost to Income ratio at 42.8% in 2014
 – Positive q-o-q and y-o-y operating leverage at 2.9 ppts and 1.6 ppts, respectively, in Q4 2014
Prudent risk management: 
 – Cost of Risk of 1.2% in 2014, compared to 1.4% in 2013
Tier I c.20% Strong internal cash generation to support loan growth without compromising capital ratios:
 – BIS Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR) of 22.1% and BIS Total CAR of 26.1% as of 31 December 2014 
 – NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I CAR and Total CAR stood at 11.1% and 14.1% as of 31 December 2014
Conservative regulation of National Bank of Georgia (NBG):
 – Risk weighting of FX assets at 175% 
 – Bank’s leverage stood at 3.7x as of 31 December 2014
Growth c.20% – Net loan book grew 23.8% y-o-y to GEL 4,360.7 million, while client deposits increased 6.6% y-o-y to  
GEL 3,313.7. million 
 – Cost of Client Deposits declined to 4.3% in 2014 from 5.6% in 2013. RB Cost of Client Deposits: 3.8% in 2014  
vs 5.2% in 2013; CB Cost of Client Deposits: 2.9% in 2014 vs 4.6% in 2013
Dividend payout  
ratio of 25-40%
 – At the 2015 AGM the Board intends to recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.1 per share payable in British 
Sterling at the prevailing rate, representing 31.2% payout ratio. This represents an increase of 5%, compared  
to the annual dividend of GEL 2.0 per share last year.
1. Adjusted for results of placing of ordinary shares on 4 December 2014 and before one-off impairment of BG Bank in Ukraine in Q2 2014.
Our strategy
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 18 Updated strategy Current strategy
1 ROAE c.20%
 – ROAE of 19.0% in 2014
2 TIER I c.20%
 – Strong internal cash 
generation to support loan 
growth without compromising 
capital ratios
 – Tier 1 ratio of 22.1% in 2014
3 GROWTH c.20%
 – Aiming 20% growth in retail 
banking business 
 – 28.1% y-o-y Retail loan book 
growth in 2014
4 Min. IRR of 20%
 – Target investments with min. 
20% IRR and partial or full  
exit in a maximum of six years 
Investment Business Banking Business
1 ROAE c.20%
2 TIER I c.20%
3 GROWTH c.20%
The updated strategy – Georgia-focused banking 
group with an investment arm – reflects our 
competitive strengths and opportunities in  
the market
The updated strategy is focused on enhancing BGH’s profitability by 
optimising capital allocation. This includes our continued commitment 
to the Bank’s highly profitable retail franchise and augmenting the 
Group returns through carefully targeted direct equity investments  
with a clear exit strategy and targeted IRR above 20%.
The BGH Board has undertaken a business and strategy review 
with the aim of delivering sustainable profitable growth by allocating 
capital to our most attractive business units and investment 
opportunities. In order to achieve this, we plan to increase the 
relative size of our highly profitable Retail Banking business and to 
generate additional non-interest income from advisory and other 
fee-generating businesses. In addition, we plan to make further 
equity investments in areas outside our core banking operations. 
The strategy will improve returns through direct equity investments, 
capturing compelling opportunities in the Georgian corporate 
sector. Georgia’s fast-growing economy provides opportunities in 
an underdeveloped market. The Board believes that the Company’s 
management expertise and access to international capital markets, 
combined with a limited buyer universe for large domestic 
acquisitions in Georgia, position it well to acquire high-quality assets 
at attractive valuation levels. BGH’s management has a proven 
track record, both in real estate and healthcare, of creating value 
through successful business development and investments. 
We will target an IRR of greater than 20% on any investment and,  
in aggregate, that no more than 20% of BGH’s future net income  
will be generated from our non-banking business. We will acquire 
only businesses that we believe have a well-defined exit path, to 
which end we will target companies with potential EBITDA of at  
least US$30 million within 3-4 years post acquisition with a view  
to potential future exits, including by way of stock market listings  
or trade sale. We intend to pay special dividends upon the realisation  
of our financial investments and we are targeting at least three 
special dividends in the next five years.
Leading Georgian bank 
with investments in  
non-core sectors with  
a divestment strategy
Georgia-focused banking group 
with an investment arm
Dividend policy:
 – Payout ratio 25-40%
 – One-off dividends from divestments 
over time
Dividend policy:
 – Recurring: linked to recurring 
profit from banking business
 – Aiming for a 25-40% dividend 
payout ratio
Dividend policy:
 – Aiming for at least three 
special dividends in the  
next five years
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 19 1. Based on FY2014 IFRS consolidated financial statements.
Retail
Banking
ROAE
ROAE
Capital allocation
1
(GEL million)
Corporate
Banking
31.4
12.0
473
614
473
Retail Banking
614
Corporate Banking
Investment Business
4. Internal rate of return of minimum 20% for each of the 
individual future investments of the company – We will target 
investments with a minimum of 20% IRR and partial or full exit in a 
maximum of six years.
Investment Approach: Highly disciplined approach to unlock value 
through selective investments in Georgia, which have a well-defined  
exit path.
 – Big opportunities with small capital commitments. 
Underdeveloped corporate sector and weak competition creates 
ample opportunities to benefit from growth prospects in various 
sectors of the Georgian economy
 – Capital needed to fund growth. Demand for capital for well  
performing companies is growing. Access to capital provides 
significant advantage.
 – Opportunities to add value through better management. 
There is significant potential to improve operating performance 
through better management, EBITDA potential of at least  
GEL 60 million (c.US$30 million) in 3–4 years
 – Low competition from other investors. Limited number  
of potential buyers translate into attractive valuations
Dividends: Our future dividend policy will comprise recurring 
dividend payments linked to recurring profits from the banking 
group, with a targeted dividend payout ratio of 25–40%. In 
addition, we will aim to pay special dividends upon the realisation 
of our financial investments and are targeting at least three special 
dividends in the next five years. Some of the profits may be 
reinvested if further attractive investment opportunities arise.
4x20% strategy
Revising the Group’s corporate structure
The National Bank of Georgia, the Bank’s regulator, has  
recently announced that it intends to regulate banks in Georgia  
on a standalone basis and thereby restrict, from a regulatory 
perspective, investments in non-banking businesses by locally 
regulated banking entities. Domestic banks will have to comply 
with this new requirement by the end of 2015 and, as a result, BGH 
intends to undertake a legal entity restructuring that will involve the 
transfer of ownership and separation of the banking and non-
banking businesses from BOG to a Georgian holding company, 
which will be 100% owned by BGH. The corporate restructuring 
and transfer of these businesses – in particular the Group’s 
healthcare and real estate subsidiaries – is expected to take  
place in 2015.
Banking Business
1. c.20% Return on Equity in the Banking Business – Profitability 
is expected to be driven by further growth in both the retail and 
corporate banking businesses with an increased focus on the 
significantly more profitable retail franchise. As we aim to increase our 
share in retail loans, the acquisition of Privatbank delivers a strong 
strategic fit with loans to individuals representing 86% of Privatbank’s 
loan book. In addition, we are looking to further grow our Express 
(self-service) Banking network as well as our payments business.
2. c.20% Retail loan book growth – Our net loan book has  
grown at a CAGR of 20.8% from 2010 to 2014 and we remain 
committed to 20% growth in our retail customer lending. In addition 
to the above mentioned growth of our retail banking business,  
the Privatbank acquisition will significantly enhance our retail 
customer franchise as well as increase the distribution network. 
3. c.20% Tier I capital adequacy ratio – we are committed  
to growing our business while maintaining our existing strong 
capitalisation. We aim to maintain capitalisation levels consistent  
with our existing target of greater than 20% Tier 1 CAR under Basel 
I. The Bank’s strong internal capital generation will continue to  
support loan growth without compromising capital ratios. Tier 1  
CAR ratio Basel I stood at 22.1% as of 31 December 2014. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 20
Our strategy continued How we are going to achieve our targets:
Strategic pillar How are we doing this
Reinforce market  
leader position
Banking Business:
 – Expand our product offering through continuous innovation to remain at the forefront of meeting the growing  
funding and investment needs of our extensive retail customer and corporate client base.
 – Expand our Express Banking strategy to increase our number of customers by attracting the currently unbanked 
population and by means of a shift towards transactional banking.
 – Leverage our superior distribution network and local expertise across various business lines to step up our 
cross-selling strategies.
 – Shift from current segment approach to client-centric approach with an aim to capture growth opportunities and 
increase penetration through cross-selling, to be measured primarily by an improvement in product/client ratio.
Investment Business:
 – Accomplish one-third market share in healthcare business.
 – Enhance pipeline of our real estate projects to meet unsatisfied demand for housing in Georgia.
Further diversify  
revenue base
 – Leverage our access to capital and local knowledge to roll-out Investment Management products that will  
enhance the Bank’s fee-generating capabilities.
 – Leverage our local knowledge, track record and strength of our business lines to identify and capitalise on  
new revenue streams.
 – Expand on our market-leading payments business in Georgia through our Express Banking strategy.
 – Continued investment in our IT and payment business with the view of exporting the business outside Georgia.
Further decrease  
Cost of Funding for  
Banking Business
 – Leverage the Bank’s pricing power stemming from its market leadership to continue optimising its Cost of  
Deposits without compromising deposit growth.
 – Expand Express Banking to increase current accounts, the cheapest source of funding.
 – Access international capital markets to attract cheaper international funding.
De-dollarise balance sheet – Utilise the NBG repo facility for floating rate Lari mortgage loans to the extent practicable. 
 – Encourage Lari savings by maintaining a high differential between the US Dollar and Lari savings rates.
Cost discipline – Continued cost control measures and implementation of technologies aimed at improving workflow efficiency.
 – Leverage the strength of our franchise to increase the cost-efficiency benefit for the underlying businesses  
and the Group as whole.
 – Expansion of Express Banking strategy and investing in Express Technologies to enable us to further scale up  
the business with minimal incremental operating costs.
 – Education platform to contribute further to lowering operating costs over the medium and long term.
Create education platform – Most recently started to create education platform and established Bank of Georgia University.
 – Established training centre for medical personnel.
 – Education platform to be used for training purposes as well.
 – Aimed at identifying talent and future leaders, including from among our 13,395 employees.
Efficient capital allocation – Enhance our profitability by optimising capital allocation. This includes our continued commitment to the Bank’s 
highly profitable retail franchise and augmenting the Group returns through carefully targeted direct equity 
investments with a clear exit strategy and targeted IRR above 20%.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 21 **  The following GEL/GBP exchange rates are used for presenting GBP amounts: 2014: 2.8932 as of 31 December 2014 (the actual 
currency conversion date: 8 June 2015), 2014 dividends to be approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM; 2013: 2.9815/GBP as 
of 9 June 2014, the currency conversion date for the year 2013; 2012: 2.6051/GBP as of 10 June 2013, the currency conversion 
date for the year 2012.
Profit attributable to shareholders divided by monthly average total 
equity attributable to shareholders. Total equity attributable to 
shareholders is made up of share capital, additional paid-in capital, 
treasury shares, retained earnings and other reserves.
Profit is calculated in accordance with IFRS and represents 
revenue less operating expenses, cost of credit risk, net  
non-recurring expenses and tax expense.
Profit attributable to shareholders divided by weighted average 
number of outstanding shares.
*  Adjusted for results of placing ordinary shares on 4 December 
2014 and before one-off impairment of BG Bank in Ukraine in  
Q2 2014.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 22
7.4%
Net Interest Margin
(%)
2012 2013 2014
7.9%
7.8%
7.4%
7.9
7.8
7.4
Our KPIs for 2014 reflect a continuing 
strong performance in each of our 
Banking and Investment Businesses, 
demonstrating excellent customer 
lending growth with improving margins, 
balance sheet strength and strong 
profitability, together with substantial 
further progress in our healthcare and 
real estate businesses.
Key performance indicators
A strong performance
Diversified revenue sources, a growing loan 
book and improved funding were the main 
drivers of the exceptional results in terms of 
profitability against the backdrop of a weak 
external environment in 2014. 
The resilience of NIM is a function of our 
distribution capabilities and pricing power. 
The substantial growth of the loan book 
during 2014 enabled our NIM to withstand 
downward pressures from lower asset yields 
and higher excess liquidity levels than in  
2013. The resulting robust growth in interest 
income, the further increased contribution of 
non-interest income to our revenue, strong 
margins and improving cost efficiency 
translated into 15.0% growth in profit. 
In 2015 and beyond, we will continue to  
focus on profitable earnings growth, to be 
driven by good levels of customer lending 
growth without compromising asset quality, 
an increase in the share of income from fee- 
generating operations and an expansion of 
our Healthcare and Real Estate operations. 
Returns KPIs
0.73
Dividend per share 
(GBP)**
2012 2013 2014
0.58
0.67
0.73
19%
*
Return on Average 
Equity (%)
2012 2013 2014
19.1
18.6
19.0
6.85
*
Earnings per share
(GEL)
2012 2013 2014
5.22
5.93
6.85
For more information on our 
financial results, see page 106
240.8
Prot
(GEL million)
2012 2013 2014
179.6
209.3
240.8
2.1
Dividend per share 
(GEL)
2012 2013 2014
1.5
2.0
2.1 Capital KPIs
Asset quality KPIs
Operating expenses divided by revenue.
Net loans to customers and net finance leases receivables at the 
end of the period compared to the same period of the prior year. 
Cost of Risk equals impairment charge for loans to customers 
and finance lease receivables for the period divided by monthly 
average gross loans to customers and finance lease receivables 
over the same period.
BIS Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio: Tier I Capital divided by risk 
weighted assets. 
Operating leverage is measured as the percentage change in 
revenue less the percentage change in operating expenses. 
Net loans to customers and net finance leases receivables 
divided by amounts due to customers and DFIs.
NPL Coverage Ratio adjusted for discounted value of collateral 
equals allowance for impairment of loans and finance lease 
receivables divided by NPLs (discounted value of collateral is 
added back to allowance for impairment).
Leverage is calculated as total liabilities divided by total equity.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 23
The shift to Express Banking, a technology-
intensive remote channel banking, is the main 
driver of efficiency strategy for our Banking 
Business. Other measures such as various 
investments in IT aimed at optimisation of 
workflow processes and the introduction of 
cost centre reporting procedures represent 
the cost control measures we continue to 
deploy across the board in order to keep a 
tight grip on costs. Our healthcare business, 
which has completed a string of acquisitions 
in recent years, placed an upward pressure 
on costs as synergies have not yet been fully 
realised from these acquisitions. 
The 23.8% loan book growth was boosted  
by the increased credit demand in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 particularly in our Retail 
Banking business, which posted a 28.1% 
growth in the loan book in 2014. Pick-up  
in Corporate Banking lending in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 led to the 18.8% growth of 
Corporate Banking. We are targeting 20% 
growth of our Retail Banking loan book  
over the medium term. 
Our asset quality improved in 2014 as a  
result of economic growth and our continued 
prudent risk management policies. Cost of 
risk stood at 1.2%, remaining within our target 
of 1–1.5%. NPL coverage ratio adjusted  
for the discounted value of collateral stood  
at a comfortable level of 111.1%. 
In 2014, our Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio 
stood at 22.1% compared to 23.0% in 2013. 
The risk weighted assets increased by 23.1%, 
reflecting the 26.5% increase in interest 
earning assets during the year. In 2015 and 
beyond, we intend to maintain strong capital 
ratios, above the regulatory requirements.
Efficiency KPIs
Growth KPIs
42.8%
Cost to Income
ratio (%)
2012 2013 2014
44.3
41.2
42.8
-4.1%
Operating leverage
(%)
2012 2013 2014
9.8
7.6
-4.1
22.1%
Tier I Capital
Adequacy ratio (%)
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
21.2
23.0
22.1
4.3
4.3
3.7
3.7
Leverage
(times) 
23.8%
Net loan book 
(% growth, y-o-y)
2012 2013 2014
18.2
13.9
23.8
Cost of Risk 
(%)
1.2%
2012 2013 2014
1.3
1.4
1.2
NPL coverage
ratio adjusted for
discounted value
of collateral (%)
111.1%
2012 2013 2014
112.7
110.6
111.1
110.6%
Net loans to customer 
funds and DFIs (%) 
2012 2013 2014
91.9
96.2
110.6
23.8%
Net loan book 
(% growth, y-o-y)
2012 2013 2014
18.2
13.9
23.8
Cost of Risk 
(%)
1.2%
2012 2013 2014
1.3
1.4
1.2
NPL coverage
ratio adjusted for
discounted value
of collateral (%)
111.1%
2012 2013 2014
112.7
110.6
111.1
110.6%
Net loans to customer 
funds and DFIs (%) 
2012 2013 2014
91.9
96.2
110.6
23.8%
Net loan book 
(% growth, y-o-y)
2012 2013 2014
18.2
13.9
23.8
Client deposits growth 
(% growth, y-o-y)
6.6%
2012 2013 2014
2.7
18.5
6.6
110.6%
Net loans to customer 
funds and DFIs (%) 
2012 2013 2014
91.9
96.2
110.6
23.8%
Net loan book 
(% growth, y-o-y)
2012 2013 2014
18.2
13.9
23.8
Client deposits growth 
(% growth, y-o-y)
6.6%
2012 2013 2014
2.7
18.5
6.6
110.6%
Net loans to customer 
funds and DFIs (%) 
2012 2013 2014
91.9
96.2
110.6 The concept of sustainability lies at the heart of our business and 
reflects our contribution to sustainable development – development 
that meets the needs of the present without compromising the 
ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
We consider sustainability to be integral to the growth of our 
business. Our sustainability agenda allows us to be profitable as  
well as environmentally and socially responsible at the same time.  
By implementing a sustainability approach in our activities, we foster 
long-term relationships with our main stakeholders by providing  
high return on investment for shareholders, satisfying the financial 
needs of customers, developing employees and contributing to the 
economic and social welfare of local communities, whilst taking  
into account our environmental footprint. 
In order to effectively manage the Group’s direct and indirect impact 
on society and the environment, the Board of Directors adopted  
an Environmental and Social Policy in 2012. This policy defines the 
Group’s strategy to develop solid management controls which  
will conserve natural resources, minimise health and safety risks, 
and provide employees with equal development opportunities,  
fair compensation and benefits. We are pioneering sustainability 
practices in our operations and are constantly seeking new ways  
to improve our performance.
Social matters
The Group considers the interests of its main stakeholders, which 
include customers, shareholders, employees, lenders, and society, in 
the development of strategy and operations improvement processes.
We strive to positively contribute to society through the entire scope 
of our business activities by developing socially oriented products 
and services, implementing responsible approaches to our business 
operations, and carrying out sponsorship and charity activities.
Socially oriented products and services
Corporate Banking
In order to efficiently manage its indirect environmental and social 
impact, the Bank prioritised the integration of sustainable finance 
principles into its credit risk management procedures. In 2013, the 
Bank updated its Environmental and Social Risk Management 
Procedures in order to ensure the proper application of appropriate, 
risk-based and sector-specific environmental and social risk 
assessment practices to its commercial lending activities and in 
2014, the Bank actively started to put the procedures into practice. 
The Bank defined priority targets and promotes environmental and 
social risk management activities accordingly. Since then the Bank 
ensures it has a consistent approach to evaluating and managing 
environmental, human health and safety risks of the financed 
projects. These procedures are now being integrated into the Bank’s 
credit risk management process and will soon be routinely applied to 
all commercial transactions. In all that the Bank does, it strives to find 
sustainable solutions that make good business sense to clients and 
minimise their impact on the social and natural environment. 
The main objective of the Environmental and Social Policy is to 
increase the environmental and social benefits for our clients. 
Through Environmental and Social Risk Management Procedure, 
the Bank enhances the clients’ opportunities to be in compliance 
with national environmental and social regulations and to adopt 
best international practices in this area. The Environmental and Social 
Policy and Risk Management Procedures, along with other tools 
necessary for their implementation, comprise the core components  
of the Bank’s Environmental and Social Risk Management System 
(ESMS). Under this concept, the Bank endeavours to become an 
environmentally friendly financial institution. 
The Bank has appointed an Environmental and Social Coordinator, 
responsible for ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of 
the ESMS, and will appoint an Environmental and a Social Risk 
Manager, responsible for the practical, day-to-day implementation  
of the Bank’s ESMS.
We implement the following procedures to ensure the operation 
and maintenance of the ESMS:
 – We refrain from financing environmentally or socially sensitive business 
activities mentioned in the exclusion lists of such Development Finance 
Institutions as EBRD, IFC, DEG, FMO, ADB and others.
 – We aim at assessing the relative level of environmental and social 
risk associated with clients’ businesses. We require certain 
customers to implement specific environmental or social action 
plans to avoid or mitigate their environmental and social impact 
and adhere to specific monitoring and reporting requirements that 
we set in order to minimise environmental and social risk. These 
requirements are included as covenants in agreements between 
certain of our customers and the Bank.
 – We aim at regular monitoring of environmental and social risks 
associated with the Bank’s activities, and assessing clients’ 
compliance with the terms of respective agreements.
Through ensuring comprehensive environmental and social 
assessment and action plans, as part of the stable due diligence, 
the Bank encourages the customers in fulfilment of their 
environmental and social obligations and has established a 
framework for them to achieve good environmental and social 
standards. In many cases, the Bank’s proper and timely 
management of the customers’ environmental and social risks 
facilitate them to avoid financial and legal sanctions during 
inspections conducted by the state enforcement agency. 
Environmental and social issues are tracked at the project site  
in cooperation with the facility staff, providing ongoing advice  
and guidance on good practice and standards and monitoring 
compliance with the requirements. For environmental and social 
due diligence of certain high-risk and A category projects, the 
Bank has contracted independent external experts. As part of 
monitoring, the Bank requires each of its high-risk clients to provide 
the Bank with the annual report on their environmental and social 
performance and the implementation of applicable Environmental 
and Social Action Plans or each client is visited by the Bank  
staff on a regular basis. During 2014, the Bank held extensive 
Environmental and Social Due Dilligence (ESDD) and developed 
action plans for non-compliant clients. 
The Bank regularly checks legal developments and updates with 
regard to environmental, health and safety and labour issues and 
places great emphasis on improvement of ESDD opportunities. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 24
Resources and responsibilities
Sustainability lies 
at the heart of  
our business
As a leading financial institution  
in Georgia, we understand our 
responsibility not only to shareholders 
but to society at large.  In 2014, the Bank provided full opportunities for the development 
and enhancement of employees’ capacities. Two Environmental 
and Social Management trainings were conducted with a strong 
focus on topics such as key E&S risks, requirements of Georgian 
E&S legislation and IFIs’ E&S policy, compliance monitoring and 
enforcement and the Bank staff’s role in efficient implementation  
of the E&S risk management procedures. More than one hundred 
employees were trained. 
Other highlights of the year included a review of the Environmental 
and Social Management System. The purpose of the review was  
to ensure that policy remains fit for purpose, taking into account 
lessons learned from experience and changes in the relevant 
legislation. The review process began at the end of 2014 and  
the revised policy document is planned for adoption in 2015. 
The Bank continues to make progress towards its objective and  
to ensure efficient implementation of the Environmental and Social 
Management System. The Bank will continue to conduct business 
with due consideration to environmental protection and contribute 
to the creation of a sustainable society. The Bank will help increase 
clients’ benefits through proper and highly active implementation  
of the Environmental and Social Policy. 
The Bank also continues to support Georgia’s emerging economy 
by financing industries that are strategically important for the 
development of the entire nation.
Infrastructure development
Infrastructure development continued to be a key financing and 
guarantee granting theme for the Bank, with almost $47 million 
committed to the construction and rehabilitation of the land-
reclamation system, the improvement of sanitary conditions for IDP , 
the improvement of specific infrastructure for the European Youth 
Olympic Festival 2015, the rehabilitation of water supply and 
wastewater systems, the construction of refugee settlements, the 
construction and rehabilitation of highways, local municipal roads 
and bridges, the construction of a new multipurpose shopping 
centre, and the construction and rehabilitation of recreational/sport 
facilities and historical buildings. 
From US$47 million, about US$7 .5 million is committed to the 
construction and rehabilitation of highways and municipal roads to 
provide easy access to the regions and enhance road safety standards. 
The tourism sector has become a vital part of the Georgian 
economy as demonstrated by its significant growth since 2000. In 
2014, the Bank continued to finance the hospitality sector of Georgia 
by providing loans for hotel construction in Batumi (US$8 million)  
and Borjomi (US$2.2 million). 
Georgia’s hydropower sector holds significant development potential. 
In 2014, the Bank financed for construction of the Hydropower Plant 
(HPP) and financing equipment purchase via letters of credit (LCs). 
The bank financed two HPPs the amount of US$8.83 million with 
installed capacity of 9.4MW and annual production of 50MWH and 
installed capacity of 1.94MW and annual production of 8.6MWH 
We have also provided financing for “Georgian Water and Power” 
(GWP) in amount of $22 million. GWP is a leading company on the 
water supply market of Georgia and South Caucasus. The company 
delivers drinking water to Tbilisi and its neighbourhood and provides 
wastewater services to the capital. The loan will enable GWP to provide 
24-hour water supply for the population and rehabilitation of the sewage 
system in order to eliminate effluent discharge into Kura River.
The Bank endeavours to finance the projects that provide millions  
of people with access to safe drinking water, sanitary waste water 
disposal services, well-maintained urban roads and other types of 
projects that provide important sustainable development benefits  
to households and enterprises across the country. 
Healthcare and education support
Continuous improvement in medical services in Georgia remains  
a top priority for the country’s strategic development. In 2014, the 
Bank financed the construction of unique medical facilities that will 
provide neurosurgery, traumatology, paediatric, aesthetic, oncology 
and emergency treatment in the Tbilisi, Kutaisi and Samtskhe 
region in the amount of US$36.12 million.
Information and communications technology
The Bank financed the leading fixed-line telecommunication service 
provider in Georgia, offering internet, IPTV, voice IP and fixed line 
communication services in the amount of US$24 million for the 
purpose of 4G/LTE development. This investment will help to 
penetrate the internet into the regions. Also, the bank approved  
a credit to communication and security systems integrator and 
products supplier in the amount of US$3.17 million for the purpose 
of digital terrestrial TV network turnkey project, which will impact 
on developing tourism in Borjomi.
Retail Banking
Bank of Georgia continues to innovate and come up with a wide 
range of socially oriented financial products and services that bring 
added value to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses 
(SMEs) and meet their respective needs.
Express Banking. The Georgian banking sector still experiences 
difficulties in overcoming economic and geographical barriers  
on its way to expanding financial services in remote regions and 
among low-income parts of the population. In order to address  
this issue, we have developed our Express Banking service: 
 – As at 31 December 2014, a network of 2,239 Express Pay 
terminals, 60 Express and 24 Metro branches which are located 
all over the country including in remote mountain regions. 
 – Express financial products such as Express card, Express 
deposit and Express loan. These financial products are 
uncomplicated, easily accessible and affordable to a segment of 
the population that would not have access to banking products 
and services otherwise. Since the beginning of the Express 
Banking service in December 2011, the Bank has attracted 
562,963 clients by 31 December 2014, of which 206,729  
were attracted in 2014 alone.
As part of the Express Banking service, we prioritise improving 
financial literacy of our clients. In every Express branch, our  
current and potential customers can receive financial advice and 
educational support from our employees free of charge. In 2015, 
the Bank plans to start educational events in flagship service 
centres, where customers will have an opportunity to learn how  
to plan their budgets, set financial goals, assess financial risks, 
manage cash flow, and use financial instruments. 
Youth support. We have developed a wide range of financial 
products to support young people in Georgia. For example, 
through the special conditions of the Child Deposit we provide 
parents with an opportunity to secure the future of their children. 
Starting from a minimal amount of GEL 10, a deposit can be 
opened for two years minimum at any time from a child’s birth  
until the age of 18. The annual interest rate (9.25% for GEL and 
3.25-5.25% for foreign currency) is added to the initial deposit.  
In 2014 we opened approximately 4,013 child deposit accounts.
The Bank also offers special products that allow the youth to 
receive secondary and higher education. Examples of such 
products are school and student loans with favourable terms  
that do not require any financial guarantees and collateral.  
The total amount of school and student loans granted in 2014  
was GEL 130,148 and GEL 176,578 respectively.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 25 Referral and specialty hospitals N
Community hospitals Ambulatory clinics
+ Regions of presence
BLACK SEA
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AZERBAIJAN
ARMENIA
TURKEY
GEORGIA
Tbilisi
Telavi
Poti
15
15 15 15 15
220
15
20
15
15
70
70
134
19 15
26
N
50
110
70
15
25
Zugdidi
186
Batumi
Akhaltsikhe
Kutaisi
Akhmeta
Kvareli
Ninotsminda
Akhalkalaki
Adigeni Khulo
Shuakhevi
Keda
Kobuleti
Khobi
Chkhorotsku
Martvili
Tsalenjikha 
Abasha
Khoni
Tskaltubo Tkibuli
Terjola
120
21
35
25
60
266
60
82
45
+
+
+
124
+
+
152
+
Another example of a product supporting youth is a student card 
which provides special benefits for students of Georgian universities. 
The benefits include discounts for public transportation, a 2% 
interest rate for savings on the card GEL accounts and 1% for 
foreign currency, free distance banking services and others. In 
2014 the Bank issued 82,722 of these cards. In addition, every 
three months, the Bank awards 20 holders of student cards with 
three-month scholarships to encourage the student population  
to use financial instruments and support them financially during 
their study. 
SME support. We continue to provide financing to SMEs, a 
backbone of the Georgian economy that ensures sustainable 
development of our country. Apart from our own micro-financing 
and SME loan programmes, we also participate in various 
programmes that support entrepreneurs. In 2014, the Bank 
partnered with a non-profit Agricultural Projects Management 
Agency which supports agricultural SMEs. Together, we co-
financed agricultural loans at fixed annual interest rates which  
were significantly lower than previous loans SMEs received by 
other institutions. In 2014, the total amount of Bank loans issued  
to SMEs was GEL 767.4 million, of which GEL 63.4 million was 
issued to female entrepreneurs. 
Combined with supporting SMEs financially, the Bank also  
plans to organise educational events and provide financial  
and business knowledge related advice to entrepreneurs in  
order to enhance their finance management skills and ensure  
the sustainable development of their businesses. For example,  
the planned events in flagship service centres mentioned  
above will provide entrepreneurs with knowledge and skills  
in accounting, the drafting of legal documents, business 
development, sales and marketing. 
Also the environmental and social risk management process of 
SME clients is embedded throughout the Bank’s activities. Through 
ensuring comprehensive environmental and social risk assessment 
and action plans, we encourage the SME clients to be in 
compliance with national environmental and social legislation  
and achieve good environmental and social standards. During  
site visits, we provide advices and guidance on good practice  
and standards in this area, update the clients with regard to 
environmental, health and safety and labour issues and monitor 
compliance with the E&S legislation. In many cases of non-
compliance, our proper and timely management of the SME 
clients’ environmental and social risks facilitate avoidance of 
financial and legal sanctions during inspections conducted  
by the state enforcement agency. 
Mass retail. Energy efficiency consumer and mortgage loans  
were also provided to various groups of retail customers including 
households, drivers and others for energy conservation purposes. 
For example, the favourable terms of the instant energy instalment 
included the opportunity for a borrower to receive a 10% subsidy  
of a loan principle amount.
Affordable housing 
Currently, the Georgian real estate market is vulnerable to various 
economic and financial uncertainties. Numerous construction  
projects remain unfinished for long periods of time while there is a 
strong growing demand for housing from the Georgian population.  
In response to this increasing demand, the Group’s real estate 
development business, m
2
 Real Estate was established in order to 
offer affordable housing to the emerging middle class in Georgia, 
especially young families. Currently, m
2
 Real Estate has completed 
its second successful project for the development and sale of 
affordable residential apartments. 
Extensive geographic coverage
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 26
Resources and responsibilities continued Group’s total sponsorship and charity expenses increased by 154% in 2014.
2012 2013 2014
Total expenses for charity and sponsorship
(GEL) 
Sponsorship
Charity
2,018,571
531,593
374,580
486,795
694,589
978,178
Georgian society. Sponsorship and charity funds are channelled 
through the Tree of Life Foundation (formerly Bank of Georgia Future 
Foundation) that in its turn distributes funding via means of grants 
competitions thus assuring a transparent and fair way of financing.
Promoting and enhancing access to education. In 2014 the 
Bank established Bank of Georgia University, the main goal of 
which is to provide high-quality financial and business education to 
various groups of the population. The University welcomed its first 
intake of MBA in Finance students in Fall 2014. The cost of studies 
were in a large part subsidised by the Bank, GEL 91,210 in total, 
giving a possibility to the top 10 students to study free of charge 
while the next 20 can enjoy a 0% loan and start repaying it one 
year after graduation. Besides providing high-quality education, 
Bank of Georgia University offers its students hands-on experience 
by offering them a possibility to observe various business processes 
at the Group’s companies. 
In summer 2014 Bank of Georgia’s start-up incubator, Vegalab, 
started to operate. In total GEL 300,467 was spent on setting up 
and running the Lab which allows its incumbents to use a centrally 
located office and its facilities, training and mentoring free of charge. 
Authors (individuals and groups) of 11 business ideas were 
selected to join the incubator and are currently being reviewed  
for moving to the next stage – capital financing.
In 2013 the Bank became the first Georgian company to cooperate 
with one of the most prestigious scholarship programmes in the 
world, the Chevening scholarship, in order to provide Georgian 
students with an opportunity to pursue education in the UK. The 
Group provided GEL 152,710 in total to fund two students in 2014. 
The partnership with Chevening has been extended for the next 
year and the Group looking forward to selecting up to three 
students who will continue their Master’s studies in the UK. 
In 2014 the Bank signed a partnership agreement with the prestigious 
US Fulbright scholarship scheme. Thanks to Bank of Georgia’s 
contribution two students from Georgia will be able to enrol in a 
two-year Master’s degree programme at a US University in 2015.
For the past two years the Bank’s been supporting a Public 
Speaking competition organised by the English Speaking Union, 
Georgia. The competition allows top students who are in their 
senior year at a high school, or freshmen year at a University, to 
prepare a speech on a predetermined topic and present in front of 
a competent jury. The winner is granted a fully paid trip to London, 
to attend the global Public Speaking competition.
Conserving nature. Another priority of the Group’s charity 
activities is the preservation of wildlife diversity. Since 2010, the 
Bank has granted US$300,000 to the Caucasus Nature Fund 
(CNF) to cover the maintenance costs of Borjomi-Kharagauli 
National Park (BKNP), one of the most treasured national parks in 
Georgia. In 2014, the Bank donated GEL 176,173 and extended 
financing to include other protected areas as well (CNF is free to 
decide which protected area to support). 
Supporting children. In 2014 the Bank focused its efforts on 
supporting children with disabilities – one of the most vulnerable 
social groups in Georgia. The Bank donated GEL 643,849 to the  
Tree of Life Foundation which distributed the funds through two 
grants competitions for relevant NGOs. In order to qualify for the 
competitions, proposals had to focus on sustainable results and 
causing change in one of the following areas: providing education, 
or developing infrastructure for disabled children, fostering 
integration into the society. 
The Company uses an innovative approach to design and 
construction processes so that each square metre is distributed 
efficiently and fits customers’ needs and wishes. As few customers 
can afford to buy large flats with an area exceeding 100 square 
metres, the company continuously works to optimise the size  
of the apartments to meet the current demand of its customers  
without compromising the apartments’ convenience and usability. 
A large segment of the Group’s customers is represented by  
young Georgian families. We believe that by continuing to offer 
affordable housing products, we are helping to significantly 
enhance the quality of their lives.
Healthcare and health insurance
A network of medical centres and hospitals, “ JSC Medical Corporation 
EVEX” (EVEX) comprises the Group’s healthcare services business. 
EVEX covers more than 67% of the Georgian population, predominantly 
in Western Georgia. Its clinics are located across the country and 
provide access to high-quality medical services to the population 
including those living in remote mountain regions. The accessibility 
of medical services is ensured by scheduling regular visits by 
specialists to small towns and villages and by providing patients  
with transportation to larger clinics in urgent cases and in cases 
when more sophisticated treatment is required. 
EVEX also provides free regular medical examinations at various 
locations across the country including Batumi, Khulo, Keda, 
Shuakhevi, Poti, Kvareli, Telavi and others. In addition, EVEX 
specialists deliver free medical services, including examinations  
and treatments for socially and economically disadvantaged parts  
of the population. In cooperation with other healthcare institutions, 
EVEX arranges free blood transportation and donations for  
its patients.
The Group’s health insurance business is represented by Imedi L,  
which participated in the State insurance programme in 2014. 
Through this programme, it served more than 400,000 policyholders 
represented by people below the poverty level, the elderly, children 
below five years of age, students, teachers, and refugees.
Sponsorship and charity
Within its sponsorship and charity activities, the Group focuses on 
promoting and enhancing access to education, conserving nature 
and supporting children with disabilities. The Group’s Sponsorship 
and Charity Policy implies partnering with Foundations and NGOs  
to deliver sustainable results and bring about positive change.  
Our priority is to help solve a cause, not the symptom. The Group 
chose to focus on the three areas bearing utmost importance for 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 27 The Group’s total headcount increased by 14% in 2014.
2012 2013 2014
Total headcount by age category
Less than 20 years old
21-30 years old
31-40 years old
41-50 years old
Over 51 years old
120
3,900
2,853
2,289
2,549
54
3,412
2,820
2,212
2,597
141
4,623
3,365
2,308
2,958
One of the large-scale projects selected through the grants competition 
involved setting up rompers on all the main streets in Tbilisi. 
The Bank went further to involve its employees in the process.  
A programme named Tree of Life Ambassadors offered Bank 
employees up to GEL 2,000 grants each to carry out a project  
of their own in the field of supporting children with disabilities, 
caring for the environment or promoting education. In 2014 the 
Bank fully adapted its 14 key service centres in Tbilisi for the 
disabled, spending a total of GEL 155,541. Adapting the whole 
network is in the pipeline.
EVEX runs a wide range of charitable activities on a permanent 
basis for children with leukaemia. 
EVEX also regularly gifts personal computers to children  
from socially and economically disadvantaged large families. 
Additionally, on religious holidays we deliver presents to the 
new-borns across the EVEX’s patient network. 
Back in 2008, the Bank introduced the Orange Santa character  
as a part of the large-scale New Year campaign. The idea of the 
initiative called “Letter to Santa” was to give the Bank’s Facebook  
fans a chance to send their message to the real Santa. “Letter to 
Santa” was successful in 2014 as well, allowing up to 12 individuals 
representing socially vulnerable groups to fulfil their most  
cherished wishes.
Employee matters
A key factor to our success is a cohesive and professional  
team, capable of accomplishing the Group’s objectives. We  
are committed to attracting and identifying the best professionals, 
caring and planning for their needs, investing in their development 
and fostering their commitment.
The HR management system ensures that the Group attracts the 
best talent in order to guarantee the sustainable growth of our 
business. The system is managed in accordance with HR Policy 
and Procedures which include a wide range of supporting policies:
 
 – employee planning and recruiting;
 – staff administration;
 – compensation and benefits;
 – code of conduct;
 – employee development and training;
 – human rights;
 – grievance policy;
 – whistleblowing policy; and
 – retrenchment policy.
HR Policy and Procedures determine key principles, areas, 
approaches and methods that are crucial for building HR 
management systems for all our businesses. The Bank’s HR 
management department works closely with HR managers  
and executives from our subsidiaries in order to ensure proper 
implementation of the main principles and provision of necessary 
support in all HR-related matters.
We recognise the importance of observing human rights and  
are committed to implementing socially responsible business 
practices. Our Human Rights Policy establishes priorities and  
puts control procedures in place to provide equal opportunities  
and prevent any sort of discrimination or harassment.
In order to improve the working environment and effectively 
address grievances or other employee-related issues we  
conduct regular employee satisfaction surveys. Above all, 
employee feedback is used to improve our customer focus 
orientation and client servicing approach.
Total headcount per employee category broken down by gender 
2012 Directors Senior managers Employees Total
Female 7 48 7,773 7,828
Male 21 66 3,180 3,267
Total 28 114 10,953 11,095
2013 Directors Senior managers Employees Total
Female 6 53 8,448 8,507
Male 23 72 3,109 3,204
Total 29 125 11,557 11,711
2014 Directors Senior managers Employees Total
Female 7 57 9,722 9,786
Male 41 81 3,487 3,609
Total 48 138 13,209 13,395
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 28
Resources and responsibilities continued Talent attraction
Sustained development of the Group’s businesses requires the 
strengthening of the teams of our subsidiaries both by using the 
Group’s own significant internal resources through staff development 
and rotation, and by attracting external candidates. Our recruitment 
policy and relevant control procedures ensure an unbiased hiring 
process that provides equal opportunities for all candidates.
According to the HR Policy, internal candidates have priority  
when filling vacant positions, especially in situations where there 
are vacancies in top and middle management. Thus, in 2014,  
146 Group employees were promoted to managerial positions.
In order to attract young talent, we actively partner with leading 
Georgian business schools and universities, participate in job fairs  
and run extensive internship programmes aimed at the professional 
development of young professionals and their further employment.  
In 2012, Bank of Georgia established a new format for its traditional 
internship programme. It attracts promising graduates and provides 
them with the opportunity to participate in a major professional  
training and leadership development programme. Interns are directly 
coached by the Bank’s executives to help them on their path to 
gaining their first management positions in the near future. In 2014, the 
number of young professionals (under 30 years old) increased by 19% 
compared to 2013 and currently represents 36% of total headcount.
Training and development
To manage our employees in a way that best supports our business 
strategy, we seek to help our employees contribute to business 
performance through personal and professional development.
Following our aspiration to develop strong leaders, we have 
developed an extensive programme for leadership development. 
We provide a standard Induction Training course for employees 
appointed to managerial positions. This programme covers a wide 
range of topics including corporate values, strategy and objectives, 
organisational structure, HR management policies, history of the 
Group, and specific courses for development of communication, 
presentation, management and leadership skills, among others. 
Selected mid-level and senior-level employees are given the 
opportunity to receive external training in well-known training 
institutions outside of Georgia. 
The Group’s corporate learning system is comprised of a wide 
range of internal and external training sessions specifically 
designed to meet the needs of front and back office employees at 
the Group’s subsidiaries including banking, healthcare, insurance 
and real estate development. In 2014 Bank of Georgia launched a 
Leadership Development online programme for Senior Managers 
and some of our key employees. The programme is provided by  
a UK company and aims to support the individual development  
of participants’ leadership capabilities.
Each of the Group’s businesses has developed an extensive training 
programme for front office employees in order to provide them with 
relevant skills, such as effective communication and building strong 
and valued client relationships. For example, the Bank’s Mentoring 
programme is part of a front office training process. Every new 
employee is provided with regular advice, guidance and practical 
instructions from an appointed mentor who later participates in the 
new employee’s performance appraisal. Through this programme, 
we aim to provide individual support to our employees in achieving 
their professional results and improving their personal effectiveness.
EVEX (formerly MFC) provides additional training to its employees 
that work in the specialised field of healthcare. Following the 
Training-Of-Trainers programme for nurses in the Imereti region, 
launched in 2013, in January 2014 40 professional nurses began 
conducting training for personnel of EVEX’s hospital network in 
other regions. EVEX also established a unique training centre in  
the Kutaisi region that will enhance the professional knowledge  
and skills of local medical personnel. 
Occupational health and safety
Ensuring the safety of the workplace and providing healthy working 
conditions are among the Group’s fundamental HR management 
principles. The Group pays particular attention to preventive 
measures, such as conducting regular staff training and medical 
check-ups, certifying workplaces, and promoting a healthy lifestyle.
The Group’s real estate development business is associated with high 
health and safety risks for contractors on sites. In order to minimise 
such risks, m
2
 Real Estate established a Health and Safety Policy  
and management procedures ensuring implementation of the health 
and safety measures at all worksites. The policy contains a range  
of precautions that seek to prevent any accidents related to the 
Company’s contractors or injuries to community members, as well  
as property damage and incidents caused by equipment failure.
In order to enhance the awareness of employees and contractors 
regarding health and safety risks associated with the construction 
process the company conducts regular training and educational 
seminars. In 2014 and 2013, the number of health and safety training 
hours amounted to approximately 1,008 and 500 respectively.  
In addition, the Company publishes brochures and booklets with 
warnings and special rules to be followed when working on sites. 
Respective control procedures include quarterly audits by external 
health and safety consultants and internal monthly inspections  
of m
2
 Real Estate worksites. In addition, m
2
 Real Estate has a 
comprehensive reporting procedure for health and safety 
concerns. In 2014 and 2013, no work-related fatalities or injury 
incidents occurred at the Company’s construction sites.
With regard to emergency preparedness and response, m
2
 Real 
Estate established an Emergency Management Plan. It outlines 
possible scenarios during emergency situations and determines 
specific strategies for the Company’s employees, contractors  
and visitors on how to react when in a crisis situation. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 29 Environmental matters
The Group recognises that its operations have both an indirect  
and direct impact on the environment and therefore seeks to 
establish management approaches which will help it become  
a more environmentally friendly institution. Being the largest 
financial institution in Georgia, the Bank produces significant 
indirect environmental impact through the projects which it 
finances. In order to properly manage this impact, the Bank  
has implemented an Environmental and Social Policy and 
Environmental and Social Policy and Risk Management 
Procedures, as described in the “Social matters” section.
As for direct environmental impact, we believe that the impact  
of the banking and insurance businesses is not significant. 
Nevertheless, we undertake a number of measures to reduce 
electricity, paper, water, and fuel consumption. For example,  
in 2013 we upgraded our lighting system in the Bank’s 
headquarters by installing energy-saving bulbs and implemented 
KNX (EIB) System management, which not only helped us minimise 
our environmental impact but also reduced our energy costs by 
GEL 4,000 – GEL 5,000 per month. We implemented this system  
in all of the Bank’s branches during 2014. 
The Group is also in the process of automating its operational 
processes in order to reduce the volume of printed documents  
and consequently minimise the overall use of paper. The Bank 
continues to acquire new printers which offer double-sided  
printing by default.
We are considering replacing part of our car fleet, which runs  
on petrol, with electric vehicles.
We aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from  
our operations. Refer to the Directors’ Report for more detailed 
information on the issue.
The most significant direct impact on the environment within  
the Group is created by our real estate development business,  
m
2
 Real Estate. The Company addresses industry-specific 
environmental issues and undertakes appropriate measures  
to manage them. 
Focusing on enhancing resource efficiency of its apartment 
buildings, m
2
 Real Estate started two new development projects 
with financial support from IFC. The Company not only follows  
high environmental standards that IFC imposes on its borrowers 
but has also become a participant of the IFC-Canada Climate 
Change Program
1
 and thus meets all mandatory requirements  
of the programme regarding green building construction. Aiming  
at increasing the efficient use of energy, water and materials,  
m
2
 Real Estate installs energy efficient lighting systems and uses 
double glazed windows and other modern insulation materials  
thus reducing the U-value of constructed buildings to 0.21W/m
2
K.  
It is expected that utility costs for these buildings will be reduced 
up to 43% compared to an average residential building in Georgia.
In order to minimise the negative impact to the environment caused 
by the construction process, m
2
 Real Estate has adopted an 
Environmental and Social Management Plan which helps identify 
the environmental impacts of its activities and define measures to 
prevent them as outlined below.
Environmental  
aspect
Preventive  
measures
Dust – Introducing speed limits on unmade roads
 – Damping down using water bowsers with  
spray bars
 – Sheeting of construction materials and  
storage piles
 – Using defined moving routes and reductions  
in vehicle speed limits where required
Spills and leaks 
during refuelling
 – Installing a sealed drainage system at refuelling 
areas
 – Providing suitable tanks (e.g. double skinned), 
bunds and impermeable liners at fuel stores  
and refuelling points
 – Using drip trays for static plant (e.g. generators  
and pumps)
 – Training staff in refuelling and pump operations
 – Shortening the refuelling line as much as possible
 – Performing regular maintenance checks of hoses 
and valves
 – Conducting follow up procedures for proper and 
safe refuelling by operators
Air emissions  – Ensuring that new vehicles comply with the current 
European Union (EU) emissions standards at the 
time of purchase
 – Implementing a regular maintenance programme 
to ensure all new vehicles continue to comply with 
relevant EU emissions standards
 – Ensuring that older vehicles are maintained in  
order to eliminate extra emissions as much as 
reasonably practicable
 – Strictly enforcing speed limits in order to optimise 
fuel consumption and production of exhaust 
fumes, and minimise dust generation on  
unpaved surfaces.
Water 
contamination
 – Locating fuel stores and refuelling points further 
away from watercourses and aquifers
Fire – Providing a fire extinguisher adjacent to each  
item of mobile plant and equipment
Noise – Fitting effective silencers at all plant and 
machinery, and providing ear defenders  
and/or plugs on sites
 – No idling or revving of plant engines and  
all vehicles
 – Using controlled venting, silenced equipment  
and absorbing screens
 – Working at preferred times of day (daylight hours 
Monday to Saturday, otherwise communicated to 
the local community and authorities)
Vibration – Operating the equipment within the manufacturer 
specification limits and limiting any overuse
Depletion of the 
stratospheric 
ozone layer
 – Ensuring that no ozone depleting substances 
(ODS) such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and 
hydro-chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) or products 
with known global warming potential are used
1.  The IFC-Canada Climate Change Programme, established in 2011, is a partnership 
between the Government of Canada and IFC to promote private sector financing for  
clean energy projects, through the use of concessional funds to catalyse investments  
in renewable, low-carbon technologies that would not otherwise happen (www.ifc.org).
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 30
Resources and responsibilities continued m
2
 Real Estate is currently working on establishing management 
reporting systems on environmental aspects. We expect that 
environmental data will be available for the reporting year 2015.
EVEX’s direct environmental impact is mainly characterised by 
medical waste which needs special treatment and safe disposal. 
EVEX implemented procedures that are in line with the Georgian 
legislation which defines risk categories of medical waste and 
establishes appropriate procedures for its treatment, storage  
and disposal. EVEX strives to improve its efficiency and thus 
outsources medical waste management to a company specialising 
in medical waste disposal. The total amount of generated medical 
waste in 2014 amounted to 159 tonnes compared with 55 tonnes 
in 2013, an increase which correlated with the significant expansion 
of EVEX’s hospital network.
Total greenhouse gas emissions data for the period beginning 
1 January 2014 and ended 31 December 2014 (tonnes of CO
2
e) 
2012 2013 2014
Scope 1 (emissions from combustion  
of fuel and operation of facilities) 8,023 8,453 7,614
Scope 2 (emissions from electricity, 
heat, steam and cooling purchased  
for own use) 5,411 5,457 11,034
Scope 3 (emissions from air travel  
and land transportation) 2,163 2,165 3,822
Total greenhouse gas emissions 15,597 16,075 22,470
Total greenhouse gas emissions 
per FTE 1.41 1.37 1.68
 
Methodology
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under  
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013 (Scope 1 and 2) and additionally have reported 
on those emissions under Scope 3 that are applicable to our 
business. All reported sources fall within our consolidated financial 
statements which can be found on pages 106 to 191 of this Annual 
Report. We do not have responsibility for any emission sources 
that are not included in our consolidated financial statements. 
In preparing this emissions data, we have used the World Resources 
Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and emissions factors 
from the UK Government’s Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors  
for Company Reporting 2014.
The reported data is collected and reported for the boundaries  
of four of the Group’s main businesses:
 – Banking (represented by the Bank), which includes all  
of its offices and retail branches where the Bank has  
operational control.
 – Real estate development (represented by m
2
 Real Estate),  
which includes its offices and construction sites.
 – P&C insurance (represented by Aldagi), which includes  
all of its offices and retail branches where the company  
has operational control.
 – Georgia Healthcare Group (represented by Evex and ImediL), 
which includes its main office and hospitals where the  
company has operational control.
Scope 1 (combustion of fuel and operation of facilities) includes 
emissions from:
 – Combustion of natural gas, diesel and petrol in stationary 
equipment at owned and controlled sites.
 – Combustion of petrol, diesel and aviation fuel in owned 
transportation devices (cars and aeroplane).
Scope 2 (electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for  
own use) includes emissions from:
 – Used electricity at owned and controlled sites; to calculate  
the emissions, we used the conversion factor for Non-OECD 
Europe and Eurasia (average) conversion from the UK 
Government’s Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting 2014. 
 – Used heat and steam (only applies to one site of Imedi L).
Scope 3 includes emissions from:
 – Air business travel (short haul and long haul); information on  
the class of travel is unavailable hence we used an “average 
passenger” conversion factor.
 – Ground transportation, including taxis, coaches and car hire. 
Data on emissions resulting from travel is reported for business-
related travel only, and excludes commuting travel. Data from joint 
ventures, investments, or sub-leased properties have not been 
included within the reported figures. 
The data is provided by on-site delegates, invoices and  
meter readings. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 31 The table below describes the principal 
risks and uncertainties relating to the 
Group’s operations and their potential 
impact, as well the trend and outlook 
associated with these risks and the 
mitigating actions we take to address 
these risks.
It is not possible to mitigate fully all of our risks, and there may be 
other risks and uncertainties besides those listed below which may 
also adversely affect the Group and its performance. More details 
on risk management can be found on page 78 and in the following 
sections of this Annual Report: Risk Committee Report (pages 84 
and 85), Risk Management (pages 36 to 43) and Audit Committee 
Report (pages 79 to 83).
Understanding 
our risks
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation
We may be adversely affected by  
devaluation of the Lari in addition  
to general deterioration of global, 
regional and Georgian economic 
conditions.
Over the past six months, the Lari has 
depreciated against the US Dollar by  
nearly 25%. Although this devaluation  
has not adversely affected our business or 
performance to date, there is a risk that the 
devaluation that has occured and/or any 
future devaluation of the Lari against the  
US Dollar may adversely affect the quality  
of our loan portfolio, as our corporate loan 
book is heavily US Dollar denominated  
and many of our customers earn Lari.
We are also affected by other macroeconomic 
and market conditions globally, regionally and 
in Georgia. Growth has recently slowed in 
many emerging economies, including Georgia.  
In addition to currency exchange rates, other 
macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia, 
such as GDP , inflation and interest rates may 
have a material impact on loan losses, our 
margins and customer demand for our 
products and services.
Although the Lari has significantly 
depreciated against the US Dollar over 
the last six months, Lari depreciation 
against the Euro has been lower at 
approximately 5%. We expect that there 
may be further depreciation of the Lari 
but are unable to predict whether this 
will be significant.
Global and regional economic 
conditions remain volatile and there  
is significant economic uncertainty 
notwithstanding general improvement  
in the financial sector.
The IMF has predicted that GDP growth 
in the region is expected to decrease 
significantly in 2015. Although real GDP 
growth in Georgia was 4.8% in 2014, 
according to Geostat, we believe that 
real GDP growth in Georgia will be in  
the range of 1.5% to 3.0% due to the 
depreciation of the Lari against the  
US Dollar, declining net exports from 
Georgia to the region and weaker 
remittances. 
Despite the Lari depreciation, inflation  
is expected to remain relatively stable  
in 2015.
We continuously monitor market conditions 
and review market changes. We also  
perform stress and scenario testing to test 
our financial position in adverse economic 
conditions, which include Lari/US Dollar 
exchange rates of 2.5/1 and 2.7/1. 
We also establish limits on possible losses  
for each type of operation and monitor 
compliance with such limits.
Given our strong liquidity position, we believe 
that we will be able to manage risk related  
to our US Dollar denominated loan book by 
re-profiling such loans. We are also looking  
at ways to stimulate growth of our Euro 
denominated loan book.
In addition, the NBG requires banks to hold 
additional capital to mitigate potential risk 
associated with foreign currency loans to 
customers that earn Lari.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 32 Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation
Our loan book is heavily US Dollar 
denominated, the quality of which  
may deteriorate as a result of Lari 
devaluation.
As at 31 December 2014, approximately  
80% and 55% of our corporate loan book 
and retail loan book, respectively, was 
denominated in US Dollars, while US Dollar 
income covered approximately 50% of the  
total loan book. 
The quality of our loan book is affected  
by changes in the creditworthiness of our 
customers, the ability of our customers  
to repay their loans on time, the statutory 
priority of claims against customers, our  
ability to enforce our security interests on 
customers’ collateral and the value of such 
collateral should such customers fail to  
repay their loans, as well as factors beyond 
our control such as economic instability. 
Depreciation of the Lari against the US Dollar 
may result in customers having difficulty 
repaying their loans.
Our impairment charges and, in turn,  
our cost of credit risk, may increase if  
a single large borrower defaults or  
a material concentration of smaller  
borrowers default.
In 2014, we saw significant loan book 
growth of 23.8%, as a result of the 
success of our Express Banking strategy. 
Despite the devaluation of the Lari, 
non-performing loans only increased by 
6.0% during 2014. In 2014, the cost of  
our credit risk improved to 1.2% in 2014 
compared to 1.4% in 2013. 
In Q1 2015, we have not seen an increase  
in non-performing loans despite the 
devaluation of the Lari against the  
US Dollar.
Our loan book is collateralised and  
as at 31 December 2014, the value of 
collateral covered 88.1% of the gross  
loan book. In 2014 and the first quarter  
of 2015, there were no material changes  
to collateral values.
The quality of our loan book and our 
future cost of risk is dependent on 
macroeconomic conditions and may 
deteriorate if conditions worsen. 
Devaluation of the Lari against the  
US Dollar may cause our customers  
to face difficulty in meeting their  
payment obligations.
We have credit policies and procedures  
in place which incorporate prudent lending 
criteria aligned with our risk appetite to effectively 
manage risk. These policies and procedures are 
reviewed frequently and amended as necessary 
to account for changes in the economic 
environment or other factors. 
Our Credit Committees set counterparty limits by 
the use of a credit risk classification and scoring 
system and approve individual transactions. The 
credit quality review process is continuous and 
provides early identification of possible changes 
in the creditworthiness of customers, potential 
losses and corrective actions needed to  
reduce risk.
We also stress test our loan book to estimate  
the size of the portfolio that may be impaired.  
In light of the Lari to US Dollar devaluation, we  
will continue to stress test using Lari/US Dollar 
exchange rates of 2.5/1 and 2.7/1. We allocate 
75% more capital to the foreign currency loans  
of clients who earn income in Lari and discount 
real estate collateral values by 20% in our  
stress testing.
Given our strong liquidity position, we believe that 
we will be able to manage risk related to our US 
Dollar denominated loan book by re-profiling 
such loans. Potential re-profiling may include 
extending maturities and/or converting US Dollar 
denominated loans into Euro denominated loans.
We will also continue to expand our Lari and 
Euro denominated loan book in order to offset 
risk associated with our US Dollar denominated 
loan book.
The local economy and our business  
may be adversely affected by regional 
tensions.
Since Georgia’s independence from Russia  
in 1991, there have been ongoing disputes  
in the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and  
the Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia and  
with Russia. In 2008, Georgian troops engaged 
with local militias and Russian forces that 
crossed the international border. Although  
a ceasefire was signed in 2008, Russia 
continues to recognise the independence  
of the breakaway regions and its troops  
occupy these regions and relations between 
Russia and Georgia remain tense.
The annexation of Crimea by Russia in  
2014 has resulted in sanctions levied against 
Russia as well as social, political and military 
unrest between Russia and Ukraine, and  
has adversely affected the financial markets  
and economic stability of Russia and the 
neighbouring region.
In addition, relations between Azerbaijan and 
Armenia, remain tense, particularly in relation to 
the Nagorno-Karabakh region, and there are 
sporadic instances of violence between these 
two countries.
Despite tensions in the breakaway territories, 
Russia has opened its market to Georgian 
exports.
Over the past year, Russia and Ukraine’s 
relationship has continued to deteriorate. 
Although Russia and Ukraine signed a 
ceasefire agreement in February, fighting 
continues between pro-Russian rebels  
and the Ukrainian Army.
As a result, there is significant  
uncertainty as to if, how and when the 
conflict between Russia and Ukraine  
will be resolved.
Georgia has taken significant steps to reduce  
its dependence on Russia and Ukraine.
Georgia’s exports to Russia have decreased 
from 18.0% of total exports in 2006 to 9.9%  
of total exports in 2014. Georgia’s energy 
dependence on Russia has also consistently 
decreased y-o-y.
With the recent signing of the Deep and 
Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA)  
with the EU, we expect that Georgia’s 
dependence on its regional neighbours  
will continue to decrease.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation
We face regulatory risk.
Our businesses are highly regulated.
Our banking operations must comply with 
capital adequacy and other regulatory ratios 
set by our regulator, the NBG, including 
reserve requirements and mandatory  
financial ratios.
Our ability to comply with these regulations 
may be affected by a number of factors, 
including but not limited to increases in 
minimum capital adequacy ratios imposed  
by the NBG, our ability to raise capital,  
losses resulting from a deterioration in  
our asset quality, an increase in expenses 
and a decline in the values of our  
securities portfolio.
We also provide other regulated financial 
services and offer financing products, 
including brokerage and pension fund 
operations, insurance and services such as 
asset management, all of which are subject 
to governmental supervision and regulation. 
With respect to our healthcare operations, 
there have been a number of reforms in  
the Georgian healthcare services market, 
including but not limited to the introduction  
of a Universal Healthcare Programme (UHC). 
It is possible that the Government may 
amend the UHC to enhance coverage and it 
may introduce new licensing or accreditation 
requirements, which may adversely affect  
our healthcare services and health  
insurance businesses.
Our businesses are currently in 
compliance with all applicable laws  
and regulations.
Compliance with changes in capital 
adequacy requirements and other 
regulatory ratios may be affected by 
factors outside of our control, including 
but not limited to a weakening of the 
global and Georgian economies.
In October 2014, an anti-monopoly 
agency was established and anti-
monopoly legislation was implemented  
in respect of certain non-banking 
operations. We expect that such 
legislation may have an impact on our 
non-banking operations acquisitions as 
we will be required to seek permission to 
proceed with certain future acquisitions.
As healthcare legislation is continuously 
evolving, we expect that additional 
regulations will be adopted. We, however, 
cannot predict what additional regulatory 
changes will be introduced in the future  
or their effect.
Continued investment in our people and 
processes is enabling us to meet our 
regulatory requirements and places us  
well to respond to changes in regulation.
In line with our integrated control framework, 
we carefully evaluate the impact of legislative 
and regulatory changes as part of our formal 
risk identification and assessment processes 
and, to the extent possible, proactively 
participate in the drafting of relevant 
legislation. As part of this process, we engage 
in constructive dialogue with regulatory 
bodies, where possible, and seek external 
advice on potential changes to legislation.  
We then develop appropriate policies, 
procedures and controls as required to  
fulfil our compliance obligations.
Our compliance framework, at all levels, is 
subject to regular review by internal audit  
and external assurance providers.
We face operational risks.
We are subject to the risk of incurring  
losses or undue costs due to inadequacies  
or failure of internal control processes or 
systems or human error, business disruptions, 
criminal activities (including fraud and 
electronic crimes), unauthorised transactions, 
robbery and damage to assets. We are  
highly dependent on our information 
technology systems. The proper functioning  
of our systems, controls, risk management, 
accounting, customer service and other 
information technology systems, are  
critical to our operations.
Over the past few years, we have seen  
an increase in external fraud, although 
losses from such frauds have not 
increased significantly.
In 2015, we expect that data security, 
particularly an increasing number of 
cyber-threats, will be the greatest  
concern in respect of operational risk.
We have an integrated control framework 
encompassing operational risk management 
and control, AML compliance, corporate and 
information security and physical security, 
each of which is managed by a separate 
department. We identify and assess 
operational risk categories within our 
processes and operations, detecting critical 
risk areas or groups of operations with an 
increased risk level and seek to implement 
appropriate preventative tools.
Our internal audit function provides assurance 
on the adequacy and effectiveness of our 
internal controls. The work of the Audit 
Committee in reviewing our internal control 
system is set out on pages 79 to 83 of this  
Annual Report.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 34 Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation
We face risks related to our healthcare 
business, GHG, and other non-banking 
investment businesses.
Over the past year, we have significantly 
expanded our healthcare operations through 
GHG and intend to continue with this 
expansion by opening new healthcare 
facilities, and through the acquisition of 
additional healthcare facilities in Georgia. 
There is a risk that GHG may be unable to 
efficiently integrate the acquired hospitals  
and clinics and/or may not be able to realise 
the anticipated cost savings, benefits, 
synergies and revenue enhancements  
from the acquisitions.
We have recently acquired a minority  
interest in Georgia Global Utilities, a water 
utility company. As this is a new business 
area for the Group, we face risks associated 
with water utility companies. 
We have stated that as part of our strategy 
we intend to divest our investment businesses 
(in full or partially) within six years. We have 
announced our intention to IPO our healthcare 
business through a planned stock market 
listing in 2015. It may not be possible, or 
desirable, to IPO our healthcare business due 
to a number of factors, including supportive 
equity issuance markets, the ability to achieve 
favourable terms for the IPO and/or the 
political and economic environment. With 
respect to future divestments by way of a 
stock market listing or trade sale, similar  
risks may be present.
From 2011 to 2013, we added over  
800 beds through acquisitions and 
successfully integrated the acquired 
businesses, achieving significant cost 
savings, synergies and revenue 
enhancements from these acquisitions.  
In 2014, we added an additional 790  
beds through acquisitions and either  
have or are in the process of completing 
the integration process. We expect  
to achieve the anticipated synergies 
during 2015.
Businesses within the Group have 
successfully accessed the international 
capital markets since 2006. With respect 
to current capital markets conditions, 
although there is a strong level of 
preparatory activity by companies  
across Europe who are planning an  
IPO, the success of an IPO is very  
much linked to global and regional 
macroeconomic and political events, 
among other factors.
GHG has a solid track record of acquisitions. 
Led by a highly experienced management 
team, GHG has successfully acquired and 
integrated more than 20 companies in the 
hospital and insurance sectors over the past 
decade. We have a dedicated integration 
team comprising of highly experienced 
professionals with extensive integration 
project experience. The integration team 
meets at least weekly to discuss all aspects 
of the integration process, including but not 
limited to financial, commercial, clinical, 
human resources and legal matters.
With respect to our minority interest in GGU, 
Mr Gilauri has recently joined the Supervisory 
Board and we have been able to select  
strong Group executives to join the GGU 
management team allowing us to learn the 
business from the inside. We are also seeking 
advice from experienced global professionals 
in the industry.
With respect to the GHG IPO, we are 
targeting an IPO in 2015. However, if GHG 
decides to postpone the IPO due to market 
related or other reasons, we are confident 
that the Group’s current funding levels are 
sufficient to meet our business plan and the 
financial position would not be adversely 
affected. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 35 Managing risk 
effectively
Risk management
The following discussion may not contain 
all the information that is important to 
readers of this Annual Report. A discussion 
of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control framework can be found  
on page 78. The Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties are outlined on pages 32 to 
35. The Risk Committee Report and the 
Audit Committee Report can be found on 
pages 79 to 85. In addition, Note 30 of the 
accompanying consolidated financial 
statements provides additional detail 
regarding risk management procedures.
Overview 
The BGH Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk 
management and internal control framework. 
Our approach to risk is founded on a strong risk management 
culture. Managing risk is engrained in our everyday business 
activities. We seek to create an environment where there is 
openness and transparency in how we make decisions and 
manage risks and where business managers own the risks and  
risk management processes associated with their activities. 
The BGH Board determines the Group’s risk appetite and monitors 
risk exposures to ensure that the nature and extent of principal risks 
are aligned with the Group’s overall goals and strategic objectives. 
The BGH Board has adopted formal policies and procedures which 
set out the system through which risks are identified, assessed, 
quantified, managed and monitored. Clearly delegated authority 
levels and reporting lines have been established and comprehensive 
reporting forms an integral part of our framework. 
The BGH Risk Committee and BGH Audit Committee support the 
BGH Board in overseeing the risk management framework, the 
internal control infrastructure, monitoring risk exposures and reviewing 
the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems. 
The role of the Bank in the overall risk  
management structure
Management of risk is fundamental to the banking business and is an 
essential element of the Group’s operations. The main risks inherent in 
the Bank’s operations are credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk (including 
currency and foreign exchange rate risks), operational risk and legal risk. 
The following is a description of the Bank’s risk management policies 
and procedures in respect to those risks. Business risks such as 
changes in the environment, technology and industry are monitored 
through the Group’s strategic planning process.
The Bank’s risk management system is based on the principle of 
continually assessing risk throughout the life of any operation and 
includes such stages as:
 – risk identification;
 – quality and quantity assessment of a particular risk;
 – determination of an acceptable risk level;
 – placement of authority limits and creation of reserves;
 – use of collateral;
 – ongoing monitoring and control allowing efficient adjustments  
in case of any negative changes in the conditions on which  
the preliminary risk assessment was made; and
 – analysis of efficiency of the risk management system.
Risk management structure
The Bank conducts its risk management activities within the 
framework of its unified risk management system. 
Risk management bodies
The principal risk management bodies of the Bank are the: 
Supervisory Board, Audit Committee, Risk Committee, 
Management Board, Internal Audit and Compliance departments, 
Treasury, Credit Committees, Asset and Liability Management 
Committee (the ALCO) and Bank’s Legal Department.
Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is responsible for  
the Bank’s risk philosophy and appetite, overall risk management 
approach and for approving risk strategies and principles and is 
ultimately responsible for identifying and controlling risks. 
The Supervisory Board approves the Bank’s Credit Policies,  
which outline credit risk control and monitoring procedures and  
the Bank’s credit risk management systems and approves certain 
decisions which fall outside the scope of the respective authorities 
of the Credit Committees and/or Management Board (including 
approvals of single-borrower lending exposure exceeding  
US$25.0 million). The Bank Management Board presents a 
comprehensive credit risk report and market risk report to the 
Bank Supervisory Board for their review on a quarterly basis.
Risk Committee. Since 1 January 2014, the Risk Committee has the 
overall responsibility for advising the Supervisory Board on the Bank’s 
overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy taking into account the 
current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment. 
The Risk Committee oversees the risk exposures of the Bank and 
advises the Supervisory Board on risk strategy. The Risk Committee 
reviews regularly and approves the parameters used by the Bank to 
assess risk and the adopted methodology and reviews the Bank’s 
capability to identify and manage new risk types. The Risk Committee 
also sets a standard for the accurate and timely monitoring of large 
exposures and certain risk types of critical importance, including, but 
not limited to credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee has overall responsibility 
for implementing principles, frameworks, policies and limits in 
accordance with the Bank’s risk management strategy related to 
the general control environment, manual and application controls, 
risks of intentional or unintentional misstatements, risk of fraud or 
misappropriation of assets, information security, anti-money 
laundering, information technology risks, etc. The Bank Audit 
Committee facilitates the activities of the internal audit and external 
auditors of the Bank. The Bank Audit Committee is elected and 
directly monitored by the Bank Supervisory Board.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 36 Legal Anti-Money 
Laundering
Treasury Operational Risk 
Management
Audit Committee
Supervisory Board 
of Bank of Georgia
Internal Audit
Risk Committee*
Credit 
Committees
Management 
Board
Asset and Liabilities 
Management  
Committee (ALCO)
Quantitative Risk 
Management and 
Risk Analytics
Credit Risk 
Management
Risk management bodies of Bank of Georgia
* As of 1 January 2014.
Management Board. The Management Board has overall 
responsibility for the Bank’s asset, liability and risk management 
activities, policies and procedures. In order to effectively implement 
the risk management system, the Management Board delegates 
individual risk management functions to each of the various 
decision-making and execution bodies within the Bank.
Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit Department is 
responsible for the annual audit of the Bank’s risk management, 
internal control and corporate governance processes, with the aim 
of reducing the levels of operational and other risks, auditing the 
Bank’s internal control systems, and detecting any infringements  
or errors on the part of the Bank’s departments and divisions. It 
examines both the adequacy of and the Bank’s compliance with 
those procedures. The Bank Internal Audit Department discusses 
the results of all assessments with management, and reports its 
findings and recommendations to the Bank Audit Committee.
The Bank Internal Audit Department is independent of the Bank 
Management Board. The Head of the Bank Internal Audit Department 
is appointed by the Bank Supervisory Board and reports directly to 
the Bank Audit Committee. The Bank Internal Audit Department has 
13 employees. The Bank’s Internal Audit Department audits all of the 
Bank’s subsidiaries, apart from BNB and Medical Corporation EVEX 
which have their own internal audit departments.
As part of its auditing procedures, the Bank Internal Audit 
Department is responsible for the following:
 – identifying and assessing potential risks regarding the Bank’s 
operations;
 – reviewing the adequacy of the existing controls established  
in order to ensure compliance with the Bank’s policies, plans, 
procedures and business objectives, as well as to current 
legislation and regulation and professional norms and ethics;
 – developing internal auditing standards and methodologies;
 – carrying out planned and random inspections of the Bank’s 
branches and subdivisions and auditing its subsidiaries;
 – analysing the quality of the Bank’s products;
 – reviewing the reliability of the Bank’s information technology 
systems in accordance with a predetermined schedule;
 – assessing the reliability and security of financial information;
 – monitoring the Bank’s internal controls and reporting 
procedures;
 – participating in external audits and inspections by the NBG;
 – making recommendations to management and the Audit 
Committee on the basis of external and internal audits to 
improve internal controls;
 – monitoring the compliance of the Bank with the NBG 
regulations; and
 – monitoring the implementation of auditors’ recommendations.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 37 Risk management continued
The third tier Micro and SME Credit Committee approves loans 
resulting in the Bank’s overall exposure to a borrower in the range  
of US$100,000 to US$1,200,000. The committee is chaired by  
the Risk Manager, with mandatory participation from either the  
Head of the Credit Risk Analysis Unit or the Head of the Credit  
Risk Management Department (or his or her deputy) for exposures 
exceeding US$500,000. 
Recovery Committees. The Problem Assets Committee is 
chaired by one of the following: (1) the heads of the Problem Loan 
Management Department; (2) the heads of the Risk departments, 
of which there are two; (3) the Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer); or 
(4) the Chief Executive Officer, depending on the level of exposure. 
The Problem Loan Recovery Department manages the Bank’s 
exposures to problem loans and reports to the Deputy CEO (Chief 
Legal Officer). The Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer) also chairs the 
committee which oversees loans which are the subject of litigation.
The Corporate Recovery Committee is chaired by the Deputy  
CEO (Chief Risk Officer) and is responsible for monitoring all  
of the Bank’s exposures to loans that are being managed by  
the Corporate Recovery Department. The Corporate Recovery 
Department reports to the Deputy CEO (Corporate Banking).
Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO). The  
ALCO is the core risk management body that establishes policies  
and guidelines with respect to capital adequacy, market risks and 
respective limits, funding liquidity risk and respective limits, interest 
rate and prepayment risks and respective limits, money market 
general terms and credit exposure limits, designs and implements 
respective risk management and stress testing models in practice  
 and regularly monitors compliance with the pre-set risk limits, and 
approves treasury deals with non-standard terms. Specifically, ALCO:
 – sets money-market credit exposure/lending limits; 
 – sets open currency position limits with respect to overnight  
and intraday positions; 
 – establishes stop-loss limits for foreign currency operations  
and securities;
 – monitors compliance with the established risk management 
models for foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding 
liquidity risk;
 – sets ranges of interest rates for different maturities at which  
the Bank may place its liquid assets and attracts funding; and
 – reviews different stress tests and capital adequacy models 
prepared by the Finance Department. 
The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and sits at any time deemed 
necessary, with decisions made by a majority vote of its members. 
ALCO members include the CEO, Deputy CEO Finance, Deputy CEO, 
Chief Risk Officer, Deputy CEO Corporate Banking, Deputy CEO, 
Retail Banking, Deputy CEO, Investment Management, the Head of 
the Finance Department, the Head of the Treasury Department and 
the Head of the Funding Department. The ALCO reviews financial 
reports and indices including the Bank’s limits/ratios, balance sheet, 
statement of operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, currency gap, 
foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding liquidity risk 
reports, total cash flow analyses, customer cash flow analysis, and 
concentration risk analysis, for the past periods as well as future 
projections and forecasts, other financial analysis and further growth 
projections on a monthly basis.
Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia are set by NBG and  
are applied to the Bank, on a stand-alone basis. NBG requires the 
Bank to maintain a minimum Total Capital Adequacy ratio of 12% of 
risk-weighted assets and a minimum Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio 
of 8% of risk-weighted assets, both computed based on the Bank’s 
stand-alone special purpose financial statements prepared in 
accordance with NBG regulations and pronouncements. On  
30 June 2014, the NBG introduced new regulation aimed at 
Treasury. Treasury is responsible for managing the Bank’s  
assets and liabilities and its overall financial structure and is  
also primarily responsible for managing funding and liquidity  
risks of the Bank.
Credit Committees. The Bank has three credit committees 
(together, the Credit Committees), each one supervising and  
managing the Bank’s credit risks in respect of retail and investment 
management loans, corporate loans and counterparty loans. These 
three committees are: the Reail Banking Committee, the Corporate 
Banking Credit Committee and the Financial and Governmental 
Counterparty Risk management Committee (FGCRMC), established 
in April 2014. The purpose of FGCRMC is to manage, monitor and 
control counterparty risk of financial and governmental counterparties 
of Bank of Georgia. Each Credit Committee approves individual  
loan transactions. 
Each Credit Committee is comprised of tiers of subcommittees. The 
FGCRMC comprises two tiers of subcommittees. Committee consists 
of five members – Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head  
of Quantitative Risk Management, Head of Treasury, Head of Trade 
Finance, and a majority of votes is enough for approval. If the potential 
exposure exceeds $10,000,000, then the decision is deferred to the 
Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO). The Credit Committee for retail 
loans comprises four tiers of subcommittees. (For risk management 
purposes, investment management loans are classified as retail loans.) 
The Credit Committee for corporate loans comprises three tiers of 
subcommittees. Participation of the CEO is required for exposures 
exceeding US$8.0 million. All exposures to single group borrowers 
over US$25.0 million require approval by the Supervisory Board. The 
first and second tier subcommittees of each of the Credit Committees 
meet on an as-needed basis, typically two to three times per week. 
Each of the subcommittees of the Credit Committees makes its 
decisions by a majority vote of its respective members.
Credit Committee tiers of subcommittees for Retail  
and Corporate Banking loans
Subcommittee Chair
Approval limit for Corporate 
Banking loans (USD)
Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant 
Credit Risk Management
Less than US$500,000 for 
existing and new borrowers
Tier II Head of the Credit Risk  
Analysis unit
Between US$500,000 and 
US$1.5 million for existing 
and new borrowers
Tier III CEO/CRO Greater than US$1.5 million for 
existing and new borrowers
Subcommittee Chair
Approval limit for Retail 
Banking loans (USD)
Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant 
Credit Risk Management
Less than US$150,000
Tier II Deputy Head of Credit Risk 
Management department
Between US$150,000 and 
US$300,000 for retail loans
Tier III Director of the Credit Risk 
Management department
Between US$300,000  
and US$2.0 million
Tier IV CEO/CRO Greater than US$2.0 million
Furthermore, the Credit Committee for Micro and SME loans 
comprises three tiers of subcommittees, and falls under the Credit 
Committee for retail loans. The first tier Micro and SME Credit 
Committee is chaired by the head of the group of the Micro and SME 
Lending Department and approves loans resulting in the Bank’s 
overall exposure to a borrower of up to US$15,000. A loan officer,  
who submits a loan application/project to the Credit Committee, does 
not have right to vote for the approval of the loan. The second tier 
Micro and SME Credit Committee is chaired by the Micro and SME 
Department representative (head of the Micro and SME Department, 
deputy head of department, coordinator) and approves loans resulting 
in the Bank’s overall exposure to a borrower up to US$100,000.  
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 38 Bodies implementing risk management system
The Bank’s risk management system is implemented by the Finance 
Department, Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics 
Department, Treasury, Credit Risk Management, Operational Risk 
Management and Control, Legal, AML Compliance and Security 
departments and other departments. The Reporting and Analysis 
Unit reports to the Head of the Finance Department. The Finance 
Department and the Treasury Department report to the Deputy  
CEO (Finance). The Credit Risk Management (CB Portfolio Analysis), 
Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department  
and Operational Risk Management and Control departments  
report to the Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer) and the Credit Risk 
Management (Retail Banking Portfolio Analysis) Department reports 
to the Deputy CEO (Retail Banking). The Legal Department, AML 
Compliance Department and Problem Loan Recovery Department 
report to the Deputy CEO (Legal).
The Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department, 
in coordination with the Treasury, implements the Bank’s market 
risk policies by ensuring compliance with established open 
currency position limits, counterparty limits, VAR limits on possible 
losses and the interest rate policy set by the ALCO.
The Treasury Department manages foreign currency exchange, money 
market, securities portfolio and derivatives operations and monitors 
compliance with the limits set by the ALCO for these operations. The 
Treasury Department is also responsible for management of short-term 
liquidity and treasury cash flow and monitors the volumes of cash in the 
Bank’s ATMs and at its service centres.
The Credit Risk Management department manages credit risks 
with respect to particular borrowers and assesses overall loan 
portfolio risks. It is responsible for ensuring compliance with the 
Bank’s Credit Policies, management of the quality of the Bank’s 
loan portfolio and filing and loan administration.
The Operational Risk Management and Control Department 
identifies and assesses operational risk categories within the 
Bank’s processes and operations. It also detects critical risk areas 
or groups of operations with an increased risk level and develops 
internal control procedures to address these risks, through (among 
other things) business-process optimisation schemes, including 
document circulation, information streams, distribution of functions, 
permissions and responsibility.
The Legal Department monitors all changes in relevant laws and 
regulations, and ensures that those changes are properly reflected 
in the Bank’s procedures, instructions, manuals, templates and 
other relevant documentation. It also disseminates information on 
legislative changes to all relevant departments within the Bank. The 
Legal Department also participates in drafting laws and regulatory 
documents upon request of legislators and regulators, certain 
associations and other professional bodies. 
The Tax Compliance Unit of the Finance Department focuses on 
the Bank’s relationship with the tax authorities and provides 
practical advice and monitors tax compliance across the Group.
Each of the foregoing departments is provided with policies and/or 
manuals that are approved by the Bank Management Board and/or 
the Bank Supervisory Board (as required). The manuals and 
policies include comprehensive guidance for each stage of a 
transaction, including, but not limited to, manuals outlining asset 
and liability management policies, foreign exchange operations 
procedures, fixed income investment guidelines, Retail Banking 
operations procedures, the deposit policy and the Credit Policies.
replacing its old regulation, which was developed independently 
from international committees and organisations and was not 
based on Basel Accord. The new capital regulation is based on the 
Basel Accord 2/3, with material regulatory discretions applied by 
the NBG. Pillar 1 requirements of the new regulation came into 
force on 30 June 2014. The period starting 30 June 2014 through 
31 December 2017 was declared as a transition period. During the 
transition period the Bank will be required to comply with both old 
and new capital regulations of the NBG. Pillar II of the Basel Accord 
2/3, which entails implementation of the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Process (ICAAP), is expected to be introduced in 2015. The old 
regulation will be completely phased out by 1st January 2018.
ALCO is the key governing body for the capital adequacy management 
as well as for the respective risks identification and management. ALCO 
establishes limits and reviews actual performance over those limits for 
both NBG as well as Basel I capital adequacy regulations. The Finance 
Department is in charge of regular monthly monitoring and reporting 
over NBG and Basel I capital adequacy compliance with original 
pronouncements as well as with ALCO policies. Capital adequacy 
management is an integral part of the Bank’s actual monthly reporting 
as well as the Bank’s annual and semi-annual budget approval and 
budget review processes. The Finance Department prepares NBG  
and Basel I and Basel II – III capital adequacy actual reports as well as 
their forecasts and budgets, as well as different stress scenarios for 
both regulations, while ALCO and the Management Board regularly 
review them, identify risks, issue recommendations or propose 
amendment measures. 
Legal Department. The Legal Department’s principal purposes  
are to ensure that the Bank’s activities conform to applicable 
legislation and to minimise losses from the materialisation of legal 
risks. The Legal Department is responsible for the application  
and development of mechanisms for identifying legal risks in the 
Bank’s activities in a timely manner, the investigation of the Bank’s 
activities in order to identify any legal risks, the planning and 
implementation of all necessary actions for the elimination of 
identified legal risks, participation in legal proceedings on behalf  
of the Bank where necessary and the investigation of possibilities 
for increasing the effectiveness of the Bank’s legal documentation 
and its implementation in the Bank’s daily activities. The Legal 
Department is also responsible for providing legal support to 
structural units of the Bank and/or its subsidiaries.
Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Compliance. The Bank’s AML 
Compliance Department is responsible for the implementation of 
the Bank’s AML programme (including the development of AML 
policies and procedures, transaction monitoring and reporting and 
employee training) throughout the Bank and its subsidiaries. The 
AML programme is based on recommendations and requirements 
of international organisations including FATF and OFAC, as well as 
local regulations. The Bank’s Internal Audit Department makes 
annual assessments of the Bank’s AML systems and provides 
independent assurance of internal controls. 
The Bank has adopted risk-based approach in its policies and 
procedures aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorist 
financing, including a general anti-money laundering policy and rules 
on counteracting money laundering and financing of individuals and 
legal entities engaged in terrorist activities, as well as procedures for 
reporting to the Financial Monitoring Service of Georgia (FMS), a 
legal entity of public law. The Bank’s risk-based approach means 
that it applies enhanced due diligence procedures if it determines 
that there is a significant risk that particular customers are engaged 
in money laundering or financing terrorism. 
The Bank is obliged to notify the FMS of all transactions that are 
subject to monitoring. These reports are currently filed in electronic 
form in an offline mode by the AML Compliance Department, the 
reporting process is fully automated, and is supported by the 
special software application.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 39 The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce its credit risks.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risks, the Bank 
focuses on maintaining a diversified portfolio. Concentrations  
arise when a number of counterparties, or related shareholders, 
are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same 
geographic region, or have similar economic features that would 
cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly 
affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. 
Concentrations also involve combined, aggregate exposures  
of large and significant credits compared to total outstanding 
balance of the respective financial instrument. Concentrations 
indicate the relative sensitivity of the Bank’s performance to 
developments affecting a particular industry or geographical 
location. Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled  
and managed accordingly.
Credit risk 
Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a borrower or counterparty 
will be unable to pay amounts in full or in part when due. Credit  
risk arises mainly in the context of the Bank’s lending activities. 
Mitigation: The general principles of the Bank’s credit policy are 
outlined in the Credit Policies. The Credit Policies also outline credit 
risk control and monitoring procedures and the Bank’s credit risk 
management systems. The Credit Policies are reviewed annually  
or more frequently if necessary. As a result of these reviews, new 
procedures addressing the standards and methodology for loan  
loss provisioning pursuant to IFRS requirements were implemented, 
new loan restructuring tools were introduced and the loan terms 
were tightened. The Bank also uses the NBG’s provisioning 
methodology in order to comply with NBG requirements.
The Bank manages its credit risk by placing limits on the amount  
of risk accepted with respect to individual corporate borrowers or 
groups of related borrowers, liability of insurance companies, types 
of banking operations and by complying with the exposure limits 
established by the NBG. The Bank monitors the market value of 
collateral, requests additional collateral in accordance with the 
underlying agreement, and monitors the market value of collateral 
obtained during its review of the adequacy of the allowance for the 
loan impairment. The Bank also mitigates its credit risk by obtaining 
collateral and using other security arrangements. The exposure  
to financial institutions is managed by limits covering on and 
off-balance sheet exposures and by settlement limits with respect 
to trading transactions such as foreign exchange contracts, etc.
The Credit Committees approve individual transactions and  
Credit Risk Management Department establish their credit risk 
categories and provisioning rates. The Deputy CEO (Chief Risk 
Officer) and Credit Risk Management Department reviews the 
credit quality of the portfolio and sets provisioning rates, in 
consultation with the Bank’s CEO and Deputy CEO (Finance),  
on a monthly basis.
The Bank’s credit quality review process provides early 
identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness  
of counterparties, including regulator collateral revisions. 
Counterparty limits are established by the use of a credit risk 
classification system, which assigns each counterparty a risk 
rating. Risk ratings are subject to regular revision. The credit  
quality review process allows the Bank to assess the potential  
loss as a result of the risks to which it is exposed and take 
corrective action. 
Risk measurement and reporting
The Bank measures risk using a method which reflects both  
the expected loss likely to arise in normal circumstances and 
unexpected losses, which are an estimate of the ultimate actual 
loss based on different forecasting models. These models use 
probabilities derived from historical experience, adjusted from  
time to time to reflect the economic environment. The Bank  
also runs worst case scenarios that could arise in the event  
that extreme events, however unlikely, do, in fact, occur.
Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily performed based on 
limits established by the Bank. These limits reflect the business 
strategy and market environment of the Bank as well as the level  
of risk that it is willing to accept, with additional emphasis on 
selected industries. The Bank also conducts ongoing monitoring 
and control, allowing efficient adjustments in case of any 
unexpected changes in the conditions on which the preliminary  
risk assessment was made. In addition the Bank monitors and 
measures the overall risk bearing capacity in relation to the 
aggregate risk exposure across all risk types and activities. 
The Group maintains a management reporting system which 
requires the Credit Risk Management, Finance and Funding 
departments to prepare certain reports on a daily and monthly 
basis. On a daily basis, a statement of operations, balance sheet 
and treasury report (which includes the Bank’s open foreign 
exchange positions, cash flows, limits and balances on NOSTRO 
and LORO correspondent accounts) and confirmation that there 
has been compliance with mandatory financial ratios must be 
provided by each department. On a monthly basis, a report on  
the structural liquidity gap, a report on interest rate risk, monthly 
financial statements, and a Bank Supervisory Board quarterly 
report containing analysis of the Bank’s performance against  
its budget are provided.
Information compiled from all the businesses is examined  
and processed in order to analyse, control and identify early  
risks. This information is presented and explained to the 
Management Board, and the head of each business division.  
The report includes aggregate credit exposure, liquidity ratios  
and risk profile changes. Senior management assesses the 
appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly 
basis. The Bank Management Board and Supervisory Board 
receive a comprehensive risk report once a quarter which is 
designed to provide all the necessary information to assess  
and draw conclusions on the Bank’s risk exposure.
Specifically tailored risk reports are prepared and distributed  
for all levels throughout the Bank in order to ensure that all 
business divisions have access to extensive, relevant and  
up-to-date information. A daily briefing is given to the Bank 
Management Board and all other relevant employees of the  
Bank on the utilisation of market limits, proprietary investments  
and liquidity, plus any other risk developments.
Risk mitigation and excessive risk concentration
As part of its overall risk management, the Bank uses derivatives 
and other instruments to manage exposures resulting from 
changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit risks,  
and exposures arising from forward transactions. While these 
derivatives are intended for hedging, they do not qualify for  
hedge accounting. 
Risk management continued
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 40 overdue. If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss 
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed by an adjusted provision 
account. The determination of provisions for impairment losses is 
based on an analysis of the assets at risk and reflects the amount 
which, in the judgement of the Bank’s management, is adequate to 
provide for losses incurred. Provisions are made as a result of an 
individual appraisal of financial assets.
Provisions are made against gross loan amounts and  
accrued interest. Under the Bank’s internal loan loss allowance 
methodology, which is based upon IFRS requirements, the Bank 
categorises its loan portfolio into significant and non-significant 
loans. Significant loans are defined as loans in the amount of 
US$150,000 or more and non-significant loans are defined as 
loans less than US$150,000. The Credit Risk Management 
Department makes an individual assessment of all defaulted 
significant loans. Non-defaulted significant loans are given a 
collective assessment rate. All loans are divided into different 
groups (for example mortgage, consumer, microfinancing loans).
Change in loan loss provisioning methodology.
As of 1 January 2014, the Bank introduced a new loan loss 
provisioning methodology. The new provisioning methodology  
is based on statistical assessment of Probability of Default (PD)  
and Loss Given Default (LGD) for each of the loan type. The 
management believes that the new methodology is a refinement  
of the existing methodology and will allow better allocation of  
Cost of Risk between different products. The new methodology 
was developed in consultation with Deloitte. Deloitte was  
a provider of IT solution – fineVare.
Additionally, management considers this to be a change in 
significant accounting estimate. The new methodology is more 
granular than the previous methodology and introduces additional 
statistical analysis for determining the inputs. As at 1 January  
2014 the Bank’s allowance for loan impairment under the new 
methodology was GEL 114,552,000 a difference of GEL 3,843,000  
as compared to the allowance for loan impairment if calculated 
based on the previous methodology (which represents less than 
2.5% of the allowance). The allowance for loan impairment under 
the previous methodology would have been GEL 118,395,000  
as at 1 January 2014. After 1 January 2014 it was impracticable  
for management to continue to estimate the allowance for loan 
impairment under the old methodology. 
The Bank has conservative credit approval 
processes and underwriting criteria, all of which 
are intended to maintain the quality of its assets  
as its loan portfolio grows.
Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain other Georgian banks 
and with the Credit information Group, a provider of Credit 
information solutions, established JSC Credit Information Georgia 
(CIG) that serves a centralised credit bureau in Georgia. Since 
2009, all the participating banks share and contribute positive  
and negative customer credit information with CIG.
The Bank makes available to its customers guarantees/letters of 
credit which may require that the Bank make payments on their 
behalf. Such payments are collected from customers based on the 
terms of the guarantee/letter of credit. They expose the Bank to 
similar risks to loans and these are mitigated by the same control 
processes and policies. 
Loan approval procedures
The procedures for approving loans, monitoring loan quality  
and for extending, refinancing and/or restructuring existing loans 
are set out in the Bank’s Credit Policies that are approved by the 
Supervisory Board of the Bank and/or the Management Board of 
the Bank. The Credit Committees approve individual transactions. 
The Bank evaluates Corporate Banking clients on the basis of their 
credit history, business operations, market position, management, 
level of shareholder support, financial condition, proposed 
business and financing plan and on the quality of the collateral 
offered. The appropriate level of the relevant Credit Committee  
is responsible for making the decision for loan approval based  
on credit memorandum, and where appropriate, Credit Risk 
Manager’s report. The loan approval procedures for Retail  
Banking loans depend on the type of retail lending product. 
Applications for consumer loans, including credit cards and auto 
loans, are treated under the “scoring” approval procedure. While 
certain loans of up to GEL 6,000 are approved by the scoring 
system, the appropriate Credit Committee will determine the amount, 
terms and conditions of other loans. Applications for mortgage loans 
by Retail Banking clients are completed by the mortgage loan officer 
and submitted to the Credit Risk Manager, who evaluates the credit 
risks and determines the amount, terms and conditions of the loan, 
which must be approved at the appropriate Credit Committee level.  
In the case of microfinancing loans, officers evaluate loan applications, 
prepare a project analysis and submit proposals to the appropriate 
Credit Committee which makes the final decision. Credit Committee 
members have equal voting authority and decisions are approved  
by a simple majority of votes. 
Collateral
The Bank typically requires credit support or collateral as security 
for the loans and credit facilities that it grants. The main forms of 
credit support are guarantees and rights to claim amounts on the 
borrower’s current account with the Bank or other assets. The 
main forms of collateral for corporate lending are charges over  
real estate properties, equipment, inventory and trade receivables 
and the main form of collateral for retail lending is a mortgage  
over residential property. In the case of corporate loans, the Bank 
usually requires a personal guarantee (surety) from the borrower’s 
shareholders. Under the Bank’s internal guidelines, collateral 
should be provided (where it is required) to cover outstanding 
liabilities during the entire duration of a transaction. As of  
31 December 2014, 88.1% of the Group’s loans to clients were 
collateralised. An evaluation report of the proposed collateral is 
prepared by the Asset Appraisal and Disposal Department and 
submitted to the appropriate Credit Committee, together with  
the loan application and Credit Risk Manager’s report. When 
evaluating collateral, the Bank discounts the market value of  
the assets to reflect the liquidation value of the collateral.
Measurement
Exposure and limits are subject to annual or more frequent review. 
The Bank’s compliance with credit risk exposure limits is monitored by 
the Credit Risk Management Department on a continuous basis. The 
Bank establishes provisions for impairment losses of financial assets 
on collective basis and on individual basis when there is objective 
evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. 
The Bank creates provisions by reference to the particular borrower’s 
financial condition and the number of days the relevant loan is 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 41 refinancing facility. In addition, the Bank maintains a cash deposit 
(obligatory reserve) with the NBG, the amount of which depends  
on the level of customer funds attracted. As of 31 December 2014,  
in line with the NBG’s requirements, 15% of customer deposits in 
foreign currencies were set aside as minimum reserves. In addition, 
the Bank maintains a minimum average balance of 10% of its 
customers’ deposits in Georgian Lari at its correspondent account 
at the NBG. For wholesale funding, the NBG requires the Bank to set 
aside 15% of its unsubordinated foreign currency wholesale funding 
for borrowings with a remaining maturity of less than one year, 5% 
for borrowings with a remaining maturity of one to two years and 
10% of its unsubordinated Georgian Lari wholesale funding for 
borrowings with a remaining maturity of less than one year.
Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the majority of working 
capital loans are short term and granted with the expectation of 
renewal at maturity. As such, the ultimate maturity of assets may 
be different from the analysis presented elsewhere. In addition,  
the maturity gap analysis does not reflect the historical stability  
of current accounts. 
The Bank’s principal sources of liquidity are as follows:
 – deposits; 
 – borrowings from international credit institutions; 
 – inter-bank deposit agreement;
 – debt issuances;
 – proceeds from sale of securities;
 – principal repayments on loans;
 – interest income; and
 – fee and commission income.
As of 31 December 2014, the Group’s total consolidated amounts 
due to customers was GEL 3,338.7 million (US$1,791.5 million)  
(as compared to GEL 3,117.7 million and GEL 2,693.0 million as of  
31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively) and represented 56.2% 
(as compared to 59.0% and 58.6% as of 31 December 2013 and 
2012, respectively) of the Group’s total liabilities. Included in amounts 
due to customers are term deposits of individuals. In accordance 
with Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged to repay such deposits 
upon demand of a depositor. In the case of early withdrawal, the 
interest on the deposit is foregone or reduced. As of 31 December 
2014, total amounts due to credit institutions and debt securities 
issued were GEL 2,265.9 million (US$1,215.9 million) (as compared 
to GEL 1,886.1 million and GEL 1,657.2 million as of 31 December 
2013 and 2012, respectively) and represented 38.1% (as compared 
to 35.7% and 36.1% as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively) 
of the Group’s total liabilities. Amounts due to credit institutions and 
debt securities are taken from a wide range of counterparties. 
The Bank Management Board believes that both the Group’s and the 
Bank’s liquidity is sufficient to meet each of their present requirements. 
For information on the Group’s liquid assets, liabilities and maturity 
profile of the Group’s financial liabilities as well as further information 
on the liquidity risk of the Group see Note 30 of the Notes to 
consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report.
Non-corporate loans which are overdue for more than 150 days  
are written off automatically, except for mortgage loans which, 
since June 2009, are written off once overdue for more than 365 
days. Significant loans may be written-off following an assessment 
by the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the Credit Risk 
Management Department, in consultation with the Bank’s  
CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance.
Liquidity risk
Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will be unable to 
meet its payment obligations when they fall due under normal and 
stress circumstances. 
Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed through the ALCO-approved 
liquidity framework. Treasury manages liquidity on a daily basis. In 
order to manage liquidity risk, it performs daily monitoring of future 
expected cash flows on customers’ and banking operations, which 
is a part of the assets/liabilities management process. The Finance 
department prepares and submits monthly reports to the ALCO. 
The ALCO monitors the proportion of maturing funds available to 
meet deposit withdrawals and the amounts of inter-bank and other 
borrowing facilities that should be in place to cover withdrawals at 
unexpected levels of demand.
The liquidity risk management framework models the ability of the 
Bank to meet its payment obligations under both normal conditions 
and during a crisis situation. The Bank has developed a model 
based on the Basel III liquidity guidelines. This approach is 
designed to ensure that the funding framework is sufficiently 
flexible to ensure liquidity under a wide range of market conditions. 
The liquidity management framework is reviewed from time to time 
to ensure it is appropriate to the Bank’s current and planned 
activities. Such review encompasses the funding scenarios 
modelled, the modelling approach, wholesale funding capacity, 
limit determination and minimum holdings of liquid assets. The 
liquidity framework is reviewed by the ALCO prior to approval by 
the Bank Management Board.
The Finance Department also undertakes an annual funding review 
that outlines the current funding strategy for the coming year.  
This review encompasses trends in global debt markets, funding 
alternatives, peer analysis, estimation of the Bank’s upcoming 
funding requirements, estimated market funding capacity and a 
funding risk analysis. The annual funding plan is reviewed by the 
Bank Management Board and approved by the Bank Supervisory 
Board as part of the annual budget. The Funding and Treasury 
departments also review, from time to time, different funding 
options and assess the refinancing risks of such options.
Mitigation: The Bank’s capability to discharge its liabilities is 
dependent on its ability to realise an equivalent amount of assets 
within the same period of time. The Bank maintains a portfolio of 
highly marketable and diverse assets that it believes can be easily 
liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption of cash flow.  
It also has committed lines of credit that it can access to meet its 
liquidity needs. Such lines of credit are available through the NBG’s 
Borrowed funds maturity breakdown
31 December 2014
Repayment schedule, USD million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Eurobonds – – 400.0 – – – – – –
Senior loans 77.1 63.0 43.8 18.6 9.5 – – – –
Subordinated loans – – – 10.0 – – – – 65.0
Promissory notes 12.5 0.3 – – – – – – –
Total 89.6 63.3 443.8 28.6 9.5 – – – 65.0
% of total assets 2.2% 1.6% 10.9% 0.7% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.6%
Risk management continued
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 42 The Bank is also subject to prepayment risk, which is the risk  
that the Bank will incur a financial loss because its customers and 
counterparties repay or request repayment earlier than expected, 
such as fixed rate mortgages when interest rates fall. The Group 
reviews the prior history of early repayments by calculating the 
weighted average effective rate of early repayments across each 
credit product, individually, applying these historical rates to the 
outstanding carrying amount of each loan product as of the 
reporting date and then multiplying the product by the weighted 
average effective annual interest rates for each product. This allows 
the Bank to calculate the expected amount of unforeseen losses  
in the case of early repayments.
For further information on the Group’s market risk see Note 30 of the 
Notes to consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report.
Operational risk
Definition: Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems 
failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls fail to 
perform, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have 
legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss. The Bank 
cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but through a 
control framework and by monitoring and responding to potential 
risks, the Bank aims to manage the risks. Controls include effective 
segregation of duties, access, authorisation and reconciliation 
procedures, staff education and training and assessment 
processes, including the use of internal audit.
Mitigation: The Bank manages its operational risks by 
establishing, monitoring and continuously improving its policies 
and procedures relating to the various aspects of the Bank’s cash, 
payments, accounting, trading and core processing operations  
and data back-up and disaster recovery arrangements.
The Bank has an integrated control framework encompassing 
operational risk management and control, AML compliance, 
corporate and information security and physical security,  
each of which is managed by a separate department.
The Operational Risk Management and Control Department is 
responsible for identification and assessment of operational risk 
categories within the Bank’s processes and operations, detecting 
critical risk areas or groups of operations with an increased risk level, 
developing response actions and the imposition of restrictions in 
critical risk zones to mitigate identified risk and developing business-
process optimisation schemes, including document circulation, 
information streams, distribution of functions, permissions and 
responsibilities. The Operational Risk Management and Control 
Department is also responsible for developing and updating policies 
and procedures and ensuring that these policies and procedures 
meet legal and regulatory requirements and help to ensure that 
material operating risks are within acceptable levels. It also monitors 
and periodically reviews the Bank’s internal control systems to detect 
errors or infringements by the Bank’s departments and divisions. 
The Head of the Operational Risk Management Department, who 
reports to the Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer), is responsible for  
the oversight of the Bank’s operational risks.
Market risk
Definition: The Bank is exposed to market risk (including currency 
exchange rate risk and interest rate risk), which is the risk that the 
fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate 
due to changes in market variables. Market risk exposure arises 
from mismatches of maturity and currencies between the assets 
and liabilities, all of which are exposed to market fluctuations. 
Mitigation: The general principles of the Bank’s market risk 
management policy are set by the ALCO. The Bank aims to  
limit and reduce the amount of possible losses on open market 
positions which may be incurred by the Bank due to negative 
changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Bank 
classifies exposures to market risk into either trading or non-trading 
positions. Trading and non-trading positions are managed and 
monitored using different sensitivity analyses. In order to address 
these risks, the ALCO specifically establishes VAR limits on 
possible losses for each type of operation (currently the VAR limit  
is set for foreign currency exchange operations only) and the 
Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics monitors 
compliance with such limits.
Currency exchange rate risk: Currency exchange rate risk is  
the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to 
changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Bank is exposed 
to the effects of fluctuation in the prevailing foreign currency 
exchange rates on its financial position. The Bank’s currency risk  
is calculated as an aggregate of open positions and is controlled  
by setting a VAR calculation (established by the ALCO) with respect 
to the Bank’s currency basket. The Bank uses the historical 
simulation method based on 400 business day statistical data. Its 
open currency positions are managed by the Treasury Department 
on a day-to-day basis and are monitored by the Quantitative Risk 
Management and Risk Analytics Department. The ALCO sets open 
currency position limits with respect to both overnight and intra-day 
positions and stop-loss limits. Currently, the Bank’s proprietary 
trading position is limited by the ALCO to a maximum of 15.0%  
of the Bank’s NBG total regulatory capital. The open currency 
position is also limited by ALCO to a VAR of seven basis points  
of its NBG regulatory capital for a one-day trading period with  
a 95.0% “tolerance threshold”. The ALCO limits are more 
conservative than NBG’s requirements, which allow banks to keep 
open positions of up to 20.0% of regulatory capital. The Bank 
additionally limits open foreign currency positions other than US 
Dollars and Lari to 1% of the regulatory capital. The Bank also 
applies sensitivity stress tests to its open currency positions to 
estimate potential negative impact on its net assets and earnings.
Interest rate risk: The Bank has exposure to interest rate risk as  
a result of lending at fixed and floating interest rates in amounts 
and for periods which differ from those of term borrowings at fixed 
and floating interest rates. Interest margins on assets and liabilities 
having different maturities may increase or decrease as a result of 
changes in market interest rates.
Similarly to other Georgian banks, the majority of the Bank’s assets 
and deposits have fixed interest rates. In order to minimise interest 
rate risk, the Bank monitors its interest rate (re-pricing) gap and 
maintains an interest rate margin (net interest income before 
impairment of interest-earning assets divided by average interest-
earning assets) sufficient to cover operational expenses and risk 
premium. Within limits approved by the Bank Supervisory Board, 
the ALCO approves ranges of interest rates for different maturities 
at which the Bank may place assets and attract liabilities.Compliance 
with the Bank’s interest rate policy is monitored by the Quantitative 
Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department.
As of 31 December 2014, the Group’s floating rate borrowings 
accounted for 10.5% of the Group’s total liabilities. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 43 Consolidated results discussion
The following discussion may not contain all of the information that  
is important to readers of this Annual Report. The entirety of this  
Annual Report should be read for a more complete understanding  
of the events, risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, including 
liquidity, market, credit and operational risks.
This discussion compares the financial results for the year ended  
31 December 2014 to the year ended 31 December 2013. 
We reported full year 2014 record profit of GEL 240.8 million, up  
15.0% y-o-y, translating into the earnings per share growth of 15.5%  
to GEL 6.85 per share, which compares to GEL 5.93 per share in  
2013. We delivered record revenue of GEL 605.6 million, up 1 1.3% y-o-y 
supported by strong performance of all our main business segments. 
Return on Average Equity (ROAE) as a result stood at 19.0% in 2014, 
compared to 18.6% in 2013. 
The 2014 performance reflects the strong profitability maintained during 
the year driven by robust performance of our banking businesses on 
the back of a 23.8% increase in net loan book. We also achieved strong 
non-interest income growth driven by the expansion of our Express 
banking footprint and the development of the Investment Management 
business. Our healthcare revenue more than doubled in 2014 as a result 
of organic growth as well as acquisitions. 
Income statement summary
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec
2014
31 Dec
2013
Change 
y-o-y
Net interest income 344,061 314,096 9.5%
Net non-interest income 261,517 230,160 13.6%
Revenue
2
605,578 544,256 11.3%
Operating expenses (258,949) (224,367) 15.4%
Operating income before cost of credit risk 346,629 319,889 8.4%
Cost of credit risk
3
(59,020) (61,802) -4.5%
Net operating income before non-recurring items 287,609 258,087 11.4%
Net non-recurring items (11,017) (12,831) 14.1%
Profit 240,767 209,343 15.0%
Selected financial statistics
Basic Earnings Per Share (Basic, diluted) (GEL)
1
6.85 5.93 15.5%
ROAA (Return on Average Assets) 3.6% 3.6%
ROAE (Return on Average Equity)
1
19.0% 18.6%
Dividends per ordinary share, GEL 2.1 2.0
GEL/USD exchange rate, period end 1.8636 1.7363
GEL/GBP exchange rate, period end 2.8932 2.8614
1.  Adjusted for results of placing of ordinary shares on 4 December 2014 and before one-off impairment of BG Bank in Ukraine in Q2 2014.
2. Revenue includes net interest income, net fee and commission income, net insurance revenue, net healthcare revenue and other operating non-interest income.
3.  Cost of credit risk includes impairment charge (reversal of impairment) on: loans to customers, finance lease receivables and other assets and provisions.
We have once again leveraged our 
distinctive capabilities and strengths  
to deliver record revenue and profit  
in 2014. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 44
Business review: overview  
of financial results
Executing  
our strategy ROAE
19.0%
Discussion of results
Revenue
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Change
y-o-y
Loans to customers 539,983 522,847 3.3%
Investment securities
1
39,988 35,371 13.1%
Amounts due from credit institutions 6,581 8,423 -21.9%
Finance lease receivables 8,370 7,466 12.1%
Interest income 594,922 574,107 3.6%
Amounts due to customers (133,865) (159,028) -15.8%
Amounts due to credit institutions, of which: (62,560) (65,161) -4.0%
  Subordinated debt (11,412) (22,394) -49.0%
  Loans and deposits from other banks (51,148) (42,767) 19.6%
Debt securities issued, of which: (54,436) (35,424) 53.7%
  Eurobonds (52,679) (35,424) 48.7%
  Other (1,757) – –
Interest expense (250,861) (259,613) -3.4%
Net interest income before interest rate swaps 344,061 314,494 9.4%
Net loss from interest rate swaps – (398) -100.0%
Net interest income 344,061 314,096 9.5%
Fee and commission income 132,455 115,106 15.1%
Fee and commission expense (32,793) (28,210) 16.2%
Net fee and commission income 99,662 86,896 14.7%
Net insurance premiums earned 95,850 129,993 -26.3%
Net insurance claims incurred (66,421) (84,660) -21.5%
Net insurance revenue 29,429 45,333 -35.1%
Healthcare revenue 125,720 60,013 109.5%
Cost of healthcare services (78,836) (37,644) 109.4%
Net healthcare revenue
2
46,884 22,369 109.6%
Real estate income 15,782 5,898 167.6%
Net gain from trading and investment securities 376 3,097 -87.9%
Net gain from revaluation of investment property 1,909 9,788 -80.5%
Net gain from foreign currencies 49,584 43,512 14.0%
Other operating income 17,891 13,267 34.9%
Other operating non-interest income 85,542 75,562 13.2%
Net non-interest income 261,517 230,160 13.6%
Revenue 605,578 544,256 11.3%
1. Investment securities primarily consist of Georgian Government treasury bills and bonds and National Bank of Georgia’s Certificates of Deposits (NBG CDs).
2. For the net healthcare revenue disclosures please see Healthcare Business segment discussion.
We delivered record revenue of GEL 605.6 million, up 11.3% y-o-y, as a result of maintained resilient growth momentum across all the 
major business lines in 2014. The robust performance was fuelled primarily by solid growth of the loan portfolio coupled with our continued focus 
on liability optimisation aimed at interest expense reduction. Additionally, fee and commission income also picked up significantly due to the 
expansion of our Express Banking footprint and investment management operations. Finally, our healthcare business also made a significant 
contribution, increasing 109.6% y-o-y, in line with our strategy to increase the scale of our healthcare business.
Net Interest Margin
7.4%
Tier I Capital ratio 
(Basel 1)
22.1%
Net loan book growth 
(y-o-y)
23.8%
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 45 Interest expense declined, despite a 17 .0% y-o-y increase in  
average interest bearing liabilities – a result of our intensified liability 
optimisation efforts during the year that drove Cost of Funding 100 
bps lower y-o-y to 4.9%. The decline in the Cost of Funding was 
supported by a significant cost reduction in all respective items  
of interest bearing liabilities – Cost of Client Deposits, Cost of Amounts 
due to Credit Institutions and Cost of Debt Securities decreased 130 
bps, 120 bps and 60 bps, respectively. The sharp decline in Cost of 
Client Deposits had the largest impact on the reduction in interest 
expense – despite an 8.9% increase in average client deposits, a 
corresponding balance sheet item. This decline was partly offset  
by a 53.7% increase in interest expense to debt securities to  
GEL 54.4 million as a result of an issue of Eurobonds in Q4 2013, 
which increased the corresponding average balance sheet item  
by 67 .0% y-o-y. 
Net Interest Margin (NIM)
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Change
y-o-y
Net interest income 344,061 314,096 9.5%
Net Interest Margin 7.4% 7.8% -40 bps
Average interest earning assets
1
4,680,837 4,037,894 15.9%
Average interest bearing liabilities
1
5,127,194 4,382,341 17.0%
Average net loans, currency blended 3,710,551 3,153,831 17.7%
   Average net loans, GEL 1,154,537 972,229 18.8%
   Average net loans, FC 2,556,014 2,181,602 17.2%
Average client deposits, currency blended 3,087,110 2,835,123 8.9%
  Average client deposits, GEL 905,757 935,436 -3.2%
  Average client deposits, FC 2,181,353 1,899,687 14.8%
Average liquid assets, currency blended 1,864,265 1,593,651 17.0%
Average liquid assets, GEL 837,898 746,107 12.3%
Average liquid assets, FC 1,026,367 847,544 21.1%
Excess liquidity (NBG)
2
177,917 537,107 -66.9%
Liquid assets yield, currency blended 2.5% 2.7% -20 bps
  Liquid assets yield, GEL 5.0% 5.1% -10 bps
  Liquid assets yield, FC 0.5% 0.5% –
Loan yield, total 14.4% 16.3% -190 bps
  Loan yield, GEL 19.7% 22.2% -250 bps
  Loan yield, FC 11.8% 13.5% -170 bps
Cost of funding, total 4.9% 5.9% -100 bps
  Cost of funding, GEL 4.0% 4.9% -90 bps
  Cost of funding, FC 5.2% 6.3% -110 bps
1. Daily averages are used for calculation of average interest earning assets and average interest bearing liabilities.
2.  Excess liquidity is the excess amount of liquid assets, as defined per NBG, which exceeds the minimal amount of the same liquid assets for the purposes of the minimal 30% liquidity ratio 
per NBG definitions.
The NIM at 7.4% in 2014 was comfortably maintained within our target of 7% – 7.5%. It was down slightly by 40 bps y-o-y, reflecting 
the competitive pressures on Loan Yields driven by high level of liquidity in the banking sector during 2014. Our NIM of 7 .4% in 2014 was a 
result of average interest earning assets growing faster than net interest income, coupled with decreasing yields (Loan Yield down 190 bps  
and Liquid Asset Yield down 20 bps) which were partially offset by declining Cost of Funding (down 100 bps). As mentioned above, our liquidity 
levels started to decline in the second-half of the year as a result of a significant pick-up in lending which reduced NIM pressure during the 
second half.
Net fee and commission income
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Change
y-o-y
Fee and commission income 132,455 115,106 15.1%
Fee and commission expense (32,793) (28,210) 16.2%
Net fee and commission income 99,662 86,896 14.7%
We delivered record net interest income for 2014 driven by  
the combined effect of high ’teens growth in lending and a  
100 basis point cut in the Cost of Funding. Net interest income 
totalled GEL 344.1 million, up 9.5% y-o-y and driven by a 3.6% 
increase in interest income to GEL 594.9 million and a 3.4% decline in 
interest expense to GEL 250.9 million. Interest income grew primarily 
due to a 3.3% increase in interest income from loans to customers 
reaching GEL 540.0 million driven by a 17 .7% increase in average net 
loans to customers, which more than offset 190 bps decline in the 
Loan Yield to 14.4% in 2014. The Loan Yield was impacted by strong 
competitive pressures driven by the high level of liquidity in the 
banking sector during the year, although our liquidity levels started  
to decline in the second-half of the year as a result of a significant 
pick-up in lending, translating into largely flat Loan Yield in Q4 2014  
on q-o-q basis. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 46
Business review: overview  
of financial results continued We posted a record net fee and commission income of GEL 99.7 million in 2014, delivering growth of 14.7% y-o-y. This robust 
growth reflects the ongoing success of our Express Banking strategy, which resulted in the addition of over 200,000 Retail Banking clients, 
mostly emerging mass market customers, and triggered a significant increase in the volume of banking transactions. The increase – in line  
with the Express Banking strategy – has predominantly come through cost-effective remote channels. Fee and commission expense increased 
16.2% to GEL 32.8 million as a result of fees related to client acquisition costs within the Express Banking strategy. Another factor contributing 
to the y-o-y increase in fee expenses was the outsourcing of the Bank’s cash collection service (GEL 2.2 million in 2014), the costs of which 
effectively shifted from salaries and other employee benefits to fee and commission expense. The Investment Management business also 
increased its contribution to our net fee and commission income.
Net healthcare revenue and net insurance revenue
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Change
y-o-y
Net insurance premiums earned 95,850 129,993 -26.3%
Net insurance claims incurred (66,421) (84,660) -21.5%
Net insurance revenue 29,429 45,333 -35.1%
Healthcare revenue 125,720 60,013 109.5%
Cost of healthcare services, of which: (78,836) (37,644) 109.4%
  Salaries and other employee benefits (47,085) (19,393) 142.8%
  Depreciation expenses (6,598) (5,160) 27.9%
  Other operating expenses (25,153) (13,091) 92.1%
Net healthcare revenue
1
46,884 22,369 109.6%
Net insurance and healthcare revenue (total) 76,313 67,702 12.7%
1. For the net healthcare revenue disclosures please see the Healthcare Business segment discussion.
Our healthcare business further strengthened its market leader position in 2014 and enjoys a market share of 22.0% in terms of hospital 
beds as of 31 December 2014 (14.3% as of 31 December 2013). Our net healthcare revenue increased 109.6% y-o-y to GEL 46.9 million in 2014. 
The increase was driven by the strong performance of our healthcare operations, growing organically as well as through acquisitions. Furthermore, 
Government-funded universal healthcare programme (the Universal Healthcare Programme or UHC) favourably affected our healthcare 
business results. Finally, as the management shifts its focus to integrating the acquired facilities, it expects to realise significant synergies by 
upgrading the facilities, centralising the back-office functions and bringing their operational performance in line with the internal targets.
As anticipated, UHC had a negative effect on the health insurance businesses, which has over recent years been significant component 
of our insurance business. UHC resulted in a structural shift of private insurers’ revenues that had previously come from state to the UHC system 
(and away from the private insurance companies). Furthermore, the shift of revenue to the UHC system did not immediately result in the elimination 
of associated costs, including insurance claims incurred. As anticipated, this has had a negative effect on the health insurance businesses. 
Notwithstanding these changes, our health insurance business strengthened its position in the market and accounted for 36.7% of the total  
health insurance sector in Georgia based on gross premiums revenue as of 30 September 2014, up from 28.9% as of 31 December 2013.
Other operating non-interest income
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Change
y-o-y
Real estate income 15,782 5,898 167.6%
Net gain from trading and investment securities 376 3,097 -87.9%
Net gain from revaluation of investment property 1,909 9,788 -80.5%
Net gain from foreign currencies 49,584 43,512 14.0%
Other operating income 17,891 13,267 34.9%
Other operating non-interest income 85,542 75,562 13.2%
We benefited from completion of our second real estate project in 2014. Other operating non-interest income increased 13.2% to  
GEL 85.5 million, primarily as a result of nearly a threefold increase in real estate income to GEL 15.8 million. Real estate revenue predominantly 
comprises revenue from the sale of apartments in the second project of m
2
 Real Estate, following completion of construction works as well as 
the handover of apartments. Net gain from foreign currencies is the second largest contributor to our other operating non-interest income and 
also increased to GEL 49.6 million, up 14.0% as a result of increased economic activity and higher volatility of Georgian Lari, which significantly 
increased the number of foreign currency transactions. The growth was also supported by a 34.9% increase in other operating income to  
GEL 17 .9 million, which predominantly consists of revenue from the Bank’s wine-making subsidiary, Teliani Valley. 
The robust growth was partially offset by a decline in net gain from trading and investment securities from GEL 3.1 million to GEL 0.4 million, 
which comprises realised gains from investment securities consisting of Government-issued securities. Net gain from revaluation of investment 
property, which has declined from GEL 9.8 million in 2013 to GEL 1.9 million in 2014, comprises almost entirely of the revaluation of properties 
that m
2
 Real Estate has earmarked for development.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 47 Our non-banking businesses scaled up significantly in  
2014 and this is reflected in our operating expenses.  
Our operating expenses increased 15.4% driven by a 13.9% increase 
in salaries and other employment benefits to GEL 153.8 million and  
a 21.2% increase in general and administrative expenses to GEL  
73.2 million. The increase in operating expenses was principally  
driven by the growth of our healthcare business, which continues to 
expand organically as well as through acquisitions. As a result of this 
expansion, the healthcare business headcount increased by 1,280  
or 19.0% during the reporting period, pushing up costs. The effect is 
magnified in 2014 since the post-acquisition synergies have not yet 
been fully realised and cost synergies are expected mainly in the areas 
of procurement, process standardisation and payroll, as benchmarked 
against our internal targets. Bank of Georgia’s stand-alone headcount 
has increased at a more modest rate of 5.5% to 3,769 employees but 
an increase in the number of senior managers eligible for share-based 
compensation resulted in higher salaries and other employee benefits 
expenses. Growth of operating expenses was also impacted by an 
expanded corporate social responsibility programme that entails 
initiatives promoting education, conserving nature and supporting 
children with disabilities. Our Investment Management business, 
which is gearing up to build its corporate advisory business, also  
put upward pressure on costs during the reporting period.
As a result, our Cost to Income ratio increased 160 bps to 42.8% in 
2014. However, Cost to Income improved in the second half of the 
year, reaching 41.3% in Q4 2014. As the restructuring and integration 
process within our healthcare business nears completion, the Cost 
to Income ratio is expected to continue its recent downward trend. 
As a result of the foregoing, operating income before cost of credit 
risk increased 8.4% y-o-y to GEL 346.6 million.
Our asset quality has improved significantly as a result of 
further economic growth and our continuing prudent risk 
management policies. Cost of credit risk declined 4.5% to  
GEL 59.0 million in 2014. The increase in impairment of loans 
reflects the growth of the loan book, particularly in Retail Banking. 
As a result, our Cost of Risk improved to 1.2% in 2014, a 20 bps 
decrease from 1.4% in 2013. Cost of credit risk also reflects the 
new provisioning methodology the Bank implemented in January 
2014. The overall effect of the new methodology
1
 was largely 
immaterial as its positive impact on the Retail Banking cost of 
credit risk was only slightly more than a small negative impact  
on the Corporate Banking cost of credit risk. 
NPL coverage adjusted for the discounted value of 
collateral stood at a comfortable level of 111.1% as of  
31 December 2014 compared to 112.4% as of 30 September 2014 
and 110.6% as of 31 December 2013. The Bank’s non-performing 
loans (NPLs), defined as the principal and interest on the overdue 
loans for more than 90 days and additional potential losses 
estimated by management, increased 6.0% y-o-y to GEL 153.6 
million as of 31 December 2014 – lower than the growth of the 
gross loan book. The Group’s NPLs to Gross Loans to Clients ratio 
as a result declined from 4.0% as of 31 December 2013 to 3.4%  
as of 31 December 2014. The NPL Coverage ratio stood at 68.0%, 
compared to 83.8% as of 31 December 2013, the decline 
predominantly reflects increased write-offs in 2014. 
The Group’s net operating income before non-recurring items for 
2014 totalled GEL 287.6 million, up 11.4% y-o-y. The Bank’s net 
non-recurring items for the period decreased to GEL 11.0 million 
and included full impairment of the Bank’s legacy investment in  
BG Bank in Ukraine (approximately GEL 3.8 million). 
As a result, profit before income tax in 2014 totalled GEL 276.6 
million, up 12.8% y-o-y. After deducting income tax expense of 
GEL 35.8 million, the Group’s 2014 profit for the period stood at 
GEL 240.8 million, up 15.0% compared to 2014. 
Operating income before non-recurring items; cost of credit risk; profit for the period
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Change
y-o-y
Salaries and other employee benefits (153,807) (135,065) 13.9%
General and administrative expenses (73,185) (60,364) 21.2%
Depreciation and amortisation expenses (28,207) (26,572) 6.2%
Other operating expenses (3,750) (2,366) 58.5%
Operating expenses (258,949) (224,367) 15.4%
Operating income before cost of credit risk 346,629 319,889 8.4%
Cost of credit risk (59,020) (61,802) -4.5%
Operating income before net non-recurring items 287,609 258,087 11.4%
Net non-recurring items (11,017) (12,831) -14.1%
Profit before income tax expense 276,592 245,256 12.8%
Income tax expense (35,825) (35,913) -0.2%
Profit 240,767 209,343 15.0%
1.  The new provisioning methodology is based on statistical assessment of Probability of Default (PD) and Loss Given Default (LGD) for each loan type. Management believes that  
the new methodology will allow better allocation of Cost of Risk between different products. The overall impact of the change in methodology on the provisioning rate and on the financial 
statements for this period is not material. The new methodology was developed in consultation with Deloitte, who also provided the respectively integrated IT solution.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 48
Business review: overview  
of financial results continued Balance sheet highlights 
Our balance sheet remained liquid (NBG Liquidity ratio of 35.0%) and well-capitalised (BIS Tier I of 22.1%) with a diversified 
funding base (Client Deposits to Liabilities of 55.7%). The y-o-y change in the composition of the balance sheet reflects strong growth 
of lending in the second half of 2014, particularly in Retail Banking, which drove net loans up by 23.8% to GEL 4,360.7 million. The 
pick-up in lending decreased the share of liquid assets to total assets to a comfortable level of 25.1% as at 31 December 2014 from 
29.5% as at 31 December 2013, when the liquidity pool was significantly higher due to an issue of Eurobonds in Q4 2013. Our assets 
increased 16.2% y-o-y to GEL 7,579.1 million.
The Bank funded its growth predominantly through the excess liquidity. Additionally, more focus was placed on attracting cheaper 
Development Financial Institutions (DFI) funds in order to further reduce the Cost of Funding and as a result we prepaid GEL 114.0 million 
of DFI funding in 2014 with cheaper funds. As a result, the share of amounts due to credit institutions to total liabilities increased from 
21.9% to 23.7%, with the share of client deposits to total liabilities declining from 58.8% to 55.7%. Cost of Funding improved by 100 bps 
to a record low of 4.9% on the back of a significant increase in interest bearing liabilities by 31 December 2014, which were up 12.0% 
y-o-y. The Group’s total liabilities increased 12.6% to GEL 5,945.1 million. 
Total equity attributable to the shareholders of the Group stood at GEL 1,574.1 million, up 33.1% y-o-y, reflecting an additional GEL 215.7 million 
of equity raised in December 2014 through the issue of new ordinary shares to existing and new institutional investors representing up to 
9.99% of BGH’s issued share capital. The Bank’s book value per share on 31 December 2014 stood at GEL 41.45 (US$22.24/GBP14.33), 
compared to GEL 34.85 (US$20.07/GBP12.18) as of 31 December 2013.
Liquidity, Funding and Capital Management
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Change
y-o-y
30 Sep  
2014
Change
q-on-q
Amounts due to credit institutions, of which: 1,409,214 1,157,979 21.7% 1,264,299 11.5%
Subordinated debt 140,045 168,710 -17.0% 133,883 4.6%
Other amounts due to credit institutions 1,269,169 989,269 28.3% 1,130,416 12.3%
Debt securities issued, of which: 856,695 728,117 17.7% 794,952 7.8%
Eurobonds 779,445 728,117 7.0% 719,184 8.4%
Other 77,250 – – 75,768 2.0%
Customer Funds, of which: 3,338,725 3,117,732 7.1% 3,088,254 8.1%
Client deposits, of which 3,313,715 3,107,209 6.6% 3,060,784 8.3%
CDs 543,640 221,539 145.4% 442,808 22.8%
Promissory notes 25,010 10,523 137.7% 27,470 -9.0%
Net Loans/Customer Funds 130.6% 113.0% 123.9%
Net Loans/Customer Funds + DFIs 110.6% 96.2% 103.9%
Liquid assets 1,899,171 1,921,704 -1.2% 1,750,417 8.5%
  Liquid assets, GEL 1,036,126 806,870 28.4% 854,270 21.3%
  Liquid assets, FC 863,045 1,114,834 -22.6% 896,147 -3.7%
Liquid assets as percent of total assets 25.0% 29.5% -450 bps 25.7% -70 bps
Liquid assets as percent of total liabilities 31.8% 36.4% -460 bps 31.9% -10 bps
NBG liquidity ratio 35.0% 45.7% -10.7% 37.8% -2.8%
Excess liquidity (NBG) 177,917 537,107 -66.9% 245,941 -27.7%
RATIOS
Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio (NBG) 13.3% 14.4% -110 bps 14.5% -120 bps
Total Capital Adequacy ratio (NBG) 13.8% 15.4% -160 bps 14.1% -30 bps
Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio (NBG Basel 2/3 ) 11.1% n/a n/a 11.2% -10 bps
Total Capital Adequacy ratio (NBG Basel 2/3 ) 14.1% n/a n/a 14.2% -10 bps
Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio (BIS) 22.1% 23.0% -90 bps 22.7% -60 bps
Total Capital Adequacy ratio (BIS) 26.1% 27.1% -100 bps 26.4% -30 bps
We maintained a strong liquidity position while at the same time deploying a large portion of our excess liquid assets  
into loans in 2014. The deployment of liquid assets into loans in the second half of 2014 led to a 1.2% y-o-y decline in liquid assets. 
Consequently, the NBG liquidity ratio decreased to 35.0% from 45.7% at the end of 2013, against a regulatory requirement of 30.0%.  
The pick-up in lending during the period also resulted in a Net Loans to Customer Funds ratio of 130.6% compared to 113.0% a year ago. 
Net Loans to Customer Funds and DFIs ratio, closely observed by management, stood at 1 10.6% compared to 96.2% as of 31 December 2013. 
The Bank’s Tier I ratio (BIS) stood at a robust 22.1%, compared to 22.7% as of 30 September 2014 and 23.0% as of 31 December 2013. 
Risk weighted assets increased 23.1% y-o-y to GEL 6,253.0 million, reflecting the increase in the loan book during the year, while  
Tier I Capital (BIS) increased 18.1% to GEL 1,381.8 million. The Bank’s NBG Tier I Capital Adequacy Ratio calculated according to  
new regulations based on Basel 2/3 stood at 11.1% compared to 11.2% as of 30 September 2014.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 49 The Bank’s Retail Banking registered 
another year of record performance. In 
2014, Retail Banking revenue increased 
11.2% to GEL 296.6 million and profit 
increased 32.1% to GEL 133.3 million.
Bank of Georgia is the largest Retail Banking services provider in Georgia, 
offering a wide range of products and services including consumer loans, 
mortgage loans, overdrafts, credit card facilities and other credit facilities 
as well as funds transfer and settlement services and handling customer 
multicurrency deposits for both individuals and legal entities. In order to 
better serve the needs of our customers, in addition to the traditional 
banking services, Retail Banking offers differentiated products and 
services through the well-recognised Solo Banking, a premier banking 
service and recently launched Express Banking service, which aims  
to expand transactional banking coverage through various distance 
channels. Retail Banking serves over 1.5 million customers through 219 
branches, 523 ATMs and 2,239 Express Pay terminals. Retail Banking 
also encompasses SMEs and micro businesses, serving approximately 
90,000 small and medium-size companies.
The growth was driven by net interest income that increased 11.4% to 
GEL 213.8 million as a result of the significant growth of 28. 1 % in the Retail 
Banking loan book to GEL 2,067 .0 million, strongly supported by a robust 
growth of SME and micro, mortgage loans and consumer loans.
Net fee and commission income and net gain from foreign currencies 
increased 9.0% and 24.3% respectively. The growth of both items are 
mainly attributed to the Express Banking franchise, which has attracted 
c.560,000 previously unbanked emerging mass market customers since 
its launch three years ago, and driven the number of client-related foreign 
currency and other banking transactions substantially higher. The growth 
of Retail Banking client deposit balances, which increased 24.2% y-o-y to 
GEL 1,349.6 million, has not been compromised by the cut in deposit 
costs. This is largely due to the significant number of new Express 
Banking clients, who bring with them the cheapest source of deposits  
for the bank – current accounts and demand deposits.
Operating expenses increased 7.5%, or at a much slower rate 
than revenue growth rate, reflecting cost efficiencies achieved largely 
due to the success of the Express Banking footprint, with an increasing 
shift to low-cost remote channel-intensive Express Banking services.  
In 2014, transactions executed through Express Pay terminals, ATMs, 
internet and mobile channels increased 100.1%, 21.2% 38.4% and 
202.2%, respectively while operations through tellers decreased 4.0%. 
The cost of credit risk improved significantly from  
GEL 29.2 million to GEL 9.2 million, as a result of lower 
impairments reflecting further economic growth and our continuing 
prudent risk management policies. The effects of the new provisioning 
methodology also had a positive impact on the Retail Banking cost of 
credit risk. As a result, Retail Banking profit reached GEL 133.3 million, 
up by 32.1% y-o-y.
We enhanced our footprint in the significantly more profitable 
retail franchise through the Privatbank acquisition in January 
2015. Privatbank is the 9th largest bank in Georgia by total assets 
and has a focus on retail banking, with retail loans representing 86% 
of its loan book, while the cards business accounts for 69% of loans 
(based on 2013 IFRS consolidated financial statements). Privatbank 
has a countrywide distribution network with 92 branches (equal to 
42% of our current distribution network), 431 ATMs and 1,937 POS 
terminals and 1,154 employees. Privatbank has a 4.9% market share 
of retail loans and 3.0% of customer deposits (market data based on 
standalone accounts as published by the National Bank of Georgia 
(“NBG”) as of 31 December 2014).
This transaction offers significant synergy potential. Express Pay 
terminals will be used by Privatbank customers for transactions such 
as credit card and consumer loan payments, utility bill payments and 
mobile telephone top-ups. Potential revenue synergies are expected 
to be captured from the cross-selling of our banking products to  
the customers of Privatbank, which has a more limited portfolio  
of banking products due to its strategic focus on credit cards.  
Cost synergies are expected mainly as a result of a reduction in 
Privatbank’s Cost of Funding, back office and distribution network 
optimisation initiatives and significant potential to increase the 
utilisation of the Privatbank franchise.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 50
Retail Banking
Segment discussion
Banking Business
2,067.0
+28.1% y-o-y
Net loan book (GEL million)
296.6
+11.2% y-o-y
Revenue (GEL million) Financial performance
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
As at and for year ended
Change
y-o-y
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Net interest income 213,790 191,851 11.4%
Net fee and commission income 58,867 54,025 9.0%
Net gain from foreign currencies 20,274 16,308 24.3%
Other operating non-interest income 3,650 4,537 -19.6%
Revenue 296,581 266,721 11.2%
Operating expenses (128,972) (119,963) 7.5%
Operating income before cost of credit risk 167,609 146,758 14.2%
Cost of credit risk (9,226) (29,172) -68.4%
Net non-recurring items (5,795) (2,200) 163.4%
Profit before income tax expense 152,588 115,386 32.2%
Income tax expense (19,325) (14,468) 33.6%
Profit 133,263 100,918 32.1%
Net loans, stand-alone 2,066,973 1,612,942 28.1%
Client deposits, stand-alone 1,349,556 1,086,607 24.2%
Net interest margin, stand-alone 9.8% 10.3% -50 bps
Loan yield, stand-alone 17.4% 19.8% -240 bps
Cost of deposits, stand-alone 3.8% 5.2% -140 bps
Cost/income ratio 43.5% 45.0% -150 bps
Side by side analysis of operating KPIs for Bank of Georgia and Privatbank 
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013
Bank of 
Georgia 
(stand-alone)
Privatbank 
Georgia
Bank of 
Georgia 
(stand-alone)
Total number of Retail Banking clients (k) 1,452 436
1
1,245
Total number of cards (k) 1,157 904
2
976
Number of branches 219 92 202
Number of ATMs 523 431 496
Number of POS 6,320 1,937 4,836
Number of employees 3,769 1,154 3,574
1. Includes active clients only.
2. Includes active and non-active card accounts.
 – Increased number of Express Pay terminals to 2,239 from 985 in 
2013 and utilisation of Express Pay terminals has doubled in 2014, 
with the number of transactions growing at 100.1% y-o-y to 99.4 
million during the year. Express Pay terminals are used for bank 
transactions such as credit card and consumer loan payments, 
utility bill payments and mobile telephone top-ups.
 – Outstanding balances on retail current accounts increased 24.7%  
to GEL 356.3 million in 2014.
 – Issued 589,348 debit cards, including Express cards in 2014 bringing 
the total debit cards outstanding to 1,040,016, up 21.3% y-o-y.  
Since the launch on 5 September 2012, 721,909 Express cards have 
been issued, in essence replacing pre-paid metro cards in circulation 
since July 2009. Express cards are the first contactless cards in 
Georgia, which also serve as a metro and bus transport payment 
card and offer loyalty programmes to clients.
Operating highlights
 – Issued 33,779 credit cards of which 26,450 were American 
Express cards in 2014. A total of 230,790 American Express cards 
have been issued since the launch in November 2009. The total 
number of outstanding credit cards amounted to 116,615 (of which 
110,362 were American Express cards).
 – Number of Retail Banking clients totalled 1,451,777 up 16.6% y-o-y 
and by 5.3% (73,304 clients) q-o-q. In 2014 we acquired 1,701  
new clients in the Solo business line, the Bank’s mass- affluent 
sub-brand. As of 31 December 2014, the number of Solo clients 
reached 7,971.
 – POS terminals outstanding reached 6,320, up 30.7% y-o-y.  
The volume of transactions through the Bank’s POS terminals  
grew 35.4% y-o-y to GEL 579.1 million, while the number of  
POS transactions increased 7 .4 million y-o-y from 7 .2 million  
in 2013 to 14.6 million in 2014.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 51  – 2,239 terminals
 – 152 merchants and  
230 services
 – Cost of one Express Pay  
terminal: US$2,500 
Credit card repayments
 – Loan repayments 
Cash deposit into  
accounts 
Loan activation
 – Utility and other  
repayments 
Mobile top-ups
 – MetroMoney top-ups
Express Pay terminals
 – 6,320 POS terminals
 – >50% market share
 – Market size – 10,000  
merchants
 – Payments via cards 
and Express points
 – P2P transactions 
between merchant 
and supplier
 – Credit limit with 0% 
interest rate
Express merchant
 – 84 small format branches
 – GEL 1.5 million net profit per month
 – Average capex per one Express branch: 
US$50K
 – Opening accounts and deposits
 – Issuing loans and credit cards
 – Credit card and loan repayments
 – Cash deposit into accounts
 – Money transfers
 – Utility and other payments
 – Acts as payments card in metro, buses and mini-buses
 – 721,909 cards outstanding
 – >14 million payments in transport in 2014
Express branch Transport
Capturing growth opportunities 
How Express works
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 52
Segment discussion continued
Banking Business continued 996
330
35
4,262
3,079
1,965
14,649
7,235
4,389
14,920
12,306
11,017
21,972
16,889
11,055
32,503
18,483
2,453
99,380
49,669
8,722
Express Pay  
terminals
Express  
cards
Express  
branch
ATMs
POS  
terminals
Internet  
banking
Mobile  
banking
2014
2013
2012
Growth 2012-2014
x11.4
x13.3
x2.0
x1.4
x3.3
x2.2
x28.3
2014
2013
Growth 2013-2014
-4.0%
0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000
16,978,669
16,302,951
12,000,000 14,000,000 16,000,000 18,000,000
Tellers
Capturing emerging mass market customers through cost-effective channels
No. of transactions
No. of transactions
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 53 Financial performance
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
As at and for year ended
Change
y-o-y
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Net interest income 105,223 103,967 1.2%
Net fee and commission income 24,810 27,318 -9.2%
Net gain from foreign currencies 27,386 24,774 10.5%
Other operating non-interest income 6,653 5,971 11.4%
Revenue 164,072 162,030 1.3%
Operating expenses (49,060) (43,833) 11.9%
Operating income before cost of credit risk 115,012 118,197 -2.7%
Cost of credit risk (41,176) (31,054) 32.6%
Net non-recurring items (2,672) (2,690) -0.7%
Profit before income tax expense 71,164 84,453 -15.7%
Income tax expense (9,528) (11,164) -14.7%
Profit 61,636 73,289 -15.9%
Net loans, stand-alone 2,160,767 1,819,171 18.8%
Letters of credit and guarantees, standalone
1
552,661 499,055 10.7%
Client deposits, stand-alone 1,186,026 1,221,428 -2.9%
Net interest margin, stand-alone 4.5% 5.0% -50 bps
Loan yield, stand-alone 10.6% 12.4% -180 bps
Cost of deposits, stand-alone 2.9% 4.6% -170 bps
Cost/income ratio 29.9% 27.1% 280 bps
1. Off-balance sheet items.
Revenue for the Corporate Banking segment remained largely flat, 
increasing 1.3% to GEL 164. 1 million and profit decreased 15.9%  
to GEL 61.6 million, as a result of:
 – A largely flat net interest income of GEL 105.2 million, up 1.2%, is  
a result of a slower growth of the Corporate Banking segment that 
was largely due to competitive pressures.
 – High liquidity environment in the Georgian banking sector during the 
year, that resulted in declining Corporate Banking Loan Yields (down 
180 bps) and consequent downward pressure on the NIM, which 
declined by 50 bps.
 – NIM pressure that was partially offset by a 170 bps decline in Cost  
of Client Deposits and 18.8% y-o-y growth in the Corporate Banking 
loan book.
 – 9.2% decrease in net fee and commission income to GEL 24.8 million.
 – Net gain from foreign currencies increased 10.5% to GEL 27 .4 million 
as a result of a significant growth of foreign currency related client 
transactions.
 – Corporate Banking cost of credit risk rose to GEL 41.2 million,  
up 32.6% y-o-y, which reflected the default of a borrower in the 
agricultural sector in Q1 2014 as well as a slight negative impact  
of the new provisioning methodology.
 – Agreed a US$25 million one-year Trade Finance Club facility with  
Citi, the first Trade Finance Club facility arranged by Citi for a 
Georgian bank.
 – Signed a US$20 million trade facility loan agreement with Turk 
Eximbank to extend financing to Georgian companies that import 
Turkish consumer and capital goods in Georgia.
Highlights
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 54
Corporate Banking
Segment discussion continued
Banking Business continued
2,160.8
+18.8% y-o-y
Net loan book (GEL million)
164.1
+1.3% y-o-y
Revenue (GEL million) Wealth Management financial highlights
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
As at and for year ended
Change
y-o-y
31 Dec  
2014
31 Dec  
2013
Client deposits, stand-alone 805,266 679,401 18.5%
Time deposits, stand-alone 596,366 531,021 12.3%
Current accounts and demand deposits, stand-alone 208,900 148,380 40.8%
Cost of deposits, stand-alone 6.0% 7.9% -190 bps
* WM client deposits, Galt & Taggart brokerage client assets, WM clients’ assets held at Bank of Georgia custody and Aldagi pension scheme assets.
Investment Management, combining our superior knowledge and 
capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms of 
reach and expertise, consists of Bank of Georgia Wealth Management 
and the brokerage arm of the Bank, Galt & Taggart. Bank of Georgia 
Wealth Management provides private banking services to high-net-worth 
individuals and offers investment management products internationally 
through representative offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv. 
Investment Management serves international clients from 70 countries. 
Galt & Taggart brings under one brand corporate advisory, private equity 
and brokerage services. Our Research Department currently covers 
Georgian and Azeri economies and publishes Georgian sector research.
 – Wealth Management deposits increased 18.5% y-o-y to GEL 805.3 
million notwithstanding a 190 bps decline in Cost of Client Deposits  
to 6.0% for the Investment Management segment.
 – The growth in deposits was fuelled by strong growth of current 
accounts and demand deposits, which increased 40.8% y-o-y in  
spite of a 120 bps y-o-y decrease in cost of current accounts and 
demand deposits.
 – The AUM of the Investment Management segment, which includes  
WM client deposits, Galt & Taggart brokerage client assets, Wealth 
Management clients’ assets held at Bank of Georgia, Custody  
and Aldagi pension scheme assets, increased 21.4% y-o-y to  
GEL 1,027 . 1 million.
 – Galt & Taggart had a particularly strong year in 2014 following high 
bond issuance activity on the local market, led by Galt & Taggart, as 
well as a successful M&A transaction during the year. As a result, net 
fee and commission income of the Investment Management business 
increased to GEL 8.8 million in 2014 from just GEL 1.2 million in 2013.
 – Rebranded BG Capital to Galt and Taggart bringing corporate 
advisory, private equity and brokerage services with consistent 
branding under one roof.
 – Galt & Taggart hosted the first investor conference dedicated to the 
equity and bond market development in the region. The conference 
brought together 60 institutional investors and analysts and more  
than 100 one-on-one meetings were held with Georgian and  
Azeri companies.
 – As of 31 December 2014, the amount of the Bank’s CDs issued  
to Investment Management clients reached GEL 460.6 million.
 – Successfully placed US$8 million, EUR 8 million and GBP 5 million 
Euroclearable CDs.
 – The Investment Management business served over 1,400 clients from 
70 countries as of 31 December 2014. Client deposits attracted by 
Investment Management have grown at a compound annual growth 
rate (CAGR) of 37 .6% over the last five-year period, to GEL 805.3 
million as of 31 December 2014.
 – Since its launch in June 2012, Galt & Taggart Research has initiated 
research coverage of the Georgian economy and Azeri economies, 
including a report analysing the impact of the Russia-Ukraine stand-off  
on the Georgian economy, the Georgian Retail Real Estate Market,  
the Georgian Wine Sector, Georgian Agricultural Sector, Georgian 
Electricity Sector, Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation, Georgian 
Railway, and has issued notes on the Georgian State Budget  
and the Tourism Sector.
 – Within the Hydro Private Equity fund, actively moving forward with the 
detailed feasibility study on a hydropower plant in Georgia with the help 
of several specialised contractors. The feasibility study was carried out 
and financed jointly by Bank of Georgia Group and RP Global – the 
Bank’s Austrian partners in Hydro development (total cost of feasibility 
was approximately US$1.3 million).
Highlights
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 55
Investment Management
1,027.1
+21.4% y-o-y
AUM* (GEL million)
805.3
+18.5% y-o-y
Client deposits (GEL million) Healthcare services
Our healthcare services business delivered record growth 
in 2014, driven by acquisitions that resulted in a much 
stronger market position, especially in Tbilisi, and by 
favourable Government policy that increased spending  
on healthcare
In 2014, the net healthcare services revenue, which includes 
revenue from hospitals and ambulatory clinics, increased 60.3% 
y-o-y to GEL 54.1 million, mainly driven by the following factors:
 – Implementation of the expansion strategy that resulted in the 
acquisition of seven hospitals with a total of 850 beds during 
2014, bringing the number of total healthcare facilities to 39  
and hospital beds to 2,140, up from 32 and 1,329, respectively.
 – Our increased footprint in Tbilisi, the capital city of Georgia, where 
our market share grew from 1.3% as of 31 December 2013 to 
14.1% as of 31 December 2014 in terms of hospital beds.
 – The introduction of UHC by the Government, as a result of which 
all Georgian citizens are eligible for the new Government-funded 
basic health coverage. Since the introduction of UHC in 2012, 
Government expenditures on healthcare have increased over 
65% from GEL 414.5 million in 2012 to GEL 692.9 million in 2014 
and are expected to be further increased to GEL 768.3 million in 
2015 according to the state budget for 2015 announced by the 
Ministry of Finance of Georgia.
The increase in costs outpaced growth in net healthcare services 
revenue as a result of inefficiencies brought in through acquisition of 
the new hospitals. While the integration of the acquired healthcare 
facilities is ongoing and partially completed, including centralisation 
of some of the back-office functions, we expect significant further 
synergy gains to be made in 2015 as management shifts its focus 
from acquisition to integration mode.
Health insurance
High double-digit growth in our healthcare service 
revenues was partially offset by the anticipated decline  
in health insurance revenues, decreasing 32.2% to GEL  
70.0 million, resulting from UHC implementation. In addition to 
providing basic healthcare coverage to all citizens of Georgia, the 
UHC also entails a structural shift of private insurers’ revenues  
that had previously come from state to the UHC system, implying 
direct management by the Government. 
However, our private health insurance has shown resilience 
notwithstanding challenges posed by the implementation of  
UHC. In spite of the competition from UHC, revenue from  
private medical insurance products grew by 3.9% y-o-y, with 
approximately 200,000 people holding our health insurance 
policies as at 31 December 2014.
Within the changed private insurance landscape that resulted  
from the introduction of UHC, our health insurance business 
strengthened its market share and accounted for 36.7%  
of the total health insurance sector of Georgia based on gross  
premiums revenue as of 30 September 2014, up from 28.9%  
as of 31 December 2013.
Our healthcare services business, 
which operates 39 healthcare facilities 
and 2,140 hospital beds, reported  
profit that more than tripled y-o-y, 
increasing to GEL 14.0 million in  
2014 (2013: GEL 4.4 million).
Healthcare Business
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 56
189.7
+20.5% y-o-y
Revenue (GEL million)
37.8
+8.5% y-o-y
EBITDA (GEL million)
Segment discussion continued
Investment Business Highlights
Income statement
GEL thousands,  
unless otherwise  
noted
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change, y-o-y
Healthcare 
services
Health 
insurance
Elimin-
ations
Consolidated 
healthcare 
business
Healthcare 
services
Health 
insurance
Elimin-
ations
Consolidated 
healthcare 
business
Healthcare 
services
Health 
insurance
Consolidated 
healthcare 
business
Revenue 138,473 70,010 (18,776) 189,707 85,213 103,220 (30,959) 157,474 62.5% -32.2% 20.5%
COGS, insurance  
claims expense (78,891) (61,965) 18,465 (122,391) (48,810) (87,040) 30,732 (105,118) 61.6% -28.8% 16.4%
Gross profit 59,582 8,045 (311) 67,316 36,403 16,180 (227) 52,356 63.7% -50.3% 28.6%
Selling, general  
and administrative (23,776) (7,125) 311 (30,590) (12,220) (8,719) 227 (20,712) 94.6% -18.3% 47.7%
Other operating  
income 1,106 (14) – 1,092 3,236 (5) (6) 3,225 -65.8% 180.0% -66.1%
EBITDA 36,912 906 – 37,818 27,419 7,456 (6) 34,869 34.6% -87.8% 8.5%
Depreciation (6,998) (633) – (7,631) (5,195) (683) – (5,878) 34.7% -7.3% 29.8%
Net interest  
(expense) income (13,139) 332 – (12,807) (12,404) 2,723 – (9,681) 5.9% -87.8% 32.3%
(Losses) gains on 
currency exchange (2,819) 326 – (2,493) (4,157) 442 – (3,715) -32.2% -26.2% -32.9%
Net non-recurring  
items 314 (186) – 128 115 11 – 126 173.0% NMF 1.6%
Profit before  
income tax 14,270 745 – 15,015 5,778 9,949 (6) 15,721 147.0% -92.5% -4.5%
Income tax  
expense (1,143) (137) – (1,280) (455) (1,681) – (2,136) 151.2% -91.9% -40.1%
Profit 13,127 608 – 13,735 5,323 8,268 (6) 13,585 146.6% -92.6% 1.1%
Attributable to: 
 – shareholders of  
the Company 9,807 608 – 10,415 1,370 8,268 (6) 9,632 NMF -92.6% 8.1%
 – minority interest 3,320 – – 3,320 3,953 – – 3,953 -16.0% – -16.0%
 – Revenue from healthcare services increased 62.5% y-o-y to 
GEL 138.5 million in 2014, which is the result of acquisitions 
as well as organic growth. Revenue from referral hospitals, which 
are the main source of revenue for the healthcare services business, 
grew by 105.2% y-o-y, driven by both acquisitions and organic 
growth.
 – High double-digit growth of our revenue from healthcare 
services was primarily driven by the revenues from 
Government-funded healthcare programmes, which more 
than quadrupled y-o-y to GEL 80.8 million, reflecting the 
implementation of UHC. This was partially offset by an anticipated 
decline in revenues from private insurance companies, resulting in a 
46.2% y-o-y decrease in these revenues to GEL 25.2 million in 2014.
 – Notably, out-of-pocket payments by patients increased 7 4.3%  
to GEL 32.5 million. The UHC places coverage limits on medical 
treatments and has certain exclusions. Any charges in excess of  
the limit for services financed by UHC must be covered by patients 
out-of-pocket.
 – Margins improved, as a result of increasing utilisation and 
scale of our healthcare services business.
 – More than half of the growth in COGS comes from an increase  
in payroll costs, primarily attributed to recent acquisitions. Since  
31 December 2013 the headcount of our healthcare services 
business increased by 1,342 employees and reached 7 ,658  
full-time employees as of 31 December 2014.
 – In 2014, gross profit of our healthcare services business increased 
63.7% y-o-y to GEL 59.6 million, supported by the 61.6% growth  
in COGS on the back of a 62.5% increase in revenue during the 
same period.
 – Gross margin (which is defined as gross profit divided by revenue) 
improved to 43.0%, up from 42.7% in 2013. The handover of the 
margin-dilutive ambulance and rural primary healthcare service  
to the Government also had a positive effect on margins.
 – Our healthcare services business grew significantly in 2014, 
which is reflected in its selling, general and administrative 
expenses, with additional efficiencies yet to be realised. 
Primarily driven by recent acquisitions, SG&A expenses increased 
94.6% y-o-y, with salaries and other employee benefits constituting 
c.60% of this growth resulting from increased headcount.
 – Further cost synergies are expected mainly as a result of reducing 
inefficiencies in the acquired hospitals, as benchmarked against the 
previously managed healthcare facilities in the areas of procurement, 
process standardisation and payroll.
 – Post-acquisition synergies are not yet fully reflected in the current 
financial results, as the integration process is still ongoing for a 
number of recent acquisitions.
 – Our healthcare services business EBITDA reached GEL 36.9 million, 
up 34.6% y-o-y.
 – Net interest expense of the healthcare services business grew by 
5.9% y-o-y as a result of a 54.6% increase in borrowed funds raised 
for acquisitions as well as new project financing.
 – The increase in depreciation costs by 34.7% was primarily driven by 
the acquisitions completed during the past year.
 – Foreign exchange related losses have decreased 32.9% to GEL 2.5 
million in 2014, primarily as a result of the Company’s efforts during 
2014 to decrease foreign currency risk exposure on foreign currency 
borrowings, as compared to previous reporting periods, as well as 
potential future exposure. The Company has converted most of the 
borrowings into local currency and the rest was hedged, thus the 
short position was closed.
 – As a result, net income of our healthcare services business more 
than doubled on a y-o-y basis to GEL 13. 1 million up from 5.3 million.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 57 Referral and specialty hospitals N
Community hospitals Ambulatory clinics
+ Regions of presence
BLACK SEA
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AZERBAIJAN
ARMENIA
TURKEY
GEORGIA
Tbilisi
Telavi
Poti
15
15 15 15 15
220
15
20
15
15
70
70
134
19 15
26
N
50
110
70
15
25
Zugdidi
186
Batumi
Akhaltsikhe
Kutaisi
Akhmeta
Kvareli
Ninotsminda
Akhalkalaki
Adigeni Khulo
Shuakhevi
Keda
Kobuleti
Khobi
Chkhorotsku
Martvili
Tsalenjikha 
Abasha
Khoni Tskaltubo Tkibuli
Terjola
120
21
35
25
60
266
60
82
45
+
+
+
124
+
+
152
+
Two-thirds of 
population covered
2,140 hospital beds 
33 hospitals 
Six ambulatory clinics 
operated by GHG
Extensive geographic coverage
Network of healthcare facilities
GHG – Value creation
Project 
initiation
Testing the 
market and 
potential for 
value creation
Value  
creation
 – By the end of 2010, Bank of Georgia already  
had cumulative investment of GEL 20.7 million 
(US$11.7 million) in its insurance and healthcare 
business initiatives
 – 2012-2014 – Acknowledging the potential  
for growth and value creation of the GHG  
Group, Bank of Georgia additionally invested  
GEL 114 million (US$63 million)
 – GHG has turned into an undisputed leader in 
healthcare business in Georgia leveraging on 
its two pillars, EVEX and Imedi L
Disciplined investment strategy
(GEL million)
2011
Change during 
the period
2010 2012 2013 2014
81
21
21
21 33
53
53
Evolution of GHG’s number of beds
2011
Acquisitions
2010
Chart 4: Per capita expenditure on health, US$
Armenia Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Georgia Ukraine Belarus Bulgaria Poland Estonia Turkey Russia Japan Germany France UK USA
2012 2013
333
8,895
887
665
1,010
854
516
3,647
4,690
4,683
4,752
339
293
521
398
150
1269 60
220 821
570 195
790 1350
Georgia Healthcare Group
A unique investment story
 – Largest healthcare service provider in Georgia with 22.0% 
of market share by bed capacity
 – Over two-thirds of population covered
 – Operating 33 hospitals and six ambulatory clinics
 – 2,140 beds (85% of new beds)
 – Leading health insurance business with 36.7% market share,  
insuring 192,000 people
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 58
Segment discussion continued
Investment Business continued Before After
GHG Healthcare facilities
Renewed infrastructure
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 59 m
2
 Real Estate
Kazbegi Street
Start: December 2013
Completion: October 2015
Income statement
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Change, y-o-y
m
2
Mortgages Total m
2
Mortgages Total m
2
Mortgages Total
Net interest (expenses) income (524) 2,005 1,481 1,063 948 2,011 NMF 111.5% -26.4%
Net fee and commission expenses – – – (27) – (27) -100.0% – -100.0%
Net loss from foreign currencies (895) – (895) 123 – 123 NMF – NMF
Other operating non-interest income 13,751 – 13,751 10,505 – 10,505 30.9% – 30.9%
Revenue 12,332 2,005 14,337 11,664 948 12,612 5.7% 111.5% 13.7%
Operating expenses (5,468) – (5,468) (2,893) – (2,893) 89.0% – 89.0%
Operating income before cost  
of credit risk 6,864 2,005 8,869 8,771 948 9,719 -21.7% 111.5% -8.7%
Cost of credit risk (66) (16) (82) (185) 240 55 -64.3% NMF NMF
Net non-recurring items 18 – 18 (823) (1) (824) NMF -100.0% NMF
Profit before income tax expense 6,816 1,989 8,805 7,763 1,187 8,950 -12.2% 67.6% -1.6%
Income tax expense (1,022) – (1,022) (1,142) – (1,142) -10.5% – -10.5%
Profit 5,794 1,989 7,783 6,621 1,187 7,808 -12.5% 67.6% -0.3%
Our real estate business, the Bank’s wholly-owned subsidiary  
m
2
 Real Estate, develops residential property. m
2
 Real Estate 
outsources the construction and architecture works while focusing 
on project management and sales. The Bank’s real estate business 
is in place to meet the unsatisfied demand for housing through  
our well-established branch network and sales force, while 
stimulating our mortgage lending business.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 60
Segment discussion continued
Investment Business continued
56.7
98.4% presale
Sales in completed projects  
since 2011 (US$ million)
54.5
65.9% presale
Sales in ongoing projects 
since 2011 (US$ million) Highlights
Tamarashvili Street
Start: May 2012
Completion: June 2014
Chubinashvili Street
Start: September 2010
Completion: August 2012
 – Total revenue reached GEL 14.3 million, up 13.7% y-o-y. Operating 
expenses increased to GEL 5.5 million in 2014, predominantly due  
to increased marketing activity and expansion of the m
2
 Real Estate 
distribution network. As a result, profit for the period remained largely 
flat at GEL 7 .8 million in 2014.
 – m
2
 Real Estate enjoys strong demand, selling 574 apartments 
in 2014, which brings total apartments sold since 2010  
to 1,327.
 – Strong sales performance enabled us to prepay our US$5 million  
IFC debt facility in full in December 2014.
 – 99% of apartments sold in the second project that was 
completed in Q2 2014. Completed four months ahead of the 
completion deadline, the project has an estimated IRR of the 40%.  
As of the date of this announcement, 516 or 99% of 522 apartments 
had been sold. The total sales from this project amounted to 
US$46.8 million. 
 – Over 80% of apartments pre-sold at the two additional new 
projects launched in December 2013. m
2
 Real Estate launched 
its third and fourth projects: Kazbegi Avenue and Nutsubidze Street. 
As at the date of this announcement, m
2
 Real Estate had sold 253 
apartment or 86% of the total number of units in the Kazbegi Avenue 
project and 164 apartments or 7 4% of the total number of units in  
the Nutsubidze Street project. Sales totalled US$22.8 million and 
US$12.9 million, respectively, including mortgage financing of  
US$5.0 million and US$5.0 million, respectively.
 – 59% of apartments pre-sold at the fifth project started in 
July 2014. m
2
 Real Estate launched its fifth project: Tamarashvili 
Avenue and sold 158 apartments or 59% of the total number of units. 
Sales amounted to US$14.5 million, including mortgage financing of 
US$7 .6 million as of the date of this announcement.
 – 47% of apartments pre-sold at the sixth project launched  
in September 2014. m
2
 Real Estate launched its sixth project  
within m
2
 Real Estate’s new low-cost apartment initiative this time  
on Moscow Avenue, which will offer an unprecedented affordable 
price of as low as US$29,000 for refurbished one-bedroom 
apartments. Sales amounted to US$4.3 million, including mortgage 
financing of US$3.6 million. 
 – Number of apartments financed with our mortgages in all m
2
 Real 
Estate projects as of the date of this announcement totalled 583,  
with an aggregate amount of GEL 58.3 million.
 – Completed two bond offerings in June 2014. A US$10 million  
one-year bond placement at par with a coupon rate of 8.42%  
and a US$5 million one-year bond with a coupon rate of 9.5%.  
The US$10 million bond was issued following exceptionally  
strong interest in the bonds for the US$5 million issue, which  
left a US$3 million demand unmet.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 61 m
2
 Real Estate
Leading real estate development company
Total sales of US$111.2 million since 2011
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 62
Segment discussion continued
Investment Business continued
Kazbegi Street
IRR: 165%
Start: Dec 2013
Completion: Oct 2015
Apartments sold:  
242/295, 82%  
Sales: US$22.8 million
Tamarashvili Street II
IRR: 71%
Start: Jul 2014
Completion: Apr 2016
Apartments sold:  
158/270, 59% 
Sales: US$14.5 million
Significant potential of  
the project from sales of  
US$29,000 priced apartments 
with a current IRR of c.31%
Project Sales (US$ million)
Projects
Completed projects
Ongoing projects
0
10 
 
1 
 
2 
 
3 
 
4 
 
5 
 
6 
 
20 
 
30 
 
40 
 
50 
 
 Ongoing
 Completed
 Completed Ongoing Ongoing
Tamarashvili Street
IRR: 46%
Start: May 2012
Completion: Jun 2014
Apartments sold:  
512/522, 98% 
Sales: US$46.8 million
Chubinashvili Street
IRR: 47%
Start: Sept 2010
Completion: Aug 2012
Apartments sold:  
123/123, 100%  
Sales: US$9.9 million
Nutsubidze Street
IRR: 58%
Start: Dec 2013
Completion: Aug 2015
Apartments sold:  
164/221, 74% 
Sales: US$12.9 million
 Ongoing
Moscow Avenue
IRR: 31%
Start: Sep 2014
Completion: Mar 2016
Apartments sold:  
111/238, 47% 
Sales: US$4.3 million EBITDA dynamics
(GEL thousand)
2012 2013 2014 2012
49%
73% 60%
7,720
2,169
7,783
7,720
Kazbegi Street
Start: December 2013
Completion: October 2015
Project initiation
Fast-growing company
Revenue dynamics
(GEL thousand)
2012 2013 2014
4,153
11,664
12,332
12,332
 – 2010-2012 – Bank of Georgia made  
a cash investment of GEL 5.0 million 
(US$3 million) with an idea to develop 
problem land plots seized after 2008 
into an opportunity
Value creation
 – 2012-2014 – After successful 
completion of two projects and four 
ongoing projects, m
2
 Real Estate has 
become a leading real estate company 
with significant potential for growth
Testing the market and potential for 
value creation
Value creation
 – The Group generates an IRR of  
more than 40%, leveraging on  
m
2
 Real Estate’s successful track 
record of completed projects
63 Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information Dear Shareholders,
Our Board is committed to excellence in corporate governance. 
We see robust corporate governance as fundamental to  
the effective management of the business and a principal 
contributor to the long-term success of the Group, creating trust 
and engagement between the Group and our stakeholders. 
Through our governance practice we seek to create an 
environment in which transparency, honesty, integrity and 
fairness are valued and practiced by our employees every day. 
This inclusive environment helps us attract, retain and develop 
the best talent. The Group is committed to its customers and 
clients and works hard to act ethically and responsibly in all of 
its business dealings. 
In this part of the Annual Report, we explain our governance 
structures and the measures that we have taken to ensure that 
the Group continues to apply high standards of corporate 
governance. Given the importance of the work of the Board 
Committees, each Committee presents a separate report, 
which can be found later in this section.
Among the key corporate governance actions taken during the 
year, we would like to highlight the following:
 – We appointed an independent firm to conduct a formal 
evaluation of each Director’s skills and contribution and that 
of the Board as a whole and its Committees. We were 
pleased with the results of the evaluation and are confident 
that the Board has the right balance of skills, experience 
and diversity of personality to continue to encourage open, 
transparent debate and challenge. 
 – We adopted a Diversity Policy which reflects the Davies 
Report’s aspiration to promote greater female 
representation on listed company boards.
 – We formed a Risk Committee, which has served to further 
enhance the Group’s oversight of risk management and 
internal control.
 – We hosted an investor day in Tbilisi, with 70 investors 
participating. With our full Board and management present, 
the investor day gave us further opportunity to engage with 
our investors.
As our strategy and the environment in which we operate evolve, 
we are committed to ensuring that our corporate governance 
adapts so that we remain aligned with best practice. 
Neil Janin
Chairman
7 April 2015
David Morrison
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
7 April 2015
Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 64
Directors’ Governance Statement
Neil Janin
Chairman
David Morrison
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Compliance statement
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and to the date of 
this Annual Report, we applied the Main Principles and complied 
with the Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012  
(the Code) save for Section D.1.1, which recommends a three-year 
vesting period for all shares granted as part of remuneration. As 
described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and Remuneration 
Policy on pages 86 to 99, shares granted as discretionary 
compensation vest over a two-year period following the work year 
for which the discretionary compensation was earned. However, our 
overall remuneration package is weighted heavily to deferred share 
compensation and includes deferred salary shares which vest over  
a five-year period following the work year. As a result, the average 
vesting period for deferred share compensation exceeds the Code’s 
recommended minimum of three years. 
The Code and associated guidance is published by the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC) and is available at www.frc.org.uk.
Set out on our website at www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance 
is the Board’s assessment of its application of the Main Principles  
of the Code, as required by LR 9.8.6.
Relations with shareholders 
Continuous engagement
The Code and the FRC’s UK Stewardship Code require a dialogue 
with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives, 
a responsibility that BGH takes very seriously. 
The Board’s primary contact with institutional shareholders is 
through the Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 
CEO and Head of Investor Relations, each of whom provide a 
standing invitation to shareholders to meet and discuss any matters 
they wish to raise. Our Committee Chairmen also make themselves 
available to answer questions from investors.
We formally communicate with our shareholders via our AGM, 
Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year Report and website on 
which we publish Interim Management Statements. These are 
supported by a combination of presentations, telephone briefings, 
one-to-one meetings and investor meetings in the United Kingdom, 
Europe, the United States, Singapore and South Africa. 
As mentioned in our Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 
94 of this Annual Report, in the first quarter of 2014, members of our 
Remuneration Committee met with BGH’s significant shareholders  
as well as shareholder advisory groups to discuss and seek feedback  
on BGH’s and the Bank’s remuneration structure. Subsequent to the 
approval of our Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM, our Head of 
Investor Relations has continued to maintain dialogue with significant 
shareholders and the shareholder advisory groups in order to 
understand evolving expectations regarding remuneration. 
In September 2014, BGH hosted an investor day at the Bank’s 
headquarters in Tbilisi, which was open to all investors. This investor 
day provided the opportunity for investors to receive an update from 
the Board and executive management on strategy and performance 
as well as meet informally with the full Board and raise matters of 
interest. BGH was pleased to host 70 investors.
Prior to the announcement of our revised strategy in December 
2014, we met with many of our institutional investors to discuss  
the strategy and obtain their feedback. We meet with our 
shareholders to discuss our performance and financial results  
on an ongoing basis.
With respect to our major debt holders, we also maintain dialogue  
to discuss our funding strategy.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Board 
understands the views of major shareholders. The Board also 
receives a regular report from the Investor Relations team. Feedback 
from meetings held between executive management, or the Investor 
Relations team, and institutional shareholders or their representatives 
is also communicated to the Board.
Our website
All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the 
Annual Report, presentations to investors, key financial information, 
regulatory news, share and dividend data, AGM documentation and 
other significant information about BGH at http://www.bogh.co.uk/
en/corporate-governance.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 65 Leadership
The role of the unitary Board
Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote the long-term success 
of the Group by directing management in creating and delivering 
sustainable shareholder value. We do this by setting the Group’s 
strategy and overseeing its implementation by management. While 
our ultimate focus is long-term growth, the Group also needs to 
deliver on short-term objectives and we seek to ensure that 
management strikes the right balance between the two.
We are mindful of our wider obligations and consider the impact  
our decisions will have on the Group’s various stakeholders, such  
as our employees, our shareholders, our customers and clients, the 
environment and our community as a whole. In setting and monitoring 
the execution of our strategy, we aim to ensure that we maintain an 
effective system of risk management and internal control, so that 
growth is delivered in a controlled and sustainable way.
In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specific key 
decisions have been reserved for approval by the Board. A full formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board can be found 
on our website, at http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
Clearly defined roles of the chairman, 
CEO and Non-Executive Directors
Each of the Chairman, CEO and Non-Executive Directors has  
clearly defined roles within our Board structure. A description of 
these roles can be found on our website, at http://www.bogh.co.uk/
en/corporate-governance.
Operation of the Board
We schedule in person Board meetings at least four times a year,  
for a period of two to three days each time. We also hold meetings  
at our London offices, with Directors either attending in person or via 
teleconference. When the need arises, we will schedule additional 
meetings at short notice to discuss other matters relevant to the 
Board. In addition, in 2014, all Directors attended two dedicated 
strategy sessions and the annual investor day. In total, we met  
as a Board eleven times during the year.
At each regularly scheduled meeting, we receive reports from the 
Bank CEO and Deputy CEO (Finance) on the performance and 
results of the Group. The Deputy CEO of each of the business 
segments will regularly update the Board on the performance, 
strategic developments and initiatives in his respective segment 
throughout the year. The Bank’s Chief Risk Officer, Group Deputy 
CEO (Legal) and Group Head of Investor Relations also regularly 
present to the full Board. The Board also receives updates from 
Group operating functions on internal control, compliance, human 
resources and corporate responsibility matters.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all 
matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate 
point in the financial and regulatory cycle. 
The Chairman seeks input from the Non-Executive Directors  
ahead of each Board meeting in order to ensure that any particular 
matters raised by Non-Executive Directors are on the agenda to be 
discussed at the meeting. In addition, the Chairman meets with the 
CEO after each meeting to agree the actions to be followed up and 
to discuss how effective the meeting was.
Board Committees
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure there  
is independent oversight of financial, audit, internal control and risk 
issues, review of remuneration as well as oversight and review of 
Board and executive succession planning, the Board has delegated 
certain responsibilities to Board Committees. 
In 2014, the Board had four Committees, comprised of independent 
Non-Executive Directors: the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, 
the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.  
Each Board Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, which are 
approved by the Board and reviewed annually, and can be found on 
our website at http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on the 
matters discussed at Board Committee meetings. You will find later 
in this section reports from the Chairman of each Board Committee 
on the Committee’s activities in 2014 and priorities for 2015.
In addition, each Board Committee provides a standing invitation  
for any Non-Executive Director to attend Committee meetings  
(rather than just limiting attendance to Committee members).
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 66
Directors’ Governance Statement – Leadership 2014 Committee membership
Audit
Committee
Risk
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Neil Janin Chairman Member
David Morrison Chairman Member Member
Al Breach Member Member Chairman
Kim Bradley Member Chairman Member
Kaha Kiknavelidze Member Member Member
Tamaz Georgadze Member Member
Bozidar Djelic Member Member
Board and Committee meeting attendance
Details of Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2014 are as follows:
Board attendance
Board
meetings
eligible to 
attend/
attended
Audit
Committee 
meetings
eligible to 
attend/
attended
Risk
Committee 
meetings
eligible to
attend/
attended
Nomination 
Committee 
meetings
eligible to
attend/
attended
Remuneration 
Committee 
meetings
eligible to
attend/
attended
Neil Janin (Chairman) 11/11 2/2 2/2
Irakli Gilauri (Executive Director) 11/11
Non-Executive Directors
David Morrison 11/11 9/9 2/2 2/2
Alasdair Breach 11/11 4/4 2/2 2/2
Kim Bradley 11/11 9/9 4/4 2/2
Kaha Kiknavelidze 11/11 9/9 4/4 2/2
Tamaz Georgadze 11/11 4/4 2/2
Bozidar Djelic 11/10 4/4 2/2
Note that the Non-Executive members of the Board of BGH are identical to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 67 Board of Directors
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 68
Directors’ Governance Statement – Leadership 
continued
1. Neil Janin
Non-Executive Chairman
2. Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
3. David Morrison 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
4. Alasdair Breach 
Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 69
5. Kakhaber Kiknavelidze
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
6. Kim Bradley
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
7. Tamaz Georgadze 
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
8. Bozidar Djelic 
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 1. Neil Janin
Non-Executive Chairman 
Mr Janin was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 24 October 201 1 
and has been re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.  
Mr Janin serves as Chairman of BGH’s Board and Nomination 
Committee as well as a member of BGH’s Remuneration Committee. 
Mr Janin also serves as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the  
Bank and as a member of its Remuneration Committee, positions he 
has held since 2010. Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Janin  
will resign as Chairman of the Bank Supervisory Board, but will continue 
to be a member of the Bank Supervisory Board. Mr Janin is also a 
member of the Supervisory Board of GHG.
Skills and experience:
Mr Janin serves as counsel to CEOs of both for-profit and non-profit 
organisations and continues to provide consulting services to McKinsey 
& Company. Prior to joining the Bank in 2010, Mr Janin was a Director  
of McKinsey & Company, based in its Paris office, for over 27 years, 
from 1982 until his retirement. At McKinsey & Company, he conducted 
engagements in the retail, asset management and corporate banking 
sectors, and was actively involved in every aspect of organisational 
practice, including design, leadership, governance, performance 
enhancement and transformation. In 2009, while serving as a member 
of the French Institute of Directors, Mr Janin authored a position paper 
on the responsibilities of the Board of Directors with regards to the 
design and implementation of a company’s strategy. Before joining 
McKinsey & Company, Mr Janin worked for Chase Manhattan Bank 
(now JP Morgan Chase) in New York and Paris, and Procter & Gamble 
in Toronto. Mr Janin has practised in Europe, Asia and North America.
Mr Janin is also a Director of Neil Janin LTD, a company through  
which he provides his ongoing consulting services.
Education:
Mr Janin holds an MBA from York University, Toronto, and a joint honours 
degree in Economics and Accounting from McGill University, Montreal.
2. Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an Executive Director of BGH on  
24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders at each 
AGM thereafter. Mr Gilauri has served as CEO of BGH since his 
appointment in 2011, and also serves as CEO of the Bank, a position 
he has held since May 2006. Mr Gilauri is also Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board of GHG, insurance company Aldagi and the  
Tree of Life Foundation and a member of the Supervisory Board  
of the following subsidiaries: Agron Group, BNB, Galt & Taggart 
Holdings and m
2
 Real Estate. Mr Gilauri has also recently joined the 
Supervisory Board of GGU.
Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Gilauri will resign from his 
position as CEO of the Bank and will assume the role of Chairman of 
the Bank Supervisory Board and CEO of the newly formed Georgian 
holding company.
Skills and experience:
Before his employment with the Bank, Mr Gilauri was a banker  
at the EBRD’s Tbilisi and London offices for five years, where  
he worked on transactions involving debt and private equity 
investments in Georgian companies.
Education:
Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree in Business Studies, 
Economics and Finance from the University of Limerick, Ireland, in 
1998. He was later awarded the Chevening Scholarship, granted  
by the British Council, to study at the Cass Business School of  
City University, London, where he obtained his MSc in Banking  
and International Finance.
3. David Morrison
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
David Morrison was appointed as the Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director of BGH on 24 October 2011 and has been 
re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter. Mr Morrison 
assumed the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee in December 
2013, prior to which he served as a member of the Committee.  
Mr Morrison is also a member of BGH’s Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees, and serves as Vice-Chairman of the 
Bank’s Supervisory Board and as a member of the Bank’s Audit  
and Remuneration Committees, positions he has held since 2010. 
Mr Morrison is also a member of the Supervisory Board of GHG. 
Skills and experience:
Prior to joining the Bank Supervisory Board and Board of BGH,  
Mr Morrison worked for 28 years at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, where 
he served as Managing Partner of the firm’s Continental European 
offices. His practice focused on advising public companies in a 
transactional context, from capital raisings and IPOs to mergers and 
acquisitions. Key banking clients he advised include Banco Espirito 
Santo in Portugal and Germany’s development bank, Kreditanstalt 
für Wiederaufbau (KfW). He also served on the Board of Directors of 
KfW’s finance subsidiary for 20 years. Mr Morrison is the author of 
several publications on securities law-related topics, and has been 
recognised as a leading lawyer in Germany and France. 
In 2008, Mr Morrison became the Founding CEO of the Caucasus 
Nature Fund (CNF), a charitable trust fund dedicated to nature 
conservation in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, a position in which 
he continues to serve. 
Education:
Mr Morrison received his undergraduate degree from Yale College, 
received his law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, 
and was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Frankfurt.
4. Alasdair (Al) Breach
Independent Non-Executive Director
Al Breach was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
of BGH on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders 
at each AGM thereafter. Mr Breach serves as Chairman of BGH’s 
Remuneration Committee and serves as a member of BGH’s 
Nomination Committee and recently established Risk Committee.  
Mr Breach also serves as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board 
and Chairman of the Bank’s Remuneration Committee, positions he 
has held since 2010, and has also been appointed to the Bank’s 
recently established Risk Committee.
Skills and experience:
In 2013, Mr Breach founded Gemsstock Ltd., a UK FCA-regulated  
fund manager, where he also serves as an executive Director.  
In 2010, Mr Breach founded Furka Advisors AG, a Swiss-based asset 
management firm and served as an executive Director until founding 
Gemsstock Ltd. Gemsstock Ltd. manages the Gemsstock Fund, which 
was previously called the Gemsstock Growth Fund and managed by  
Mr Breach at Furka Advisors AG. His previous career was in research  
in investment banks, principally in Russia. In January 2003, Mr Breach 
joined Brunswick UBS (later UBS Russia) as Chief Economist, and later 
was appointed Head of Research and Managing Director until October 
2007 . From 1998 to 2002, Mr Breach was a Russia and FSU (Former 
Soviet Union) economist at Goldman Sachs, based in Moscow.  
Mr Breach is also the co-founder of The Browser.com, a web-based 
curator of current affairs writing, established in 2008.
Mr Breach serves as a director of Gemsstock Ltd., the Gemsstock 
Fund, The Browser and Furka Holdings AG, all of which are private 
entities. He is also an advisor to East Capital.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 70
Directors’ Governance Statement – Leadership 
continued Education:
Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics from the London School 
of Economics and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and 
Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
5. Kakhaber (Kaha) Kiknavelidze
Independent Non-Executive Director
Kaha Kiknavelidze was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director of BGH on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by 
shareholders at each AGM thereafter. Mr Kiknavelidze also serves  
as a member of BGH’s Audit and Nomination Committee and newly 
established Risk Committee. Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as a 
member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board and Audit Committee, 
positions he has held since 2008, and has also been appointed  
to the Bank’s recently established Risk Committee.
Skills and experience:
Mr Kiknavelidze is the founder and Managing Partner of Rioni Capital 
Partners LLP and an Executive Director of Rioni Capital Services Ltd,  
an investment management company he continues to operate from 
London. Mr Kiknavelidze has over 15 years’ experience in the equity 
markets, including serving as Executive Director of UBS, where he 
supervised the Russian oil and gas research team. Prior to joining UBS, 
he spent eight years at Troika Dialog, initially covering metals and mining 
and the utilities sectors and, later, as Deputy Head of Research and 
Associate Partner, leading the oil and gas team. Mr Kiknavelidze began 
his career at the Bank as a Financial Manager in 1994.
Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as an Executive Director of Scholae Mundi 
Foundation, a charity, and as a Non-Executive Director of the Georgian 
Stock Exchange and OAS Zontik SICAV, a Luxembourg based fund.
Education:
Mr Kiknavelidze received his undergraduate degree in Economics 
with honours from the Georgian Agrarian University in Tbilisi, 
Georgia, and received his MBA from Emory University.
6. Kim Bradley
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Kim Bradley was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of 
BGH on 19 December 2013 and was elected by shareholders at the 2014 
AGM. Mr Bradley serves as Chairman of the BGH Risk Committee and a 
member of BGH’s Audit and Nomination Committees. Mr Bradley was 
also appointed to the Bank Supervisory Board in December 2013. He 
also serves as Chairman of the newly established Bank Risk Committee 
and a member the Bank’s Audit Committee.
Skills and experience:
Mr Bradley retired from Goldman Sachs in early 2013, following  
15 years as a professional in the Real Estate Principal Investments 
and Realty Management divisions, where he focused on investment 
in both European real estate and distressed debt. 
In addition to his investment activities, Mr Bradley led Goldman’s asset 
management affiliates in France, Italy and Germany, where he was 
involved in financial and tax audits as well as management of internal 
audit activities. He has also served as President of Societa Gestione 
Crediti, a member of the Board of Directors of Capitalia Service Joint 
Venture in Italy and Chairman of the Shareholders’ Board at Archon 
Capital Bank Deutschland in Germany. Prior to Goldman Sachs, he 
served as a Senior Executive at GE Capital for seven years in both the 
United States and Europe, where his activities included real estate 
workouts and restructuring, as well as acquisitions. Prior to GE 
Capital, Mr Bradley held senior executive positions at Manufacturers 
Hanover Trust (now part of JP Morgan) and Dollar Dry Dock Bank. He 
has also served as a Peace Corps volunteer and as a consultant with 
the US Agency for International Development in Cameroon. 
Mr Bradley does not hold any other directorships.
Education:
Mr Bradley holds an MA in International Affairs from the Columbia 
University School of International Affairs and an undergraduate 
degree in English Literature from the University of Arizona.
7. Tamaz Georgadze 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Tamaz Georgadze was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director of BGH on 19 December 2013 and was elected by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Mr Georgadze serves as a member  
of BGH’s Risk and Nomination Committees. Mr Georgadze was also 
appointed to the Bank Supervisory Board in December 2013. He also 
serves as a member of the Bank’s newly established Risk Committee.
Skills and experience:
In 2013, Mr Georgadze founded SavingGlobal GmbH, a company 
which launched the first global deposit intermediation in Europe  
and he continues to serve as its Executive Director. Prior to founding 
this company, Mr Georgadze had a 10-year career at McKinsey & 
Company in Berlin, where he served as a Partner from 2009 to 2013. 
At McKinsey & Company, he conducted engagements with banks  
in Germany, Switzerland, Russia, Georgia and Vietnam, focusing on 
strategy, risk identification and management, deposit and investment 
products, operations and sales. Prior to joining McKinsey & Company, 
Mr Georgadze worked as an aide to the President of Georgia in the 
Foreign Relations Department from 1994 to 1995. 
Save for his role at SavingGlobal GmbH, Mr Georgadze does not 
hold any other directorships.
Education:
Mr Georgadze holds two PhDs, one in Economics from Tbilisi State 
University and the other in Agricultural Economics from Justus-
Liebig University Gießen, Germany. Mr Georgadze also studied Law 
at Justus-Liebig Universität Gießen and graduated with honours.
8. Bozidar Djelic
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Bozidar Djelic was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
of BGH on 19 December 2013 and was elected by shareholders at the 
2014 AGM. Mr Djelic serves as a member of BGH’s Risk and Nomination 
Committees. Mr Djelic was also appointed to the Bank Supervisory 
Board in December 2013. He also serves as a member of the Bank’s 
newly established Risk Committee.
Skills and experience:
Since January 2014, Mr Djelic has served as Managing Director in the 
Sovereign Advisory Department of Lazard, based in Paris. Mr Djelic also 
currently serves as a member of EBRD’s “Transition to Transition” Senior 
Advisory Group. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Prime Minister for 
European Integration and Minister of Science and Technological 
Development of Serbia from 2008 to 201 1. From 2007 to 2008, Bozidar 
served as sole Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, and as Governor of the 
World Bank Group and Deputy Governor of the EBRD. From 2005 to 
2007 , he was Crédit Agricole Group’s Director for Eastern Europe and 
the FSU, leading the acquisition and management of several banks in 
the region. From 2001 to 2004, Mr Djelic served as Minister of Finance 
and Economy of Serbia, leading the country’s macro and banking 
reform. From 1993 to 2000, he worked at McKinsey & Company in 
Paris and Silicon Valley, specialising in financial institutions, asset 
management and media. He has also held various advisory positions, 
including adviser to the Polish and Romanian Governments. 
Mr Djelic does not hold any other directorships.
Education:
Mr Djelic holds an MBA from the Harvard Business School, an MPA 
from Harvard’s J.F. Kennedy School of Government and an MA in 
Economics from the École de Hautes Études in Social Sciences.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 71 Management of the Group
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 72
Directors’ Governance Statement – Leadership  
continued
1. Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
2. Murtaz Kikoria
Deputy CEO, Finance 
(appointed 4 December 2014)
CEO, Georgia Healthcare Group 
(until 4 December 2014)
3. Nikoloz Gamkrelidze 
CEO, Georgia Healthcare Group 
(appointed 4 December 2014) 
Deputy CEO, Finance 
(until 4 December 2014)
4. Mikheil Gomarteli 
Deputy CEO, Retail Banking
5. Sulkhan Gvalia
Deputy CEO, Corporate Banking
6. Archil Gachechiladze
Deputy CEO, Investment Management
7. Irakli Burdiladze
Deputy CEO, Affordable Housing
8. Giorgi Chiladze
Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer
9. Avto Namicheishvili
Deputy CEO, Legal 1. Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
See details on page 70.
2. Murtaz Kikoria
Deputy CFO, Finance
Mr Kikoria was appointed as Deputy CEO (Finance) on 4 December 
2014, having previously served as the CEO of Georgia Healthcare 
Group since August 2014, following its split from Aldagi, where Mr 
Kikoria had served as the CEO since October 2012. Prior to this, Mr 
Kikoria served as Deputy CEO (Finance) of the Bank since June 201 1. 
Prior to this appointment, Mr Kikoria served as acting CEO of BG Bank 
(currently Bank Pershyi) since June 2009. Mr Kikoria also serves as a 
member of the Supervisory Board of Bank Pershyi. Mr Kikoria joined the 
Bank as Deputy CEO (Compliance) in August 2008. From 2005 to 2007 , 
Mr Kikoria served as a Senior Banker at EBRD. Prior to joining EBRD, 
Mr Kikoria served as Head of Banking Supervision and Regulation at 
the NBG from 2001 to 2005, having previously held various senior 
positions at United Georgian Bank and SilkRoad Bank. Mr Kikoria 
received an undergraduate degree from Tbilisi State University in 
Economics, specialising in Finance and Credit.
Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Kikoria will assume the role  
of CEO of the Bank.
3. Nikoloz Gamkrelidze 
CEO, Georgia Healthcare Group
Mr Gamkrelidze was appointed as CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group  
on 4 December 2014, having previously served as Deputy CEO 
(Finance) since October 2012. Prior to this appointment, Mr Gamkrelidze 
served as CEO of Aldagi. Prior to joining Aldagi, Mr Gamkreldize served 
as CEO of joint stock company My Family Clinic from October 2005 to 
October 2007 . Prior to joining My Family Clinic, Mr Gamkrelidze served 
as a consultant at Primary Healthcare Development Project (The World 
Bank Project) and worked on the development of pharmaceutical  
policy and regulation in Georgia. Prior to joining Primary Healthcare 
Development Project, he served at BCI Insurance Company as Head  
of the Personal Risks Insurance Department from 2002 to 2003.  
Mr Gamkrelidze started his career at the State Medical Insurance 
Company in 1998, where he worked for two years. He graduated  
from the Faculty of General Medicine of Tbilisi with distinctions, and 
holds an MA in International Healthcare Management from the  
Tanaka Business School of Imperial College London.
4. Mikheil Gomarteli 
Deputy CEO, Retail Banking
Mr Gomarteli was appointed as Deputy CEO (Retail Banking) in 
February 2009. Mr Gomarteli has been with the Bank since December 
1997 . During his 17 years of service with the Bank, Mr Gomarteli has 
held various senior positions, including Co-Head of Retail Banking (from 
March 2007 to February 2009), Head of Business Development (from 
March 2005 to July 2005), Head of Strategy and Planning (from 2004  
to 2005), Head of Branch Management and Sales Coordination (from 
2003 to 2004), Head of Branch Management and Marketing (from 2002 
to 2003) and Head of Banking Products and Marketing (from 2000 to 
2002). Mr Gomarteli received an undergraduate degree in Economics 
from Tbilisi State University.
5. Sulkhan Gvalia
Deputy CEO, Corporate Banking
Mr Gvalia assumed the position of Deputy CEO (Corporate Banking) in 
May 2013, prior to which he served as Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer) 
since January 2005, following the Bank’s acquisition of TUB, a mid-sized 
bank in Georgia co-founded by him in 1995. Mr Gvalia has 21 years of 
banking experience, holding management positions in risk, credit finance, 
strategy and treasury. Mr Gvalia received his undergraduate law degree 
from Tbilisi State University.
6. Archil Gachechiladze
Deputy CEO, Investment Management
Mr Gachechiladze assumed the role of Deputy CEO (Investment 
Management) responsibilities in May 2013, prior to which he served  
as Deputy CEO in charge of Corporate Banking. Prior to joining Bank  
of Georgia, Mr Gachechiladze served as deputy director in charge of 
Corporate Recovery at TBC Bank, Georgia, a position he held since 
August 2008. From 2006 to 2008, Mr Gachechiladze was an Associate 
at Lehman Brothers Private Equity (currently Trilantic Capital Partners)  
in London. From 1998 to 2004, Mr Gachechiladze served as a Senior 
Associate at Salford Equity Partners, a Senior Analyst at EBRD in Tbilisi 
and London, a Senior Financial Analyst at KPMG Barents in Tbilisi  
and as a Team Leader for the World Bank’s CERMA Project in Tbilisi.  
Mr Gachechiladze received his undergraduate degree in economics 
and law from Tbilisi State University and his MBA with distinction from 
Cornell University. He is also CFA Charterholder and a member of the 
CFA Society in the United Kingdom.
Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Gachechiladze will assume 
the role of Group CFO in addition to his current role.
 
7. Irakli Burdiladze
Deputy CEO, Affordable Housing
Mr Burdiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO (Affordable Housing) in 
2010. He previously served as Chief Operating Officer of the Bank from 
March 2007 to June 2010, after spending a year as CFO. Prior to joining 
the Bank, Mr Burdiladze served as CFO of the GMT Group, a leading  
real estate developer and operator in Georgia. As CFO, Mr Burdiladze 
was responsible for the Group’s capital-raising efforts and transaction 
structuring. Mr Burdiladze received a graduate degree in International 
Economics and International Relations from the Johns Hopkins University 
School of Advanced International Studies and an undergraduate degree 
in International Relations from the Tbilisi State University.
8. Giorgi Chiladze
Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer
Mr Chiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer)  
in September 2013. He rejoined the Bank having already served  
as Deputy CEO (Finance) from 2008 to 201 1. From 201 1 to 2013,  
Mr Chiladze worked at the Partnership Fund in the capacity of Deputy 
CEO. Mr Chiladze served as General Director of BTA Bank (Georgia) 
from 2005 to 201 1. Prior to joining BTA Bank, he was an executive 
member of the Supervisory Board of JSC Europace Insurance 
Company and a founding partner of the management consulting firm, 
Altergroup Ltd. Mr Chiladze had previously worked in the US at the 
Program Trading Desk at Bear Stearns in New York City, prior to 
returning to Georgia in 2003. Mr Chiladze received a PhD in physics 
from Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland and an 
undergraduate degree in physics from Tbilisi State University.
9. Avto Namicheishvili
Deputy CEO, Legal
Mr Namicheishvili has served as Deputy CEO (Legal) since July 2008, 
having previously been the Bank’s General Counsel since March 2007 . 
Before joining the Bank, Mr Namicheishvili was a Partner at Begiashvili  
& Co. Limited, a leading Georgian law firm, where he acted as the 
Bank’s external legal adviser from 2004. Mr Namicheishvili received 
undergraduate degrees in law and international economic relations  
from Tbilisi State University and received a graduate degree (LLM) in 
International Business Law from Central European University, Hungary.
Upon completion of the restructuring, Mr Namicheishvili will assume  
the role of Group Deputy CEO (Legal) in addition to his current role.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 73 Effectiveness
Board size, composition, tenure  
and independence
We consider that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, knowledge, 
experience, geographic location, nationalities and gender is  
important to effectively govern the business.
The Board and its Nomination Committee work to ensure  
that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, 
experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary  
to discharge its responsibilities in accordance with the  
highest standards of governance.
During 2014, our Board comprised eight members: the Chairman, 
the CEO and six independent Non-Executive Directors. We believe 
our overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard  
in particular to the independence of character and integrity of all  
of the Directors as well as the key technical expertise and skills in 
banking, risk, finance, technology and international business the 
Directors bring to their duties. No individual or group of individuals  
is able to dominate the decision-making process and no undue 
reliance is placed on any individual. The average tenure of our 
Non-Executive Directors is 3½ years.
We are committed to increasing the proportion of female 
representation on our Board. In 2013, when we refreshed our  
Board, female candidates were considered, but we were unable  
to find a female candidate with the right set of skills and expertise  
to assume a Non-Executive directorial role. We have adopted  
a Board Diversity Policy, details of which can be found in the 
Nomination Committee Report on page 77 of this Annual Report.
We have assessed the independence of each of the six Non-
Executive Directors and are of the opinion that each acts in an 
independent and objective manner and therefore, under the Code,  
is independent and free from any relationship that could affect their 
judgement. Each Non-Executive Director has an ongoing obligation 
to inform the Board of any circumstances which could impair  
his independence.
Details of the individual Directors and their biographies are set out  
on pages 70 and 71 of this Annual Report.
Evaluation of Board performance
The performance of the Board and its Committees is a fundamental 
component of BGH’s success. In 2014, we engaged Lintstock, an 
external effectiveness evaluation specialist to conduct an evaluation 
of the Board; the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees; 
the Chairman; and CEO.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the 
Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the context for the 
evaluation and to tailor the content of the surveys distributed to the 
Board. All Directors were requested to complete an online survey 
and interviews were then conducted with the Directors by two 
partners from Lintstock, to expand upon the issues raised in the 
questionnaires. The anonymity of all respondents was ensured 
throughout the process in order to promote the open and frank 
exchange of views.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the 
following areas of Board performance:
 – the composition of the Board, taking into account the Group’s 
strategic goals and diversity priorities;
 – the relationships between the members of the Board and 
between the Board and management, as well as the 
atmosphere in the boardroom;
 – the management of time of the Board, including the annual 
number of meetings, cycle of work, the Board’s agenda, as  
well as the content, format and timeliness of the Board packs;
 – the support and training needs of the Directors;
 – the clarity of the Group’s strategy, the Board’s testing and 
development of the strategy and the effectiveness with which 
the opinions of stakeholders are considered when drawing up 
the strategic plan;
 – the risk appetite of the Board, the information provided to the 
Board to support its oversight of risk, and performance of  
the Board in identifying and managing the main risks facing  
the Group;
 – the structure of the Group at senior levels, the succession 
planning for the CEO and key management positions beneath 
the Board;
 – the Board’s exposure to management and the ability of the 
Board to evaluate senior management; and
 – the composition and performance of the Committees, the 
performance of the Chairman, the CEO and the individual 
performance of the Directors.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 74
Directors’ Governance Statement – Effectiveness The results of the evaluations confirmed that the Board and the 
Committees were operating effectively. Excellent progress had been 
made in executing the Group’s strategy, succession planning for 
executive management, the communication of our remuneration 
policy and the oversight of risk management. No significant changes 
to the commitments of the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors 
were identified.
As a result of the review, among other things, the Board agreed that 
the top priorities for 2015 were monitoring the execution of the new 
strategy, particularly in its investment businesses, continued focus 
on management structure and Board composition, especially the 
addition of two female Directors over the next two years, and the 
continued oversight of the risk management, including the continued 
integration of the Risk Committee.
It is envisaged that Lintstock will conduct a follow-up review next 
year, in order to build upon the issues raised in this year’s process in 
greater depth. The review content for each subsequent evaluation  
is designed to build upon learning gained in the previous year to 
ensure that the recommendations agreed in the review are 
implemented and that y-o-y progress is measured.
Succession planning and Board appointments
We believe that effective succession planning mitigates the risks 
associated with the departure or absence of well-qualified and 
experienced individuals. We recognise this, and our aim is to ensure 
that the Board and management are always well resourced with the 
right people in terms of skills and experience, in order to effectively 
and successfully deliver our strategy. We also recognise that 
continued tenure brings a depth of Group-specific knowledge  
that is important to retain. 
The Board Nomination Committee is responsible for both Director 
and executive management succession planning. There is a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors to the Board. More detail on the role and performance  
of the Nomination Committee is on pages 76 and 77 of this  
Annual Report.
Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment
On appointment, our Non-Executive Directors are given a letter  
of appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their 
directorship, including the fees payable and the expected time 
commitment. Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit 
approximately 25 to 35 days per year to the role. An additional time 
commitment is required to fulfil their roles as Board Committee 
members and/or Board Committee Chairmen, as applicable.  
We are confident that all Non-Executive Directors dedicate the 
amount of time necessary to contribute to the effectiveness of  
the Board. The Letters of Appointment for our Non-Executive 
Directors are available for inspection at our Company’s  
registered office during normal business hours.
Board induction, ongoing training and  
professional development
On appointment, each Director takes part in an induction 
programme, during which he meets members of senior 
management below the Board level, receives information about the 
role of the Board and individual directors, each Board Committee 
and the powers delegated to these Committees. He is also advised 
of the legal and other duties and obligations of a Director of a 
premium listed company. Our Directors appointed in December 
2013 undertook induction training in February 2014.
We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors  
in order that they may build on their expertise and develop an 
ever-more-detailed understanding of the business and the markets 
in which Group companies operate. All of our Directors participated 
in ongoing training and professional development throughout 2014, 
which included briefings, site visits, development sessions and 
presentations by external speakers and professional advisors. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 75 Succession planning, gender diversity and an external valuation 
of our effectiveness were the key areas of focus of the work of 
the Nomination Committee during 2014. 
In line with the Group’s revised strategy announced in 
December 2014, the Committee recommended a Group and 
Bank management restructuring to best utilise the skills of 
management, in order to effectively implement our strategy.
Recognising the importance of diversity in all of its forms,  
our Board adopted a Board Diversity Policy in 2014, which 
reinforced the Board’s commitment to increasing female 
representation on our Board.
During the year, the Committee also selected and 
recommended the appointment of an external effectiveness 
evaluation specialist to assist with the evaluation of our Board, 
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, myself, 
as Chairman, and the CEO.
Neil Janin
Chairman of Nomination Committee
7 April 2015
The role of the Nomination Committee
The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist in ensuring that 
the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the 
responsibilities of Directors, having regard to the highest standards 
of governance, the strategic direction of the Group and diversity 
aspirations of the Board.
In summary, the Committee is responsible for:
 – reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees 
to ensure they are appropriately constituted and balanced  
in terms of skills, experience, independence and knowledge;
 – identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board 
based on clearly set criteria which takes into account the  
skills, experience and diversity required by the Board, and  
the attributes required of Directors;
 – developing succession plans for the Chairman, CEO,  
Non-Executive Directors and key senior managerial roles;
 – evaluating the suitability of Directors standing for re-election  
at the AGM;
 – evaluating the independence of the Non-Executive Directors  
and time required from Non-Executive Directors;
 – organising the process for the annual Board and Committee 
effectiveness reviews and implementing any plan required to 
address issues identified; 
 – reviewing and implementing the Group’s corporate governance 
policies and practices; and
 – preparing the report by the Committee to be included in the 
Annual Report.
The Committee’s full Terms of Reference are available on our website, 
http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
Nomination Committee Report
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 76
Directors’ Governance Statement – Effectiveness 
continued
Neil Janin
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Our key areas of focus during 2014 were the review of the 
composition and performance of the Board and in particular,  
the adoption of a Board Diversity Policy, which highlights our 
commitment to the appointment of female Non-Executive Directors 
as well as the development of a succession plan for key senior 
executives in line with the Group’s revised strategy.
The composition of the Committee and the members’ attendance 
during the year is listed on page 67 of this Annual Report. 
Succession planning and appointment process
Our Board succession plan developed in 2012 was successfully 
implemented in 2013 and resulted in significant changes to our 
Board structure. In December 2013, we saw the retirement of two 
non-independent Directors and a Director who had served the 
Board for nearly nine years and the successful appointment of  
three new Non-Executive Directors to our Board, resulting in all 
Non-Executive Directors being independent. 
With respect to succession planning for key managerial roles in  
line with revised Group strategy announced in December 2014, we 
recommended, and the Board approved, the following appointments:
 – As at 4 December 2014:
 – Murtaz Kikoria, then CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group,  
to the role of CFO of the Bank; 
 – Nikoloz Gamkrelidze, then CFO of the Bank, to the role  
of CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group; and
 – Ekaterina Shavgulidze, then Head of Investor Relations  
of Georgia Healthcare Group, to the role of Group Head  
of Investor Relations and Funding.
 – Upon completion of the corporate restructuring to separate  
our banking and non-banking businesses, which is expected  
to complete later this year, the following appointments will 
become effective:
 – Irakli Gilauri as Group CEO;
 – Archil Gachechiladze as Group CFO (in addition to his  
current role as Deputy CEO (Investment Management)  
of the Bank);
 – Avto Namicheishvili as Group Deputy CEO (Legal)  
(in addition to his current role as Deputy CEO (Legal)  
of the Bank);
 – Murtaz Kikoria as Bank CEO; and
 – Levan Kulijanishvili, our head of Internal Control,  
Security and AML Compliance, as Bank CFO.
We believe these changes to the management structure  
will complement the new strategy as well as best utilise  
management talent. 
In 2014, we continued to review the composition of our Board and 
spent a considerable amount of time discussing technical expertise, 
in light of non-core business growth, and gender diversity. I, as 
Chairman, also engaged with BGH’s shareholders and sought  
the advice of shareholder advisory groups in respect of gender 
diversity. In light of this, the Committee recommended, and the 
Board approved the Board Diversity Policy, which is detailed  
directly below. It is the responsibility of the Committee to oversee  
the Board’s implementation of the Policy.
The Board has a policy in place for the Board recruitment and 
appointment process.
In identifying suitable candidates, we may use open advertising  
or the services of external advisers to facilitate the search. 
Consideration will be given to candidates from a wide range  
of backgrounds, based on merit and against objective criteria, 
including taking care that appointees have enough time available  
to devote to the position, and with due regard for the benefits  
of diversity in all its forms on the Board.
Short-listed candidates selected by us will be seen in the first 
instance by the Chairman. If the selection process progresses 
further, the potential candidate(s) will be invited to meet other 
members of the Committee as a whole as well as members of 
management. We will then decide whether to recommend an 
appointment to the Board and the Board will decide whether  
to make the appointment.
Board Diversity Policy
The key statement and objectives of our Board Diversity Policy  
are as follows:
Statement:
Our Board embraces diversity in all its forms. Diversity of skills, 
background, knowledge, technical expertise, and gender, amongst 
other factors, will be taken into consideration when seeking to 
appoint a new Director to the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
any Board appointment will always be made based on merit.
Objectives:
 – The Board should ensure the appropriate mix of skills  
and experience to ensure an effective Board.
 – The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors  
who are independent in character and judgement.
 – The Board aims to increase the number of women on  
the Board to two within the next two years and further 
increase this number thereafter.
Progress:
Although no new Director was ultimately appointed to the Board  
in 2014, female candidates, in addition to other candidates from a 
diverse range of backgrounds, were interviewed throughout the year. 
Board effectiveness
It is the Committee’s responsibility to organise the Board, Committee 
and individual Director performance reviews. In 2014, the Committee 
recommended, and the Board approved, the appointment of 
Lintstock, a specialist external evaluator. Details of the process, 
results and 2015 action plan can be found on pages 74 and 75  
of this Annual Report.
Committee effectiveness review
Lintstock also performed the effectiveness review of the Committee 
in December 2014. The evaluation principally addressed how 
effectively the Committee reviews the composition of the Board  
and the Board Committees as well as develops and implements 
succession plans for both the Board and executive management. 
The evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate 
and perform effectively. 
Looking ahead to 2015
For 2015, the Committee will continue to focus on the composition 
of the Board, succession planning for the Board, with particular 
focus on increasing gender diversity on the Board, and succession 
planning for key managerial positions within the Group.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 77 Accountability
Directors’ responsibilities
Statements explaining our responsibilities as Directors’ for preparing 
the Annual Report and consolidated and stand-alone financial 
statements can be found on page 102 of this Annual Report.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely  
to affect its future development, performance and position are set  
out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 63 of this Annual Report. 
After making enquiries, we have a reasonable expectation that  
BGH and the Group, as a whole, have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Risk management and internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining the Group’s  
risk management and internal control systems. 
Our approach to risk is founded on a strong risk management 
culture. Managing risk is engrained in our everyday business 
activities and culture. We seek to create an environment where  
there is openness and transparency in how we make decisions  
and manage risks and where business managers own the risks  
and risk management processes associated with their activities. 
Our Board mandate includes determining the Group’s risk appetite 
and monitoring risk exposures to ensure that the nature and extent 
of the main risks we face are consistent with our overall goals and 
strategic objectives. We also assess the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control systems and focus on the 
resolution of any internal control failures that may arise.
The Group’s risk appetite is the amount and type of risk that  
we are prepared to seek, accept or tolerate. Through our senior 
management, we seek to embed the risk appetite we determine  
at the Board level in the policies and procedures implemented 
throughout the businesses of the Group. Our risk appetite evolves 
over time to reflect new risks and changes in external market 
developments and circumstances.
Our control framework is the foundation for the delivery of effective  
risk management. Our formal policies and procedures explain the  
way in which risks are systematically identified, assessed, quantified, 
managed and monitored. We clearly delegate authority levels  
and reporting lines throughout the management hierarchy and 
comprehensive reporting forms an integral part of our framework. 
With respect to internal control over financial reporting, our financial 
processes include a range of system, transactional and management 
oversight controls. Our businesses prepare detailed monthly 
management reports that include analysis of their results along  
with comparisons to relevant budgets, forecasts and prior results. 
These are presented to and reviewed by senior management.
Each quarter, the CFO presents a consolidated financial report  
to the Board.
The Risk Committee and Audit Committee support the Board in 
overseeing the risk management framework, the internal control 
infrastructure, monitoring risk exposures and reviewing the 
effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems. 
For a description of their work, please see their reports which  
can be found on pages 84 and 85 (Risk Committee) and 79  
to 83 (Audit Committee) of this Annual Report.
On a day-to-day basis, management is responsible for ensuring  
that the Group’s risk management and other internal control policies 
and procedures are embedded as part of the operations of each 
business. The systems in place are subject to regular review  
as circumstances change and new risks emerge. A robust  
internal reporting process is in place, which enables key risks  
to be escalated to the appropriate level of authority and provides 
assurance to the Committees and the Board.
The Committees and the Board regularly challenge management  
as to the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and 
internal control and promote their improvement.
In 2014, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of our risk 
management and internal control systems. Our internal control and 
risk management systems cover the Group’s financial reporting 
process and the Group’s process for preparation of the consolidated 
and stand-alone financial statements. For 2014, we were able to 
conclude with reasonable assurance that the appropriate internal 
control and risk management systems were maintained throughout 
the year. We also believe that the Group’s risk management and 
internal control processes comply with the Code and the FRC’s 
guidance on Risk Management and Internal Control and the 
guidance published by the Institute of Risk Management.
A detailed description of our risk management framework can  
be found on pages 36 to 43 of this Annual Report.
A description of the principal risks faced by the Group and an 
overview of recent trends and mitigation efforts can be found  
on pages 32 to 35 of this Annual Report. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 78
Directors’ Governance Statement – Accountability The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee remain  
the review of the Group’s financial systems and controls in order 
to ensure that they are operating effectively and oversight of  
the preparation of the Group’s financial statements, including 
significant judgements made that affect the reported results.  
We also oversee the work of the external auditors, approve  
their remuneration and recommend their appointment. 
The Audit Committee is also responsible for assisting the Board  
in ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
In 2014, both the Group and the environment in which it 
operates continued to evolve. Loan loss allowances remained 
the area of our principal focus, but we also looked at risks 
arising from our systems and controls, in particular, our IT 
controls, as well as the strength of our external and internal 
audit processes. We worked closely with the newly formed 
Risk Committee to ensure that responsibility for risk oversight 
was divided appropriately between the two Committees. 
We welcome the changes to the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code, and the FRC’s Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting, published in September 2014. These 
changes will apply to BGH from its 2015 financial year and will 
allow us to further strengthen our role as a key independent 
oversight committee adding value to the Group.
The Audit Committee has delegated authority from the Board set 
out in its written terms of reference, available on the Company’s 
website at http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance. 
Further details on how the Audit Committee discharged its 
responsibilities and concluded that it is effective are provided  
in this Committee report.
David Morrison
Chairman of the Audit Committee
7 April 2015
Audit Committee Report
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 79
David Morrison
Chairman of the Audit Committee Key purpose and responsibilities
The purpose of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review the Group’s financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness of internal 
financial controls and the internal and external audit processes. It also has an important role in the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all of which have 
been accepted during the year.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the table below. The full list of Committee responsibilities are in its written terms  
of reference, available on the Company’s website at http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance. 
Financial reporting
 – Monitors the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group, reviews  
the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies and the quality  
and consistency of the application  
of such accounting policies.
 – Reviews and challenges, where 
necessary, the actions, estimates  
and judgements of management,  
in relation to the interim and annual 
financial statements.
 – Reviews the content of the annual 
report and accounts and interim 
management statements and advises 
the Board on whether, taken as  
a whole, they are fair, balanced  
and understandable.
 – Assesses and challenges the going 
concern assessment undertaken  
by management.
Internal audit
 – Monitors the scope, extent and 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function and the internal  
audit programme.
 – Reviews the adequacy of the Group 
internal audit’s resources and standing 
within the Group.
 – Reviews and approves the internal 
audit policy and annual internal audit 
plan, including methodology, as well 
as any proposed changes to the 
planned scope of work.
 – Receives reports from internal audit  
on the control environment and 
considers the major findings of  
any significant internal audit, and 
management’s response.
 – Reviews internal audit’s self-
assessment of performance  
and assesses the effectiveness  
of the internal audit function.
Internal control and risk management
 – Reviews the effectiveness of systems 
and processes for internal control  
and risk management related to 
financial reporting.
 – Considers the major findings of any 
internal investigations into control 
weaknesses, fraud or misconduct  
and management’s response.
 – Monitors IT, cyber-security, 
compliance, corporate security and 
similar areas of operational risk.
External audit
 – Makes recommendations concerning 
the appointment, re-appointment and  
removal of the external auditor.
 – Oversees the relationship with the 
external auditor, including the terms of 
engagement (including remuneration) 
and their effectiveness, independence  
and objectivity.
 – Agrees the policy for and provision  
of non-audit services.
 – Agrees the policy on the employment 
of former employees of the external 
auditor.
 – Reviews the qualifications, expertise 
and resources of the external auditor 
and the effectiveness of the audit 
process.
 – Approves the annual audit plan, to 
ensure that it is consistent with the 
scope of the audit engagement and 
coordinated with the activities of 
Group’s audit team.
 – Reviews the findings of audits with  
the external auditor, considering 
management’s responsiveness  
to the auditor’s findings and 
recommendations.
 – Monitors the performance, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external audit 
by an annual assessment and also  
the results of any reviews published  
by the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Audit Quality Review.
Whistleblowing and conflicts  
of interest
 – Reviews arrangements by which  
staff may, in confidence, raise 
concerns about possible improprieties 
in matters of financial reporting  
or other matters.
 – Assesses actual and potential  
conflicts of interest and assists  
the Board in its review of the 
permissibility of such conflicts.
Key responsibilities
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 80
Directors’ Governance Statement – Accountability 
continued Composition of the Audit Committee and meetings
The composition of the Committee and the members’ attendance 
during the year is listed on page 67 of this Annual Report. Our 
Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non-Executive 
Directors.
With respect to the Committee’s qualifications and background,  
Mr Morrison is a trained securities lawyer who specialised in financial 
disclosure for over 25 years; Mr Kiknavelidze is a trained financial 
analyst skilled in financial statement analysis who manages his  
own investment fund; Mr Bradley served as a managing director at 
Goldman Sachs, where, immediately prior to joining the Company’s 
Board and Audit Committee, he sat on various audit committees 
within the organisation and assessed internal audit functions and 
internal controls. Our Committee believes that each member has 
recent and relevant financial experience in satisfaction of the 
requirements of the Corporate Governance Code. 
The biographies of the members of the Committee are set out  
on pages 70 and 71 of this Annual Report.
The Committee works to a planned programme of activities focused 
on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle and standing 
items that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference. Our 
meetings are regularly attended by the Bank CFO, head of Internal 
Audit, head of Internal Control, Security and AML Compliance and 
Risk departments, and occasionally by the Chief Risk Officer of 
the Bank and CEO. The external auditor also attends the regularly 
scheduled Committee meetings. We hold regular separate private 
sessions with the heads of Internal Audit and Internal Control, 
Security and AML Compliance departments and the external auditor. 
These sessions, which are not attended by management, allow us  
to discuss any issues of concern in more detail and directly with  
the audit teams. From time to time, other members of management  
are invited to attend meetings in order to provide a deeper level  
of insight into key issues and developments.
Meetings of the Committee take place prior to the Board meeting  
in order for the Committee to report its activities and matters of 
particular relevance to the Board.
Significant issues considered
With support and input from the external auditor, we considered  
the following primary areas of judgement:
Change in loan loss provisioning methodology  
and appropriateness of allowance for loan losses
As of 1 January 2014, the Bank introduced a new loan loss 
provisioning methodology. Developed in consultation with  
Deloitte, the new provisioning methodology is based on statistical 
assessment of probability of default and loss given default. The 
Committee has discussed the basis of the new methodology in 
detail with management and the external auditor and we believe  
that it is a refinement of the previous methodology and will allow 
better allocation of Cost of Risk.
In 2014, we continued to scrutinise the appropriateness of the 
allowance for loan losses. The main judgements arose around  
the timing of the recognition of any given impairment and the  
size of the loan loss. Throughout the year, management reported  
on the Bank’s principal borrowers as well as on the largest impaired 
and non-performing loans. Management also reported to us on  
the methodologies for identifying assets at risk, categorising the  
loan portfolio and determining provisioning rates, as well as the 
assumptions applied in calculating the provisions for loan losses.  
In connection with these reports, we challenged the underlying 
assumptions made by management with respect to individually  
and collectively impaired loans and the system of controls to  
prevent and detect errors in the estimation for loan losses. 
We were satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate. 
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in  
Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.
Systems of internal control
As the quality of Group’s financial statements are dependent  
on the effectiveness of our internal control systems, in 2014, we 
sought assurances on the design and operating effectiveness of 
these systems, with increased focus on the Group’s IT controls.  
We received reports from management on the design and operation 
of the internal control framework and the testing of these controls. 
While we have concluded that the internal controls and systems  
in place are effective and that the data and reports produced by 
these systems ensure that the financial statements are prepared to  
a high quality, we have asked internal audit to conduct a review of  
the financial control framework in 2015. We will also be looking  
closely at our IT systems this year.
Cyber risks
Data security is critical to our business, as it is for all banks. Cyber 
risk is monitored under the Group’s integrated control framework. 
Management reported on the frequency and impact of cyber 
attacks, and we determined that no material breaches of our 
firewalls occurred in 2014. We intend to focus even more carefully  
on cyber security risks in 2015. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 81 Oversight of internal audit and external audit
Internal audit
In addition to receiving internal audit’s input on the control 
environment, we monitor the scope, extent and effectiveness  
of the internal audit function and seek to ensure it is adequately 
resourced and focused on the correct issues. We also review  
and approve the annual internal audit plan which includes  
a discussion of risk assessment. We review the plan on a  
regular basis, including any changes proposed to the scope  
of work, as well as discuss and approve changes to internal  
audit methodology.
At each physical Audit Committee meeting in 2014, we received 
reports from internal audit on audit activities, progress of the  
internal audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the 
action plans to address these issues and resource requirements  
of the Internal Audit Department. We also reviewed and monitored 
management’s responsiveness to internal audit’s findings.
We also reviewed internal audit’s self-assessment of its performance 
and concluded that the internal audit function is effective and 
respected by management and conforms to the standards set  
by the Institute of Internal Auditors. 
External audit
We are responsible for monitoring the performance, objectivity  
and effectiveness of the external auditor. We assessed this in  
the light of the requirements of the UK Code and FRC guidance.  
In doing this, we considered:
 – the audit partner and the audit team, in particular the 
coordination between the EY London and Tbilisi teams;
 – the audit planning approach and execution; 
 – the role of management and management feedback  
on the performance of EY; 
 – communication with the Audit Committee; 
 – support of the work of the Audit Committee; 
 – the quality of EY’s insights and value-added assistance; 
 – independence and objectivity; and
 – the content of formal reporting.
We also considered the FRC’s inspection of EY’s audit of BGH,  
the Audit Quality Inspection Report of EY for 2013/2014 as well as 
other FRC guidance related to the role and method of evaluating  
the external auditor.
Following this evaluation, we formed our own judgement  
(which was consistent with management’s view) and reported  
to the Board that:
 – the audit team was sound and reliable, providing high-quality 
execution and service;
 – the quality of the audit work was of a high standard;
 – EY’s independence and objectivity were strongly affirmed; 
 – EY was in a strong position to challenge management  
on its approach to key judgements; and
 – appropriate discussions were held with the Audit  
Committee during the audit planning process.
Each year, we consider the reappointment of the external auditor, 
including the rotation of the audit partner. The external auditor is 
required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group every 
five years. The current lead audit partner has been in place for  
three years. It is our responsibility to recommend to the Board the 
appointment or reappointment or removal of the external auditor.
We are cognisant of the current and emerging requirements 
governing the appointment of external auditors, notably the 
mandatory re-tendering requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and Competition Commission. EY was appointed 
as our Group statutory auditor by shareholders at our 2012 AGM, 
following a competitive tender process and subsequent Audit 
Committee and Board recommendation. Shareholders reapproved 
EY’s appointment at the 2014 AGM. In light of the re-tendering 
requirements, we intend to carry out a review at an appropriate  
time between now and 2022.
We have sought assurance and are comfortable that no  
undue pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees  
so as to ensure that there is no risk to audit work being  
conducted effectively.
In order to further ensure independence of the external auditor,  
the Group has in place a policy to govern the non-audit services  
that may be provided by the external auditor, which sets out the 
circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to 
undertake non-audit services. Allowable services are preapproved 
up to £100,000. Any permissible non-audit service that exceeds  
this threshold requires approval from the Audit Committee and  
must be robustly justified and, if appropriate, tendered, before  
it is approved. 
The Audit Committee’s policy on tax advisory services is to not  
use the external auditor unless there is a very strong case for not 
seeking an alternative supplier. If non-audit services are undertaken 
by the auditor, the Committee receives a quarterly report on such 
non-audit services so that it can monitor the types of services being 
provided and the fees incurred. On an annual basis, the Committee 
reviews the Group policy on the provision of non-audit services in 
order to ensure that the objectivity and the independence of the 
external auditor is safeguarded and the terms of the policy are 
complied with fully by EY.
The auditor did not receive any fees for non-audit work in 2014. 
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited  
or allowed under our policy can be found on our website  
at http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 82
Directors’ Governance Statement – Accountability 
continued Review of the “fair, balanced and understandable” 
requirement in respect of Annual Reports 
Having been tasked by the Board to advise it, we examined  
the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether they  
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
We did this by satisfying ourselves that there was a robust process 
of review and challenge at different levels within the Group to ensure 
balance and consistency. In doing so, we directly reviewed the 
overall messages and tone of the Annual Report with the CEO and 
CFO. We also considered other information regarding the Group’s 
performance and business presented to the Board during the period 
as well as the Board’s re-formulation of the Group’s strategy in 
November 2014. After consideration of all of this information, we  
are satisfied that, when taken as a whole, the Annual Report is  
fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Committee effectiveness review
An externally facilitated review of the Committee was performed by 
Lintstock in December 2014. The evaluation principally addressed 
the composition of the Committee, the review and testing of the 
work of the internal and external auditors as well as the quality of 
financial reporting, the assessment of internal controls and risk 
management within the scope of the Committee’s responsibilities  
as well as the division of responsibilities between the Committee  
and the Risk Committee. The effectiveness evaluation concluded 
that the Committee operates and performs effectively. 
As mentioned above, our priorities for 2015 will be: the Group’s 
internal financial control system; the Group’s IT systems; and 
cyber-security. We will also continue to focus on provisions for  
loan losses and other areas where management judgement  
has a significant impact on our accounts.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 83 The BGH Risk Committee was established as of 1 January 
2014. Although both risk assessment and appropriate risk  
and return criteria are prevailing themes in BGH’s Board 
discussions, the Board decided that the creation of a specific 
risk committee would help strengthen risk management 
processes and oversight in the Group, and also provide a 
dynamic forum where the Committee, other Board members 
and senior management could escalate both risk concerns  
and risk management strategy recommendations.
The Committee is comprised of five independent  
Non-Executive Directors. 
Our initial focus in 2014 was to work closely with the Audit 
Committee to make sure that each Committee was clear about 
its primary risk coverage and where responsibilities overlap.  
As a result, we decided to schedule our Committee meetings 
back-to-back when possible given that some of our risk 
subjects require joint committee accountability and skill sets. 
The initial risk categories overseen by the Risk Committee 
include reputational, geopolitical, macro-economic and market, 
liquidity and capital, credit and certain operational risks  
within the Group. As to credit risk, our focus is principally  
on forward-looking matters.
As a key follow-up to our initial focus, the Committee and Audit 
Committee developed a risk matrix delineating the respective 
committee’s coverage and overlap, as well as specific senior 
management responsibility for oversight and execution.
Finally, to make sure that we think about risk dynamically, we 
have stressed that risk concerns should not be limited to items 
identified on our risk matrix and have encouraged Committee 
members, other Board members and senior management to 
escalate concerns and issues for discussion.
The Risk Committee has authority delegated from the Board set 
out in its written terms of reference, available on the Company’s 
website at http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance. 
Further details on how the Committee discharged its 
responsibilities are provided below.
Kim Bradley
Chairman of the Risk Committee
7 April 2015
Risk Committee Report
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 84
Kim Bradley
Chairman of the Risk Committee
Directors’ Governance Statement – Accountability 
continued Key purpose and responsibilities
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling  
its responsibilities in relation to the oversight of risk and to provide 
advice in relation to current and potential future risk exposures.  
This includes reviewing the Group’s risk appetite and risk profile  
and assessing the effectiveness of the risk management  
framework in place to address such risk. 
The Board’s approach to the management of risk is set out on  
page 78 of this Annual Report and our risk management framework 
is discussed on pages 36 to 43 of this Annual Report. The principal 
risks the Group faces are set out on pages 32 to 35 of this  
Annual Report.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: 
 – support the Board to ensure that risk appetite and  
exposure are addressed as part of strategy; 
 – oversee the risk management infrastructure and process;
 – oversee risk exposure and the implementation of our  
strategy to address risk;
 – support the Board in monitoring risk exposure and the 
implementation of our strategy to address risk;
 – oversee, support and evaluate the risk management  
roles of our senior management risk team; 
 – encourage and ensure open and broad discussion  
on perceived risk concerns and responsive efforts  
to mitigate when necessary;
 – assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management 
function and the effectiveness of risk reporting within  
the Group; and
 – review the effectiveness of the risk management framework.
The full list of Committee responsibilities are in its written  
terms of reference, available on the Company’s website at  
http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
Composition of the Risk Committee and meetings
The composition of the Committee and the member’s attendance 
during the year is listed on page 67 of this Annual Report. Our 
Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non-Executive 
Directors.
The biographies of the members of the Committee are set out  
on pages 70 and 71 of this Annual Report.
Our meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee, CEO, CFO, CRO and 
occasionally by our head of Internal Audit and our external auditor. 
From time to time, other members of management are invited to 
attend meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into  
key issues and developments. In addition, non-Committee Board 
members are also invited to attend. During 2014, the Committee 
held three joint meetings with the Audit Committee.
At each meeting, the Committee receives detailed reporting which 
provides an analysis of the Group’s overall risk profile, key risks  
and management actions, performance against risk appetite and 
potential risks the Group may face. The quantitative models and  
risk analytics used in assessing risk are also discussed with  
the Committee. 
Comprehensive stress testing is also performed throughout the  
year and the underlying assumptions, methodology applied and 
results of such tests are reported to the Committee. 
Meetings of the Committee take place prior to the Board meeting  
in order for the Committee to report its activities and matters  
of particular relevance to the Board.
Committee activities during 2014
Throughout the year, the Committee evaluated the design, 
completeness and effectiveness of the risk management framework 
focusing on the requirements of the Code, the FRC guidance in 
respect of risk management and the needs of our businesses. 
In addition to the work noted above on establishing a clear  
risk matrix and responsibilities, the Committee recommended  
changes to the content of reporting by management, management 
responsibilities and reporting lines to the Committee, all of which 
were adopted.
The Committee received regular reports on key risk exposures, 
emerging and potential risks, the drivers of risk throughout  
the Group as well as analyses of stress testing scenarios.  
The Committee assessed and challenged the appropriateness  
of the Group’s overall risk appetite and monitored the Group’s 
exposure against these appetites. With respect to emerging  
and potential risks, additional stress testing scenarios were 
requested and evaluated.
Effectiveness
The Committee assessed its own effectiveness and concluded  
that it was operating effectively. 
Priorities for 2015
Our priorities for this year will be: close monitoring of the US Dollar 
denominated loan book covered by Lari income; operational risks 
associated with IT and cyber security; the integration of Privatbank; 
and the implementation of investment business strategy.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 85 Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Our most important decision in implementing the Remuneration 
Policy this year was the approval of the discretionary 
compensation package of our CEO, Irakli Giluari. In addition, 
outside the scope of the Remuneration Policy, the Committee 
set the discretionary compensation of the other key senior 
officers with the results that we outline on the following pages.
Both the Committee and the Board measured Mr Gilauri’s 
performance against both his objective and non-tangible KPIs.  
The Bank met or exceeded the core ambitions, the Group 
continued to successfully develop fields in which it can grow, 
and Mr Gilauri continued to foster an excellent team and 
working environment. Overall, 10 of 13 objective KPIs set for  
Mr Gilauri were fully or substantially met, and for the each of the 
three that were not fully met, this was the result of business and 
strategic decisions taken by the Board during the year. The 
Committee and the Board rated Mr Gilauri’s overall performance 
in 2014 as excellent. In a normal year this would have meant a 
discretionary bonus award for Mr Gilauri at or near 50% of his 
total salary compensation (cash and salary shares) as per the 
Remuneration Policy. 
However, Mr Gilauri suggested that his actual bonus should be 
notably less. The reasoning underlying his proposal is that 2015 
may be considerably more difficult than last year, so as a 
demonstration to the Group of the need for cost discipline,  
Mr Gilauri felt that he and the group of senior officers he leads 
should take the lead by advocating a lower discretionary bonus. 
His suggestion, which was fully endorsed by the senior officers, 
makes us yet more confident that our compensation structure 
– the large majority of pay to the Group’s key management 
coming in the form of long-vesting shares – is the right one: 
these executives are aligned and keen to work in the best 
interests of the Company rather than their short-term gain.
As a Committee and Board we applauded Mr Gilauri’s proposal 
and backed it with enthusiasm: bonuses need to be not only 
about backward-looking results but also about the Group’s 
prospects and the overall context in which it is operating –  
and senior management taking responsibility for that context. 
Ultimately, the Committee determined to award Mr Gilauri 
discretionary compensation of 25,000 shares, representing 
27% of total salary and 55% of his maximum opportunity. 
As mentioned last year, the Committee will review both the 
number of salary shares Mr Gilauri receives and the maximum 
discretionary compensation in relation to those shares for  
Mr Gilauri in 2016 when his contract expires. In the meantime 
we are convinced that the combination of the substantial 
number of deferred salary shares and the potential to earn 
discretionary shares of a significant value keeps Mr Gilauri  
highly motivated and aligned with shareholders.
Throughout 2014, we communicated regularly with our 
shareholders and shareholder advisory groups to discuss and 
seek feedback on our Remuneration Policy. In response to a 
concern raised by one shareholder advisory group, we clarified 
matters regarding the discretion reserved by the Committee in 
respect of remuneration offered to new Executive Directors.
Looking ahead, we will continue to engage with our 
shareholders. Our approach to executive remuneration will 
reward achievement based on the delivery of our strategy  
and y-o-y performance, while at all times aligning the interests  
of executive management with our shareholders in order to 
promote the long-term success of the Group.
Al Breach
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 April 2015
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 86
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Al Breach
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual Report on Remuneration
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and  
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended), and 9.8.6R of the Listing Rules. This Annual Report on Remuneration 
(“Remuneration Report”) will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM. The information provided in this section, where  
stated, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Our Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, is summarised on pages 95 to 99 of this Annual Report.
 
1. The Remuneration Committee and its advisers
The Remuneration Committee considers matters relating to executive management remuneration and remuneration for other  
senior management. The Committee’s full Terms of Reference are available from the corporate governance section of our website,  
http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
The composition of the Committee and the member’s attendance during 2014 is listed on page 67 of this Annual Report.  
In addition to the formal meetings held during the year, the Committee participated in various discussions by telephone outside of  
these meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings who provided advice or assistance to the Committee on remuneration matters from time to time 
include the CEO, Irakli Gilauri, the other Board members and Avto Namichieshvili, Deputy CEO (Legal) of the Bank. Attendees at Committee 
meetings do not participate in discussions or decisions related to their own remuneration.
The Committee seeks advice from time to time from independent remuneration advisers. In 2014, we again engaged H2Glenfern to advise 
the Committee with respect to the remuneration policies for executive management. H2Glenfern voluntarily operates in accordance with  
the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom. 
H2Glenfern has confirmed that it has adhered to the Remuneration Consultant Group’s Code of Conduct throughout the year for all 
remuneration services provided to BGH and the Committee has therefore satisfied itself that all advice provided by H2Glenfern was 
objective and independent. H2Glenfern was paid a fixed fee of £9,120 for its remuneration consultancy services and does not provide  
services to the Group other than remuneration advice. 
The Committee also received advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, its legal advisors, on compliance and best practice. 
2. Shareholder context
At our AGM on 28 May 2014, the Directors’ Remuneration Report (including the Policy and the implementation report) received the  
following votes from shareholders. We were of course pleased with these outcomes.
Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 26,121,743 91.91 2,300,144 8.09 28,421,887 128,908
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 25,901,873 93.59 1,773,857 6.41 27,675,730 875,065
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 87 3. Directors’ remuneration
3.1 Single total figure of remuneration for the sole Executive Director (audited)
The table below sets out the remuneration received by BGH’s sole Executive Director, Irakli Gilauri, for 2014 and 2013 in respect of his 
employment with BGH and the Bank. 
Mr Gilauri’s February 2013 contract provides for cash and deferred share salary compensation fixed at 2013 levels. In addition, Mr Gilauri  
is entitled to discretionary deferred share compensation up to a maximum of 50% of total salary (including both the cash and deferred  
salary components). This figure was agreed in connection with the increase in the absolute market value of Mr Giauri’s fixed compensation  
(cash and deferred share salary) in 2013. The overall compensation arrangements with Mr Gilauri will be reviewed again in 2016. 
Over 83% of Mr Gilauri’s compensation for 2014 as set forth in the table below is in the form of deferred shares for which the average 
vesting period exceeds three years.
BGH and 
Bank
cash salary
(US$)
(Note 1)
Bank 
deferred
share salary 
(US$) 
(Note 2)
Total
salary
(US$)
Discretionary 
deferred share 
compensation 
(US$) 
(Note 3)
Taxable
benefits 
(US$) 
(Note 4)
Pension
benefits 
(US$) 
(Note 5) 
Dividend 
equivalents
(US$) 
(Note 6)
Total
(US$)
2014 437,500 1,954,157 2,391,657 654,250 961 1,785 93,368 3,142,021
2013 437,500 1,954,157 2,391,657 994,664 130 1,799 100,213 3,488,463
Notes:
1)  BGH and Bank cash salaries are expressed in US Dollars but paid in GBP and Lari, converted into the respective currency as described in Note 2 of the table in section 1 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy on page 95 of this Annual Report. Accordingly, there may be variations in the numbers above and those provided in the accounts.
2)  Deferred share salary. The figures show the value of BGH shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of service in the relevant year. For both 2013 and 2014, the award was 90,000 
BGH shares. The value is calculated by reference to the share price of US$21.71 (based on the official share price of £14.06 per share converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 
1.5443, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on 19 February 2013) as at 19 February 2013, the date the contract was signed. Under the deferred share 
programme, the option awards in respect of deferred share salary are formally granted in January of the year following the year to which the award relates (the “work year”) even though 
the number of deferred salary shares is fixed in the contract. The terms and conditions applying to deferred share salary, and an explanation of why it is not subject to performance 
measures, are described in section 1(a) of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy on page 96 of this Annual Report. 
3)  Discretionary deferred share compensation. The figures show the value of BGH shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of bonus awards in the relevant year. The value is 
calculated by reference to the share price as of the date of the award. For 2014, options were awarded on 19 March 2015 over 25,000 BGH Shares. For 2013, options were awarded on  
25 February 2014 over 25,000 BGH shares. The share price on 19 March 2015 was US$26.17 (based on the official share price of £17.77 per share converted into US Dollars using an 
exchange rate of 1.4727, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date; and the share price on 25 February 2014 was US$39.79 (based on the  
official share price of £23.85 per share converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.6682, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date). 
The discretionary compensation in respect of the relevant years is deferred and vests as to 50% in January of the year following work year and 50% in January of the next year, subject  
to the leaver provisions described in section 8 of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy on page 98 of this Annual Report. The means of determining the number of shares underlying this 
compensation and the terms and conditions are described in section 1(b) of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy on page 96 of this Annual Report. The basis for determining Mr Gilauri’s 
2014 discretionary awards is described in section 3.2 below. 
4)  Benefits. The figures show the gross taxable value of health and disability insurance and Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance. 
5)  Pensions. The figures show the aggregate employer contributions for the relevant years into the Group’s defined contribution pension scheme.
6)  Dividend equivalents. The figure shows the dividend value paid in respect of nil-cost options exercised in the relevant years.
7)  Mr Gilauri was reimbursed for reasonable business expenses, on provision of valid receipts.
8)  No money or other assets are received or receivable by Mr Gilauri in respect of a period of more than one financial year, where final vesting is determined by reference to achievement  
of performance measures or targets relating to the relevant period.
The following table sets out details of total remuneration for Mr Gilauri for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2014 and his 
discretionary compensation as a percentage of maximum opportunity. The Company does not have a LTIP and therefore the table does  
not include long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Single figure of total remuneration (US$) 1,982,622 1,707,425 1,827,674 2,002,386 3,488,463 3,142,021
Discretionary compensation as a percentage  
of maximum opportunity (%) 89.8% 31.7% 41.1% 94.9% 83.2% 54.7%
Notes:
1)  Single figure of total remuneration for 2013 and 2014 has been calculated in accordance with the table above. In 2013 and 2014, the maximum opportunity for Mr Gilauri was 50% of salary.
2)  In 2012, Mr Gilauri’s cash salary was US$437,500 and the value of the salary deferred shares was calculated by reference to the global depositary receipt (GDR) price on 25 May 2010 of 
US$10.20 per GDR. The award of discretionary deferred shares was 30,000 BGH shares in respect of 2012. The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 15 February 2013 
which was US$21.49 per share (based on the official share price of £13.84 per share converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5525, being the official exchange rate published 
by the Bank of England on the same date). The maximum opportunity in 2012 was less than 50% of Mr Gilauri’s total remuneration. 
3)  For 2011, Mr Gilauri’s cash salary was US$375,000 and the value of the salary deferred shares was calculated on the same basis as 2012. The award of discretionary deferred shares was 
34,000 BGH shares in respect of 2011. The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 6 March 2012 which was US$15.61 per share (based on the official share price of £9.92 
per share converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5738, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date). The maximum opportunity in 
2011 was 100% of Mr Gilauri’s salary, being US$1,293,000. 
4)  For 2010, Mr Gilauri’s cash salary was US$375,000 and the value of the salary deferred shares was calculated on the same basis as 2011 and 2012. The award of discretionary deferred 
shares was 20,000 GDRs in respect of 2010. The value is calculated by reference to the GDR price on 21 February 2011 which was US$20.50. The maximum opportunity in 2011 was 
100% of Mr Gilauri’s salary, being US$1,293,000.
5)  For 2009, Mr Gilauri’s salary of US$477,193 was paid solely in cash. The award of discretionary deferred shares was 150,000 GDRs in respect of 2009. The value is calculated by  
reference to the GDR price on 18 February 2010 which was US$10.00. The maximum opportunity in 2009 was 350% of Mr Gilauri’s salary, being US$1,670,176.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 88
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued 3.2 Basis for determining Mr Gilauri’s discretionary deferred share compensation in respect of 2014
Mr Gilauri’s KPIs include both objective and non-tangible components. The objective elements largely track the Group’s KPIs as he is 
expected to deliver on the Group’s strategy, but the KPIs also include non-tangible factors such as leadership, strategy development  
and implementation as well as corporate and social responsibility.
The following table sets out the objective KPIs set for Mr Gilauri in respect of 2014 as well as Mr Gilauri’s performance against them.
Key performance measure 2014 target 2014 performance Committee evaluation
Return on Average 
Equity (ROAE)
c.20.0% 19.0% Substantially met
Net loan book growth c.20.0% 23.8% Met
Client deposit growth c.20.0% 6.6% The KPI as written was not met. The target 
became irrelevant as corporate deposits 
were intentionally reduced during the year. 
Targets on attractive deposits were met, with 
a 24.2% and 18.5% growth increase in Retail 
Banking and Investment Management 
deposits, respectively.
Tier I Capital  
Adequacy ratio
c.20.0% 22.1% Met
Operating leverage Positive -4.1% This KPI was not met. This became 
impossible due to the Board’s decision to 
significantly expand our healthcare business 
through strategic acquisitions of healthcare 
facilities in which the cost savings could not 
be fully realised during the year. Operating 
leverage at the Bank on a stand-alone  
basis was flat.
Cost to Income ratio Continued improvement 42.8% in 2014 compared to 41.2% in 2013 Same comment as for operating leverage.
Net loans to customer 
funds and DFIs
100% 1 10.6% This KPI was not met, but the Board is 
comfortable at this level and net interest 
income improved as a result of the  
reduction in excess liquidity.
Net Interest Margin 7.0-7.5% 7.4% Met
Cost of Risk <1.5% 1.2% Met
Cost of Funding Decrease Decline from 5.9% in 2013 to 4.9% in 2014 Met
Express Banking
roll-out
Delivery on strategy A nearly 40% increase in Express Banking 
customers and doubling of the number of 
Express Pay terminals, exceeding expectations
Met
Revenue diversification
and growth
Delivery on healthcare, 
investment management 
and real estate strategy
13.6% increase in net non-interest income, with 
Healthcare, Investment Management and Real 
Estate revenue both increasing substantially  
in 2014
Met
Dividend per share Increase Increase from GEL 2.0 per share in respect of 
2013 to GEL 2. 1 per share in respect of 2014
Met
In terms of objective KPIs, 10 of 13 objective KPIs set for Mr Gilauri were fully or substantially met, and for the each of the three that were 
not fully met, this was the result of business and strategic decisions taken by the Board during the year. 
In terms of non-tangible factors, the Committee considered Mr Gilauri’s performance particularly strong. Most notably, he developed  
for consideration and adoption by the Board the re-formulated strategy announced by the Board in November 2014, and subsequently 
began implementing that strategy with the successful completion of the capital raising and negotiation and execution of the acquisitions 
of Privatbank Georgia and Georgian Global Utilities (which closed at the beginning of this year). In addition, the Committee was 
impressed by Mr Gilauri’s achievement in pursuing the Group’s ambitious social and environmental responsibility agenda, which  
is described on pages 24 to 31 of this Annual Report.
For 2014 overall, the Committee found that Mr Gilauri’s performance was excellent. He met or exceeded most of his KPIs as outlined 
above. In the end, the Committee determined that Mr Gilauri should be awarded discretionary deferred share compensation of 25,000 
shares – the same as last year, which was also a year of excellent performance. However, with the share price having declined from  
last year’s level, the value of the award, at US$654,250, is lower. It equates to 54.7% of his maximum opportunity. Our reasons for this 
reduction in the discretionary compensation value are explained in the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
As described in our Policy, we do not utilise a strict weighting of performance measures.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 89 For 2015, we plan to measure Mr Gilauri’s performance against KPIs which reflect the separation of our banking and investment businesses 
as well as the strategy of the Group as a whole as outlined below.
Banking Business
 – ROAE of 20%.
 – Retail loan book growth of 20%.
 – Positive operating leverage.
Investment Business
 – GHG IPO.
 – Delivering on investment business strategy.
 – Effective oversight of investment companies.
Group-wide
 – Implementation of the new Group management structure.
 – Coaching and mentoring of the management team.
 – Self-development.
3.3 Further details of fixed and discretionary contingent deferred share compensation granted during 2014 (audited)
The following table sets out details of the nil-cost options over BGH shares which have been granted to Mr Gilauri in 2014.
Deferred share salary Discretionary deferred share compensation
No. of underlying shares and  
basis on which award was made
90,000 granted on the basis described in  
the table in section 1 and section 1(a) of  
the Remuneration Policy.
25,000 granted on the basis described in  
the table in section 1 and section 1(b) of the 
Remuneration Policy.
Type of interest Nil-cost option Nil-cost option
Cost to Group (as reflected  
in accounts)
US$1,954,157 (see Note 1) US$994,664 (see Note 2)
Face value US$1,954,157 (see Note 1)
Cash payments equal to the dividends paid on  
the underlying shares will be made upon vesting.
US$994,664 (see Note 2)
Cash payments equal to the dividends paid on  
the underlying shares will be made upon vesting.
% of award receivable if  
minimum performance achieved
100% of the award will be receivable, since the 
award is part of the executive’s salary for 2013 
and accordingly is not subject to performance 
measures or targets over the vesting period. 
100% of the award will be receivable, since the 
award is based on 2013 performance (and is not 
a LTIP award) and accordingly is not subject to 
performance measures or targets over the 
vesting period.
Exercise price Nil. The options form part of the Executive 
Director’s salary under the policy and so no 
payment is required upon exercise.
Nil. The options make up the entirety of the 
Executive Director’s performance-based 
compensation and so no payment is required  
upon exercise.
Vesting period Five (5) years, with full vesting in January 2018. Two (2) years, with full vesting in January 2016.
Performance measures None. See section 1(a) of the Remuneration Policy. See section 3.2 above and section 1(b) of the 
Remuneration Policy.
Notes:
1) Figures calculated as described in Note 2 to the table in section 3.1.
2) Figures calculated as described in Note 3 to the table in section 3.1.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 90
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued 3.4 Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
The following table sets out details of the percentage change in the remuneration awarded to the CEO between 2013 and 2014, compared 
with the average percentage change in the per capita remuneration awarded to the Group’s employees as a whole between 2013 and 2014. 
See section 3.1 for an explanation of the increases in the salary and discretionary deferred compensation of Mr Gilauri. 
Percentage change 
for CEO between 
2013 and 2014
Average percentage 
change for Group’s 
employees as a whole 
(excluding Mr Gilauri) 
between 2013 and 2014
Total cash salary (combined BGH and Bank) (see Note 1) 0.0% 11.5%
Total deferred share salary (Bank) (see Note 2) 0.0.% 73.8%
Taxable benefits (see Note 3) 639.2% 7.1%
Total bonus (discretionary deferred share compensation, in the case of Mr Gilauri, 
and deferred discretionary share compensation plus cash bonus, in the case of  
other employees of the Group) -34.2% -8.2%
Notes:
1) Figures calculated as described in Note 1 to the table in section 3.1. 
2) Figures calculated as described in Note 2 to the table in section 3.1.
3) The value of Mr Gilauri’s taxable benefits increased from US$130 in 2013 to US$961 in 2014, as a result of an amendment to Mr Gilauri’s medical insurance policy.
3.5 Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors (audited) 
The table below sets out the remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director in 2014 and 2013. 
BGH fees (US$) Bank fees (US$) Total fees (US$)
2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014
Neil Janin (Chairman) 107,500 107,500 107,500 107,500 215,000 215,000
David Morrison 79,500 83,500 72,500 72,500 152,000 156,000
Allan Hirst
1
63,500 N/A 52,500 N/A 116,000 N/A
Al Breach 59,500 67,000 56,000 56,000 115,500 123,000
Kaha Kiknavelidze 59,500 67,000 56,000 56,000 115,500 123,000
Ian Hague
2
Waived N/A Waived N/A Waived N/A
Hanna Loikkanen
2
Waived N/A Waived N/A Waived N/A
Kim Bradley
3
Waived 70,500 Waived 59,500 Waived 130,000
Bozidar Djelic
3
Waived 56,000 Waived 45,000 Waived 101,500
Tamaz Georgadze
3
Waived 56,000 Waived 45,000 Waived 101,500
Total 369,500 507,500 344,500 441,500 714,000 950,000
1.  Allan Hirst resigned from the BGH Board and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 19 December 2013.
2.  Both Ian Hague and Hanna Loikkanen waived their entitlement to fees (which would have been US$48,500 each for BGH fees and US$37,500 each for Bank fees) in respect of 2013 as both 
were representatives of significant shareholders of BGH. Mr Hague and Ms Loikkanen also resigned from the BGH Board and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 19 December 2013.
3.  Kim Bradley, Bozidar Djelic and Tamaz Georgadze were each appointed to the BGH Board and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 19 December 2013. Each agreed to waive his BGH 
and Bank remuneration until 1 January 2014.
In 2014, no payments were made to past Directors, nor were payments made for loss of office.
3.6 Total Shareholder Return
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC TSR vs. the FTSE indices TSR
The following graph compares the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC with the companies comprising the 
FTSE All-Share Index, the FTSE 250 Index and FTSE 100 Index for the period since BGH’s listing on the Premium Segment of the LSE on 
28 February 2012 until 31 March 2015. 
Source: Thomson Datastream
150
100
50
200
Jun-13 Sep-13 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-13 Mar-14 Dec-14 Mar-13 Dec-12 Sep-12 June-12 Mar-12
250
%
Mar-15
28/02/12 
28/03/12 
28/04/12 
28/05/12 
28/06/12 
28/07/12 
28/08/12 
28/09/12 
28/10/12 
28/11/12 
28/12/12 
28/01/13 
28/02/13 
31/03/13 
30/04/13 
31/05/13 
30/06/13 
31/07/13 
31/08/13 
30/09/13 
31/10/13 
30/11/13 
31/12/13 
31/01/14 
28/02/14 
31/03/14 
30/04/14 
31/05/14 
30/06/14 
31/07/14 
31/08/14 
30/09/14 
31/10/14 
30/11/14 
31/12/14 
31/01/15 
28/02/15 
31/03/15 
● Bank of Georgia
● FTSE 100 Index
● FTSE 250 Index 
● FTSE All-Share Index
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 91 3.7 Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the difference in remuneration paid to all employees of the Group between 2013 and 2014 as well as the 
difference in value of distributions paid to shareholders by way of dividends between 2013 and 2014.
Remuneration paid 
to all employees of 
the Group
Distributions to 
shareholders by 
way of dividends 
Year ended 31 December 2013 (US$) (dividend for year 2012) 77,788,977 31,156,294
Year ended 31 December 2014 (US$) (dividend for year 2013) 82,532,004 38,437,970
Percentage change +6.1% +23.4% 
3.8 Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The following table sets forth the respective holdings of BGH shares of each Director as at 31 December 2013 and 2014.
As at 31 December 2013 As at 31 December 2014
Number of  
BGH shares  
held directly
Number of 
vested but 
unexercised 
BGH shares
held under 
option through 
deferred share 
salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
compensation 
(all nil-cost 
options with no 
performance 
conditions)
Number of
unvested and 
unexercised 
BGH shares
held under 
option through 
deferred share 
salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
compensation 
(all nil-cost 
options with no 
performance 
conditions)
Total number  
of interests in 
BGH shares
Number of  
BGH shares 
held directly
Number of 
vested but 
unexercised 
BGH shares 
held under 
option through 
deferred share 
salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
compensation 
(all nil-cost 
options with no 
performance 
conditions)
Number of
unvested and
 unexercised 
BGH shares 
held under 
option through 
deferred share 
salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
compensation 
(all nil-cost 
options with no 
performance 
conditions)
Total number 
of interests in 
BGH shares
Irakli Gilauri
1
60,831 – 323,000 383,831 161,131 – 322,000 483,131
Neil Janin
2
25,729 N/A N/A 25,729 35,729 N/A N/A 35,729
David Morrison 26,357 N/A N/A 26,357 26,357 N/A N/A 26,357
Al Breach
3
14,279 N/A N/A 14,279 16,400 N/A N/A 16,400
Kaha Kiknavelidze 26,337 N/A N/A 26,337 26,337 N/A N/A 26,337
Kim Bradley 0 N/A N/A 0 1,250 N/A N/A 1,250
Tamaz Georgadze 0 N/A N/A 0 0 N/A N/A 0
Bozidar Djelic 0 N/A N/A 0 0 N/A N/A 0
1.  In 2014, Mr Gilauri exercised options in respect of 116,000 BGH shares and acquired 7,500 BGH shares. As at the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gilauri’s shareholding was as follows:  
279,131 BGH shares held directly and 289,500 unvested and unexercised BGH shares held under option, resulting in a total number of interests in BGH shares of 568,631, representing 
1.44% of the share capital of BGH.
2.  At year-end 2014, NeilCo Ltd, a company wholly-owned by Mr Janin, held 10,000 BGH Shares. 
3. At year-end 2014, Gemsstock Growth Fund, which Mr Breach manages, held 20,000 BGH Shares. 
The Group’s Policy is heavily weighted towards remuneration in deferred salary shares and discretionary compensation in deferred 
shares. The long vesting periods, particularly, for deferred salary shares (five years), result in executive management having large 
holdings of unvested shares. Accordingly, the Group does not apply a shareholding guideline or impose a holding period on Mr Gilauri’s 
or executive management’s shares. The Policy naturally results in our executives holding a significant number of unvested shares and 
achieves a delay between performance and vesting. We believe these results are consistent with the principles of the Investment 
Management Association.
As reflected in the table above, Mr Gilauri held 279,131 vested shares and 289,500 unvested shares as at the date of this Annual Report. 
The vesting period for the majority of unvested shares exceeds four years.
None of Mr Gilauri’s connected persons have interests in any BGH shares.
The Group does not require Non-Executive Directors to hold a specified number of shares in BGH. Notwithstanding this, some  
Non-Executive Directors have chosen to become shareholders. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 92
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued 3.9 Details of Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment 
Letters of appointment are entered into by BGH with each Non-Executive Director, generally for three-year terms. The letters of appointment 
require Non-Executive Directors to provide one-month notice prior to termination. New BGH letters of appointment for each Non-Executive 
Director were signed on 10 April 2014, with each Non-Executive Director subject to annual re-election at the AGM. 
A succession plan adopted by the Board provides for a tenure of six years on the BGH and Bank Supervisory Boards. If the Board 
determines that, in order to maintain the balance of appropriate skills and experience required for the Board, it is important to retain a 
Director on the Board beyond the relevant six-year period, the Board may offer the Director a letter of appointment for an additional one-year 
term. Such a one-year “re-appointment” may be renewed no more than two times, with the effect that the usual six-year tenure may be 
extended to a maximum of nine years if circumstances were to warrant such extension. 
The table below shows each Non-Executive Director’s original date of appointment to the Board of BGH and the Supervisory Board of the 
Bank and the tenure of each individual at the Bank and BGH.
Original date of appointment*
Six-year term-end based 
on original Bank appointment
Six-year term-end based 
on original BGH appointment
Neil Janin December 2011 (BGH) June 2010 (Bank) AGM 2016** AGM 2016
David Morrison December 2011 (BGH) June 2009 (Bank) AGM 2015** AGM 2016
Al Breach December 2011 (BGH) June 2010 (Bank) AGM 2016 AGM 2016
Kaha Kiknavelidze December 2011 (BGH) February 2009 (Bank) AGM 2015** AGM 2016
Kim Bradley December 2013 (BGH and Bank) AGM 2020 AGM 2020
Bozidar Djelic December 2013 (BGH and Bank) AGM 2020 AGM 2020
Tamaz Georgadze December 2013 (BGH and Bank) AGM 2020 AGM 2020
*   As mentioned above, new BGH letters of appointment for each Non-Executive Director were signed on 10 April 2014 and therefore the unexpired term for each Non-Executive Director 
pursuant to the current letter of appointment is two years.
**  Neil Janin, David Morrison and Kaha Kiknavelidze have been offered extended letters of appointment in respect of their roles as members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank as their 
skills and experience continue to enhance the effectiveness of the Supervisory Board and their continued appointments are deemed to be in the best interests of the Bank.
4. Senior officer remuneration
In addition to the CEO of BGH and the Bank, in 2014, there were seven senior officers. These individuals include the Bank’s “Deputy CEOs” 
responsible for the following directions: Finance, Retail Banking, Corporate Banking, Investment Management, Legal and Affordable 
Housing, as well as the CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group. 
Key information regarding remuneration for senior officers is disclosed below in the interest of transparency, but the remuneration of senior 
officers is not subject to the Regulations or to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The principles and remuneration structure described in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy are currently applied in broadly the same way to senior officers. This means that, as for Mr Gilauri, senior 
officers receive remuneration based on two components: 
 – salary, which includes both a modest cash sum and deferred share compensation which vests over a five-year period; and 
 – a discretionary award, payable 100% in deferred share compensation vesting over a two-year period, which is dependent on  
both Group performance and the executive achieving his KPIs.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 93 4.1 Single total figure of remuneration for senior officers 
The table below sets out the remuneration received by each of the Bank’s senior officers for 2013 and 2014 in respect of his employment 
with the Bank.
2013 2014
Bank  
cash
salary
(US$)  
(Note 1)
Bank  
deferred  
share
salary 
(US$)
(Note 2)
Total 
salary  
(US$)
Discretionary 
deferred
share
com-
pensation 
(US$)
(Note 3 and
 Note 5)
Taxable 
benefits, 
pension
and
dividend 
equivalents
(US$)
(Note 4)
Total
(US$)
Bank  
cash
salary
(US$)  
(Note 1)
Bank  
deferred  
share
salary 
(US$)
(Note 2)
Total 
salary  
(US$)
Discretionary 
deferred 
share 
com-
pensation 
(US$)
(Note 3 and 
Note 5)
Taxable 
benefits, 
pension
and
dividend 
equivalents
(US$)
(Note 4)
Total
(US$)
Nikoloz 
Gamkrelidze 150,000 640,872 790,872 576,905 28,594 1,396,371 150,000 640,872 790,872 497,230 24,669 1,312,771
Murtaz 
Kikoria 150,000 534,060 684,060 716,158 30,444 1,430,662 150,000 534,060 684,060 549,570 29,332 1,262,962
Mikheil 
Gomarteli 150,000 534,060 684,060 616,692 42,670 1,343,422 150,000 534,060 684,060 549,570 36,762 1,270,392
Sulkhan 
Gvalia 150,000 534,060 684,060 616,692 34,354 1,335,106 150,000 534,060 684,060 314,040 36,524 1,034,624
Archil 
Gachechiladze 175,000 640,872 815,872 576,905 43,320 1,436,097 175,000 640,872 815,872 497,230 40,461 1,353,563
Avto 
Namichieshvili 150,000 640,872 790,872 576,905 44,444 1,412,221 150,000 640,872 790,872 457,975 42,611 1,291,458
Irakli 
Burdiladze 150,000 534,060 684,060 716,158 35,393 1,435,61 1 150,000 534,060 684,060 497,230 29,820 1,211,110
Notes:
1) Bank cash salary is expressed in US Dollars but paid in Lari.
2)  Deferred share salary. The figures show the value of BGH shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of service in 2013 and 2014, as applicable. The value is calculated by 
reference to the share price as of US$21.36 per share (based on the official share price of £13.80 per share converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5480, being the official 
exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date) as at 18 February 2013, the date of the service contracts. Under the deferred share programme, the option awards in 
respect of deferred share salary are formally granted in January of the year following the work year even though the number of deferred salary shares is fixed in the contract. The terms and 
conditions applying to deferred share salary, and an explanation of why it is not subject to performance measures, are described in section 1(a) of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
3)  Discretionary deferred share compensation. The figures show the value of BGH shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of bonus awards in the relevant year. The value is 
calculated by reference to the share price as of the date of the award. For 2013, options were awarded on 25 February 2014. The share price on 25 February 2014 was US$39.79 per share 
(based on the official share price of £23.85 per share converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.6682, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the 
same date). For 2014, options were awarded on 19 March 2015. The share price on 19 March 2015 was US$26.17 per share (based on the official share price of £17.77 per share converted 
into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.4727, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date). The means of determining the number of shares 
underlying this compensation and the terms and conditions are described in section 1(b) of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
4) See footnotes 4, 5 and 6 in the table provided in section 3.1.
5)  The number of BGH shares granted to the senior officers in respect of discretionary share compensation in 2013 and 2014 is as follows: Nikoloz Gamkrelidze: 14,500 (2013) and 19,000 
(2014); Murtaz Kikoria: 18,000 (2013) and 21,000 (2014); Mikheil Gomarteli: 15,500 (2013) and 21,000 (2014); Sulkhan Gvalia: 15,500 (2013) and 12,000 (2014); Archil Gachechiladze: 14,500 
(2013) and 19,000 (2014); Avto Namicheishvili: 14,500 (2013) and 17,500 (2014); and Irakli Burdiladze: 18,000 (2013) and 19,000 (2014).
4.2 Shareholdings of senior officers 
The following table sets forth the respective holdings of BGH shares of the senior officers as at 31 December 2013 and 2014.
As at 31 December 2013 As at 31 December 2014
Number of 
vested BGH 
shares* 
Number of 
unvested BGH 
shares
Total vested  
and unvested 
BGH shares
Number of 
vested BGH 
shares 
Number of 
unvested BGH 
shares
Total vested 
and unvested 
BGH shares
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze – 66,417 66,417 1,082 83,542 84,624
Mikheil Gomarteli 35,000 101,500 136,500 30,851 99,000 129,851
Sulkhan Gvalia 37,237 93,000 130,237 42,022 96,500 138,522
Archil Gachechiladze – 115,000 115,000 – 112,000 112,000
Avto Namichieshvili 50,000 116,500 166,500 61,664 112,000 173,664
Irakli Burdiladze – 88,500 88,500 – 98,000 98,000
Murtaz Kikoria 24,000 89,000 113,000 5,000 98,000 103,000
*  Including shares held by Connected Persons.
5. Committee effectiveness review and priorities for 2015
An externally facilitated review of the Committee was performed by Lintstock in December 2014. The evaluation principally addressed  
the composition of the Committee, the structure and effectiveness of the Remuneration Policy and the performance evaluation process.  
The effectiveness evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate and perform effectively. 
Our priorities for this year will be: agreement of new contracts for those senior officers whose contracts expire in 2015; commencement of 
discussion regarding the terms of Mr Gilauri’s 2016 service agreement; increase in the number of Committee meetings, with the implementation 
of a formal review cycle, focused first on setting executive management KPIs, then on their performance evaluations and finally determination of 
discretionary compensation; and improvement in the exchange of information with the full Board.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 94
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The table below is a summary of the Group’s Policy on the remuneration of Directors, as approved by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM. The 
approved Policy (which has not been amended) is valid for three years from the date of the 2014 AGM and will not be presented to shareholders 
for approval at the 2015 AGM. A short-term summary of the key provisions of the Policy has been included below to provide context to  
the discussion of the implementation of the Policy in the Director’s Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 94 of this Annual Report. Please  
refer to the 2014 Annual Report for the full Policy which was approved by the shareholders and which is also available on our website,  
http://www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance. There will be no significant changes between the Policy and its implementation in 2015.
1. Executive Director remuneration policy
Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity
Salary in the 
form of cash and 
deferred shares 
Cash salary
 – Modest yet sufficient to cover 
reasonable living expenses  
and, when combined with the 
other elements of the package, 
competitive enough to attract, 
retain and develop high- 
calibre talent.
 – Reflective of the Executive 
Director’s duties to each of BGH 
and the Bank, respectively.
Deferred share salary
 – Fixed compensation in the form of 
nil-cost options over BGH shares 
which vest over a five-year period 
promotes the long-term success 
of the Group by closely aligning 
the Executive Director’s and 
shareholders’ interests.
Cash salary
 – Cash salary payable under the terms of the separate service contracts with BGH  
and the Bank (Note 2). The total amount payable under Mr Gilauri’s current contracts  
is US$437,500.
 – Reviewed upon renewal of the service contract.
 – There is no provision for the recovery or withholding of cash salary.
Deferred share salary
 – Awarded annually over the number of BGH shares under the terms of the service 
contract with the Bank (currently 90,000 per annum for Mr Gilauri under his contract  
with the Bank).
 – To be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee upon renewal of the service contract. 
The next review will be in 2016.
 – Awards are formally granted in January of the first year following the work year, and  
vest as to 20% in January of each of the second, third and fourth years following the 
work year, and as to 40% in January of the fifth year following the work year.
 – Dividends equivalent payments are made upon vesting (exercise of the nil-cost options) (Note 3). 
 – Unvested deferred share salary lapses upon termination by BGH or the Bank “for cause”  
or by the Director other than for “good reason” or if the Director does not remain 
employed by the Group or serve as a Director of a subsidiary of the Group (each as 
defined in the relevant service contract).
 – There is no provision for the recovery or withholding of deferred share salary.
Discretionary 
deferred share 
compensation
 – Annual performance-based 
compensation paid entirely in the 
form of nil-cost options over BGH 
shares which vest over a two-year 
period in lieu of a cash bonus  
or LTIP. 
 – Promotes the Group’s long-term 
success by closely aligning the 
Executive Director’s and 
shareholders’ interests. 
 – May be awarded annually from a pool of shares made available for such awards based 
on the performance of the Group and the Bank and the achievement of the KPIs set  
for the Executive Director by the Remuneration Committee for the work year. 
 – For Mr Gilauri, the maximum value of an award in a given year for the remainder of  
his service contract with the Bank is capped at 50% of total salary. For an Executive 
Director other than Mr Gilauri, an award will not comprise more than 125% of total  
salary, save that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to increase such award 
to a maximum 150% of total salary for performance that has resulted in outstanding  
benefits for shareholders.
 – Awards vest as to 50% in January of each of the second and third years following the 
work year.
 – Dividends equivalent payments are made upon vesting exercise of the nil-cost options (Note 3). 
 – Unvested deferred share compensation lapses on the same terms as deferred share 
salary, save that the Board has reserved the right to permit unvested discretionary 
deferred shares to vest irrespective of the Executive Director’s departure when such 
Executive Director departs on good terms with the Group. 
 – If at any time after awarding discretionary deferred share compensation, it has been 
determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial results for the financial 
year in respect of which the award was formally granted, the Board has the right to cause 
some or all of the award for that financial year or for any subsequent financial year that  
is unvested at the time of its determination, not to vest and to lapse.
Pension The provision of retirement 
benefits helps to attract and 
retain high-calibre talent. 
 – The Bank operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
 – The Executive Director and the Bank each contribute a minimum of 1% of the Executive 
Director’s gross monthly cash salary payable under his service contract with the Bank.
 – The Bank will match in additional contributions in a proportion of 0.2 to one, up to a 
maximum additional Bank contribution of 1% of gross monthly salary where the Director 
makes additional contributions up to 5% of gross monthly salary.
 – There is no provision for the recovery or withholding of pension payments.
Benefits Non-cash benefits are in line with 
Georgian market practice and are 
designed to be sufficient to attract 
and retain high-calibre talent.
 – Benefits consist of health insurance, disability insurance and Directors’ and officers’ 
liability insurance, mobile phone (including contract charges and costs of calls made 
during business trips abroad) and personal security arrangements (if requested by the 
Executive Director). 
 – A tax equalisation payment may be paid to a Director if any part of his remuneration 
becomes subject to double taxation.
 – There is no provision for the recovery or withholding of benefits.
Notes:
1)  A discussion of how we implemented the Policy in 2014 is set out on pages 86 and 94 of this Annual Report.
2)  BGH cash salary is converted from US Dollars to GBP at the exchange rate published by the Bank of England on each monthly payment date. Bank cash salary is converted from  
US Dollars to Lari at the exchange rate published by the National Bank of Georgia on each bi-weekly payment date.
3)  At vesting (upon exercise of the nil-cost options), the Executive Director receives (in addition to the vested shares) cash payments equal to the dividends paid on the underlying shares 
between the date the award was made and the vesting date. Dividend equivalents are paid in Lari as at the date dividends were paid to other shareholders. 
4)  Work year refers to the year following the year to which the award relates.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 95 (a) Salary 
The deferred share salary comprises the most important element  
of the Executive Director’s fixed annual remuneration and is 
commensurate with his role within the Group. By heavily weighting 
the base salary to deferred share compensation rather than cash, 
the Executive Director’s day-to-day actions are geared towards 
sustained Group performance over the long term. The deferred 
share salary component is neither a bonus nor an LTIP: it is salary 
fixed at the outset of each three-year service contract and is 
therefore not subject to performance targets or measures. That 
salary, however, increases or declines in value depending on Group 
performance over the five-year vesting period, aligning the Executive 
Director’s interests directly and naturally with those of shareholders. 
(b) Discretionary deferred share compensation 
The Group does not operate an LTIP because it believes there is 
sufficient long-term incentive built into its deferred share salary  
and discretionary deferred share compensation. No cash bonuses 
are paid to Executive Directors. Instead, individual and Group 
performance is rewarded through an award of discretionary deferred 
share compensation that vests over the two years following the work 
year. As discretionary deferred share compensation is awarded to 
reward past performance over the work year, it is not subject to  
any performance measures over the period from award to vesting.
The aggregate pool of shares available each year for awards of 
discretionary deferred share compensation for the Executive Director 
and all other members of executive management is determined 
annually by the Remuneration Committee in its discretion, based  
on a number of factors including:
 
 – financial objectives (e.g. ROAE, operating leverage and Cost  
to Income ratio); 
 – business growth objectives (e.g. net loan book growth and 
deposit growth and fee and commission generation); 
 – risk management objectives (e.g. capital strength, liquidity 
management and cost of credit risk); 
 – the performance of the Bank relative to its competitors in 
Georgia and in the light of overall global market conditions; and 
 – (the market value of the shares at the time the discretionary 
share award is determined.
 
The number of shares over which an individual Executive Director’s 
discretionary deferred share compensation will be granted is 
determined by the Remuneration Committee by reference to the 
performance of the Group and the Executive Director’s KPIs, which 
are set for the Executive Director by the Remuneration Committee  
at the start of the financial year and which reflect the Executive 
Director’s required contribution to the Group’s overall key strategic 
and financial objectives for the financial year. A description of the 
KPIs set for Mr Gilauri in respect of 2014 and his performance 
against these targets can be found on pages 89 and 90 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
While the Remuneration Committee has defined the set of factors to 
determine the aggregate pool of discretionary shares and evaluate 
an Executive Director’s performance, it seeks to steer away from 
defining a series of narrow objectives for its Executive Directors  
and does not utilise strict weighting of performance measures.  
A high level of discretion is intentionally maintained when determining 
the quantum of discretionary deferred shares awarded to each 
Executive Director. Even in a “good” year for an Executive Director 
(e.g. achievement of most of his KPIs), in a “bad” year for the Group 
(e.g. poor financial performance by it) the Executive Director could 
receive little or no discretionary share compensation. 
As mentioned in the Policy table above, the maximum value of 
discretionary deferred share remuneration that Mr Gilauri may be 
awarded in a given year for the remainder of his service contract  
with the Bank is capped at 50% of his total salary. 
(c) Equity compensation trust and dilution limits
An equity compensation trust has been established for the purposes 
of satisfying deferred share compensation awarded to Executive 
Directors and members of the Executive Management Team. The 
trust was originally established in 2010 and shares committed to the 
trust in 2010 will partially satisfy awards in respect of the 2014 work 
year. BGH will need to issue new shares or repurchase shares, or  
a combination of both, in order to ensure that there are a sufficient 
number of shares committed to the trust in order to satisfy awards. 
However, the Group has committed to shareholders that new shares 
issued in satisfaction of deferred share compensation from the  
time of the Company’s listing on the Premium Segment of the  
LSE will not exceed 10% of BGH’s ordinary share capital over  
any 10-year period.
(d) Business expenses
Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business 
expenses incurred in the course of carrying out duties under  
their service contracts, on provision of valid receipts. 
2. Legacy arrangements
It is a provision of this Policy that the Group will honour all pre-
existing obligations and commitments that were entered into prior to 
this Policy taking effect. The terms of those pre-existing obligations 
and commitments may differ from the terms of the Policy and may 
include (without limitation) obligations and commitments under 
service contracts, deferred share compensation schemes and 
pension and benefit plans. 
3. Consideration of shareholder views 
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback 
received on our remuneration structure each year as well as 
guidance from shareholder representative bodies, as we view 
shareholder input as key when shaping remuneration policy. In 2014 
and the first quarter of 2015, we met with a number of our significant 
shareholders to discuss our remuneration structure and engaged 
directly with several shareholder advisory groups. The feedback we 
received was positive and our shareholders were widely supportive 
of our executive remuneration structure, understanding that although 
it varies from a typical UK remuneration structure in that we do not 
operate an LTIP or give cash bonuses, the absence of cash bonuses 
and the dominance of deferred share compensation in the overall 
remuneration package creates a direct and natural alignment of 
shareholder and executive management interests. 
4. Consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group
The Remuneration Committee considers the pay and employment 
conditions of executive management (other than Directors) when 
determining an Executive Director’s remuneration as well as changes 
in pay and employment conditions across the Group as a whole  
in relation to the proposed pay for Directors. The Remuneration 
Committee consults with the Human Relations department, Executive 
Management and other employees during the year to seek feedback 
on the executive remuneration structure and takes such views into 
account when analysing its Policy. In 2014, the employees consulted 
confirmed that they were satisfied with the manner in which they were 
compensated. In taking this information into account in determining  
an Executive Director’s remuneration, the Remuneration Committee 
relies on its judgement, particularly given that international 
comparisons are the most relevant for senior management and  
the Georgian labour market is more relevant for other employees.
5. Comparison with Remuneration Policy for 
employees generally 
The components of the remuneration package for Executive 
Directors (as provided for by the Policy) are broadly the same as 
those for non-Board members of the Executive Management Team. 
Other members of senior management and middle management 
receive their entire salary in cash and do not receive a deferred  
share salary. Their bonuses may be either in the form of cash  
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 96
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued Maximum
(thousands)
US$3,591,605
US$3,232,444
US$2,394,403
Target
(thousands)
Minimum
(thousands)
Total remuneration opportunity for our
sole Executive Director (%)
Discretionary deferred share compensation
Fixed share salary
Fixed cash salary
14% 18%
61%
26%
12%
54%
33%
82%
and/or shares which vest over a three-year period following the 
award. All other employees within the Group receive a cash salary 
and may be eligible to receive cash bonuses, portions of which may 
be deferred until the publication of the audited annual results for the 
work year and/or based on continuous employment with the Group. 
The deferred portion of the cash bonus may also be reduced if it  
is revealed, upon completion of the annual audit, that the annual 
results published by the department where the employee works 
were incorrect in any material respect. All employees receive a 
competitive benefit package in line with Georgian market practice 
and are entitled to participate in the pension scheme on the same 
terms as applicable to Executive Directors. 
6. Total remuneration opportunity for our sole 
Executive Director 
The chart below shows the remuneration which Mr Gilauri, our sole 
Executive Director, could receive in respect of 2015 under the Policy 
at three different performance levels. It should be noted that, at the 
maximum level, over 87% of Mr Gilauri’s 2015 compensation will be 
in the form of deferred shares for which the average vesting period 
exceeds three years. At the minimum level, over 82% of Mr Gilauri’s 
2015 compensation will be in the form of deferred shares for which 
the average vesting is just under four years. 
Notes:
1)  Salary is comprised of cash, deferred share salary, benefits and pension contributions.  
Mr Gilauri’s total cash salary in 2015 in respect of both his service contract with BGH and the 
Bank will be US$437 ,500. The value of the deferred share salary payable for 2015 is calculated 
by reference to the share price as at the date Mr Gilauri’s service contract at the Bank was 
signed, being US$21.71 per share (the official share price of £14.06 per share as at 19 February 
2013 converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5503, being the official exchange 
rate published by the Bank of England on the same date), which is the value at which the shares 
were committed to the trust and underlies the determination of compensation expense in the 
Group’s income statement for the year. Deferred share salary in respect of 2015 will be formally 
granted in January and will vest from January 2017 to January 2020. For the purposes of this 
graph, we have used the value of pension and benefits for 2014 as we assume that pension  
and benefits in 2015 will be substantially the same.
2)  The means of determining the number of shares underlying the discretionary deferred share 
compensation and terms and conditions applying to this compensation are described in section 
1(b) above. Discretionary deferred shares in respect of 2015 will be formally granted in January 
2016 and will vest in January 2017 and 2018. 
3)  Minimum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives only fixed remuneration, 
comprised of cash salary, deferred share salary, pension contributions and benefits and the 
Remuneration Committee considers that the Group’s and/or the Director’s performance in  
2015 does not warrant any award of discretionary deferred share compensation.
4)  On target opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives fixed remuneration (as 
described above) and assumes a discretionary deferred share compensation award at 70%  
of the maximum opportunity for Group and individual performance which is in line with the 
Group’s expectation, which is excellent performance. 
5)  Maximum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives fixed remuneration (as 
described above) and a discretionary deferred share compensation award of 50% of total salary 
(i.e. the Remuneration Committee considers that the Group’s and the individual’s performance 
in 2015 warrant the highest possible level of discretionary deferred share compensation). 
6)  The value of deferred shares does not take into account any increase or decrease in share  
price over the vesting period or any dividend equivalents payable on vesting (upon exercise  
of the nil-cost options). 
7. Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy
In 2014, each member of the Board of BGH, with the exception of  
Mr Gilauri, served as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank. 
Fees for Non-Executive Directors on both the Board of BGH and the 
Supervisory Board of the Bank are paid solely in cash. Each member 
received a base fee and was further remunerated for membership on 
the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and/or Nomination 
Committee, if applicable. 
The Policy provides for a Non-Executive Director’s remuneration 
package to be comprised of the following elements:
Component
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation and opportunity
Base  
cash fee
 – Combined BGH 
and Bank base 
cash fee is 
competitive 
enough to attract 
and retain 
experienced 
individuals.
 – The Chairman  
and Senior 
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director receive 
higher base fees 
which reflect 
increased 
responsibilities  
and time 
commitment.
 – Cash payment on a quarterly basis.
 – Reviewed every three years by the 
Remuneration Committee. The next 
review will be in 2017 . 
 – The combined BGH and Bank  
base cash fee currently payable  
to Non-Executive Directors and 
Supervisory Board members is 
US$75,000 per year (US$37 ,500  
for each of BGH and the Bank).
 – The Remuneration Committee 
reserves the right, in its sole 
discretion, to amend and vary the 
fees if there are genuinely unforeseen 
and exceptional circumstances which 
necessitate such review and in such 
circumstances any significant 
increase shall be the minimum 
reasonably required.
 – The maximum aggregate BGH fees 
for all Non-Executive Directors which 
may be paid under BGH’s Articles of 
Association is £750,000.
Cash fee  
for each 
Committee 
membership
Additional fee to 
compensate for 
additional time  
spent discharging 
Committee duties  
for BGH and  
the Bank.
 – Cash payment on a quarterly basis.
 – Reviewed every three years by the 
Remuneration Committee. The next 
review will be in 2017 . 
 – Fees for committee membership 
range from US$7 ,500 to US$15,000 
per Committee, depending on the 
Committee and whether the 
Non-Executive Director is a 
Committee chairman or member.
Notes:
1)  Non-Executive Directors do not receive any deferred share salary or discretionary deferred 
share compensation, pensions, benefits or any variable or performance-linked remuneration  
or incentives. 
2)  Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses, including travel 
expenses, incurred in the course of carrying out duties under their letters of appointment,  
on provision of valid receipts.
3)  Non-Executive Directors who are appointed to the Board and/or to the Supervisory Board  
of the Bank by shareholders of BGH are required to waive any entitlements to fees which  
would otherwise be payable to them under the Policy for so long as they are appointees of  
a shareholder.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 97 8. Policy on payments for loss of office of the 
current Directors
The following paragraphs (a) to (c) describe the Group’s policy for 
payments on termination of Mr Gilauri’s service contracts with BGH 
and the Bank. In 2014 and as of the date of this Annual Report, Mr 
Gilauri is the sole Executive Director on the BGH Board. The Group’s 
policy for payments for loss of office for Non-Executive Directors is 
described in paragraph (d) below and its approach to payments for 
loss of office for future executive and Non-Executive Directors is 
described in section 9 below. 
The Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are  
kept for inspection by shareholders at BGH’s registered office.
(a) Termination of BGH service contract dated  
15 December 2011
Mr Gilauri’s service contract with BGH is for an indefinite term 
(subject to annual re-election at the AGM) and is terminable by either 
party on four months’ written notice. Where the service contract is 
terminated on notice, BGH may put Mr Gilauri on garden leave for 
some or all of the notice period and continue to pay his cash salary 
under the BGH service contract, provided that any accrued and 
unused holiday entitlement shall be deemed to be taken during  
the garden leave period.
BGH may terminate Mr Gilauri’s employment early with immediate 
effect and without notice and pay in lieu of notice in the case of, 
among other circumstances, his dishonesty, gross misconduct, 
conviction of an offence (other than traffic-related) or becoming  
of unsound mind. BGH may also terminate the agreement with 
immediate effect by payment in lieu of notice, in which case the 
payment in lieu of notice shall be solely in respect of cash salary  
due under the BGH service contract as at the date of termination  
of employment. 
(b) Termination of Bank service contract dated  
19 February 2013
Mr Gilauri’s service contract with the Bank is for an initial term  
of three years expiring on 1 May 2016, which may be renewed by 
agreement between the parties or terminated prior to the expiry of 
the term by either Mr Gilauri or the Bank. The Bank may terminate 
the service contract immediately without notice (subject to the terms 
set out below), whereas Mr Gilauri may terminate the contract upon 
three months’ written notice or such shorter period as is agreed  
with the Supervisory Board of the Bank. 
Separation payments
In the circumstances listed below where Mr Gilauri’s service contract 
is terminated, he is entitled only to accrued and unpaid cash salary, 
accrued but not yet paid dividend equivalents, benefits, holiday pay 
and reimbursement of business expenses: 
 – termination by the Bank for “cause” (cause being defined as 
gross and wilful misconduct, material repeated failure to perform 
his duties or breach of his obligations or conviction of a felony, 
among other circumstances);
 – termination by reason of death or disability (in which case he 
receives life or disability insurance benefits); or
 – termination by Mr Gilauri other than for “good reason” (good 
reason meaning uncorrected material breach of the service 
contract by the Bank which is not cured within 45 days upon the 
executive serving notice of breach or material and unremedied 
illegal or unethical behaviour by Bank employees which has been 
notified to the Board by the executive and the Board fails to react 
and cooperate with the executive in addressing the behaviour).
If Mr Gilauri’s service contract is terminated for any other reason,  
or is not renewed on substantially similar terms on expiry of the  
terms of the service contract, he is entitled to a separation payment 
equal to 12 months’ cash salary under the service contract plus  
any accrued and outstanding cash salary, holiday pay and 
reimbursement of business expenses. He will not be entitled  
to any additional severance or leaving allowance, reimbursements, 
pay in lieu of notice, benefits, compensation for sick leave or other 
similar payments other than in respect of his deferred share salary  
and discretionary deferred share compensation (as described below). 
The Bank may restrict Mr Gilauri from being employed in the  
financial industry and/or providing consulting or similar services  
to a competing financial institution for a period of up to six months 
following the termination of his employment, and will continue to  
pay him his full cash salary under the Bank service contract as 
compensation for his unemployment for the first four months of this 
period. In addition, the Bank may impose a two-year non-compete 
period in exchange for accelerated vesting of his deferred share 
compensation (as described below).
Deferred share compensation on termination
Mr Gilauri will be entitled to a pro-rata award of his deferred share 
salary in respect of any incomplete calendar year which he has 
worked, and may also be awarded discretionary deferred share 
compensation in respect of such incomplete calendar year if: 
 – his service contract expires and is not renewed upon substantially 
similar terms and he is not offered, or is offered and accepts, 
continued membership of the BGH and/or Bank Board; or
 – his service contract is terminated before its expiry date but  
he continues as a member of the BGH and/or Bank Board.
Mr Gilauri will not be entitled to any deferred share salary for 
calendar years covered by the contract period during which he  
has not worked.
Vesting and lapse of existing awards 
If Mr Gilauri’s service contract is terminated for cause or by him other 
than for good reason, his unvested deferred share compensation 
will, unless otherwise agreed with the Board, lapse on the 
termination date.
Any unvested deferred share compensation of Mr Gilauri will vest 
immediately if:
 – his service contract is terminated by the Bank other than for 
cause; is terminated by him for good reason; or expires and 
neither a renewed agreement nor Board membership is  
offered; or 
 – he ceases to be an Executive Director by reason of death, 
disability, injury, redundancy or retirement at normal retirement 
age; or
 – there is a change of control of the Bank or BGH. 
If Mr Gilauri’s service contract expires and he is offered but refuses 
membership of the board of a company within the Group, 50%  
of his unvested deferred share compensation will vest immediately  
and the remaining 50% will, at his discretion, either continue to vest 
as normal or he may acquire some or all of the underlying shares  
for a specified price based on the price of the shares on grant in 
accordance with the terms of the service contract plus a 10% annual 
increase from the respective grant date until the date of acquisition. 
In consideration for this vesting treatment, Mr Gilauri will be bound 
by a two-year non-compete period during which he may not be 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 98
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued employed by, provide consultancy services to or otherwise found  
or be a partner or associate of a commercial bank in Georgia (save 
that he may hold less than 5% of shares of a publicly listed bank). 
If Mr Gilauri’s service contract expires and is not renewed upon 
substantially similar terms but he is offered and accepts continued  
or renewed membership of the BGH and/or Bank Board, 50% of  
his unvested shares vest immediately and the remaining 50% shall 
continue to vest as normal.
If he subsequently ceases to be a member of the Bank and/or  
BGH Board, at Mr Gilauri’s discretion, unvested shares either 
continue to vest as normal or he may acquire some or all of the 
underlying shares for the specified price as described above.
Mr Gilauri will be paid cash payments equivalent to the dividends 
accrued on his deferred share compensation. Such payments will be 
made on the vesting date in respect of dividends paid from the date 
the award was made to the vesting date. Such cash payments shall 
accrue and be payable on any vested shares, even if Mr Gilauri’s 
service contract with the Bank has been terminated prior to vesting. 
The Bank will not pay any cash equivalent in respect of dividends  
on any deferred share compensation that has lapsed. 
(c) Previous service contract with the Bank dated  
25 May 2010
Any unvested awards granted under Mr Gilauri’s previous service 
contract with the Bank (for the period from 25 May 2010 until and 
including 30 April 2013) shall vest immediately on termination of his 
current service contract for any reason, except that (i) if his current 
agreement is terminated by the Bank for cause, any unvested 
awards shall (unless the Board determines otherwise) lapse, and  
(ii) if it is terminated by Mr Gilauri for any reason other than for  
good reason (and unless the Board determines otherwise to his 
advantage), 50% of the unvested awards will vest immediately and 
the remaining 50% will, at his discretion, either continue to vest as 
normal or the underlying shares may be acquired for the specified 
price as above. 
(d) Termination of Non-Executive Directors’ 
appointments
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors provide  
for a one-month notice period although BGH may terminate the 
appointment with immediate effect without notice or pay in lieu  
of notice if the Non-Executive Director has committed any serious 
breach or non-observance of his or her obligations to BGH, is guilty 
of fraud or dishonesty, brings BGH or him/herself into disrepute or  
is disqualified as acting as a Non-Executive Director, among other 
circumstances. Upon termination, the only remuneration a Non-
Executive Director is entitled to is accrued fees as at the date of 
termination together with reimbursement of properly incurred 
expenses incurred prior to the termination date.
9. Policy on the appointment of external hires  
and internal appointments
Any arrangement specifically established to recruit a new Executive 
Director would take the form of deferred shares. The value of these 
deferred shares would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, 
than the awards which the individual had to surrender in order to be 
recruited and the vesting period of such deferred shares would be  
a similar timeframe to the awards being bought out. The application  
of performance conditions and/or clawback provisions may also  
be considered, where appropriate.
The remuneration package offered to any new Executive Director 
would comprise the components described in section 1 above.  
A new Executive Director would be paid no more than the 
Remuneration Committee considers reasonably necessary to attract  
a candidate with the relevant skills and experience but such package 
would be capped at the annual total monetary value or the total 
number of shares currently awarded to executives at the equivalent 
level of seniority pursuant to existing contractual arrangements. The 
terms and conditions attaching to any component of the remuneration 
might be varied insofar as the Remuneration Committee considers it 
necessary or desirable to do so in all the circumstances. 
Relocation support for an incoming Executive Director and,  
where relevant, his or her family may be provided depending on the 
individual’s circumstances. BGH has not set a maximum aggregate 
amount that may be paid in respect of any individual’s relocation 
support, but it will aim to provide support of an appropriate level  
and quality on the best terms that can reasonably be obtained.
Any payment upon termination of a new Executive Director’s  
service contract would not exceed 12 months’ cash salary under the 
relevant service contract, plus any accrued and unpaid cash salary, 
benefits and holiday pay and reimbursement of any business 
expenses. The Group may also continue to pay a former Executive 
Director his full cash salary for any period following the termination  
of his appointment during which he is prohibited from competing 
with the Group. 
It is expected that the following vesting provisions will apply to 
deferred share compensation in the case of termination of a new 
Executive Director’s service contract: 
 – Unvested deferred share compensation would lapse upon 
termination of the service contract by BGH or the Bank for 
cause, termination by the Executive Director other than for  
good reason or if the Executive Director’s employment is 
terminated for any other reason and he is not offered continued 
membership of the Board or the Bank’s Supervisory Board. 
 – Unvested deferred share compensation would continue to vest 
in the normal way during the respective vesting period(s) upon 
termination by BGH or the Bank without cause, if the Executive 
Director’s service contract expires and he is not offered a new 
service contract on substantially similar terms on expiration or  
if the Executive Director ceases to be an Executive Director by 
reason of injury, disability, redundancy or retirement (at normal 
retirement age). 
 – Unvested deferred share compensation would vest immediately 
upon death of the Executive Director, termination of the service 
contract by the Executive Director for good reason or a change 
of control. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Board reserves the right to permit 
unvested deferred share compensation to vest irrespective of the 
Executive Director’s departure when such Executive Director 
departs on good terms with the Group. 
If an existing employee of the Group is appointed as an Executive  
or Non-Executive Director, any obligation or commitment entered 
into with that individual prior to his appointment will be honoured  
by the Group in accordance with the terms of those obligations or 
commitments, even where they differ from the terms of the Policy.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 99 Management report
This Directors’ Report together with the Strategic Report on  
pages 2 to 63 form the Management Report for the purposes  
of DTR 4.1.5 R.
Information contained elsewhere in the 
Annual Report 
Information required to be part of this Directors’ Report can be  
found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table  
below and is incorporated into this report by reference: 
Information
Location in 
Annual Report
Future Developments Pages 2 to 63
Directors’ Governance statement Page 64
The Board of Directors Pages 70 and 71
Nomination Committee Report Pages 76 and 77
Share capital Note 22 on pages 
162 and 163
Information on the Group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies, and its exposure to credit risk, 
liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk 
and financial instruments  
Notes 30 and 31 on  
pages 169 to 184
Articles of Association
BGH’s Articles of Association may only be amended by  
a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.  
The BGH Articles of Association are available on BGH’s  
website: www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
Share capital and rights attaching to the shares
Details of the movements in share capital during the year are 
provided in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements  
on pages 162 and 163 of this Annual Report.
In 2014, BGH did not buy back any shares or sell any treasury shares.
On 31 March 2015, there was a single class of 39,500,320 ordinary 
shares of one pence each in issue, each with one vote. The rights  
and obligations attaching to BGH’s ordinary shares are set out in  
its Articles of Association. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled, 
subject to any applicable law and BGH’s Articles of Association, to:
 – have shareholder documents made available to them;
 – including notice of any general meeting;
 – attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, 
either in person or by proxy; and
 – participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard  
to control of BGH. 
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than:
 – certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed  
by laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing;
 – pursuant to the Group Share Dealing Code, whereby the 
Directors and designated employees require approval to  
deal in BGH’s shares; and
 – where a person with an interest in BGH’s shares has been 
served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide  
BGH with information concerning interests in those shares.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in  
situations where BGH is legally entitled to impose such a restriction 
(for example under the Articles of Association where amounts  
remain unpaid in the shares after request, or the holder is  
otherwise in default of an obligation to BGH). BGH is not aware  
of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Results and dividends
BGH may by ordinary resolution declare dividends provided that  
no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by BGH’s 
Directors. The Directors may also pay interim dividends as appear  
to be justified by the profits of BGH available for distribution. 
As BGH is a holding company, BGH relies primarily on dividends  
and other statutorily (if any) and contractually permissible payments 
from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its 
obligations and pay dividend to its shareholders. 
As a result of the Bank’s strong financial performance and condition, 
the BGH Board intends to recommend an annual dividend of  
GEL 2.1 payable in British Pounds Sterling, which is subject to 
shareholders’ approval at the 2015 AGM. If approved, the dividend 
will be paid on 16 June 2015 to shareholders on the UK register of 
members at the close of business in the UK (6:00 pm London time) 
on 5 June 2015.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 100
Directors’ Report Powers of Directors
The Directors may exercise all powers of BGH subject to applicable 
legislation and regulation and BGH’s Articles of Association.
Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have 
adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and authorisation 
(if appropriate) of conflicts of interest, and these have been followed 
during 2014. BGH’s Articles of Association also contain provisions  
to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest so 
that a Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ fees are determined by the Board from time to time.  
Directors’ fees (as distinct from any salary, remuneration or other 
amount payable to a Director pursuant to other provisions of the 
Articles of Association or otherwise) may not exceed £750,000 per 
annum in aggregate or such higher amounts as may from time  
to time be determined by ordinary resolution of BGH. The fees  
paid to the Non-Executive Directors pursuant to their letters of 
appointment are shown on page 91 of this Annual Report.
Directors’ interests
The Directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of BGH as at  
31 December 2014 are shown on page 92 of this Annual Report.
Re-election of Directors
At the next Annual General Meeting, each Director will be put 
forward for re-election. 
Indemnity
Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director  
or other officer of BGH (other than any person engaged by the 
Company as auditor) shall be indemnified by BGH against any  
liability in relation to BGH, other than (broadly) any liability to BGH  
or a member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 33 to  
the consolidated financial statements on pages 188 to 190  
of this Annual Report.
Significant contracts and agreements
At no time during 2014 did any Director hold a material interest  
in any contracts of significance with BGH or any subsidiary  
of the Group. BGH is not party to any significant agreements  
that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change  
of control of BGH.
Political donations
The Group did not make any political donations or expenditures 
during 2014. 
Code of Conduct and ethics
The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to the  
lawful and ethical conduct of the business, supported by the  
Group’s core values. The Code of Conduct has been communicated  
to all Directors and employees, all of whom are expected to  
observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation  
to customers, staff and regulators in the communities in which  
the Group operates. Our Code of Conduct is available on our 
website: www.bogh.co.uk/en/corporate-governance.
Independent auditors 
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of  
BGH will be put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
Major interests in shares 
The table below lists shareholders with voting rights of more  
than 3% as of 31 March 2015 and their respective holdings as  
of 31 December 2014. 
Shareholder
As of 31 March 2015 As of 31 December 2014
Number
of voting 
rights
%
of voting 
rights
Number
of voting
rights
%
of voting
rights
Schroders Investment Management 4,577,357 11.59 4,920,177 12.46
Harding Loevner Management LP 1,989,257 5.04 1,705,475 4.32
Westwood International Advisors 1,591,053 4.03 1,296,971 3.28
Artemis Investment Management 1,426,692 3.61 1,266,435 3.21
Firebird Management LLC 1,295,121 3.28 1,332,961 3.37
Others 28,620,840 72.45 28,978,301 73.36 
Total 39,500,320 100 39,500,320 100 
Source: Georgeson, Computershare
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 101 The respective regulatory filings by shareholders are available  
on the BGH website: www.bogh.co.uk/en/announcements/
bank-of-georgia-holdings-plc/press-releases and the London  
Stock Exchange website: www.londonstockexchange.com/ 
news/news/finance.htm.
Annual General Meeting
Our AGM will be held at 10:00 am (London time) on Thursday,  
21 May 2015 at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, 
London EC4Y 1HS. Details of the business to be conducted at the 
AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
We are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Director’s 
Remuneration Report and the accompanying consolidated and 
stand-alone financial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and regulations. Company law requires us to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under the law, we have elected  
to prepare the accompanying consolidated and stand-alone financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and  
applicable law.
Under company law, we must not approve the accompanying 
consolidated and stand-alone financial statements unless we  
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs  
of the Group and BGH and of the profit or loss of the Group and 
BGH for that period.
In preparing the accompanying consolidated and stand-alone 
financial statements, we are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are  
reasonable and prudent; 
 – state whether they have been prepared in accordance with  
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any  
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and 
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that BGH will continue  
in business.
We are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain BGH’s and the Group’s 
transactions, to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of BGH and the Group, and to enable us to ensure 
that the consolidated and stand-alone financial statements and  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies  
Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated and stand-alone  
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have further responsibility for safeguarding the assets of BGH 
and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
We are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
BGH’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation  
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Statement of disclosure of information to  
the auditor
We confirm that, so far as we are aware, there is no relevant  
audit information of which BGH’s auditors are unaware and we have 
taken all steps that we reasonably should have taken as Directors  
in order to make ourselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that BGH’s statutory auditors are aware of such 
information.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the consolidated and stand-alone financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of BGH 
and the Group taken as a whole; 
 – the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business  
and the position of BGH and Group taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face; and 
 – the Annual Report (which includes the accounts), taken as  
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for shareholders to assess BGH’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
 
In arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of 
processes that form part of its internal control and risk management 
systems, including the following:
 – the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management 
with overall co-ordination by the Head of Investor Relations  
to ensure consistency across sections;
 – an extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure  
factual accuracy;
 – comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report  
are undertaken by the CEO and other senior executive 
management; 
 – an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by BGH’s  
legal advisers; and
 – the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and  
Risk Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
By order of the Board
Kate Bennett Rea
on behalf of KB Rea Ltd
Company Secretary
7 April 2015
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 102
Directors’ Report 
continued Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 – The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year  
then ended.
 – The Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. 
 – The parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
 – The financial statements have been prepared in accordance  
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of Bank of Georgia 
Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 which 
comprise:
 
 – the consolidated and stand-alone statements of  
financial position;
 – the consolidated income statement and consolidated  
statement of comprehensive income;
 – the consolidated and stand-alone statements of cash flow;
 – the consolidated and stand-alone statements of changes  
in equity; and 
 – the related notes 1 to 35. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as 
regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state  
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to  
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.  
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or  
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and  
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement  
set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied  
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit  
and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with  
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate  
to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and  
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information  
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
and our response to those risks
We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on 
the overall audit strategy; on the allocation of resources in the audit; 
and on directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk area and rationale: Monitoring of credit quality and 
the appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses
Refer to the significant accounting judgements and estimates in 
Note 4 of the financial statements, the Audit Committee Report on 
pages 79 to 83 and the disclosures of credit risk within Note 30  
of the financial statements.
The impairment of loans to customers is estimated by the Directors 
through the application of judgement and use of highly subjective 
assumptions. Due to the significance of loans to customers 
(representing 57% of total assets) and the corresponding 
uncertainty inherent in such an estimate, this is considered  
a significant audit risk.
Audit response
We documented and tested the Group’s process and controls  
for assessing and recording loans and determining the allowance. 
In particular, we tested loan exposures on a sample basis to  
ensure all loans which had suffered an incurred loss event had 
been included in the specific provisioning process. This is an 
inherently judgemental process. As a result, we examined the 
Group’s documented borrower assessments and tested selected 
controls, which addressed aspects such as the classification  
of borrowers into their respective risk grades, calculation of  
days past due, and the recalculation of the loan loss allowance, 
including the valuation of collateral. In addition, we reviewed and 
challenged assumptions around future cash flow projections  
and the valuation of collateral held. 
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 103
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members  
of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC The loan portfolio is also subject to a collective provisioning 
approach. The Group implemented a new provisioning 
methodology this year, which introduced additional statistical 
analysis for determining the probability of default and loss given 
default. In response, we critically assessed the appropriateness  
of this methodology as well as the assumptions and data inputs 
into the model, which included engaging internal experts to 
support the audit team. In assessing the model and assumptions, 
we independently recalculated the model output and examined  
the results of management’s review of key assumptions. 
In addition we selected a sample of restructured loans, and 
reviewed the Group’s documented assessment to provide 
assurance that any loans that have been subject to forbearance 
have been appropriately classified and reported.
Risk area and rationale: The integrity of the Group’s 
financial statements is dependent on the effectiveness 
of the internal control systems, of which the adequacy 
of the IT security and change controls is a substantial 
component
Refer to the Audit Committee Report on pages 79 to 83. 
Audit response
We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of the IT 
systems that are relevant to financial reporting. We examined 
controls over program development and changes, access to 
programs and data and IT operations in respect of those IT 
systems, and embedded application controls. We engaged IT 
specialists in our audit team to perform sufficient audit procedures 
to enable us to place reliance on the IT applications and relevant 
controls identified as having a material impact on the financial 
reporting process. Where exceptions were observed in our  
testing, we identified compensating controls and tested those  
to address the identified risk.
Risk area and rationale: The reasonableness of the  
fair value of investment properties and premises
Refer to the significant accounting judgements and estimates  
in Note 4 of the financial statements and the disclosure of the 
significant unobservable inputs that affect the valuation of the 
properties in Note 31 to the financial statements.
Real estate valuations are inherently uncertain and subject to  
an estimation process. Furthermore, the Group’s properties  
are located primarily in Georgia, where the secondary market  
is relatively illiquid. Although the valuations are performed by  
a combination of internal and external, appropriately qualified 
valuers, there remains a risk that individual assets might be 
inappropriately valued.  
Audit response
We engaged internal valuations specialists to work with the  
audit team to evaluate the appropriateness of the Group’s 
valuations. Their assessment included evaluating the competence 
and objectivity of the valuers, challenging the methods and 
assumptions used and testing the data provided by the valuers. 
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in both planning and 
performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements 
on our audit and on the financial statements. For the purposes  
of determining whether the financial statements are free from 
material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude of 
misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial 
statements, would be changed or influenced. 
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a 
magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would  
be material for the financial statements as a whole. We determined 
materiality for the Group to be GEL 13,830,000, which is 
approximately 5% of profit before tax. This provided a basis for 
determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment 
procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material 
misstatement and determining the nature, timings and  
extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment 
of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that 
overall performance materiality (i.e. our tolerance for misstatement  
in an individual account or balance) for the Group should be 50%  
of materiality, namely GEL 6,915,000. Our objective in adopting this 
approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected  
audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a 
percentage of our total performance materiality. The performance 
materiality set for each component is based on the relative size  
of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at  
that component. In the current year the range of performance 
materiality allocated to the components was GEL 1,383,000  
to GEL 6,915,000.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to  
the Committee all audit differences in excess of GEL 691,000  
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the 
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in  
the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement  
to the Group financial statements, our audit scope focused on two 
components, which represent the principal business units within 
the Group and account for 83% of the Group’s total revenue  
and 90% of the Group’s profit before tax. One component was 
subject to a full scope audit (77% of revenue and 85% of profit 
before tax), while the other was subject to a specific scope audit 
(6% of revenue and 5% of profit before tax) where the extent of 
audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s business 
operations at that location. These components were also selected 
to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to 
address the risks of material misstatement identified above. For the 
remaining components, we performed other procedures such as 
discussions with management and analytical procedures to confirm 
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the 
Group financial statements.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 104
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members 
of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC continued The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK but, since Group 
management and operations reside in Georgia, the Group audit 
team operates as an integrated primary team including members 
from the UK, Georgia and Russia. The senior statutory auditor 
visited Georgia five times during the current year’s audit and  
there was regular interaction between team members in each 
jurisdiction. During his visits, the senior statutory auditor:
 – attended meetings with senior management and the  
Audit Committee to discuss the key audit risk areas;
 – attended meetings with local regulators;
 – reviewed the audit planning work in respect of the  
two components that are in scope; and 
 – reviewed the test of controls and year-end substantive  
audit procedures in respect of the key audit risk areas.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to  
you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
 – apparently materially incorrect, based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
 – is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the 
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether  
the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we 
communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should 
have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you  
if, in our opinion:
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the  
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 – certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 – the Directors’ statement, set out on page 102, in relation  
to going concern; and
 – the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating  
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for  
our review.
A J McIntyre (senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, 
Statutory Auditor
London
7 April 2015
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility  
for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were 
initially presented on the website.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination  
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 105 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 106
Stand-alone statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
Notes 2014 2013 2012
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 88,005  4,628  12,309 
Amounts due from credit institutions 46,368 – – 
Investments in subsidiaries 2 896,253  858,205  799,389 
Other assets 49,250  550  38 
Total assets 1,079,876  863,383  811,736 
Liabilities
Other liabilities 11,151  8,441  14,019 
Total liabilities 11,151  8,441  14,019 
Equity
Share capital 1,143  1,028  957 
Additional paid-in capital 206,884 – – 
Other reserves (328) 4,943  416 
Retained earnings 861,026  848,971  796,344 
Total equity 1,068,725  854,942  797,717 
Total liabilities and equity 1,079,876  863,383  811,736 
Signed and authorised for release on behalf of the Board of Directors:
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
7 April 2015 Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 107
Share capital
Additional 
paid-in
capital
Other 
reserves
Retained 
earnings Total equity
31 December 2011 – – – – – 
Total comprehensive income – – –  22,476  22,476 
Conversion of shares following the Tender Offer 565,120 –  221,553 –  786,673 
Capital reduction (Note 22) (560,844) –  (220,243) 781,087 – 
GBP-GEL translation effect (3,319) –  (894) 16,399  12,186 
Dividends to shareholders of the Group (Note 22) – – –  (23,618) (23,618)
31 December 2012 957 –  416  796,344  797,717 
Total comprehensive income – – –  49,865  49,865 
GBP-GEL translation effect 71 –  4,527  53,997  58,595 
Dividends to shareholders of the Group (Note 22) – – –  (51,235) (51,235)
31 December 2013 1,028 –  4,943  848,971  854,942 
Total comprehensive income – – –  64,685  64,685 
Issue of share capital 108  218,921 –  –  219,029 
Transactions costs recognised directly in equity – (3,370) – – (3,370)
GBP-GEL translation effect 7 (8,667) (5,271) 16,481  2,550
Dividends to shareholders of the Group (Note 22) – – –  (69,111) (69,111)
31 December 2014 1,143  206,884  (328) 861,026  1,068,725 
Stand-alone statement of changes in equity
As at 31 December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 108
Notes 2014 2013 2012
Cash flows from operating activities
Fees and commissions paid (498) (217) (581)
Salaries and other employee benefits paid (1,492) (1,382) (1,064)
General and administrative expenses paid (2,250) (3,513) (600)
Cash flows from operating activities before changes in operating assets 
and liabilities (4,240) (5,112) (2,245)
Net (decrease) increase in other liabilities (46,857) (4,935) 13,033 
Net cash flows from operating activities (51,097) (10,047) 10,788 
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of investments in associates 12 (45,567) – – 
Increase of investments in subsidiaries (28,549) – – 
Dividends received 69,856  54,589  25,669 
Cash flow from investing activities  (4,260) 54,589  25,669 
Cash flow used in financing activities 
Proceeds from issue of share capital 215,659 – – 
Dividends paid (69,111) (51,235) (23,618)
Net cash used in financing activities  146,548  (51,235) (23,618)
Effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents (7,814) (988) (530)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 83,377  (7,681) 12,309 
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning  4,628  12,309 – 
Cash and cash equivalents, ending  88,005  4,628  12,309 
Stand-alone statement of cash flows
As at 31 December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 109
Notes 2014 2013 2012
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 7 710,144  1,053,671  762,827 
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 418,281  347,261  396,559 
Investment securities available-for-sale 9 769,712  519,623  463,960 
Loans to customers 10 4,322,186  3,477,309  3,020,634 
Finance lease receivables 11 38,519  45,606  71,686 
Investments in associates 12 48,659 –  2,441 
Investment properties 13 190,860  157,707  160,353 
Property and equipment 14 588,513  470,669  430,877 
Intangible assets 34,432  26,434  23,078 
Goodwill 15 49,633  48,720  45,657 
Current income tax assets 4,215  4,552  944 
Deferred income tax assets 18,530  14,544  14,352 
Prepayments 33,774  25,534  41,147 
Other assets 17 351,687  329,339  221,080 
Total assets 7,579,145  6,520,969  5,655,595 
Liabilities
Amounts due to customers 18 3,338,725  3,117,732  2,693,025 
Amounts due to credit institutions 19 1,409,214  1,157,979  1,236,313 
Debt securities issued 20 856,695  728,117  420,849 
Current income tax liabilities 11,093  2,928  13,818 
Deferred income tax liabilities  86,471  66,100  46,184 
Provisions 21 4,732  481  683 
Other liabilities 17 238,122  206,578  185,211 
Total liabilities 5,945,052  5,279,915  4,596,083 
Equity 22
Share capital 1,143  1,028  957 
Additional paid-in capital 245,305  23,843  14,767 
Treasury shares (46) (56) (69)
Other reserves (22,574) (16,399) 14,097 
Retained earnings 1,350,258  1,174,124  981,322 
Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Group 1,574,086  1,182,540  1,011,074 
Non-controlling interests 60,007  58,514  48,438 
Total equity 1,634,093  1,241,054  1,059,512 
Total liabilities and equity 7,579,145  6,520,969  5,655,595 
Signed and authorised for release on behalf of the Board of Directors:
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
7 April 2015
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
The accompanying notes on pages 116 to 191 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 110
Notes 2014 2013 2012
Interest income 
Loans to customers  539,983  522,847  509,339 
Investment securities – available-for-sale  39,988  35,371  33,950 
Amounts due from credit institutions  6,581  8,423  15,813 
Finance lease receivables  8,370  7,466  8,701 
 594,922  574,107  567,803 
Interest expense 
Amounts due to customers  (133,865) (159,028) (202,484)
Amounts due to credit institutions  (62,560) (65,161) (63,483)
Debt securities issued (54,436) (35,424) (16,009)
 (250,861) (259,613) (281,976)
Net interest income before net loss from interest rate swaps 344,061  314,494  285,827 
Net loss from interest rate swaps –  (398) (1,710)
Net interest income 344,061  314,096  284,117 
Fee and commission income  132,455  115,106  109,278 
Fee and commission expense  (32,793) (28,210) (22,791)
Net fee and commission income 23 99,662  86,896  86,487 
Net insurance premiums earned  95,850  129,993  91,176 
Net insurance claims incurred  (66,421) (84,660) (57,038)
Net insurance revenue 24 29,429  45,333  34,138 
Healthcare revenue 125,720  60,013  54,376 
Cost of healthcare services (78,836) (37,644) (31,030)
Net healthcare revenue 25 46,884  22,369  23,346 
Net real estate revenue 26 15,782  5,898  7,467 
Net gain from trading securities and investment securities available-for-sale 376  3,097  2,308 
Net gain from revaluation of investment properties 13 1,909  9,788 – 
Net gain (loss) from foreign currencies: 
– dealing  44,169  46,330  33,389 
– translation differences  5,415  (2,818) 16,182 
Other operating income  17,891  13,267  10,093 
Other operating non-interest income  85,542  75,562  69,439 
Revenue 605,578  544,256  497,527
Salaries and other employee benefits 27 (153,807) (135,065) (122,556)
General and administrative expenses 27 (73,185) (60,364) (67,041)
Depreciation and amortisation  (28,207) (26,572) (28,606)
Other operating expenses (3,750) (2,366) (2,221)
Operating expenses (258,949) (224,367) (220,424)
Operating income before cost of credit risk 346,629  319,889  277,103 
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
The accompanying notes on pages 116 to 191 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 111
Notes 2014 2013 2012
 
Operating income before cost of credit risk 346,629  319,889  277,103 
Impairment charge on loans to customers 10 (45,088) (41,499) (39,186)
Impairment charge on finance lease receivables 11 (476) (2,809) (495)
Impairment charge on other assets and provisions (13,456) (17,494) (5,036)
Cost of credit risk (59,020) (61,802) (44,717)
Net operating income before non-recurring items 287,609  258,087  232,386 
Net non-recurring expense/loss 28 (11,017) (12,831) (19,634)
Profit before income tax expense 276,592  245,256  212,752 
Income tax expense 16 (35,825) (35,913) (33,200)
Profit for the year 240,767  209,343  179,552 
Attributable to:
– shareholders of the Group 232,509  201,490  174,437 
– non-controlling interests 8,258  7,853  5,115 
 240,767  209,343  179,552 
Earnings per share: 22
– basic earnings per share 6.7228  5.9291  5.2218 
– diluted earnings per share 6.7228  5.9291  5.1737 
The accompanying notes on pages 116 to 191 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 112
Notes 2014 2013 2012
Profit for the year 240,767  209,343  179,552 
Other comprehensive income (loss)
Other comprehensive income (loss) to be reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods:
– Unrealised revaluation of available-for-sale securities (4,079) 4,611  960 
–  Realised gain on available-for-sale securities reclassified to the consolidated 
income statement (83) (2,858) (2,075)
– Gain from currency translation differences  20,157  8,922  172 
Income tax effect 16 (124) (872) 690 
Net other comprehensive income(loss) to be reclassified to profit or loss 
in subsequent periods 15,871  9,803  (253)
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in  
subsequent periods:
– Revaluation of property and equipment 14 –  1,591 – 
Income tax effect 16 –  (223) – 
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss 
in subsequent periods –  1,368 – 
Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 15,871  11,171  (253)
Total comprehensive income for the year 256,638  220,514  179,299 
Attributable to:
– shareholders of the Group 250,571  213,597  174,304 
– non-controlling interests 6,067  6,917  4,995 
 256,638  220,514  179,299 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
The accompanying notes on pages 116 to 191 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 113
Attributable to shareholders of the Group
Share 
capital
Additional 
paid-in 
capital
Treasury 
shares
Other 
reserves
Retained 
earnings Total
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total
equity
31 December 2011 32,878  473,732  (3,146) 14,478  254,588  772,530  40,073  812,603 
Total comprehensive income – – –  (465) 174,769  174,304  4,995  179,299 
Depreciation of property and equipment 
revaluation reserve, net of tax – – –  (622) 622 – – – 
Increase in share capital arising from 
share-based payments –  30,213  602 – –  30,815 –  30,815 
Issue of share capital (Note 22) 3,635  70,313 – – –  73,948 –  73,948 
Conversion of shares following the  
Tender Offer (35,570) 23,983  2,507  (497) (4,589) (14,166) 14,166 – 
Capital reduction (Note 22) –  (582,388) – –  582,388 – – – 
GBP-GEL translation effect 14  2,828  (4) –  (2,838) – – – 
Transactions costs recognised directly in equity –  (3,325) – – –  (3,325) –  (3,325)
Dividends to shareholders of the Group  
(Note 22) – – – –  (23,618) (23,618) –  (23,618)
Dilution of interests in subsidiaries – – –  15 –  15 128  143 
Acquisition of additional interests in existing
subsidiaries by non-controlling shareholders – – –  (86) –  (86) 749  663 
Acquisition of non-controlling interests in 
existing subsidiaries – – –  1,274 –  1,274  (11,673) (10,399)
Sale of treasury shares –  89  5 – –  94 –  94 
Purchase of treasury shares –  (678) (33) – –  (711) –  (711)
31 December 2012 957  14,767  (69) 14,097  981,322 1,011,074  48,438 1,059,512 
Total comprehensive income – – –  (29,069) 242,666  213,597  6,917  220,514 
Depreciation of property and equipment 
revaluation reserve, net of tax – – –  (1,797) 1,797 – – – 
Increase in share capital arising from 
share-based payments –  13,906  19 – –  13,925 –  13,925 
GBP-GEL translation effect 71 –  (3) 358  (426) – – – 
Dividends to shareholders of the Group  
(Note 22) – – – –  (51,235) (51,235) –  (51,235)
Dilution of interests in subsidiaries – – – – – –  150  150 
Acquisition of additional interests in existing 
subsidiaries by non-controlling shareholders – – –  12 –  12  2,958  2,970 
Non-controlling interests arising on 
acquisition of subsidiary – – – – – –  51  51 
Purchase of treasury shares –  (4,830) (3) – –  (4,833) –  (4,833)
31 December 2013 1,028  23,843  (56) (16,399) 1,174,124  1,182,540  58,514  1,241,054 
Total comprehensive income – – –  11,359  239,212  250,571  6,067  256,638 
Depreciation of property and equipment 
revaluation reserve, net of tax – – –  (446) 446 – – – 
Increase in share capital arising from 
share-based payments –  19,094  13 – –  19,107 –  19,107 
Issue of share capital (Note 22) 108  218,921 – – –  219,029 –  219,029 
GBP-GEL translation effect 7  (8,667) –  551  8,109 – – – 
Transactions costs recognised directly in equity 
(Note 22) –  (3,370) – – –  (3,370) –  (3,370)
Dividends to shareholders of the Group 
(Note 22) – – – –  (71,633) (71,633) –  (71,633)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests in 
existing subsidiaries – – –  (17,639) –  (17,639) (15,516) (33,155)
Non-controlling interests arising on 
acquisition of subsidiary – – – – – –  10,942  10,942 
Purchase of treasury shares –  (4,516) (3) – –  (4,519) –  (4,519)
31 December 2014 1,143  245,305  (46) (22,574) 1,350,258  1,574,086  60,007 1,634,093 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
The accompanying notes on pages 116 to 191 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 114
Notes 2014 2013 2012
Cash flows from operating activities
Interest received 588,978  559,604  553,090 
Interest paid (270,942) (239,544) (270,691)
Fees and commissions received  133,948  104,099  109,278 
Fees and commissions paid (33,006) (28,211) (22,791)
Insurance premiums received  95,859  126,640  79,007 
Insurance claims paid  (66,385) (88,161) (55,197)
Healthcare revenue received 95,865  57,953  54,376 
Cost of healthcare services paid (70,308) (33,661) (31,030)
Net cash inflow from real estate 24,396  7,682  7,229 
Net realised gains from trading securities 407  61  375 
Net realised gains from investment securities available-for-sale 83  2,858  2,075 
Net realised gains from foreign currencies 44,169  46,330  33,389 
Recoveries of loans to customers previously written off 10 28,706  27,479  29,979 
Other income received (expenses paid)  3,236  (21,673) 9,385 
Salaries and other employee benefits paid (129,793) (109,626) (110,639)
General and administrative and operating expenses paid (63,038) (62,916) (68,340)
Cash flows from operating activities before changes in operating assets 
and liabilities 382,175  348,914  319,495 
Net (increase) decrease in operating assets 
Amounts due from credit institutions (71,099) 49,297  (99,925)
Loans to customers (935,313) (534,365) (562,345)
Finance lease receivables 6,115  (6,777) (9,262)
Prepayments and other assets 9,897  5,744  (59,339)
Net increase (decrease) in operating liabilities
Amounts due to credit institutions 243,021  (79,766) 425,748 
Debt securities issued  128,364  283,908  335,419 
Amounts due to customers 236,794  425,641  (52,871)
Other liabilities (2,419) (2,662) (28,243)
Net cash flows from operating activities before income tax (2,465) 489,934  268,677 
Income tax paid (15,990) (29,834) (3,282)
Net cash flows from operating activities (18,455) 460,100  265,395 
Cash flows (used in) from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 5 (22,177) (7,810) (9,008)
Purchase of investment securities available-for-sale (255,710) (48,033) (43,347)
Proceeds from sale of investments in associates  300 –  170 
Purchase of investments in associates 12 (45,567) – – 
Proceeds from sale of investment properties 13 7,383  10,748  15,622 
Purchase of investment property 13 (49,348) – – 
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment and intangible assets 14 2,648  5,317 – 
Purchase of property and equipment and intangible assets (80,459) (70,592) (60,880)
Net cash flows used in investing activities  (442,930) (110,370) (97,443)
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
The accompanying notes on pages 116 to 191 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 115
Notes 2014 2013 2012
Cash flows (used in) from financing activities 
Proceeds from issue of share capital 215,659 – – 
Dividends paid (69,725) (51,235) (23,618)
Purchase of treasury shares  (4,519) (4,833) (711)
Sale of treasury shares – –  94 
Proceeds from sale of non-controlling interest in existing subsidiary – –  663 
Purchase of additional interests in existing subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  (28,972) –  (10,399)
Net cash used in financing activities  112,443  (56,068) (33,971)
Effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents 5,415  (2,818) 115 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (343,527) 290,844  134,096 
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning 7 1,053,671  762,827  628,731 
Cash and cash equivalents, ending 7 710,144  1,053,671  762,827 
The accompanying notes on pages 116 to 191 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 116
Notes to consolidated financial statements
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
1. Principal activities
JSC Bank of Georgia (the “Bank”) was established on 21 October 1994 as a joint stock company (“JSC”) under the laws of Georgia.  
The Bank operates under a general banking license issued by the National Bank of Georgia (“NBG”; the Central Bank of Georgia) on 
15 December 1994. 
The Bank accepts deposits from the public and extends credit, transfers payments in Georgia and internationally and exchanges 
currencies. Its main office is in Tbilisi, Georgia. At 31 December 2014 the Bank has 219 operating outlets in all major cities of Georgia 
(31 December 2013: 202, 31 December 2012: 194). The Bank’s registered legal address is 29a Gagarini Street, Tbilisi 0160, Georgia.
The Bank is the parent of a group of companies mainly incorporated in Georgia and Belarus. Primary business activities include 
providing banking, leasing, insurance, real estate, healthcare, brokerage and investment management services, to corporate and 
individual customers.
In December 2011, Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC (“BGH”), a public limited liability company newly incorporated in England and Wales, 
launched the Tender Offer (the “Tender Offer”) to exchange its entire ordinary share capital for an equivalent number of the Bank’s ordinary 
shares and thus to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital, including those shares represented by Global Depositary 
Receipts (“GDRs”), of the Bank. Following the successful completion of the Tender Offer on 28 February 2012 and subsequent acquisitions 
of the Bank’s remaining shares held by non-controlling shareholders by the Bank, BGH holds 99.63% of the share capital of the Bank as  
at 31 December 2014, representing the Bank’s ultimate parent company. Together with the Bank’s subsidiaries, BGH makes up a group  
of companies (the “Group”). The list of the companies included in the Group is provided in Note 2. The shares of BGH (“BGH Shares”)  
were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange PLC’s Main Market for listed securities, effective 28 February 2012 (the “Admission”, Note 22). The Bank is the Group’s main 
operating unit and accounts for most of the Group’s activities.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC’s registered legal address is 84 Brook Street, London, United Kingdom W1IK 5EH.
The treasury shares kept by the Bank for the purposes of its future employee share-based compensation as of the Tender Offer expiration 
date have been fully converted into the BGH newly issued shares.
As at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, the following shareholders owned more than 5% of the total 
outstanding shares of the Group. Other shareholders individually owned less than 5% of the outstanding shares.
Shareholder 
31 December
2014
31 December
2013
31 December
2012
Schroders Investment Management 12.46% 3.06% 1.73%
Royal Bank of Canada 3.42% 4.87% 6.72%
Firebird Management LLC 3.37% 3.82% 7.94%
Franklin Templeton Investments 2.45% 7.21% 5.04%
International Finance Corporation – 5.06% 5.06%
European Bank for Reconstruction & Development – 5.06% 5.06%
East Capital Financial Institutions* – 0.04% 17.62%
Others 78.30% 70.88% 50.83%
Total** 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
* Includes shares held by East Capital Private Equity AB and East Capital Asset Management AB. 
**  For the purposes of calculating percentage of shareholding, the denominator includes total number of issued shares, which includes shares held in the trust for 
the share-based compensation purposes of the Bank. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 117
As at 31 December 2014, the members of the Supervisory Board and Management Board owned 508,541 shares or 1.3% (31 December 
2013: 413,932 shares or 1.2%, 31 December 2012: 540,987 shares or 1.5%) of the Group. Interests of the members of the Supervisory 
Board and Management Board were as follows:
Shareholder
31 December 
2014,
shares held
31 December 
2013,
shares held
31 December 
2012,
shares held
Irakli Gilauri 161,131  60,831  206,431 
Giorgi Chiladze
1
 101,800  82,000 – 
Avto Namicheishvili  61,664  50,000  84,488 
Sulkhan Gvalia 42,022  37,237  54,304 
Neil Janin 35,729  25,729  25,729 
Mikheil Gomarteli 30,851  35,000  38,867 
David Morrison  26,357  26,357  26,357 
Kaha Kiknavelidze  26,337  26,337  26,337 
Al Breach  16,400  14,279  10,279 
Murtaz Kikoria
2
 5,000 – – 
Kim Bradley
3
 1,250 – – 
Allan Hirst
4
–  48,434  60,434 
Ian Hague
4
–  5,112  5,112 
Hanna Loikkanen
4
–  2,616  2,616 
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze
5
– –  33 
Total 508,541  413,932  540,987 
1.  Giorgi Chiladze rejoined the Management Board of the Bank in September 2013, after having previously served as Deputy CEO, Finance, until stepping down in  
March 2012. As at 31 December 2012 Giorgi Chiladze held 70,500 shares.
2. Joined the Management Board upon his appointment as Deputy CEO, Finance in December 2014.
3. Joined the Board of Directors in December 2013.
4. Stepped down from the Board of Directors of the BGH and the Supervisory Board of the Bank in December 2013.
5. Left the Management Board upon his appointment as CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group, effective December 2014.
2. Basis of preparation
General 
In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the stand-alone income statement of BGH  
is not presented as part of these accounts. 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations issued  
by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) effective for 2014 reporting and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Bank and its Georgian-based subsidiaries are required to maintain their records and prepare their financial statements for regulatory 
purposes in Georgian Lari, while BGH and the Bank’s subsidiaries established outside of Georgia are in their respective local currencies. 
These consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the measurement at fair value of 
financial assets and liabilities held for trading, available-for-sale securities, derivative financial assets and liabilities, investment properties, 
and revalued property and equipment. No interest income or expense arose in relation to financial assets or liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in thousands of Georgian Lari (“GEL ”), except per-share amounts and unless 
otherwise indicated. 
Going concern
The BGH’s Board of Directors has made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and is satisfied that it has the 
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, management is not aware of any material uncertainties that may 
cast significant doubt upon the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the financial statements continue to be prepared 
on the going concern basis.  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 118
2. Basis of preparation (continued)
Subsidiaries and associates
BGH holds a 99.63% stake in the Bank as at 31 December 2014. The consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2014, 
31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 include the following subsidiaries and associates: 
Proportion of voting rights and 
ordinary share capital held
Subsidiaries 
31 December 
2014
31 December 
2013
31 December 
2012
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
JSC Bank of Georgia 99.63% 99.62% 99.62% Georgia Banking 21/10/1994 –
Premium Compliance Advisory, LLC 
(formerly known as Georgia 
Investments, LLC)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Various 17/2/2012 –
JSC Galt & Taggart (formerly known  
as JSC BG Capital (Georgia))
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Brokerage and 
asset 
management
19/12/1995 28/12/2004
 Galt and Taggart Holdings Limited 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus Investments 3/7/2006 –
  Benderlock Investments Limited 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus Investments 12/5/2009 13/10/2009
 BG Trading Limited –        (b) 100.00% Cyprus Investments 26/3/2007 –
 BG Capital (Belarus), LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Belarus Brokerage 19/2/2008 –
 Brooksby Investments Limited –        (c) 100.00% Cyprus Investments 4/3/2008 18/6/2008
 JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank 79.99% 79.99% 79.99% Belarus Banking 16/4/1992 3/6/2008
  BNB Leasing, LLC 99.90% 99.90% 99.90% Belarus Leasing 30/3/2006 3/6/2008
 JSC Geohydro 85.00% 85.00% – Georgia Renewable 
energy
11/10/2013 –
 JSC Svaneti Hydro 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Renewable 
energy
6/12/2013 –
JSC Insurance Company Imedi L 
(formerly known as JSC Insurance 
Company Aldagi BCI) (a)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Insurance 22/6/2007 –
 Biznes Centri Kazbegze, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Various 22/6/2010 10/1/2011
 Imedi L Dent, LLC –        (d) 100.00% Georgia Medical services 17/1/2005 5/1/2012
JSC Medical Corporation EVEX 100.00% – – Georgia Healthcare 31/7/2014 –
 JSC My Family Clinic 100.00% 51.00% 51.00% Georgia Healthcare 3/10/2005 –
   JSC Kutaisi St. Nicholas Surgical 
and Oncological Hospital  
(formerly known as JSC Kutaisi  
St. Nicholas Surgery Hospital)
92.90% 81.00% 71.87% Georgia Medical services 3/11/2000 20/5/2008
   Kutaisi Regional Clinical Hospital, 
LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 19/7/2010 10/1/2010
   JSC Zugdidi Multi-profile Clinical 
Hospital “Republic”
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 11/6/1998 29/11/2011
   JSC Kutaisi County Treatment  
and Diagnostic Centre for  
Mothers and Children
66.70% 66.70% 66.70% Georgia Medical services 5/5/2003 29/11/2011
   JSC Chkhorotskhu Regional 
Central Hospital
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 30/11/1999 29/11/2011
   Academician Z. Tskhakaia 
National Centre of Intervention 
Medicine of Western Georgia, LLC
66.70% 66.70% 66.70% Georgia Medical services 15/10/2004 12/9/2011
   E.K. Pipia Central Hospital of 
Tsalenjikha, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 1/9/1999 12/9/2011
  Martvili Multi-profile Hospital, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 17/3/2000 12/9/2011
   Abasha Outpatient-Polyclinic 
Union, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 16/3/2000 12/9/2011
  Tskaltubo Regional Hospital, LLC 66.70% 66.70% 66.70% Georgia Medical services 29/9/1999 12/9/2011
   Khobi Central Regional Hospital, 
LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 13/7/2000 12/9/2011
   EVEX Learning Centre (formerly 
known as Kutaisi Training Centre, 
NPO)
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Education 20/12/2013 –
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 119
Proportion of voting rights and 
ordinary share capital held
Subsidiaries 
31 December 
2014
31 December 
2013
31 December 
2012
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
 Unimed Achara, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 29/6/2010 5/1/2012
 Unimedi Samtskhe, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 29/6/2010 5/1/2012
 Unimedi Kakheti, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 29/6/2010 5/1/2012
  LLC Caraps Medline 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Medical services 26/8/1998 26/12/2013
   LLC Medline + (e) 100.00% – Georgia Medical services 13/12/2007 30/12/2013
   Avante Hospital Management 
Group, LLC
100.00% – – Georgia Medical services 5/8/2011 19/2/2014
    M. Iashvili Children's Central 
Hospital, LLC
66.70% – – Georgia Medical services 3/5/2011 19/2/2014
   Children's New Hospital, LLC 75.00% – – Georgia Medical services 18/7/2011 19/2/2014
   New Life, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Medical services 21/9/1999 19/2/2014
    Batumi Regional Healthcare 
Centre for Mothers and 
Children, LLC
100.00% – – Georgia Medical services 19/11/2004 19/2/2014
   Sunstone Medical, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Medical services 9/11/2012 21/5/2014
    Institute of Pediatrics, 
Alergology and Rheumatology 
Centre, LLC
100.00% – – Georgia Medical services 6/3/2000 19/2/2014
 Traumatologist, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Medical services 20/7/2011 30/9/2014
  Referral Centre of Pathology, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Medical services 29/12/2014 –
JSC Insurance Company Aldagi 100.00% – – Georgia Insurance 31/7/2014 –
 Aliance, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Various 3/1/2000 5/1/2012
 Green Way, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Various 9/8/2008 5/1/2012
  Centromed, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Medical services 9/7/2010 5/1/2012
Georgian Leasing Company, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Leasing 29/10/2001 31/12/2004
JSC Express Technologies (formerly 
known as JSC Global Express)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Investments 29/10/2007 –
 JSC Georgian Card 98.23% 56.20% 56.20% Georgia Card processing 17/1/1997 20/10/2004
 Direct Debit Georgia, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Electronic 
payment 
services
7/3/2006 –
  LLC Didi Digomi Research Centre 
(formerly known as MetroNet, LLC )
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Communication 
services
23/4/2007 –
 Metro Service +, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Business 
servicing
10/5/2006 –
 Express Technologies CEE, LLC 100.00% – – Hungary Other financial 
service activities
5/3/2014 N/A
JSC Liberty Consumer 70.12% 67.51% 67.49% Georgia Investments 24/5/2006 –
 JSC Teliani Valley 50.92% 50.88% 51.23% Georgia Winery 30/6/2000 28/2/2007
  Teliani Trading (Georgia), LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Distribution 10/1/2006 27/3/2007
  Teliani Trading (Ukraine), LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ukraine Distribution 3/10/2006 31/12/2007
  Le Caucase, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Cognac 
production
23/9/2006 20/3/2007
  Kupa, LLC 70.00% 70.00% 70.00% Georgia Oak barrel 
production
12/10/2006 20/3/2007
  Global Beer Georgia, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Production and 
distribution of 
alcohol and 
non-alcohol 
beverages
24/12/2014 –
 JSC Intertour 99.94% 99.94% 99.94% Georgia Travel agency 29/3/1996 25/4/2006
 JSC Prime Fitness 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Fitness centre 7/3/2006 – Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 120
Proportion of voting rights and 
ordinary share capital held
Subsidiaries 
31 December 
2014
31 December 
2013
31 December 
2012
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
JSC m
2
 Real Estate (formerly  
known as JSC SB Real Estate)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Real estate 27/9/2006 –
 Tamarashvili 13, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Real estate 3/11/2011 –
 m
2
 at Kazbegi, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Real estate 21/5/2013 –
 m
2
 at Tamarashvili, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Real estate 21/5/2013 –
 m
2
 at Nutsubidze, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Real estate 21/5/2013 –
JSC Galt and Taggart Holdings 
(Georgia)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Investments 4/11/2008 –
 Caucasus Autohause, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Real estate 29/3/2011 –
  Bank of Georgia Representative 
Office UK Limited
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% United 
Kingdom
Information 
sharing and 
market research
17/8/2010 –
  Professional Basketball Club  
Dinamo Tbilisi, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Sport 10/1/2011 –
  Teaching University of Georgian 
Bank, LLC
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Education 15/10/2013 –
  JSC United Securities Registrar  
of Georgia
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Registrar 29/5/2006 –
 JSC m
2
100.00% – – Georgia Real estate 12/2/2014 –
  Optima ISANI, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Real estate 25/7/2014 –
  Land, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Real estate 3/10/2014 –
Bank of Georgia Representative  
Office Hungary
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Hungary Representative 
office
18/6/2012 –
Georgia Financial Investments, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Israel Information 
sharing and 
market research
9/2/2009 –
Representative Office of JSC  
Bank of Georgia in Turkey 
100.00% – – Turkey Representative 
office
25/12/2013 –
Branch Office of “BG Kapital”  
JSC in Azerbaijan
100.00% – – Azerbaijan Representative 
office
28/12/2013 –
Tree of Life Foundation NPO  
(formerly known as Bank of Georgia 
Future Foundation, NPO)
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Charitable 
activities
25/8/2008 –
JSC Agron Group 100.00% – – Georgia Agro trade 3/11/2014 –
 Agron Centre, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Agro trade 11/11/2014 –
2. Basis of preparation (continued)
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 121
Proportion of voting rights and
ordinary share capital held
Associates
31 December 
2014
31 December 
2013
31 December 
2012
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
JSC N Tour 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% Georgia Travel services 11/1/2001 29/5/2008
JSC Hotels and Restaurants 
Management Group – m/Group
(f) 10.00% 10.00% Georgia Food retail 30/5/2005 29/5/2008
JSC iCall 27.00% 27.00% 27.00% Georgia Call centre 22/3/2005 22/11/2006
Georgian Global Utilities, LLC 25.00% – – British Virgin 
Islands
Utilities 16/08/2007 31/12/2014
 Georgian Water and Power, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Utilities 25/06/1997 31/12/2014
 Rustavi Water, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Utilities 31/08/1999 31/12/2014
 Gardabani Sewage Treatment, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Utilities 20/12/1999 31/12/2014
 Mtskheta Water, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia Utilities 1/9/1999 31/12/2014
  Georgian Engineering and 
Management Company (GEMC), 
LLC
100.00% – – Georgia Utilities 20/03/2011 31/12/2014
 JSC Saguramo Energy 100.00% – – Georgia Utilities 11/12/2008 31/12/2014
Style +, LLC 32.50% 32.50% 32.50% Georgia Advertising 8/1/2005 8/7/2008
(a)  On 31 July 2014 a new holding company – JSC Medical Corporation EVEX – was created to hold the Group’s healthcare subsidiaries. Also, the Group’s 
insurance operations were split between two legal entities – the newly incorporated JSC Insurance Company Aldagi to operate the Group’s property and 
casualty insurance business and the former JSC Insurance Company Aldagi BCI that was renamed to JSC Insurance Company Imedi L to operate the Group’s  
health insurance business.
(b) Merged with Galt and Taggart Holdings Limited LLC in 2013.
(c) Liquidated in 2013.
(d) No longer Group subsidiary due to sale in 2013.
(e) Merged with LLC Caraps Medline in 2014.
(f) No longer Group associate due to sale in 2014. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 122
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
3. Summary of significant accounting policies
Adoption of new or revised standards and 
interpretations
No new or revised IFRS during the year had an impact on the 
Group’s financial position or performance.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 
2014. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, 
to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has  
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only if the  
Group has:
 – power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the  
current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee);
 – exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement  
with the investee; and
 – the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar 
rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, 
including:
 – the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders  
of the investee;
 – rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
 – the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts 
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more  
of the three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins 
when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases 
when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during 
the year are included in the statement of comprehensive income 
from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group 
ceases to control the subsidiary. 
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income 
are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to 
the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling 
interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, adjustments  
are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their 
accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies.  
All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses  
and cash flows relating to transactions between members of  
the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss  
of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group 
loses control over a subsidiary, it:
 – derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities  
of the subsidiary;
 – derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling 
interests;
 – derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded  
in equity;
 – recognises the fair value of the consideration received;
 – recognises the fair value of any investment retained;
 – recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; and
 – reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or 
retained earnings, as appropriate, as would be required if the 
Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of 
the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value 
and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. For 
each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure 
the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets and 
other components of non-controlling interests at their acquisition 
date fair values. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred 
and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial 
assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and 
designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic 
circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. 
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host 
contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously 
held equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value 
and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. It is  
then considered in the determination of goodwill. 
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer  
will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent 
consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial 
instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with 
changes in fair value recognised either in either profit or loss or  
as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent 
consideration is not within the scope of IAS 39, it is measured in 
accordance with the appropriate IFRS. Contingent consideration 
that is classified as equity is not re-measured and subsequent 
settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest 
held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the 
aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether 
it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the 
liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure  
the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the  
re-assessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net  
assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred,  
then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the 
acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective 
of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned  
to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and 
part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying 
amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on 
disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured 
based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the 
portion of the cash-generating unit retained. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 123
Investments in associates
Associates are entities in which the Group generally has between 
20% and 50% of the voting rights, or is otherwise able to exercise 
significant influence, but which it does not control or jointly control. 
Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity 
method and are initially recognised at cost, including goodwill. 
Subsequent changes in the carrying value reflect the post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the 
associate. The Group’s share of its associates’ profits or losses  
is recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share  
of movements in reserves is recognised in other comprehensive 
income. However, when the Group’s share of losses in an associate 
equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does  
not recognise further losses, unless the Group is obliged to  
make further payments to, or on behalf of, the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates 
are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates; 
unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Fair value measurement
The Group measures financial instruments, such as trading and 
available-for-sale securities, derivatives and non-financial assets 
such as investment property, at fair value at each balance sheet 
date. Also, fair values of financial instruments measured at  
amortised cost are disclosed in Note 31.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or  
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement  
is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset  
or transfer the liability takes place either:
 – in the principal market for the asset or liability; or
 – in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous 
market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible 
by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants would use when 
pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act  
in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a 
non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability 
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market participant that would  
use the asset in its highest and best use. 
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed 
in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input  
that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 – level 1 − Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets  
for identical assets or liabilities;
 – level 2 − Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable; and
 – level 3 − Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by  
re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that  
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the  
end of each reporting period.
Financial assets
Initial recognition
Financial assets in the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either 
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and 
receivables, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.  
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets  
upon initial recognition.
Date of recognition
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are 
recognised on the trade date i.e. the date that the Group commits  
to purchase or sell the asset. Regular way purchases or sales are 
purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets 
within the period generally established by regulation or convention  
in the marketplace.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are not entered into with the intention of immediate or short-
term resale and are not classified as trading securities or designated 
as investment securities available-for-sale. Such assets are carried at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. This calculation 
includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract 
that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction 
costs and all other premiums and discounts. Gains and losses are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement when the loans 
and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through 
the amortisation process. 
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial 
assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified 
in any of the three preceding categories. After initial recognition 
available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with 
gains or losses being recognised in other comprehensive income 
until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is 
determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss 
previously reported in other comprehensive income is reclassified  
to the consolidated income statement. However, interest calculated 
using the effective interest method is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement.
Measurement of financial instruments at initial 
recognition
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are 
measured at fair value, adjusted, in the case of instruments not at fair 
value through profit or loss, for directly attributable fees and costs. 
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial 
recognition is normally the transaction price. If the Group determines 
that the fair value at initial recognition differs from the transaction 
price, then:
 – if the fair value is evidenced by a quoted price in an active 
market for an identical asset or liability (i.e., a Level 1 input)  
or based on a valuation technique that uses only data from 
observable markets, the Group recognises the difference 
between the fair value at initial recognition and the  
transaction price as a gain or loss;
 – in all other cases, the initial measurement of the financial 
instrument is adjusted to defer the difference between the fair 
value at initial recognition and the transaction price. After initial 
recognition, the Group recognises that deferred difference as  
a gain or loss only when the inputs become observable, or  
when the instrument is derecognised. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 124
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
3. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Offsetting
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is 
reported in the consolidated statement of financial position when 
there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts 
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, amounts due 
from central banks, excluding obligatory reserves with central banks, 
and amounts due from credit institutions that mature within ninety 
days of the date of origination and are free from contractual 
encumbrances. 
Derivative financial instruments
In the normal course of business, the Group enters into various 
derivative financial instruments including forwards, swaps and 
options in the foreign exchange and capital markets. Such financial 
instruments are initially recognised in accordance with the policy  
for initial recognition of financial instruments and are subsequently 
measured at fair value. The fair values are estimated based on 
quoted market prices or pricing models that take into account the 
current market and contractual prices of the underlying instruments 
and other factors. Derivatives are carried as assets when their  
fair value is positive and as liabilities when it is negative. Gains  
and losses resulting from these instruments are included in the 
consolidated income statement as gains less losses from interest 
rate swaps and gains less losses from foreign currencies translation 
differences, depending on the nature of the instrument.
Borrowings
Issued financial instruments or their components are classified  
as liabilities, where the substance of the contractual arrangement 
results in the Group having an obligation either to deliver cash  
or another financial asset to the holder, or to satisfy the obligation 
other than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another 
financial asset for a fixed number of own equity instruments. Such 
instruments include amounts due to credit institutions and amounts 
due to customers (including promissory notes issued). These are 
initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received  
less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using  
the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised  
in the consolidated income statement when the borrowings are 
derecognised as well as through the amortisation process. 
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the 
statement of financial position and the difference between the 
carrying amount of the liability and the consideration paid is 
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Subordinated debt
Subordinated debt represents long-term funds attracted by  
the Bank on the international financial markets or domestic market. 
The holders of subordinated debt would be subordinate to all  
other creditors to receive repayment of debt in case of the Bank’s 
liquidation. Subordinated debt is carried at amortised cost.
Leases
i. Finance – Group as lessor
The Group recognises finance lease receivables in the consolidated 
statement of financial position at a value equal to the net investment 
in the lease, starting from the date of commencement of the lease 
term. In calculating the present value of the minimum lease 
payments the discount factor used is the interest rate implicit in  
the lease. Initial direct costs are included in the initial measurement 
of the finance lease receivables. Lease payments received are 
apportioned between the finance income and the reduction of  
the outstanding lease receivable. Finance income is based on  
a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the  
net investment outstanding. 
ii. Operating – Group as lessee 
Leases of assets under which the risks and rewards of ownership 
are effectively retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised  
as expenses on a straight-line basis over the lease term and 
included into other administrative and operating expenses.
iii. Operating – Group as lessor
The Group presents assets subject to operating leases in the 
consolidated statement of financial position according to the nature 
of the asset. Lease income from operating leases is recognised  
in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term as other income. The aggregate cost of incentives 
provided to lessees is recognised as a reduction of rental income 
over the lease term on a straight-line basis. Initial direct costs 
incurred specifically to earn revenues from an operating lease  
are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset. 
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any 
objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets 
is impaired. 
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be 
impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment  
as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial 
recognition of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and that loss event 
(or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the 
financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably 
estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the 
borrower or a group of borrowers is experiencing significant financial 
difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments,  
the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial 
reorganisation and where observable data indicate that there  
is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows,  
such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate 
with defaults. 
Amounts due from credit institutions, loans to customers  
and finance lease receivables
For amounts due from credit institutions, loans to customers  
and finance lease receivables carried at amortised cost, the Group 
first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists 
individually for financial assets that are individually significant, or 
collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.  
If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment 
exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant 
or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with  
similar credit risks characteristics and collectively assesses them  
for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment 
and for which an impairment loss is, or continues to be, recognised 
are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.  Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 125
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been 
incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses 
that have not yet been incurred). The carrying amount of the asset is 
reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of 
the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement. Interest 
income continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount 
based on the original effective interest rate of the asset. Loans 
together with the associated allowance are written off when there  
is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been 
realised or has been transferred to the Group. If, in a subsequent 
year, the amount of the estimated impairment loss increases or 
decreases because of an event occurring after the impairment was 
recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is increased 
or reduced by adjusting the allowance account. If a future write-off  
is later recovered, the recovery is credited to the consolidated 
income statement.
The present value of the estimated future cash flows is discounted  
at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. If a loan has a 
variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment 
loss is the current effective interest rate. The calculation of the 
present value of the estimated future cash flows of a collateralised 
financial asset reflects the cash flows that may result from 
foreclosure less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral,  
whether or not foreclosure is probable. 
For the purpose of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial 
assets are grouped on the basis of the Group’s internal credit 
grading system that considers credit risk characteristics such  
as asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, 
past-due status and other relevant factors. 
Future cash flows on a group of financial assets that are collectively 
evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of historical loss 
experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those 
in the Group. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of 
current observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions 
that did not affect the years on which the historical loss experience is 
based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period 
that do not exist currently. Estimates of changes in future cash flows 
reflect, and are consistent with, changes in related observable data 
from year to year (such as changes in unemployment rates, property 
prices, commodity prices, payment status, or other factors that are 
indicative of incurred losses in the Group or their magnitude). The 
methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows 
are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss 
estimates and actual loss experience. 
Write-off of loans to customers
All retail loans, except mortgages, are written off when overdue  
by more than 365 days. Retail mortgage loans are written off  
when overdue by more than 150 days. Write-off of corporate loans 
overdue by more than 150 days is subject to management discretion 
and is evaluated on a case by case basis, taking into account the 
current and expected positions of the loan/borrower. 
Available-for-sale financial assets
For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses  
at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that  
an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, 
objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline 
in the fair value of the investment below its cost. Where there is 
evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss – measured as the 
difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, 
less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised  
in the consolidated income statement – is reclassified from other 
comprehensive income to the consolidated income statement. 
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through 
the consolidated income statement; increases in their fair value  
after impairment are recognised in other comprehensive income.
In the case of debt instruments classified as available-for-sale, 
impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as financial 
assets carried at amortised cost. However, the amount recorded  
for impairment is the cumulative loss measured as the difference 
between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any 
impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the 
consolidated income statement. Future interest income is based  
on the reduced carrying amount and is accrued using the rate of 
interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of 
measuring the impairment loss. The interest income is recorded  
in the consolidated income statement. If, in a subsequent year,  
the fair value of a debt instrument increases and the increase can  
be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment  
loss was recognised in the consolidated income statement,  
the impairment loss is reversed through the consolidated  
income statement. 
Renegotiated loans
Renegotiated loans comprise carrying amount of financial assets 
that would otherwise be past due or impaired whose terms have 
been renegotiated.
Where possible, the Group seeks to restructure loans rather than  
to take possession of collateral. This may involve extending the 
payment arrangements and the agreement of new loan conditions. 
The accounting treatment of such restructuring is as follows: 
 – If the currency of the loan has been changed the old loan  
is derecognised and the new loan is recognised. 
 – If the loan restructuring is not caused by the financial difficulties 
of the borrower the Group uses the same approach as for the 
modification of financial liabilities described below.
 – If the loan restructuring is due to the financial difficulties of  
the borrower and the loan is impaired after restructuring, the 
Group recognises the difference between the present value  
of the new cash flows discounted using the original effective 
interest rate and the carrying amount before restructuring in  
the provision charges for the period. In cases where the loan  
is not impaired after restructuring, the Group recalculates  
the effective interest rate. 
Once the terms have been renegotiated, the loan is no longer 
considered past due. Management continuously reviews 
renegotiated loans to ensure that all criteria are met and that future 
payments are likely to occur. The loans continue to be subject to  
an individual or collective impairment assessment, calculated  
using the loan’s original or current effective interest rate.  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 126
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
3. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or 
part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised where:
 – the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
 – the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset, or retained the right to receive cash flows from the 
asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without 
material delay to a third-party under a “pass-through” 
arrangement; and
 – the Group either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from 
an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, 
the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing 
involvement in the asset. Continuing involvement that takes the form 
of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of 
the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount 
of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Where continuing involvement takes the form of a written and/or 
purchased option (including a cash-settled option or similar 
provision) on the transferred asset, the extent of the Group’s 
continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that 
the Group may repurchase, except that in the case of a written put 
option (including a cash-settled option or similar provision) on an 
asset measured at fair value, the extent of the Group’s continuing 
involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the transferred 
asset and the option exercise price.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from  
the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of  
an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange  
or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. 
Financial guarantees
In the ordinary course of business, the Group gives financial 
guarantees, consisting of letters of credit, guarantees and 
acceptances. Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements at fair value, in “Other liabilities”, 
being the premium received. Subsequent to initial recognition, the 
Group’s liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher  
of the amortised premium and the best estimate of expenditure 
required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of  
the guarantee.
Any increase in the liability relating to financial guarantees is taken  
to the consolidated income statement. The premium received is 
recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the life of the guarantee.
Taxation
The current income tax expense is calculated in accordance with  
the regulations in force in the respective territories in which the  
Bank and its subsidiaries operate.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated in respect of 
temporary differences using the liability method. Deferred income 
taxes are provided for all temporary differences arising between  
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for 
financial reporting purposes, except where the deferred income tax 
arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability 
in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time  
of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss. 
A deferred tax asset is recorded only to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are measured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the 
period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date. 
Deferred tax liabilities are provided on temporary differences arising 
on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Georgia and Belarus also have various operating taxes that are 
assessed on the Group’s activities. These taxes are included  
as a component of other operating expenses. 
Investment properties
Investment property is land or building or a part of a building held  
to earn rental income or for capital appreciation and which is  
not used by the Group or held for sale in the ordinary course  
of business. Property that is being constructed or developed  
or redeveloped for future use as investment property is also 
classified as investment property. 
Investment property is initially recognised at cost, including 
transaction costs, and subsequently remeasured at fair value 
reflecting market conditions at the end of the reporting period.  
Fair value of the Group’s investment property is determined  
on the basis of various sources including reports of independent 
appraisers, who hold a recognised and relevant professional 
qualification and who have recent experience in valuation of  
property of similar location and category.
Investment property that is being redeveloped for continuing  
use as investment property or for which the market has become  
less active continues to be measured at fair value. Earned rental 
income is recorded in the income statement within other operating 
income. Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value  
of investment property are recorded in the income statement  
and presented as net gains or losses from revaluation of  
investment properties.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it is probable that 
future economic benefits associated with it will flow to the Group and 
the cost can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance 
costs are expensed when incurred. If an investment property 
becomes owner-occupied, it is reclassified to premises and 
equipment, and its carrying amount at the date of reclassification 
becomes its deemed cost to be subsequently depreciated.
Property and equipment
Property and equipment, except for office buildings and service 
centres, is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
accumulated impairment in value. Such cost includes the cost of 
replacing part of the equipment when that cost is incurred if the 
recognition criteria are met. Office buildings and service centres  
are measured at fair value less depreciation and impairment  
charged subsequent to the date of the revaluation. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 127
The carrying values of property and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate  
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Following initial recognition at cost, office buildings and service 
centres are carried at a revalued amount, which is the fair value  
at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent accumulated 
depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. 
Valuations are performed frequently enough to ensure that the  
fair value of a revalued asset does not differ materially from its 
carrying amount.
Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated 
against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount 
is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. Any revaluation 
surplus is credited to the revaluation reserve for property and 
equipment included in other comprehensive income, except to the 
extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset 
previously recognised in the consolidated income statement, in 
which case the increase is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. A revaluation deficit is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement, except that a deficit directly offsetting a previous 
surplus on the same asset is directly offset against the surplus in  
the revaluation reserve for property and equipment.
An annual transfer from the revaluation reserve for property and 
equipment to retained earnings is made for the difference between 
depreciation based on the revalued carrying amount of the assets 
and depreciation based on the assets’ original cost. Additionally, 
accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated 
against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount 
is restated to the devalued amount of the asset. Upon disposal,  
any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold  
is transferred to retained earnings.
Depreciation of an asset, including assets under construction, 
commences from the date the asset is ready and available for use. 
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the following 
estimated useful lives:
Years
Office buildings Up to 100
Hospitals and clinics Up to 100
Furniture and fixtures 10
Computers and equipment 5-10
Motor vehicles 5
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods are reviewed, 
and adjusted as appropriate, at each financial year-end. 
Leasehold improvements are amortised over the life of the related 
leased asset.
Costs related to repairs and renewals are charged when incurred 
and included in other operating expenses, unless they qualify  
for capitalisation.
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured  
at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the 
Group’s net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
Goodwill on an acquisition of a subsidiary is included in intangible 
assets. Goodwill on an acquisition of an associate is included in the 
investments in associates. Following initial recognition, goodwill is 
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently  
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a 
business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each 
of the Group’s cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating 
units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of  
the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units. Each  
unit or group of units to which the goodwill is so allocated:
 – represents the lowest level within the Group at which the 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and
 – is not larger than a segment as defined in IFRS 8 “Operating 
Segments”.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units), to which 
the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit (group of cash-generating units) is less than the 
carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment 
losses cannot be reversed in future periods. 
Intangible assets
The Group’s intangible assets include computer software  
and licenses. 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial 
recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment 
losses. The economic lives of intangible assets are assessed to  
be finite and amortised over 4 to 10 years and assessed for 
impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset 
may be impaired. Amortisation periods and methods for intangible 
assets are reviewed at least at each financial year-end. 
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are 
recorded as an expense as incurred. Software development costs 
(relating to the design and testing of new or substantially improved 
software) are recognised as intangible assets only when the Group 
can demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the software 
so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete  
the asset and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will 
generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources  
to complete the asset and the ability to measure reliably the 
expenditure during the development. Other software development 
costs are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Insurance and reinsurance receivables
Insurance and reinsurance receivables are recognised based upon 
insurance policy terms and measured at cost. The carrying value of 
insurance and reinsurance receivables is reviewed for impairment 
whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable, with any impairment loss recorded in the 
consolidated statement of income.  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 128
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
3. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Reinsurance receivables primarily include balances due from both 
insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities. 
Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in the 
same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered 
direct business, taking into account the product classification of the 
reinsured business. Amounts due to reinsurers are estimated in a 
manner consistent with the associated reinsured policies and in 
accordance with the reinsurance contract. Premiums ceded and 
claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis. 
An impairment review is performed on all reinsurance assets when 
an indication of impairment occurs. Reinsurance receivables are 
impaired only if there is objective evidence that the Group may not 
receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract that  
this can be measured reliably. 
Insurance liabilities
General insurance liabilities
General insurance contract liabilities are based on the estimated 
ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the reporting 
date, whether reported or not, together with related claims handling 
costs and reduction for the expected value of salvage and other 
recoveries. Significant delays can be experienced in the notification 
and settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, 
particularly in respect of liability business, environmental and 
pollution exposures – therefore the ultimate cost of which cannot  
be known with certainty at the reporting date. 
Provision for unearned premiums
The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission payable  
to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is deferred  
as unearned premium. The change in the provision for unearned 
premium is taken to the consolidated income statement in order  
that revenue is recognised over the period of risk or, for annuities, 
the amount of expected future benefit payments. 
Liability adequacy test
At each reporting date, a liability adequacy test is performed, to 
ensure the adequacy of unearned premiums net of related deferred 
acquisition costs. In performing the test, current best estimates  
of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and policy 
administration expenses, as well as investment income from assets 
backing such liabilities, are used. Any inadequacy is immediately 
charged to the consolidated income statement by establishing  
an unexpired risk provision.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will  
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the 
amount of obligation can be made.
Provisions for the risk of incurring losses on off-balance sheet 
commitments is estimated regularly based on the past history  
of actual losses incurred on these commitments.
Retirement and other employee benefit obligations
The Group provides management and employees of the Group  
with private pension plans. These are defined contribution pension 
plans covering substantially all full-time employees of the Group. The 
Group collects contributions of 2% of full-time employees’ salaries,  
of which 1% is deducted from their salaries and the other 1% paid  
in addition by the Group. When an employee reaches pension age, 
aggregated contributions, plus any earnings earned on the employee’s 
behalf are paid to the employee according to the schedule agreed 
with the employee. Aggregated amounts are distributed during the 
period when the employee will receive accumulated contributions. 
Respective pension benefit obligations are recorded within other 
liabilities, Note 17 . 
Share-based payment transactions
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group receive 
share-based remuneration, whereby employees render services as 
consideration for the equity instruments (“equity-settled transactions”).
Equity-settled transactions 
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted. 
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised together with 
the corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the 
performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the 
date when the relevant employee is fully entitled to the award (“the 
vesting date”). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the 
extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
The consolidated income statement charge or credit for the period 
represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for the awards that do not ultimately  
vest except for the awards where vesting is conditional upon market 
conditions (a condition linked to the price of BGH’s shares) which  
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. 
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the 
minimum expense is recognised as if the terms had not been 
modified. An additional expense is recognised for any modification 
which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment 
arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as 
measured at the date of the modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if  
it has vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet 
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a 
new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as 
the replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled 
and the new awards are treated as if they were a modification of  
the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. 
Share capital
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. External costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new shares, other than on a business 
combination, are shown as a deduction from the proceeds in equity. 
Any excess of the fair value of consideration received over the par 
value of shares issued is recognised as additional paid-in capital. 
Treasury shares
Where BGH or its subsidiaries purchase BGH’s shares, the 
consideration paid, including any attributable transaction costs,  
net of income taxes, is deducted from total equity as treasury  
shares until they are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares  
are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received  
is included in equity. Treasury shares are stated at par value,  
with adjustment of premiums against additional paid-in capital.
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at 
the reporting date only if they are declared before or on the reporting 
date. Dividends are disclosed when they are proposed before the 
reporting date or proposed or declared after the reporting date but 
before the consolidated financial statements are authorised for issue. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 129
Contingencies
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated 
statement of financial position but are disclosed unless the possibility 
of any outflow in settlement is remote. A contingent asset is not 
recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position but 
disclosed when an inflow of economic benefits is probable. 
Income and expense recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be 
reliably measured. The following specific recognition criteria must 
also be met before revenue and expense is recognised:
Interest and similar income and expense
For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost and interest-
bearing securities classified as trading or available-for-sale, interest 
income or expense is recorded at the effective interest rate, which  
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments  
or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a 
shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial asset or financial liability. The calculation takes into account 
all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, 
prepayment options) and includes any fees or incremental costs that 
are directly attributable to the instrument and are an integral part of 
the effective interest rate, but not future credit losses. The carrying 
amount of the financial asset or financial liability is adjusted if the 
Group revises its estimates of payments or receipts. The adjusted 
carrying amount is calculated based on the original effective interest 
rate and the change in carrying amount is recorded as interest 
income or expense.
Once the recorded value of a financial asset or a group of similar 
financial assets has been reduced due to an impairment loss, 
interest income continues to be recognised using the original 
effective interest rate applied to the new carrying amount.
Fee and commission income
The Group earns fee and commission income from a diverse range 
of services it provides to its customers. Fee income can be divided 
into the following two categories:
Fee income earned from services that are provided over  
a certain period of time
Fees earned for the provision of services over a period of time are 
accrued over that period. These fees include commission incomes 
and asset management, custody and other management and 
advisory fees. Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be 
drawn down and other credit-related fees are deferred (together  
with any incremental costs) and recognised as an adjustment to  
the effective interest rate on the loan. 
Fee income from providing transaction services
Fees arising from negotiating or participating in the negotiation  
of a transaction for a third-party – such as the arrangement of the 
acquisition of shares or other securities or the purchase or sale  
of businesses – are recognised on completion of the underlying 
transaction. Fees or components of fees that are linked to a certain 
performance are recognised after fulfilling the corresponding criteria.
Dividend income
Revenue is recognised when the Group’s right to receive the 
payment is established.
Insurance premium income
For property & casualty and health insurance business, premiums 
written are recognised at policy inception and earned on a pro rata 
basis over the term of the related policy coverage. Estimates of 
premiums written as at the reporting date but not yet received, are 
assessed based on estimates from underwriting or past experience 
and are included in premiums earned.
Insurance claims 
General insurance claims incurred include all claim losses occurring 
during the year, whether reported or not, including the related handling 
costs and reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries and 
any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years. 
Healthcare revenue
Healthcare revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable  
that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue 
can be reliably measured on an accruals basis. When services are 
provided in exchange for dissimilar goods or services, the revenue  
is measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, 
adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalent transferred. 
When the fair value of the goods or services received cannot be 
measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the 
goods or services given up, adjusted by the amount of any cash  
or cash equivalents transferred.
Revenue from sale of goods
Revenue from sale of goods comprises revenue from sale of 
developed real estate property and other finished goods.
Revenue from sale of developed real estate property is recognised 
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the real 
estate have been transferred to the buyer. 
Revenue from the sale of other finished goods is recognised when 
the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have 
passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods.
Continuous transfer of work in progress is applied when: (a) the 
buyer controls the work in progress, typically when the land on 
which the development is taking place is owned by the final 
customer and (b) all significant risks and rewards of ownership of  
the work in progress in its present state are transferred to the buyer 
as construction progresses, typically when the buyer cannot transfer 
the incomplete property back to the Group. In such situations, the 
percentage of work completed is measured based on the costs 
incurred up until the end of the reporting period as a proportion  
of total costs expected to be incurred.
Non-recurring income and expenses 
The Group separately classifies and discloses those income and 
expenses that are non-recurring by nature. Any type of income or 
expense may be non-recurring by nature. The Group defines 
non-recurring income or expense as an income or expense triggered 
by or originated from an extraordinary economic, business or 
financial event that is not inherent to the regular and ordinary 
business course of the Group and is caused by uncertain or 
unpredictable external factors.  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 130
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
3. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Reclassifications
Due to the increased material size of real estate related revenues, a separate line was added to the income statement within other operating 
non-interest income with the sum of these revenues. The following reclassification was made to the years ended 31 December 2013 and 
31 December 2012 income statements to conform to the year ended 31 December 2014 presentation requirements:
Year ended Consolidated income statement
As previously 
reported Reclassification
As
reclassified
31 December 2013 Revenue from sale of goods 42,252 (42,252) –
31 December 2013 Cost of sales (29,760) 29,760 –
31 December 2013 Net real estate revenue – 5,898 5,898
31 December 2013 Other operating income 7,871 5,396 13,267
31 December 2013 Other operating expenses (3,564) 1,198 (2,366)
31 December 2012 Revenue from sale of goods 41,533 (41,533) –
31 December 2012 Cost of sales (30,868) 30,868 –
31 December 2012 Net real estate revenue – 7,467 7,467
31 December 2012 Other operating income 7,623 2,470 10,093
31 December 2012 Other operating expenses (2,949) 728 (2,221)
Due to the increased number of different debt securities issued in 2014, a separate line was added to the statement of financial position 
with the aggregated amount of such instruments. Respective changes were made to the income statement, where a separate line was 
added with the total amount of interest expenses on such instruments. The following reclassifications were made to the years ended 
31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 income statements and 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 statements of financial 
position to conform to the 31 December 2014 presentation requirements:
Year ended Consolidated statement of financial position
As previously 
reported Reclassification
As
reclassified
31 December 2013 Amounts due to credit institutions 1,886,096 (728,117) 1,157,979
31 December 2013 Debt securities issued – 728,117 728,117
31 December 2012 Amounts due to credit institutions 1,657,162 (420,849) 1,236,313
31 December 2012 Debt securities issued – 420,849 420,849
Year ended Consolidated income statement
As previously 
reported Reclassification
As
reclassified
31 December 2013 Interest expense on amounts due to credit institutions (100,585) 35,424 (65,161)
31 December 2013 Interest expense on debt securities issued – (35,424) (35,424)
31 December 2012 Interest expense on amounts due to credit institutions (79,492) 16,009 (63,483)
31 December 2012 Interest expense on debt securities issued – (16,009) (16,009) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 131
Deriving from the above-mentioned reclassifications in the income statement and the statement of financial position the following 
reclassifications were made to the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 statements of cash flows, to conform to the  
year ended 31 December 2014 presentation requirements:
Year ended Consolidated statement of cash flows
As previously 
reported Reclassification
As
reclassified
31 December 2013 Revenue received from sale of goods 75,591 (75,591) –
31 December 2013 Cost of sales of goods (72,759) 72,759 –
31 December 2013 Net cash inflow from real estate – 7,682 7,682
31 December 2013 Other operating income received (expenses paid) (23,035) 1,362 (21,673)
31 December 2013 Net (increase) decrease in operating assets from 
prepayments and other assets 11,956 (6,212) 5,744
31 December 2013 Net increase (decrease) in operating liabilities from 
amounts due to credit institutions 204,142 (283,908) (79,766)
31 December 2013 Net increase (decrease) in operating liabilities from 
debt securities issued – 283,908 283,908
31 December 2012 Revenue received from sale of goods 41,533 (41,533) –
31 December 2012 Cost of sales of goods (30,868) 30,868 –
31 December 2012 Net cash inflow from real estate – 7,229 7,229
31 December 2012 Other operating income received (expenses paid) 5,949 3,436 9,385
31 December 2012 Net increase (decrease) in operating liabilities from 
amounts due to credit institutions 761,167 (335,419) 425,748
31 December 2012 Net increase (decrease) in operating liabilities from 
debt securities issued – 335,419 335,419
Functional, reporting currencies and foreign currency translation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Georgian Lari, which is the Group’s presentation currency. BGH’s functional 
currency is British Pound Sterling. The Bank’s functional currency is US Dollars. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional 
currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions in foreign 
currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency, converted at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into functional currency at functional currency rate of exchange ruling 
at the reporting date. Gains and losses resulting from the translation of foreign currency transactions are recognised in the consolidated 
income statement as gains less losses from foreign currencies – translation differences. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items 
measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. When  
a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income, any exchange component of that gain or loss is 
recognised in other comprehensive income. Conversely, when a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in profit or loss, any 
exchange component of that gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Differences between the contractual exchange rate of a certain transaction and the NBG exchange rate on the date of the transaction are 
included in gains less losses from foreign currencies (dealing). The official NBG exchange rates at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 
and 31 December 2012 were:
Lari to GBP Lari to USD Lari to EUR
Lari to  
UAH (10)
Lari to  
BYR
(10,000)
31 December 2014 2.8932 1.8636 2.2656 1.1818 1.5727
31 December 2013 2.8614 1.7363 2.3891 2.1723 1.8258
31 December 2012 2.6653 1.6567 2.1825 2.0727 1.9331
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the entities whose functional currency is different from the presentation currency of the 
Group are translated into Georgian Lari at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and, their income statements are translated at  
the weighted average exchange rates for the year. The exchange differences arising on the translation are taken to other comprehensive 
income. On disposal of a subsidiary or an associate whose functional currency is different from the presentation currency of the Group, the 
deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that particular entity is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. 
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operations and translated at the rate at the reporting date. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 132
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
3. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Hyperinflation accounting
With effect from 1 January 2011, the Belarusian economy has been 
considered to be hyperinflationary in accordance with the criteria in 
IAS 29 “Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies” (“IAS 
29”). The standard requires that the financial statements prepared  
in the currency of a hyperinflationary economy be stated in terms  
of the measuring unit current at the reporting date. 
In applying IAS 29, the Bank’s subsidiaries in Belarus, JSC 
Belarusky Narodny Bank (“BNB”) and BNB Leasing, LLC, have  
used conversion factors derived from the Belarusian consumer price 
index (“CPI”), published by the State Committee on Statistics of the 
Republic of Belarus. The CPIs for the six-year period and respective 
conversion factors after Belarus previously ceased to be considered 
hyperinflationary on 1 January 2006 are as follows:
Year Index, %
Conversion 
factors
2006 106.6  529.3 
2007 112.1  472.2 
2008 113.3  416.7 
2009 110.1  378.5 
2010 109.9  344.4 
2011 208.7  165.0 
2012 121.8  135.5 
2013 116.6  116.2 
2014 116.2  100.0 
All income and expenses, profits and losses are recalculated by 
applying the relevant adjustment factors. Monetary assets and 
liabilities are not recalculated because they are already expressed  
in terms of the monetary unit current as at the reporting date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities (items which are not already 
expressed in terms of the monetary unit current as at the reporting 
date) are recalculated by applying the relevant index. The effect of 
inflation on BNB’s net non-monetary position is included in the 
income statement in net non-recurring expenses. 
Standards and interpretations that are issued but not 
yet effective
Up to the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements, 
certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing 
standards have been published that are not yet effective for the 
current reporting period and which the Group has not early adopted. 
Such standards that are expected to have an impact on the Group, 
or the impacts of which are currently being assessed, are as follows:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments 
project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9. The standard 
introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, 
impairment, and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application 
permitted. Retrospective application is required, but comparative 
information is not compulsory. Early application of previous versions 
of IFRS 9 (2009, 2010 and 2013) is permitted if the date of initial 
application is before 1 February 2015. The Group is currently 
assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new  
standard on the required effective date.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a new five-step 
model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with 
customers. Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised at an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled  
in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.  
The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to 
measuring and recognising revenue. The new revenue standard  
is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue 
recognition requirements under IFRS. Either a full or modified 
retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted. The  
Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15.
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of 
Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
The amendments address the acknowledged inconsistency 
between the requirements in IFRS 10 and IAS 28 in dealing with the 
loss of control of a subsidiary that is contributed to an associate or  
a joint venture. The amendments clarify that an investor recognises  
a full gain or loss on the sale or contribution of assets that constitute 
a business, as defined in IFRS 3, between an investor and its 
associate or joint venture. The gain or loss resulting from the 
re-measurement at fair value of an investment retained in a former 
subsidiary is recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors’ 
interests in that former subsidiary. The amendments are applied 
prospectively to transactions occurring in annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted.
Annual improvements 2010-2012 Cycle
These improvements are effective from 1 July 2014 and are not 
expected to have a material impact on the Group. They include:
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
This improvement is applied prospectively and clarifies various 
issues relating to the definitions of performance and service 
conditions which are vesting conditions, including:
 – a performance condition must contain a service condition;
 – a performance target must be met while the counterparty is 
rendering service;
 – a performance target may relate to the operations or activities  
of an entity, or to those of another entity in the same group;
 – a performance condition may be a market or non-market 
condition; and
 – if the counterparty, regardless of the reason, ceases to provide 
service during the vesting period, the service condition is not 
satisfied.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations
The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies that all 
contingent consideration arrangements classified as liabilities (or 
assets) arising from a business combination should be subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit or loss whether or not they fall 
within the scope of IFRS 9 (or IAS 39, as applicable).
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
The amendments are applied retrospectively and clarify that: 
 – an entity must disclose the judgements made by management  
in applying the aggregation criteria in paragraph 12 of IFRS 8, 
including a brief description of operating segments that have 
been aggregated and the economic characteristics (e.g., sales 
and gross margins) used to assess whether the segments 
are ‘similar’; and
 – the reconciliation of segment assets to total assets is only 
required to be disclosed if the reconciliation is reported to  
the chief operating decision maker, similar to the required 
disclosure for segment liabilities. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 133
IFRS 13 Short-term Receivables and Payables – Amendments 
to IFRS 13
This amendment to IFRS 13 clarifies in the Basis for Conclusions that 
short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rates 
can be measured at invoice amounts when the effect of discounting 
is immaterial. 
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38  
Intangible Assets
The amendment is applied retrospectively and clarifies in IAS 16 and 
IAS 38 that the asset may be revalued by reference to observable 
data on either the gross or the net carrying amount. In addition, the 
accumulated depreciation or amortisation is the difference between 
the gross and carrying amounts of the asset. 
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
The amendment is applied retrospectively and clarifies that a 
management entity (an entity that provides key management 
personnel services) is a related party subject to the related party 
disclosures. In addition, an entity that uses a management entity  
is required to disclose the expenses incurred for management 
services. 
Annual improvements 2011-2013 Cycle
These improvements are effective from 1 July 2014 and are not 
expected to have a material impact on the Group. They include:
IFRS 3 Business Combinations
The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies for the  
scope exceptions within IFRS 3 that:
 – joint arrangements, not just joint ventures, are outside  
the scope of IFRS 3; and
 – this scope exception applies only to the accounting in  
the financial statements of the joint arrangement itself.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies that the 
portfolio exception in IFRS 13 can be applied not only to financial 
assets and financial liabilities, but also to other contracts within  
the scope of IFRS 9 (or IAS 39, as applicable).
IAS 40 Investment Property
The description of ancillary services in IAS 40 differentiates between 
investment property and owner-occupied property (i.e., property, 
plant and equipment). The amendment is applied prospectively and 
clarifies that IFRS 3, and not the description of ancillary services in 
IAS 40, is used to determine if the transaction is the purchase of an 
asset or business combination.
Meaning of effective IFRSs – Amendments to IFRS 1
The amendment clarifies in the Basis for Conclusions that an entity 
may choose to apply either a current standard or a new standard 
that is not yet mandatory, but permits early application, provided 
either standard is applied consistently throughout the periods 
presented in the entity’s first IFRS financial statements. This 
amendment to IFRS 1 has no impact on the Group, since the  
Group is an existing IFRS preparer.
Annual improvements 2012-2014 Cycle
These improvements are effective on or after 1 January 2016  
and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.  
They include:
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations – changes in methods of disposal 
Assets (or disposal groups) are generally disposed of either through 
sale or through distribution to owners. The amendment to IFRS 5 
clarifies that changing from one of these disposal methods to  
the other should not be considered to be a new plan of disposal, 
rather it is a continuation of the original plan. There is therefore no 
interruption of the application of the requirements in IFRS 5. The 
amendment also clarifies that changing the disposal method does 
not change the date of classification. The amendment must be 
applied prospectively to changes in methods of disposal that occur 
in annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier 
application permitted.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – servicing contracts 
IFRS 7 requires an entity to provide disclosures for any continuing 
involvement in a transferred asset that is derecognised in its entirety. 
The Board was asked whether servicing contracts constitute 
continuing involvement for the purposes of applying these disclosure 
requirements. The amendment clarifies that a servicing contract that 
includes a fee can constitute continuing involvement in a financial 
asset. An entity must assess the nature of the fee and arrangement 
against the guidance for continuing involvement in paragraphs IFRS 
7.B30 and IFRS 7.42C in order to assess whether the disclosures  
are required. The amendment must be applied for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier application 
permitted. The amendment is to be applied such that the 
assessment of which servicing contracts constitute continuing 
involvement will need to be done retrospectively. However, the 
required disclosures would not need to be provided for any period 
beginning before the annual period in which the entity first applies 
the amendments.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – applicability  
of the offsetting disclosures to condensed interim  
financial statements 
In December 2011, IFRS 7 was amended to add guidance on 
offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities. In the effective 
date and transition for that amendment IFRS 7 states that “An entity 
shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on  
or after 1 January 2013 and interim periods within those annual 
periods”. The interim disclosure standard, IAS 34, does not reflect 
this requirement, however, and it is not clear whether those 
disclosures are required in the condensed interim financial report.
The amendment removes the phrase “and interim periods within 
those annual periods”, clarifying that these IFRS 7 disclosures  
are not required in the condensed interim financial report. The 
amendment must be applied retrospectively for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier application 
permitted. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 134
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
3. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
IAS 19 Employee Benefits – regional market issue  
regarding discount rate 
The amendment to IAS 19 clarifies that market depth of high-  
quality corporate bonds is assessed based on the currency in  
which the obligation is denominated, rather than the country  
where the obligation is located. When there is no deep market  
for high-quality corporate bonds in that currency, Government  
bond rates must be used.
The amendment must be applied for annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier application permitted.
IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting – disclosure of information 
“elsewhere in the interim financial report” 
The amendment states that the required interim disclosures must 
either be in the interim financial statements or incorporated by 
cross-reference between the interim financial statements and 
wherever they are included within the greater interim financial report 
(e.g. in the management commentary or risk report). The Board 
specified that the other information within the interim financial report 
must be available to users on the same terms as the interim financial 
statements and at the same time. If users do not have access to the 
other information in this manner, then the interim financial report is 
incomplete. The amendment should be applied retrospectively for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier 
application permitted.
4. Significant accounting judgements and estimates
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, the 
Board of Directors and management use their judgement and make 
estimates in determining the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements. The most significant judgements and estimates 
are as follows: 
Fair value of financial instruments
Where the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position cannot 
be derived from active markets, they are determined using a variety 
of valuation techniques that include the use of mathematical models. 
The input to these models is taken from observable markets where 
possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is 
required in establishing fair values.
Measurement of fair value of investment properties  
and property and equipment 
The fair value of investment properties and office buildings and 
service centres included in property and equipment is determined 
by independent professionally qualified appraisers. Fair value is 
determined using a combination of the internal capitalisation method 
(also known as discounted future cash flow method) and the sales 
comparison method. 
The estimates described above are subject to change as new 
transaction data and market evidence become available.
Allowance for impairment of loans and receivables  
and finance lease receivables 
The Group regularly reviews its loans and receivables and finance 
lease receivables to assess impairment. The Group uses its 
judgement to estimate the amount of any impairment loss in cases 
where a borrower is in financial difficulties and there are few available 
sources of historical data relating to similar borrowers. Similarly,  
the Group estimates changes in future cash flows based on the 
observable data indicating that there has been an adverse change  
in the payment status of borrowers in a group, or national or local 
economic conditions that correlate with defaults on assets in the 
group. Management uses estimates based on historical loss 
experience for assets with credit risk characteristics and objective 
evidence of impairment similar to those in the group of loans and 
receivables. The Group uses its judgement to adjust observable data 
for a group of loans or receivables to reflect current circumstances. 
The Group considers the fair value of collateral when estimating the 
amount of impairment loss for collateralised loans and receivables 
and finance lease receivables. Management monitors market value 
of collateral on a regular basis. Management uses its experienced 
judgement or independent opinion to adjust the fair value to reflect 
current circumstances. The amount and type of collateral required 
depends on the assessment of credit risk of the counterparty.
In order to exclude post 2008 Georgia–Russia war and global 
financial crisis extraordinary trends from the assessment of the 
collective impairment of loans, the Bank amended its approach in 
2012. Namely, the historical loss rates that are applied for collective 
impairment are now calculated based on a three-year history of  
net losses (including reversals) as opposed to a five to seven-year 
history of net losses under the previous approach. The impact of  
this change on profit from continuing operations before income tax 
expense for the year ended 31 December 2012 is GEL 20.1 million.
On 1 January 2014 the Bank introduced a new loan loss provisioning 
methodology. Management considers this to be a change in 
significant accounting estimate. The new methodology is more 
granular than the previous methodology and introduces additional 
statistical analysis for determining the inputs. As at 1 January 2014 
the Bank’s allowance for loan impairment under the new 
methodology was GEL 114,552, a difference of GEL 3,843 as 
compared to the allowance for loan impairment if calculated based 
on the previous methodology (which represents less than 2.5%  
of the allowance). The allowance for loan impairment under the 
previous methodology would have been GEL 118,395 as at 
1 January 2014. After 1 January 2014 it was impracticable for 
management to continue to estimate the allowance for loan 
impairment under the old methodology. Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 135
5. Business combinations
Avante Hospital Management Group LLC
On 20 February 2014 Unimed Kakheti LLC (“Acquirer”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 80% of shares in Avante Hospital 
Management Group LLC (“Acquiree”), a healthcare company operating in Georgia from individuals. The remaining 20% of the Avante 
Hospital Management Group was acquired on 5 March 2014 from individuals.
The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree as at the date of acquisition were:
Fair value 
recognised on 
acquisition
Cash and cash equivalents 1,223 
Accounts receivable
1
 6,361 
Property and equipment 50,630 
Intangible assets  7 
Current income tax assets 156 
Other assets 944 
 59,321 
Accounts payable 2,562 
Amounts due to credit institutions 10,734 
Current income tax liabilities 1,679 
Deferred income tax liabilities 4,000 
Accruals and deferred income 1,794 
Other liabilities 1,914 
 22,683 
Total identifiable net assets 36,638 
Non-controlling interest 10,857 
Negative goodwill arising on business combination
2
 (1,003)
Consideration given
3
 24,778 
The net cash outflow on acquisition was as follows: 
2014
Cash paid  18,291 
Cash acquired with the subsidiary  (1,223)
Net cash outflow 17,068 
1.  The fair value of the accounts receivables amounted to GEL 6,361. The gross amount of receivable is GEL 13,881. GEL 7,520 of the accounts receivable has 
been impaired;
2.  Prior to acquisition, owners of Avante Group encountered certain financial difficulties which resulted in a lower acquisition cost causing a negative goodwill, 
recognised as gain;
3.  Consideration comprised of GEL 24,778, which consists of GEL 18,291 cash payment and GEL 7,624 fair value of a holdback amount, less GEL 1,137  
pre-existing payables to Avante Hospital Management Group LLC. 
The Group decided to increase their presence and investment in Tbilisi healthcare market, by acquiring the given group, thus securing  
a leading position in the growing healthcare sector. Management considers that the deal will have a positive impact on the value of  
the Group.
Since the acquisition date, the Group recorded GEL 522,104 and GEL 213,379 of revenue and profit, respectively. In the same period,  
GEL 16,203 and GEL 8,594 of revenue and profit, respectively comes from the acquiree. If the combination had taken place at the  
beginning of the period, the Group would have recorded GEL 626,875 and GEL 249,807 of revenue and profit respectively. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 136
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari)
5. Business combinations (continued)
Traumatology LLC
On 30 September 2014 JSC EVEX Medical Corporation (“Acquirer”) acquired from individuals 100% of the shares in Traumatology LLC 
(“Acquiree”), a healthcare company operating in Georgia.
The provisionally estimated fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree as at the date of acquisition were:
Provisional
fair value 
recognised on 
acquisition
Cash and cash equivalents 253 
Accounts receivable
1
 1,272 
Property and equipment 8,322 
Current income tax assets 100 
Other assets 137 
 10,084 
Accounts payable 650 
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,975 
Current income tax liabilities 13 
Deferred income tax liabilities 929 
Accruals and deferred income 806 
Other liabilities 316 
 4,689 
Total identifiable net assets 5,395 
Goodwill arising on business combination 913 
Consideration given
2
 6,308 
The net cash outflow on acquisition was as follows: 
2014
Cash paid  5,362 
Cash acquired with the subsidiary  (253)
Net cash outflow 5,109 
1.  The fair value of the accounts receivables amounted to GEL 1,272. The gross amount of receivables is GEL 2,102. GEL 830 of the accounts receivables have 
been impaired;
2. Consideration comprised of GEL 6,308 which consists of a GEL 5,362 cash payment and GEL 946 fair value of a holdback amount. 
The Group decided to increase their presence and investment in Tbilisi healthcare market, by acquiring the given company, thus securing a 
leading position in the growing healthcare sector. Management considers that the deal will have a positive impact on the value of the Group.
Since the acquisition date, the Group recorded GEL 168,702 and GEL 66,477 of revenue and profit, respectively. In the same period,  
GEL 828 and GEL 400 of revenue and profit, respectively comes from the Acquiree. If the combination had taken place at the beginning  
of the period, the Group would have recorded GEL 614,725 and GEL 241,553 of revenue and profit respectively.
The primary factor that contributed to the cost of the business combination that resulted in the recognition of goodwill on acquisition is the 
positive synergy which is expected to be brought into the Group’s operations. The whole amount of goodwill recognised is expected to  
be tax deductible.
Since Traumatology LLC was acquired close to the issue date, the Group had limited time to review, analyse and perform valuation of the 
respective net asset. Therefore the net assets as well as the amount of goodwill presented above are estimated provisionally as at the issue 
date. The Group continues thorough full examination of these net assets and if identified proper adjustments will be made to the net assets 
and amount of the goodwill during the 12-month period from the acquisition date, as allowed by “Business Combinations” (IFRS 3). Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 137
6. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into the following operating segments based on products and services as follows:
Retail Banking (excluding Retail Banking of BNB) Principally providing consumer loans, mortgage loans, overdrafts, credit card  
facilities and other credit facilities as well as funds transfer and settlement services, 
and handling customers’ deposits for both individuals as well as legal entities, 
encompassing mass affluent segment, retail mass markets, small and medium 
enterprises and micro businesses.
Corporate Banking (excluding Corporate  
Banking of BNB)
Principally providing loans and other credit facilities to high net worth individuals  
as well as other legal entities, larger than SME and Micro, finance lease facilities 
provided by Georgian Leasing Company LLC, as well as providing funds transfers 
and settlement services, trade finance services and documentary operations 
support, handling saving and term deposits for corporate and institutional customers.
Investment Management Principally providing private banking services to resident as well as non-resident 
wealthy individuals as well as their direct family members by ensuring individually 
tailored approach and exclusivity in rendering common banking services such as 
fund transfers, currency exchange or settlement operations, or holding their savings 
and term deposits; Investment Management involves providing wealth and asset 
management services to the same individuals through differing investment 
opportunities and specifically designed investment products.
Corporate Centre Principally providing back office services to all operating segments of the Group  
as well as holding all principal investments in subsidiaries.
P&C Insurance Principally providing wide-scale property and casualty insurance services to 
corporate clients and insured individuals.
GHG Georgian Healthcare Group – providing wide-scale health insurance and healthcare 
services to corporate clients and individuals.
Affordable Housing Comprising the Group’s real estate subsidiaries, principally developing and selling 
affordable residential apartments and also holding investment properties 
repossessed by the Bank from defaulted borrowers and managing those properties.
BNB Comprising JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank, principally providing retail and corporate 
banking services in Belarus. 
Liberty Consumer Principally holding private equity investments in several non-core business 
enterprises, such as a winery, a fitness centre, travel agencies, an outdoor  
or indoor advertising company, a regional car dealership, a hotels and restaurants 
management chain and other smaller investments, all designated for disposal. 
Other Comprising JSC Galt & Taggart Holding Georgia, a shell company, principally holding 
investments in subsidiaries of the Bank on behalf of the Bank. 
For the purposes of further consolidation of these operating segments and for a more comprehensive presentation in these consolidated 
financial statements, Management has further grouped them into large segments, classified as: Strategic, Synergistic and Non-Core.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation 
and performance assessment. Segment performance, as explained in the table below, is measured in the same manner as profit or loss  
in the consolidated financial statements. 
Transactions between operating segments are on an arm’s-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
No revenue from transactions with a single external customer or counterparty amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue  
in 2014, 2013 or 2012. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 138
6. Segment information (continued)
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at 
and for the year ended 31 December 2014:
Strategic Synergistic Non-Core
Intersegment 
transactions 
and balances Total
Corporate 
Banking
Retail 
Banking
Investment
Management
Corporate 
Centre P&C GHG
Affordable 
Housing BNB
Liberty 
Consumer Other
Net interest income (expense) 105,223 213,790 13,919 – 506 (12,815) 1,481 22,410 (890) (1,702) 2,139 344,061
Net fees and commission income (expense) 24,810 58,867 8,760 (498) 312 (186) – 9,443 (80) – (1,766) 99,662
Net insurance revenue – – – – 17,752 14,986 – – – – (3,309) 29,429
Net healthcare revenue – – – – – 46,884 – – – – – 46,884
Real estate income 2,560 3,296 41 – 34 64 11,760 482 1 45 (2,501) 15,782
Net gains (losses) from foreign currencies 27,386 20,274 1,404 (865) (2,085) (1,511) (895) 9,932 (675) (3,381) – 49,584
Other revenues 4,093 354 437 (1) 481 501 1,991 22 12,450 304 (456) 20,176
Revenue 164,072 296,581 24,561 (1,364) 17,000 47,923 14,337 42,289 10,806 (4,734) (5,893) 605,578
Operating expenses (49,060) (128,972) (10,837) (3,807) (9,402) (29,555) (5,468) (18,390) (7,669) (1,682) 5,893 (258,949)
Operating income (expense) before cost of credit risk 115,012 167,609 13,724 (5,171) 7,598 18,368 8,869 23,899 3,137 (6,416) – 346,629
Cost of credit risk (41,176) (9,226) 47 – (601) (2,872) (82) (4,187) (350) – (573) (59,020)
Net operating income (loss) before non-recurring items 73,836 158,383 13,771 (5,171) 6,997 15,496 8,787 19,712 2,787 (6,416) (573) 287,609
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (2,672) (5,795) (295) – – 505 18 (3,073) 297 (2) – (11,017)
Profit (loss) before income tax (expense) benefit 71,164 152,588 13,476 (5,171) 6,997 16,001 8,805 16,639 3,084 (6,418) (573) 276,592
Income tax (expense) benefit (9,528) (19,325) (2,011) 3,509 (1,083) (1,346) (1,022) (4,471) (1,115) 567 – (35,825)
Profit (loss) for the year 61,636 133,263 11,465 (1,662) 5,914 14,655 7,783 12,168 1,969 (5,851) (573) 240,767
 
Assets and liabilities
Total assets 3,329,853 3,225,230 39,426 183,683 86,746 409,945 236,179 403,764 41,632 22,726 (400,039) 7,579,145
Total liabilities 2,412,767 2,316,680 842,300 3,542 58,695 237,565 112,407 319,308 18,907 23,778 (400,897) 5,945,052
 
Other segment information
Property and equipment 2,629 19,540 3,894 – 1,477 38,503 368 2,101 1,761 313 – 70,586
Intangible assets 1,121 6,503 130 – 232 1,519 27 304 30 7 – 9,873
Capital expenditure 3,750 26,043 4,024 – 1,709 40,022 395 2,405 1,791 320 – 80,459
Depreciation (3,174) (17,094) (368) – (382) (7,852) (295) (1,218) (1,098) (4) – (31,485)
Amortisation (639) (3,385) (44) – (188) (205) (37) (100) (20) – – (4,618)
Impairment (4,259) (3,315) (138) – – – – – – – – (7,712)
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 139
6. Segment information (continued)
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at 
and for the year ended 31 December 2014:
Strategic Synergistic Non-Core
Intersegment 
transactions 
and balances Total
Corporate 
Banking
Retail 
Banking
Investment
Management
Corporate 
Centre P&C GHG
Affordable 
Housing BNB
Liberty 
Consumer Other
Net interest income (expense) 105,223 213,790 13,919 – 506 (12,815) 1,481 22,410 (890) (1,702) 2,139 344,061
Net fees and commission income (expense) 24,810 58,867 8,760 (498) 312 (186) – 9,443 (80) – (1,766) 99,662
Net insurance revenue – – – – 17,752 14,986 – – – – (3,309) 29,429
Net healthcare revenue – – – – – 46,884 – – – – – 46,884
Real estate income 2,560 3,296 41 – 34 64 11,760 482 1 45 (2,501) 15,782
Net gains (losses) from foreign currencies 27,386 20,274 1,404 (865) (2,085) (1,511) (895) 9,932 (675) (3,381) – 49,584
Other revenues 4,093 354 437 (1) 481 501 1,991 22 12,450 304 (456) 20,176
Revenue 164,072 296,581 24,561 (1,364) 17,000 47,923 14,337 42,289 10,806 (4,734) (5,893) 605,578
Operating expenses (49,060) (128,972) (10,837) (3,807) (9,402) (29,555) (5,468) (18,390) (7,669) (1,682) 5,893 (258,949)
Operating income (expense) before cost of credit risk 115,012 167,609 13,724 (5,171) 7,598 18,368 8,869 23,899 3,137 (6,416) – 346,629
Cost of credit risk (41,176) (9,226) 47 – (601) (2,872) (82) (4,187) (350) – (573) (59,020)
Net operating income (loss) before non-recurring items 73,836 158,383 13,771 (5,171) 6,997 15,496 8,787 19,712 2,787 (6,416) (573) 287,609
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (2,672) (5,795) (295) – – 505 18 (3,073) 297 (2) – (11,017)
Profit (loss) before income tax (expense) benefit 71,164 152,588 13,476 (5,171) 6,997 16,001 8,805 16,639 3,084 (6,418) (573) 276,592
Income tax (expense) benefit (9,528) (19,325) (2,011) 3,509 (1,083) (1,346) (1,022) (4,471) (1,115) 567 – (35,825)
Profit (loss) for the year 61,636 133,263 11,465 (1,662) 5,914 14,655 7,783 12,168 1,969 (5,851) (573) 240,767
 
Assets and liabilities
Total assets 3,329,853 3,225,230 39,426 183,683 86,746 409,945 236,179 403,764 41,632 22,726 (400,039) 7,579,145
Total liabilities 2,412,767 2,316,680 842,300 3,542 58,695 237,565 112,407 319,308 18,907 23,778 (400,897) 5,945,052
 
Other segment information
Property and equipment 2,629 19,540 3,894 – 1,477 38,503 368 2,101 1,761 313 – 70,586
Intangible assets 1,121 6,503 130 – 232 1,519 27 304 30 7 – 9,873
Capital expenditure 3,750 26,043 4,024 – 1,709 40,022 395 2,405 1,791 320 – 80,459
Depreciation (3,174) (17,094) (368) – (382) (7,852) (295) (1,218) (1,098) (4) – (31,485)
Amortisation (639) (3,385) (44) – (188) (205) (37) (100) (20) – – (4,618)
Impairment (4,259) (3,315) (138) – – – – – – – – (7,712) Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 140
6. Segment information (continued)
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at 
and for the year ended 31 December 2013:
Strategic Synergistic Non-Core
Intersegment 
transactions 
and balances Total
Corporate 
Banking
Retail
Banking
Investment
Management
Corporate 
Centre P&C GHG
Affordable 
Housing BNB
Liberty 
Consumer Other
Net interest income (expense) 103,967  191,851  8,692  –  (177) (9,681) 2,011  18,565  (629) (2,869) 2,366  314,096 
Net fees and commission income (expense) 27,318  54,025  1,238  (217) 248  (242) (27) 6,350  (45) –  (1,752) 86,896 
Net insurance revenue –  –  –  –  20,785  27,248  –  –  –  –  (2,700) 45,333 
Net healthcare revenue  –  –  –  –  –  22,369  –  –  –  –  –  22,369 
Real estate income  2,884  1,928  13  –  36  723  2,537  (149) 8  103  (2,185) 5,898 
Net gains (losses) from foreign currencies 24,774  16,308  1,371  –  101  (4,697) 123  5,875  (270) (73) –  43,512 
Other revenues 3,087  2,609  261  –  509  746  7,968  22  11,273  1,337  (1,660) 26,152 
Revenue 162,030  266,721  11,575  (217) 21,502  36,466  12,612  30,663  10,337  (1,502) (5,931) 544,256 
Operating expenses (43,833) (119,963) (7,261) (3,740) (8,049) (20,577) (2,893) (15,201) (6,614) (2,167) 5,931  (224,367)
Operating income (expense) before cost of credit risk 118,197  146,758  4,314  (3,957) 13,453  15,889  9,719  15,462  3,723  (3,669) –  319,889 
Cost of credit risk (31,054) (29,172) 10  –  (272) (747) 55  (563) –  (1) (58) (61,802)
Net operating income (loss) before non-recurring items 87,143  117,586  4,324  (3,957) 13,181  15,142  9,774  14,899  3,723  (3,670) (58) 258,087 
Net non-recurring expense/loss (2,690) (2,200) (2,507) –  –  (1) (824) (399) (3,803) (407) –  (12,831)
Profit (loss) before income tax (expense) benefit 84,453  115,386  1,817  (3,957) 13,181  15,141  8,950  14,500  (80) (4,077) (58) 245,256 
Income tax (expense) benefit (11,164) (14,468) (1,366) –  (2,100) (2,049) (1,142) (3,514) (623) 513  –  (35,913)
Profit (loss) for the year 73,289  100,918  451  (3,957) 11,081  13,092  7,808  10,986  (703) (3,564) (58) 209,343 
 
Assets and liabilities
Total assets 3,085,647  2,689,011  30,749  5,178  70,477  275,197  135,994  326,465  41,498  22,501  (161,748) 6,520,969 
Total liabilities 2,344,860  1,830,958  683,569  342  50,576  176,118  59,021  254,451  18,926  24,277  (163,183) 5,279,915 
 
Other segment information
Property and equipment  2,853  20,921  302  –  503  35,136  463  466  1,422  136  –  62,202 
Intangible assets 972  5,666  78  –  522  832  47  249  11  13  –  8,390 
Capital expenditure 3,825  26,587  380  –  1,025  35,968  510  715  1,433  149  –  70,592 
Depreciation  (2,945) (16,086) (312) –  (373) (5,646) (73) (1,523) (1,034) (50) –  (28,042)
Amortisation  (514) (3,007) (41) –  (179) (228) (2) (106) (1) (2) –  (4,080)
(Impairment) reversal (713) (641) (5) –  –  –  –  1,295  (1,107) –  –  (1,171)
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 141
6. Segment information (continued)
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at 
and for the year ended 31 December 2013:
Strategic Synergistic Non-Core
Intersegment 
transactions 
and balances Total
Corporate 
Banking
Retail
Banking
Investment
Management
Corporate 
Centre P&C GHG
Affordable 
Housing BNB
Liberty 
Consumer Other
Net interest income (expense) 103,967  191,851  8,692  –  (177) (9,681) 2,011  18,565  (629) (2,869) 2,366  314,096 
Net fees and commission income (expense) 27,318  54,025  1,238  (217) 248  (242) (27) 6,350  (45) –  (1,752) 86,896 
Net insurance revenue –  –  –  –  20,785  27,248  –  –  –  –  (2,700) 45,333 
Net healthcare revenue  –  –  –  –  –  22,369  –  –  –  –  –  22,369 
Real estate income  2,884  1,928  13  –  36  723  2,537  (149) 8  103  (2,185) 5,898 
Net gains (losses) from foreign currencies 24,774  16,308  1,371  –  101  (4,697) 123  5,875  (270) (73) –  43,512 
Other revenues 3,087  2,609  261  –  509  746  7,968  22  11,273  1,337  (1,660) 26,152 
Revenue 162,030  266,721  11,575  (217) 21,502  36,466  12,612  30,663  10,337  (1,502) (5,931) 544,256 
Operating expenses (43,833) (119,963) (7,261) (3,740) (8,049) (20,577) (2,893) (15,201) (6,614) (2,167) 5,931  (224,367)
Operating income (expense) before cost of credit risk 118,197  146,758  4,314  (3,957) 13,453  15,889  9,719  15,462  3,723  (3,669) –  319,889 
Cost of credit risk (31,054) (29,172) 10  –  (272) (747) 55  (563) –  (1) (58) (61,802)
Net operating income (loss) before non-recurring items 87,143  117,586  4,324  (3,957) 13,181  15,142  9,774  14,899  3,723  (3,670) (58) 258,087 
Net non-recurring expense/loss (2,690) (2,200) (2,507) –  –  (1) (824) (399) (3,803) (407) –  (12,831)
Profit (loss) before income tax (expense) benefit 84,453  115,386  1,817  (3,957) 13,181  15,141  8,950  14,500  (80) (4,077) (58) 245,256 
Income tax (expense) benefit (11,164) (14,468) (1,366) –  (2,100) (2,049) (1,142) (3,514) (623) 513  –  (35,913)
Profit (loss) for the year 73,289  100,918  451  (3,957) 11,081  13,092  7,808  10,986  (703) (3,564) (58) 209,343 
 
Assets and liabilities
Total assets 3,085,647  2,689,011  30,749  5,178  70,477  275,197  135,994  326,465  41,498  22,501  (161,748) 6,520,969 
Total liabilities 2,344,860  1,830,958  683,569  342  50,576  176,118  59,021  254,451  18,926  24,277  (163,183) 5,279,915 
 
Other segment information
Property and equipment  2,853  20,921  302  –  503  35,136  463  466  1,422  136  –  62,202 
Intangible assets 972  5,666  78  –  522  832  47  249  11  13  –  8,390 
Capital expenditure 3,825  26,587  380  –  1,025  35,968  510  715  1,433  149  –  70,592 
Depreciation  (2,945) (16,086) (312) –  (373) (5,646) (73) (1,523) (1,034) (50) –  (28,042)
Amortisation  (514) (3,007) (41) –  (179) (228) (2) (106) (1) (2) –  (4,080)
(Impairment) reversal (713) (641) (5) –  –  –  –  1,295  (1,107) –  –  (1,171) Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 142
6. Segment information (continued)
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at 
and for the year ended 31 December 2012:
Strategic Synergistic Non-Core
Intersegment 
transactions 
and balances Total
Corporate 
Banking
Retail
Banking
Investment
Management
Corporate 
Centre P&C GHG
Affordable 
Housing BNB
Liberty 
Consumer Other
Net interest income (expense) 92,276  174,360  13,134 –  (258) (4,398) 147  12,074  (578) (2,640) –  284,117 
Net fees and commission income (expense) 28,701  53,563  980  (581) 112  (220) 196  3,809  (61) (12) –  86,487 
Net insurance revenue – – – –  11,935  24,148 – – – –  (1,945) 34,138 
Net healthcare revenue – – – – –  23,346 – – – – –  23,346 
Real estate income  1,679  2,112  36 –  38  552  4,267  55  15  357  (1,644) 7,467 
Net gains (losses) from foreign currencies 29,819  14,985  622 –  54  (907) (145) 5,306  (153) (10) –  49,571 
Other revenues 1,966  899  267 –  614  (170) 111  13  7,932  1,274  (505) 12,401 
Revenue 154,441  245,919  15,039  (581) 12,495  42,351  4,576  21,257  7,155  (1,031) (4,094) 497,527 
Operating expenses (50,972) (108,687) (5,117) (2,613) (7,250) (27,879) (2,381) (10,327) (5,936) (4,130) 4,868  (220,424)
Operating income (expense) before cost of credit risk 103,469  137,232  9,922  (3,194) 5,245  14,472  2,195  10,930  1,219  (5,161) 774  277,103 
Cost of credit risk (29,490) (12,482) 727 –  (738) (1,566) (219) (1,306) (136) –  493  (44,717)
Net operating income (loss) before non-recurring items 73,979  124,750  10,649  (3,194) 4,507  12,906  1,976  9,624  1,083  (5,161) 1,267  232,386 
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (8,415) (6,828) (305) – –  440  282  (443) (4,365) – –  (19,634)
Profit (loss) before income tax (expense) benefit 65,564  117,922  10,344  (3,194) 4,507  13,346  2,258  9,181  (3,282) (5,161) 1,267  212,752 
Income tax (expense) benefit (9,936) (16,392) (1,434) –  (665) (1,645) (307) (2,367) (889) 435 –  (33,200)
Profit (loss) for the year 55,628  101,530  8,910  (3,194) 3,842  11,701  1,951  6,814  (4,171) (4,726) 1,267  179,552 
 
Assets and liabilities
Total assets 2,573,498  2,474,052  64,208  18,716  72,418  253,559  105,899  185,859  37,924  23,305  (153,843) 5,655,595 
Total liabilities 1,974,163  1,708,617  615,791  2,335  63,533  169,802  42,838  139,356  12,114  22,871  (155,337) 4,596,083 
 
Other segment information
Property and equipment  5,886  20,593  635 –  1,344  28,006  203  340  1,616  1,563 –  60,186 
Intangible assets 906  3,678  53 –  106  485  20  186  266  1 –  5,701 
Capital expenditure 6,792  24,271  688 –  1,450  28,491  223  526  1,882  1,564 –  65,887 
Depreciation  (4,160) (14,412) (331) –  (314) (3,727) (121) (910) (940) (112) –  (25,027)
Amortisation  (667) (2,643) (43) –  (19) (82) –  (116) (6) (3) –  (3,579)
Impairment –  (15) – – – – – –  (939) – –  (954)
Investments in associates – – – – – – – –  2,441 – –  2,441 
Share of loss of associates – – – – – – – –  (149) – –  (149)
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 143
6. Segment information (continued)
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at 
and for the year ended 31 December 2012:
Strategic Synergistic Non-Core
Intersegment 
transactions 
and balances Total
Corporate 
Banking
Retail
Banking
Investment
Management
Corporate 
Centre P&C GHG
Affordable 
Housing BNB
Liberty 
Consumer Other
Net interest income (expense) 92,276  174,360  13,134 –  (258) (4,398) 147  12,074  (578) (2,640) –  284,117 
Net fees and commission income (expense) 28,701  53,563  980  (581) 112  (220) 196  3,809  (61) (12) –  86,487 
Net insurance revenue – – – –  11,935  24,148 – – – –  (1,945) 34,138 
Net healthcare revenue – – – – –  23,346 – – – – –  23,346 
Real estate income  1,679  2,112  36 –  38  552  4,267  55  15  357  (1,644) 7,467 
Net gains (losses) from foreign currencies 29,819  14,985  622 –  54  (907) (145) 5,306  (153) (10) –  49,571 
Other revenues 1,966  899  267 –  614  (170) 111  13  7,932  1,274  (505) 12,401 
Revenue 154,441  245,919  15,039  (581) 12,495  42,351  4,576  21,257  7,155  (1,031) (4,094) 497,527 
Operating expenses (50,972) (108,687) (5,117) (2,613) (7,250) (27,879) (2,381) (10,327) (5,936) (4,130) 4,868  (220,424)
Operating income (expense) before cost of credit risk 103,469  137,232  9,922  (3,194) 5,245  14,472  2,195  10,930  1,219  (5,161) 774  277,103 
Cost of credit risk (29,490) (12,482) 727 –  (738) (1,566) (219) (1,306) (136) –  493  (44,717)
Net operating income (loss) before non-recurring items 73,979  124,750  10,649  (3,194) 4,507  12,906  1,976  9,624  1,083  (5,161) 1,267  232,386 
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (8,415) (6,828) (305) – –  440  282  (443) (4,365) – –  (19,634)
Profit (loss) before income tax (expense) benefit 65,564  117,922  10,344  (3,194) 4,507  13,346  2,258  9,181  (3,282) (5,161) 1,267  212,752 
Income tax (expense) benefit (9,936) (16,392) (1,434) –  (665) (1,645) (307) (2,367) (889) 435 –  (33,200)
Profit (loss) for the year 55,628  101,530  8,910  (3,194) 3,842  11,701  1,951  6,814  (4,171) (4,726) 1,267  179,552 
 
Assets and liabilities
Total assets 2,573,498  2,474,052  64,208  18,716  72,418  253,559  105,899  185,859  37,924  23,305  (153,843) 5,655,595 
Total liabilities 1,974,163  1,708,617  615,791  2,335  63,533  169,802  42,838  139,356  12,114  22,871  (155,337) 4,596,083 
 
Other segment information
Property and equipment  5,886  20,593  635 –  1,344  28,006  203  340  1,616  1,563 –  60,186 
Intangible assets 906  3,678  53 –  106  485  20  186  266  1 –  5,701 
Capital expenditure 6,792  24,271  688 –  1,450  28,491  223  526  1,882  1,564 –  65,887 
Depreciation  (4,160) (14,412) (331) –  (314) (3,727) (121) (910) (940) (112) –  (25,027)
Amortisation  (667) (2,643) (43) –  (19) (82) –  (116) (6) (3) –  (3,579)
Impairment –  (15) – – – – – –  (939) – –  (954)
Investments in associates – – – – – – – –  2,441 – –  2,441 
Share of loss of associates – – – – – – – –  (149) – –  (149) Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 144
7. Cash and cash equivalents
2014 2013 2012
Cash on hand 393,315 384,410 302,956
Current accounts with central banks, excluding obligatory reserves 152,647 132,219 111,998
Current accounts with other credit institutions 138,243 357,447 204,486
Time deposits with credit institutions with maturity of up to 90 days 25,939 179,595 143,387
Cash and cash equivalents 710,144 1,053,671 762,827
As at 31 December 2014 GEL 136,559 (2013: GEL 485,740, 2012: GEL 285,947) was placed on current and time deposit accounts with 
internationally recognised OECD banks and central banks that are the counterparties of the Group in performing international settlements. 
The Group earned up to 1.30% interest per annum on these deposits (2013: up to 6.92%, 2012: up to 5.25%). 
8. Amounts due from credit institutions
2014 2013 2012
Obligatory reserves with central banks 382,963 330,319 323,099
Time deposits with maturity of more than 90 days 33,832 9,623 67,284
Inter-bank loan receivables 1,486 7,319 6,176
Amounts due from credit institutions 418,281 347,261 396,559
Obligatory reserves with central banks represent amounts deposited with the NBG and National Bank of the Republic of Belarus (the 
“NBRB”). Credit institutions are required to maintain a cash deposit (obligatory reserve) with the NBG and with the NBRB, the amount  
of which depends on the level of funds attracted by the credit institution. The Group’s ability to withdraw these deposits is restricted by  
the statutory legislature. The Group earned nil interest on obligatory reserves with NBG for the years ended 31 December 2014 and  
31 December 2013, up to 0.25% annual interest for the year ended 31 December 2012. The Group earned nil interest on obligatory  
reserves with NBRB.
As at 31 December 2014 inter-bank loan receivables include GEL 1,486 (2013: GEL 4,685, 2012: GEL 4,448) placed with non-OECD banks.
9. Investment securities available-for-sale
2014 2013 2012
Georgian Ministry of Finance treasury bonds
1
 459,400  391,486  188,967 
Georgian Ministry of Finance treasury bills
2
 169,796  63,606  9,648 
Certificates of deposit of central banks
3
 92,547  59,265  259,402 
Other debt instruments
4
 46,557  –  – 
Corporate shares 1,412  5,266  5,943 
Investment securities available-for-sale 769,712  519,623  463,960 
1. GEL 341,681 was pledged for short-term loans from the National Bank of Georgia (2013: GEL 200,065, 2012: GEL 106,637).
2. GEL 60,889 was pledged for short-term loans from the National Bank of Georgia (2013: GEL 19,773, 2012: GEL 7,663).
3. No certificates of deposit of central banks were pledged for short-term loans from the National Bank of Georgia (2013: GEL 30,328, 2012: GEL 215,603).
4. GEL 25,069 was pledged for short-term loans from the National Bank of Georgia.
Other debt instruments as at 31 December 2014 comprises GEL denominated bonds issued by the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development of GEL 25,069, US Dollar denominated treasury bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance of Azerbaijan of GEL 5,615, and US 
Dollar and Azerbaijani Manat denominated corporate bonds of GEL 15,873.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 145
10. Loans to customers
2014 2013 2012
Commercial loans  2,194,281  1,862,667  1,664,591 
Consumer loans 801,474  660,220  591,968 
Micro and SME loans 772,283  566,273  400,553 
Residential mortgage loans 604,143  447,063  398,114 
Gold – pawn loans 53,785  61,871  75,445 
Loans to customers, gross  4,425,966  3,598,094  3,130,671 
Less – Allowance for loan impairment (103,780) (120,785) (110,037)
Loans to customers, net  4,322,186  3,477,309  3,020,634 
Allowance for loan impairment
Movements of the allowance for impairment of loans to customers by class are as follows:
Commercial 
loans
2014
Consumer 
loans
2014
Residential 
mortgage 
loans
2014
Micro and 
SME loans
2014
Total
2014
At 1 January 90,949  20,772  3,093  5,971  120,785 
Charge (reversal) 34,617  14,147  (2,280) (1,396) 45,088 
Recoveries  3,104  14,730  5,661  5,211  28,706 
Write-offs  (41,894) (22,556) (2,777) (4,748) (71,975)
Accrued interest on written-off loans (13,581) (3,341) (704) (348) (17,974)
Currency translation differences (310) (104) –  (436) (850)
At 31 December 72,885  23,648  2,993  4,254  103,780 
 
Individual impairment  63,816  1,403  2,525  3,637  71,381 
Collective impairment  9,069  22,245  468  617  32,399 
 72,885  23,648  2,993  4,254  103,780 
Gross amount of loans, individually determined to be 
impaired, before deducting any individually assessed 
impairment allowance  243,825  1,924  7,944  10,594  264,287 
Commercial 
loans
2013
Consumer 
loans
2013
Residential 
mortgage
loans
2013
Micro and
SME loans
2013
Total
2013
At 1 January 78,198  20,249  9,713  1,877  110,037 
Charge (reversal) 13,671  27,550  (5,388) 5,666  41,499 
Recoveries  4,693  14,363  4,958  3,465  27,479 
Write-offs  (4,404) (35,866) (4,974) (4,707) (49,951)
Accrued interest on written-off loans (1,153) (5,509) (1,216) (344) (8,222)
Currency translation differences (56) (15) -  14  (57)
At 31 December 90,949  20,772  3,093  5,971  120,785 
 
Individual impairment  76,009  8,221  2,861  4,708  91,799 
Collective impairment  14,940  12,551  232  1,263  28,986 
 90,949  20,772  3,093  5,971  120,785 
Gross amount of loans, individually determined to be 
impaired, before deducting any individually assessed 
impairment allowance  144,020  14,817  6,792  10,925  176,554  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 146
10. Loans to customers (continued)
Allowance for loan impairment (continued)
Commercial 
loans
2012
Consumer 
loans
2012
Residential 
mortgage
loans
2012
Micro and
SME loans
2012
Total
2012
At 1 January 70,106  28,997  10,027  5,567  114,697 
Charge (reversal) 27,420  13,054  (1,142) (146) 39,186 
Recoveries  7,589  11,064  7,814  3,512  29,979 
Write-offs  (25,174) (30,196) (5,720) (6,475) (67,565)
Accrued interest on written-off loans (1,901) (2,662) (1,266) (581) (6,410)
Currency translation differences 158  (8) –  –  150 
At 31 December 78,198  20,249  9,713  1,877  110,037 
 
Individual impairment  66,566  11,230  3,499  1,877  83,172 
Collective impairment  11,632  9,019  6,214  –  26,865 
 78,198  20,249  9,713  1,877  110,037 
  Gross amount of loans, individually determined to be 
impaired, before deducting any individually assessed 
impairment allowance  152,268  23,683  10,719  5,620  192,290 
Interest income accrued on loans, for which individual impairment allowances have been recognised as at 31 December 2014 comprised 
GEL 17,021 (2013: GEL 18,170, 2012: GEL 13,844).
Collateral and other credit enhancements 
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty. Guidelines are implemented 
regarding the acceptability of types of collateral and valuation parameters.
The main types of collateral obtained are as follows:
 – For commercial lending, charges over real estate properties, equipment and machinery, corporate shares, inventory, trade receivables 
and third-party corporate guarantees.
 – For retail lending, mortgages over residential properties, cars, gold and jewellery and third-party corporate guarantees.
Management requests additional collateral in accordance with the underlying agreement and monitors the market value of collateral 
obtained during its review of the adequacy of the allowance for loan impairment.
It is the Group’s policy to dispose of repossessed properties in an orderly fashion. The proceeds are used to reduce or repay the 
outstanding claim. In general, the Group does not occupy repossessed properties for business use.
Concentration of loans to customers
As at 31 December 2014, the concentration of loans granted by the Group to the 10 largest third-party borrowers comprised GEL 711,647 
accounting for 16% of the gross loan portfolio of the Group (2013: GEL 610,916 and 17% respectively, 2012: GEL 544,466 and 17% 
respectively). An allowance of GEL 4,034 (2013: GEL 22,740, 2012: GEL 20,702) was established against these loans.
As at 31 December 2014, the concentration of loans granted by the Group to the 10 largest third-party groups of borrowers comprised  
GEL 1,094,084 accounting for 25% of the gross loan portfolio of the Group (2013: GEL 912,106 and 25% respectively, 2011: GEL 791,529 
and 25% respectively). An allowance of GEL 18,324 (2013: GEL 9,345, 2012: GEL 7,118) was established against these loans.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 147
As at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 loans are principally issued within Georgia, and their distribution by 
industry sector was as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Individuals 1,831,479  1,411,958  1,233,614 
Manufacturing 719,003  659,527  407,315 
Trade 647,858  560,389  434,956 
Real estate 400,533  374,858  434,817 
Hospitality 166,214  106,997  164,006 
Transport and communication 151,715  148,849  89,413 
Electricity, gas and water supply 124,772  63,378  46,373 
Construction 114,891  132,477  121,883 
Financial intermediation 109,201  14,758  6,976 
Other 160,300  124,903  191,318 
Loans to customers, gross 4,425,966  3,598,094  3,130,671 
Less – allowance for loan impairment (103,780) (120,785) (110,037)
Loans to customers, net  4,322,186  3,477,309  3,020,634 
Loans have been extended to the following types of customers:
2014 2013 2012
Private companies 2,544,543  2,081,192  1,783,083 
Individuals 1,831,479  1,411,958  1,233,614 
State-owned entities 49,944  104,944  113,974 
Loans to customers, gross  4,425,966  3,598,094  3,130,671 
Less – allowance for loan impairment (103,780) (120,785) (110,037)
Loans to customers, net  4,322,186  3,477,309  3,020,634 
The following is a reconciliation of the individual and collective allowances for impairment losses on loans to customers for the years ended 
31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012:
2014 2013 2012
Individual 
impairment
2014
Collective 
impairment
2014
Total
2014
Individual 
impairment
2013
Collective 
impairment
2013
Total
2013
Individual 
impairment
2012
Collective 
impairment
2012
Total
2012
At 1 January 91,799  28,986  120,785  83,172  26,865  110,037  76,170  38,527  114,697 
Charge for the year 34,088  11,000  45,088  19,395  22,104  41,499  27,606  11,580  39,186 
Recoveries 12,897  15,809  28,706  10,828  16,651  27,479  21,296  8,683  29,979 
Write-offs (51,774) (20,201) (71,975) (17,269) (32,682) (49,951) (38,200) (29,365) (67,565)
Interest accrued on impaired 
loans to customers  (14,846) (3,128) (17,974) (4,273) (3,949) (8,222) (3,853) (2,557) (6,410)
Currency translation differences (783) (67) (850) (54) (3) (57) 153  (3) 150 
At 31 December 71,381  32,399  103,780  91,799  28,986  120,785  83,172  26,865  110,037  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 148
11. Finance lease receivables
2014 2013 2012
Minimum lease payments receivable 47,047  56,124  88,416 
Less – Unearned finance lease income  (7,799) (9,875) (16,223)
 39,248  46,249  72,193 
Less – Allowance for impairment  (729) (643) (507)
Finance lease receivables, net  38,519  45,606  71,686 
The difference between the minimum lease payments to be received in the future and the finance lease receivables represents unearned 
finance income.
As at 31 December 2014, the concentration of investment in the five largest lease receivables comprised GEL 10,160 or 26% of total finance 
lease receivables (2013: GEL 5,766 or 12%, 2012: GEL 44,641 or 62%) and finance income received from it for the year ended 31 December 
2014 comprised GEL 909 or 11% of total finance income from lease (2013: GEL 429 or 6%, 2012: GEL 3,588 or 41%).
Future minimum lease payments to be received after 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 are as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Within one year  29,901  35,472  25,425 
From one to five years  17,146  18,880  50,982 
More than five years  –  1,772  12,009 
Minimum lease payment receivables  47,047  56,124  88,416 
Movements of the allowance for impairment of finance lease receivables are as follows:
Finance lease 
receivables 
2014
Finance lease 
receivables 
2013
Finance lease 
receivables 
2012
At 1 January  643  507  440 
Charge 476  2,809  495 
Amounts written-off (435) (2,639) (428)
Currency translation differences  45  (34) – 
At 31 December 729  643  507 
 
Individual impairment 243  100  102 
Collective impairment 486  543  405 
 729  643  507 
Gross amount of lease receivables, individually determined to be impaired,  
before deducting any individually assessed impairment allowance  1,487  870  1,008 
12. Investments in associates
On 23 December 2014 the Group acquired a 25% interest in Georgian Global Utilities LLC (the “GGU”), a holding company with wholly 
owned subsidiaries that supply water and provide wastewater services, as well as owns and operates three hydropower generation 
facilities in Georgia. 
Total consideration paid for the acquisition of 25% interest in GGU was GEL 48,659, which comprised of GEL 45,567 cash payment and 
GEL 3,092 fair value of a holdback amount (Note 17).
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 149
GGU is a private entity that is not listed on any public exchange. The Group’s interest in GGU is accounted for using the equity method  
in the consolidated financial statements. 
The Group also acquired an option to purchase an additional 24.9% interest in GGU, exercisable until October 2015 for US$26 million  
(GEL 48 million), plus interest at 20% per annum accrued on the US$26 million from 23 December 2014 until the option exercise date,  
less any dividends distributed through the call option period.
GGU requires the parent’s consent to distribute its profits, but also needs the Group’s consent on such distributions if they exceed 50%  
of the associate’s profit in accordance with IFRS for the previous year.
In 2008 GGU was sold to a group of private investors. As part of the privatisation process GGU undertook capital expenditure commitment 
of US$220 million (GEL 410 million) to refurbish and to rehabilitate the water supply and wastewater management infrastructure. The 
management of GGU believes that as of 31 December 2014 out of that amount, GGU has already fulfilled commitments of US$103 million 
(GEL 192 million). As of 31 December 2014 GGU is in the process of reconciliation of already fulfilled and outstanding commitments with 
relevant government authorities.
13. Investment properties
2014 2013 2012
At 1 January  157,707  160,353  101,686 
Additions* 58,449  20,051  62,138 
Disposals (7,383) (10,748) (15,622)
Net gains from revaluation of investment property 1,909  9,788  – 
Hyperinflation effect 394  –  – 
Transfers from (to) property and equipment and other assets** (31,025) (21,737) 12,151 
Currency translation differences 10,809  –  – 
At 31 December 190,860  157,707  160,353 
*  GEL 49,348 paid in 2014 for acquisition of properties by the Group’s Real Estate business for development. The remaining additions of 2014 and full additions of 2013  
and 2012 comprise foreclosed properties. No cash transactions were involved.
**  Comprised of GEL 6,389 transfer to property and equipment (2013 and 2012: transfers from property and equipment GEL 4,979 and GEL 12,151 respectively),  
GEL 25,132 transfer to other assets – inventories (2013: 14,089, 2012: GEL nil) and GEL 496 transfer from finance lease receivables (2013: transfer to finance lease 
receivable GEL 12,627 and 2012: nil).
Investment properties are stated at fair value. The fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The date of latest revaluation is 31 December 2013. As at 31 December 
2014 the Group analysed market prices for its investment properties and concluded that the market price of investment properties was not 
materially different from their carrying value. As at 31 December 2014 the Group analysed market prices for its investment properties and 
concluded that the market price of investment properties was not materially different from their carrying value. Refer to Note 31 for details  
on fair value measurements of investment properties.
The Group has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or 
develop investment properties or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 150
14. Property and equipment
The movements in property and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Land and 
buildings
Hospitals
and clinics
Furniture
and fixtures
Computers 
and equipment
Motor 
vehicles
Leasehold 
improvements
Assets under 
construction Total
Cost or revalued amount
31 December 2013 209,639  128,491  129,769  101,563  6,728  10,771  8,942  595,903 
Additions 1,417  26,478  8,492  21,020  2,665  3,258  7,256  70,586 
Business combination, 
Note 5 2  51,839  588  6,076  306  –  141  58,952 
Disposals (44) (38) (623) (1,084) (1,089) (2,675) (93) (5,646)
Transfers 5,040  268  (1,856) 3,005  (1,150) 1,139  (6,446) – 
Transfers from 
investment properties 6,389  –  –  –  –  –  –  6,389 
Transfers from (to)  
other assets 478  –  (216) (511) –  –  (61) (310)
Effect of hyperinflation 3,225  –  228  438  52  67  58  4,068 
Currency translation 
differences 4,230  –  3,748  303  54  191  (198) 8,328 
31 December 2014 230,376  207,038  140,130  130,810  7,566  12,751  9,599  738,270 
Accumulated impairment
31 December 2013 3,611  –  40  109  6  –  –  3,766 
Effect of hyperinflation 187  –  7  19  3  –  –  216 
Currency translation 
differences (177) –  4  (8) 4  9  9  (159)
31 December 2014 3,621  –  51  120  13  9  9  3,823 
Accumulated depreciation
31 December 2013 553  1,526  65,442  44,414  4,317  5,216  –  121,468 
Depreciation charge 3,009  1,141  12,471  11,828  1,187  1,849  –  31,485 
Effect of hyperinflation 134  –  102  238  38  66  –  578 
Currency translation 
differences (261) –  (1,333) (1,129) (233) (298) –  (3,254)
Transfers (to) from  
other assets (352) –  (499) (494) –  –  –  (1,345)
Disposals 125  (21) (653) 545  (1,286) (1,708) –  (2,998)
31 December 2014 3,208  2,646  75,530  55,402  4,023  5,125  –  145,934 
Net book value:
31 December 2013 205,475  126,965  64,287  57,040  2,405  5,555  8,942  470,669 
31 December 2014 223,547  204,392  64,549  75,288  3,530  7,617  9,590  588,513 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 151
The movements in property and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2013 were as follows:
Land and 
buildings
Hospitals
and clinics
Furniture
and fixtures
Computers
and equipment
Motor
vehicles
Leasehold 
improvements
Assets under 
construction Total
Cost or revalued amount
31 December 2012 210,182  78,572  112,986  82,731  9,616  7,839  37,267  539,193 
Additions 684  12,833  13,760  21,405  1,453  1,378  10,689  62,202 
Business combination 1  4,889  345  162  –  526  82  6,005 
Disposals (1,645) (425) (207) (2,306) (4,514) (434) (4) (9,535)
Transfers 6,088  32,622  1,123  112  –  1,335  (41,280) – 
Transfers from (to) 
investment properties (7,300) –  –  40  –  –  2,055  (5,205)
Transfers to other assets –  –  (316) (1,187) –  –  –  (1,503)
Revaluation (5,620) –  –  (289) –  –  106  (5,803)
Effect of hyperinflation 2,864  –  207  376  48  61  72  3,628 
Currency translation 
differences 4,385  –  1,871  519  125  66  (45) 6,921 
31 December 2013 209,639  128,491  129,769  101,563  6,728  10,771  8,942  595,903 
Accumulated impairment
31 December 2012 2,189  –  36  99  6  –  –  2,330 
Impairment charge 1,171  –  –  –  –  –  –  1,171 
Effect of hyperinflation 364  –  6  16  1  –  –  387 
Currency translation 
differences (113) –  (2) (6) (1) –  –  (122)
31 December 2013 3,611  –  40  109  6  –  –  3,766 
Accumulated depreciation
31 December 2012 4,691  508  54,406  36,270  6,386  3,725  –  105,986 
Depreciation charge 3,010  1,032  11,162  9,913  1,328  1,597  –  28,042 
Effect of hyperinflation 364  –  6  16  1  –  –  387 
Currency translation 
differences (239) –  44  81  21  32  –  (61)
Transfers to investment 
properties (226) –  –  –  –  –  –  (226)
Transfers from (to)  
other assets –  –  (86) (962) –  –  –  (1,048)
Revaluation (7,047) –  –  (347) –  –  –  (7,394)
Disposals –  (14) (90) (557) (3,419) (138) –  (4,218)
31 December 2013 553  1,526  65,442  44,414  4,317  5,216  –  121,468 
Net book value:
31 December 2012 203,302  78,064  58,544  46,362  3,224  4,114  37,267  430,877 
31 December 2013 205,475  126,965  64,287  57,040  2,405  5,555  8,942  470,669  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 152
14. Property and equipment (continued)
The movements in property and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2012 were as follows:
Land and 
buildings
Hospitals
and clinics
Furniture
and fixtures
Computers
and equipment
Motor
vehicles
Leasehold 
improvements
Assets under 
construction Total
Cost or revalued amount
31 December 2011 192,865  40,441  107,584  56,659  8,518  7,953  20,694  434,714 
Additions 4,518  2,836  8,756  16,458  3,230  306  24,082  60,186 
Business combination 6,228  30,131  –  3,302  –  –  15,799  55,460 
Disposals (2,123) (103) (2,272) (448) (2,105) (1,266) –  (8,317)
Disposals through sale  
of subsidiaries –  –  (6) –  (46) –  –  (52)
Transfers 8,327  5,266  –  –  –  864  (14,457) – 
Transfers to investment 
properties (1,520) –  –  –  –  –  (10,631) (12,151)
Transfers from (to)  
other assets  9  1  (14) 6,636  4  –  1,785  8,421 
Effect of hyperinflation 3,086  –  210  347  48  60  76  3,827 
Currency translation 
differences (1,208) –  (1,272) (223) (33) (78) (81) (2,895)
31 December 2012 210,182  78,572  112,986  82,731  9,616  7,839  37,267  539,193 
Accumulated impairment
31 December 2011 2,626  –  37  106  6  –  –  2,775 
Impairment charge –  –  14  59  –  –  –  73 
Disposals through sale  
of subsidiaries –  –  (15) (7) –  –  –  (22)
Effect of hyperinflation –  –  –  123  –  –  –  123 
Currency translation 
differences (437) –  –  (182) –  –  –  (619)
31 December 2012 2,189  –  36  99  6  –  –  2,330 
Accumulated depreciation
31 December 2011 1,720  26  43,476  28,913  6,464  3,230  –  83,829 
Depreciation charge 2,545  481  11,288  7,536  1,768  1,409  –  25,027 
Effect of hyperinflation 450  –  8  22  1  –  –  481 
Currency translation 
differences (25) –  19  71  9  52  –  126 
Transfers to other assets –  –  (8) (122) –  –  –  (130)
Disposals 1  1  (373) (150) (1,834) (966) –  (3,321)
Disposals through sale  
of subsidiaries –  –  (4) –  (22) –  –  (26)
31 December 2012 4,691  508  54,406  36,270  6,386  3,725  –  105,986 
Net book value:
31 December 2011 188,519  40,415  64,071  27,640  2,048  4,723  20,694  348,110 
31 December 2012 203,302  78,064  58,544  46,362  3,224  4,114  37,267  430,877 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 153
Premises of the Group are subject to revaluation on a regular basis. The date of latest revaluation is 31 December 2013. As at 31 December 
2014 the Group analysed market prices for its premises and concluded that the market price of premises was not materially different from 
their carrying value. Refer to Note 31 for details on fair value measurements of the Group’s premises.
If the office buildings and service centres had been measured using the cost model, the carrying amounts of the office buildings and service 
centres as at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 would have been as follows: 
2014 2013 2012
Cost 166,839  146,104  141,023 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (16,896) (14,023) (10,888)
Net carrying amount 149,943  132,081  130,135 
15. Goodwill
Movements in goodwill during the years ended 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, were as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Cost 
1 January 77,170  74,107  74,645 
Business combinations, Note 5 913  3,063  482 
Disposals through sale of subsidiaries – – (1,020)
At 31 December 78,083  77,170  74,107 
Accumulated impairment
1 January 28,450  28,450  28,450 
Impairment charge – – 655 
Disposals through sale of subsidiaries – – (655)
At 31 December 28,450  28,450  28,450 
Net book value:
1 January 48,720  45,657  46,195 
At 31 December 49,633  48,720  45,657 
Impairment test for goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations with indefinite lives have been allocated to five individual cash-generating units, which  
are also reportable segments, for impairment testing: Corporate Banking, Retail Banking, Property & Casualty Insurance, Health Insurance, 
Healthcare and Liberty Consumer.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the cash-generating units is as follows:
2014 2013 2012
P&C Insurance 16,139  16,139  16,139 
Retail Banking  12,433  12,433  12,433 
Corporate Banking  9,965  9,965  9,965 
Healthcare 4,195  3,282  220 
Health Insurance 3,462  3,462  3,462 
Liberty Consumer 3,439  3,439  3,438 
Total  49,633  48,720  45,657  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 154
15. Goodwill (continued)
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation, using cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering from a one to three-year period. Discount rates were 
not adjusted for either a constant or a declining growth rate beyond the three-year periods covered in financial budgets. For the purposes 
of the impairment test, a 0% permanent growth rate has been assumed when assessing the future operating cash flows of the 
cash-generating units.
The following rates were used by the Group for Corporate Banking and Retail Banking:
Corporate Banking Retail Banking
2014 
 %
2013 
%
2012 
%
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
Discount rate 6.2% 8.5% 8.5% 6.5% 8.5% 8.5%
The following rates were used by the Group for P&C Insurance and Health Insurance:
P&C Insurance Health Insurance
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
Discount rate 10.9% 13.3% 13.3% 11.3% 14.5% 14.5%
The following rates were used by the Group for Healthcare and Liberty Consumer:
Healthcare Liberty Consumer
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
Discount rate 10.5% 14.5% 14.5% 9.0% 14.5% 14.5%
Discount rates
Discount rates reflect management’s estimate of return of capital employed (ROCE) required in each business. This is the benchmark  
used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future investment proposals. Discount rates are calculated by  
using WACC.
For the Healthcare CGU the following additional assumptions were made over the first two-year period of the business plan: 
 – further synergies from healthcare businesses will increase cost efficiency and further improve operating leverage; and 
 – growth of other healthcare business lines through an increased market demand and economic growth. 
For the Retail and Corporate Banking CGUs the following additional assumptions were made: 
 – stable, business as usual growth of loans and deposits; 
 – no material changes in cost/income structure or ratio; 
 – stable, business as usual growth of trade finance and other documentary businesses; and
 – further expansion of the express banking businesses bringing more stable margins to retail banking. 
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
Management believes that reasonably possible changes in key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount CGUs will not result 
in an impairment of goodwill.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 155
16. Taxation
The corporate income tax (expense) benefit comprises:
2014 2013 2012
Current income expense (24,493) (17,284) (23,469)
Deferred income tax expense (11,332) (18,629) (9,731)
Income tax expense (35,825) (35,913) (33,200)
Deferred income tax (expense) benefit in other comprehensive income (loss) (124) (1,095) 690 
Deferred tax related to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income during the years ended 31 December 2014, 2013 and 
2012 was as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Currency translation differences (124) (873) 654 
Net losses on investment securities available-for-sale – 1  36 
Revaluation of buildings – (223) –
Income tax (expense) benefit in other comprehensive income (124) (1,095) 690 
The income tax rate applicable to most of the Group’s income is the income tax rate applicable to subsidiaries’ income which ranges from 
15% to 26.5% (2013: from 15% to 24%, 2012: from 15% to 23%).
The effective income tax rate differs from the statutory income tax rates. As at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 
2012 a reconciliation of the income tax expense based on statutory rates with the actual expense is as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Profit before income tax expense 276,592  245,256  212,752 
Average tax rate 15% 15% 15%
Theoretical income tax expense at average tax rate (41,489) (36,788) (31,913)
Tax at the domestic rates applicable to profits in each country 193  (1,155) (1,417)
Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 6,100 – –
Correction of prior year declarations (298)  2,402 –
Effect of changes in tax rate (502) – –
Non-deductible expenses (697) (486) –
Other 868  114  130 
Income tax expense (35,825) (35,913) (33,200)
Applicable taxes in Georgia and Belarus include corporate income tax (profit tax), individuals’ withholding taxes, property tax and value 
added tax, among others. However, regulations are often unclear or non-existent and few precedents have been established. This creates 
tax risks in Georgia and Belarus, substantially more significant than typically found in countries with more developed tax systems. 
Management believes that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws affecting its operations. However, the risk remains  
that relevant authorities could take differing positions with regard to interpretative issues. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 156
16. Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 and their movements for the 
respective years are as follows:
Origination and reversal of 
temporary differences
Origination and reversal of 
temporary differences Origination and reversal of temporary differences
2011
In the  
income 
statement
In other 
comprehensive 
income
Disposal of 
subsidiary 2012
In the  
income 
statement
In other 
comprehensive 
income 2013
In the  
income 
statement
Business 
combination
In other 
comprehensive 
income 2014
Tax effect of deductible temporary differences:
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,264  (1,209) – – 55  1,125 – 1,180  (175) – – 1,005 
Investment securities: available-for-sale 737  (749) 19 – 7  1,188  1  1,196  (1) – – 1,195 
Investment properties – – – – – 2,479 – 2,479 – – (1,499) 980 
Insurance premiums receivables 1,697  (373) – – 1,324  (438) – 886  624 – – 1,510 
Allowances for impairment and provisions for other losses 1,342  (283) – – 1,059  (604) – 455  (257) – – 198 
Tax losses carried forward 12,332  (2,417) (746) (24) 9,145  (974) 620  8,791  2,650 – 855  12,296 
Property and equipment 2,178  (1,238) (7) – 933  9 – 942  (6) – – 936 
Other assets and liabilities 3,687  (629) (302) (26) 2,730  439 – 3,169  751 – (51) 3,869 
Deferred tax assets 23,237  (6,898) (1,036) (50) 15,253  3,224  621  19,098  3,586 – (695) 21,989 
Tax effect of taxable temporary differences:
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,734  (1,662) – – 72  28  (48) 52  (5) – (3) 44 
Amounts due to customers 510  (510) – – – 1,325 – 1,325 – – – 1,325 
Loans to customers 9,022  (14) – – 9,008  12,831 – 21,839  8,562 – (165) 30,236 
Other insurance liabilities and pension fund obligations 404  446 – – 850  106 – 956  426 – – 1,382 
Property and equipment 26,163  3,309  310 – 29,782  1,650  1,179  32,611  4,473  4,929  (330) 41,683 
Investment properties 615  (152) (2) – 461  1,711  (2,170) 2  69 – (7) 64 
Intangible assets 4,316  571 – – 4,887  688 – 5,575  965 – (8) 6,532 
Other assets and liabilities 1,863  845  (654) (29) 2,025  3,514  2,755  8,294  428 – (58) 8,664 
Deferred tax liabilities 44,627  2,833  (346) (29) 47,085  21,853  1,716  70,654  14,918  4,929  (571) 89,930 
Net deferred tax liabilities (21,390) (9,731) (690) (21) (31,832) (18,629) (1,095) (51,556) (11,332) (4,929) (124) (67,941)
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 157
16. Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 and their movements for the 
respective years are as follows:
Origination and reversal of 
temporary differences
Origination and reversal of 
temporary differences Origination and reversal of temporary differences
2011
In the  
income 
statement
In other 
comprehensive 
income
Disposal of 
subsidiary 2012
In the  
income 
statement
In other 
comprehensive 
income 2013
In the  
income 
statement
Business 
combination
In other 
comprehensive 
income 2014
Tax effect of deductible temporary differences:
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,264  (1,209) – – 55  1,125 – 1,180  (175) – – 1,005 
Investment securities: available-for-sale 737  (749) 19 – 7  1,188  1  1,196  (1) – – 1,195 
Investment properties – – – – – 2,479 – 2,479 – – (1,499) 980 
Insurance premiums receivables 1,697  (373) – – 1,324  (438) – 886  624 – – 1,510 
Allowances for impairment and provisions for other losses 1,342  (283) – – 1,059  (604) – 455  (257) – – 198 
Tax losses carried forward 12,332  (2,417) (746) (24) 9,145  (974) 620  8,791  2,650 – 855  12,296 
Property and equipment 2,178  (1,238) (7) – 933  9 – 942  (6) – – 936 
Other assets and liabilities 3,687  (629) (302) (26) 2,730  439 – 3,169  751 – (51) 3,869 
Deferred tax assets 23,237  (6,898) (1,036) (50) 15,253  3,224  621  19,098  3,586 – (695) 21,989 
Tax effect of taxable temporary differences:
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,734  (1,662) – – 72  28  (48) 52  (5) – (3) 44 
Amounts due to customers 510  (510) – – – 1,325 – 1,325 – – – 1,325 
Loans to customers 9,022  (14) – – 9,008  12,831 – 21,839  8,562 – (165) 30,236 
Other insurance liabilities and pension fund obligations 404  446 – – 850  106 – 956  426 – – 1,382 
Property and equipment 26,163  3,309  310 – 29,782  1,650  1,179  32,611  4,473  4,929  (330) 41,683 
Investment properties 615  (152) (2) – 461  1,711  (2,170) 2  69 – (7) 64 
Intangible assets 4,316  571 – – 4,887  688 – 5,575  965 – (8) 6,532 
Other assets and liabilities 1,863  845  (654) (29) 2,025  3,514  2,755  8,294  428 – (58) 8,664 
Deferred tax liabilities 44,627  2,833  (346) (29) 47,085  21,853  1,716  70,654  14,918  4,929  (571) 89,930 
Net deferred tax liabilities (21,390) (9,731) (690) (21) (31,832) (18,629) (1,095) (51,556) (11,332) (4,929) (124) (67,941) Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 158
17. Other assets and other liabilities
Other assets comprise:
2014 2013 2012
Inventory 101,807  88,209  44,380 
Accounts receivable 60,674  32,474  25,559 
Foreclosed assets* 49,090  43,924  900 
Derivative financial assets 45,733  39,431  36,784 
Insurance premiums receivable 36,028  64,988  68,947 
Reinsurance assets 11,289  9,471  8,279 
Operating tax assets 10,934  15,626  9,883 
Assets purchased for finance lease purposes 6,841  3,649  1,654 
Receivables from money transfers  4,080  4,054  4,619 
Settlements on operations  2,869  10,461  10,970 
Trading securities owned  1,034  1,149  971 
Operating lease receivables  474  489  547 
Receivables from sale of assets 214  692  872 
Receivables from documentary operations 43  14,562  2,990 
Other  30,850  18,449  18,100 
 361,960  347,628  235,455 
Less – Allowance for impairment of other assets (10,273) (18,289) (14,375)
Other assets  351,687  329,339  221,080 
*  Foreclosed assets represent movable repossesssed assets. The increase in 2013 is attributable to premature termination of one large finance lease receivable 
that in 2012 made up 62% of total finance lease receivables, Note 11. 
Inventories mainly comprises GEL 48,316 affordable housing apartments under construction (2013: GEL 65,019, 2012: GEL 32,458),  
GEL 7,000 medical supplies held by the healthcare segment (2013: GEL 4,622, 2012: GEL 5,698) and GEL 11,448 of winery business  
related materials and finished goods (2013: GEL 8,183, 2012: GEL 5,618).
Other liabilities comprise:
2014 2013 2012
Deferred income and other accruals* 82,938  61,275  32,167 
Insurance contracts liabilities 46,586  73,719  79,839 
Accruals for employee compensation  25,685  20,830  14,093 
Amounts payable for share acquisitions** 16,786 – –
Accounts payable 15,995  11,220  14,350 
Pension benefit obligations 11,201  9,540  8,758 
Creditors  10,436  7,855  9,911 
Derivative financial liabilities 7,505  1,513  4,867 
Other insurance liabilities 7,395  7,360  10,861 
Other taxes payable 4,258  1,505  1,930 
Dividends payable 2,419  511  393 
Other 6,918  11,250  8,042 
Other liabilities  238,122  206,578  185,211 
*  Deferred income and other accruals as at 31 December 2014 is primarily made up of deferred income on sale of developed real estate properties of the Group’s 
real estate subsidiaries – GEL 67,957 or 81.9% (2013: GEL 53,639 or 87.5%, 2012: GEL 23,432 or 72.8%).
**  Amounts payable for share acquisitions comprise GEL 13,694 payable for healthcare business acquisitions and GEL 3,092 payable for acquisition of Georgian 
Global Utilities LLC.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 159
The table below shows the fair values of derivative financial instruments, recorded as assets or liabilities, together with their notional 
amounts. The notional amount, recorded gross, is the amount of a derivative’s underlying asset or liability, reference rate or index and is the 
basis upon which changes in the value of derivatives are measured. The notional amounts indicate the volume of transactions outstanding 
at the year end and are not indicative of the credit risk.
2014
Notional 
amount
Fair value
Asset Liability
Foreign exchange contracts
Forwards and swaps – domestic 49,648  247  1,242 
Forwards and swaps – foreign 494,206  45,486  6,263 
Total derivative assets/liabilities 543,854  45,733  7,505 
2013 2012
Notional 
amount
Fair value
Notional 
amount
Fair value
Asset Liability Asset Liability
Interest rate contracts
Forwards and swaps – foreign 97,566 – 1,453  148,137 – 4,783 
Foreign exchange contracts
Forwards and swaps – domestic 66,640  332  50  41,693  542 –
Forwards and swaps – foreign 100,465  39,076  10  120,493  35,976  84 
Equity/commodity contracts
Call options – foreign 1,166  23 – 3,313  266 –
Total derivative assets/liabilities 265,837  39,431  1,513  313,636  36,784  4,867 
18. Amounts due to customers
The amounts due to customers include the following:
2014 2013 2012
Time deposits 1,867,925  1,593,171  1,325,544 
Current accounts 1,445,790  1,514,038  1,297,367 
Promissory notes issued 25,010  10,523  70,114 
Amounts due to customers 3,338,725  3,117,732  2,693,025 
Held as security against letters of credit and guarantees (Note 21) 53,393  53,903  31,439 
As at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, promissory notes issued by the Group comprise the notes privately 
held by financial institutions being effectively equivalents of certificates of deposits with fixed maturity and fixed interest rate. The average 
effective maturity of the notes was one month (2013: 12 months, 2012: three months).
At 31 December 2014, amounts due to customers of GEL 424,103 (13%) were due to the 10 largest customers (2013: GEL 436,694 (14%), 
2012: GEL 462,815 (17%). 
Amounts due to customers include accounts with the following types of customers:
2014 2013 2012
Individuals 1,868,762  1,511,452  1,262,178 
Private enterprises 1,284,955  1,435,900  1,276,438 
State and state-owned entities 185,008  170,380  154,409 
Amounts due to customers 3,338,725  3,117,732  2,693,025  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 160
18. Amounts due to customers (continued)
The breakdown of customer accounts by industry sector is as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Individuals 1,868,762  1,511,452  1,262,178 
Real estate 329,246  420,183  323,244 
Trade 277,792  360,378  281,013 
Construction 220,234  241,271  151,826 
Transport and communication 173,591  143,681  154,202 
Government services 128,046  50,481  52,097 
Financial intermediation 110,759  69,239  126,859 
Manufacturing 107,813  85,673  102,239 
Hospitality 33,503  35,049  26,578 
Electricity, gas and water supply 21,275  78,537  79,178 
Other 67,704  121,788  133,611 
Amounts due to customers 3,338,725  3,117,732  2,693,025 
19. Amounts due to credit institutions
Amounts due to credit institutions comprise:
2014 2013 2012
Borrowings from international credit institutions 574,240  504,943  596,700 
Short-term loans from the National Bank of Georgia 400,772  250,138  310,178 
Time deposits and inter-bank loans 261,551  221,267  113,222 
Correspondent accounts 32,606  12,921  7,969 
Subtotal 1,269,169  989,269  1,028,069 
Non-convertible subordinated debt 140,045  168,710  208,244 
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,409,214  1,157,979  1,236,313 
During the years ended 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 the Group received short-term funds from 
Georgian banks in different currencies.
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Group paid up to 6.77% on USD borrowings from international credit institutions (2013: up  
to 6.23%, 2012: up to 9.65%). During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Group paid up to 10.40% on US Dollar subordinated debt 
(2013: up to 11.33% and 2012: up to 11.65%).
Some long-term borrowings from international credit institutions are received upon certain conditions (the “Lender Covenants”) that the 
Group maintains different limits for capital adequacy, liquidity, currency positions, credit exposures, leverage and others. At 31 December 
2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 the Group complied with all the Lender Covenants of the borrowings from international 
credit institutions.
20. Debt securities issued
Debt securities issued comprise: 
2014 2013 2012
Eurobonds 779,445  728,117  420,849 
Georgian local bonds 46,217 – –
Certificates of deposit 31,033 – –
Debt securities issued 856,695  728,117  420,849 
In September 2014, the Group’s leasing subsidiary Georgian Leasing Company LLC completed the issuance of three-year local bonds  
of US$10 million (GEL 18 million). The bonds were issued at par with an annual coupon rate of 8.75% payable semi-annually with 5% 
withholding tax applying to individuals.
In April 2014 and June 2014, the Group’s real estate subsidiary JSC m
2
 completed the issuances of one-year local bonds of US$5 million  
(GEL 9 million) and US$10 million (GEL 18 million) respectively. The bonds were issued at par with 9.5% and 8.42% respectively payable 
upon maturity with 5% withholding tax applying to individuals.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 161
In January 2014, the Bank issued US$3 million (GEL 5 million) and EUR 4.2 million (GEL 10 million) certificates of deposit with a fixed  
5.25% semi-annual coupon. The certificates of deposit were issued pursuant to the applicable regulations of International Securities  
Market Advisory Group (“ISMAG”) and with regard to any registration, filing or similar requirement of the international clearing  
systems Euroclear and Clearstream. Certificates of Deposit may be freely resold or otherwise assigned to any third party without  
prior notification of the Bank.
On 6 November 2013, the Bank completed the issuance of its US$150 million (GEL 251 million) 7.75% notes due 2017, consolidated  
and forming a single series with the US$250 million 7.75% notes due 2017 issued on 5 July 2012. The Regulation S/Rule 144A senior 
unsecured notes carry a 7.75% coupon rate per annum, paid semi-annually, and were issued and sold at closing at a price of 105.249%  
of their principal amount. J.P . Morgan Securities plc and Merrill Lynch International acted as Joint Lead Managers for the notes. Dechert LLP 
and Baker & McKenzie LLP acted as legal advisors to the Joint Lead Managers and the Bank, respectively. The Notes are rated  
BB- (Fitch)/Ba3 (Moody’s)/BB- (Standard & Poor’s). The notes are listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and have  
been admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulated Market.
On 5 July 2012 the Bank completed the issuance of its US$250 million (GEL 411 million) 7.75% notes due 2017. The Regulation S/Rule 144A 
five-year senior unsecured notes carry a 7.75% coupon rate per annum, paid semi-annually, and were issued and sold at closing at a price 
of 99.491% of principal amount. Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd and Merrill Lynch International acted 
as Joint Lead Managers and Bookrunners for the notes. Dechert LLP and Baker & McKenzie LLP acted as legal advisors to the Joint Lead 
Managers and the Bank, respectively. The notes are rated BB- (Fitch)/Ba3 (Moody’s)/BB- (Standard & Poor’s). The notes are listed on the 
Official List of the UK Listing Authority and have been admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulated Market.
21. Commitments and contingencies
Legal
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints. Management believes that the ultimate liability,  
if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future 
operations of the Group.
Financial commitments and contingencies
As at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 the Group’s financial commitments and contingencies comprised  
the following:
2014 2013 2012
Credit-related commitments 
Guarantees issued 465,527  478,247  502,511 
Undrawn loan facilities 144,634  147,273  140,003 
Letters of credit 95,669  55,608  100,023 
 705,830  681,128  742,537 
Operating lease commitments 
Not later than one year 12,382  7,978  5,666 
Later than one year but not later than five years 21,943  12,844  11,722 
Later than five years 3,178  1,693  2,172 
 37,503  22,515  19,560 
Capital expenditure commitments 10,035  11,463  3,069 
Less – Cash held as security against letters of credit and guarantees (Note 18) (53,393) (53,903) (31,439)
Less – Provisions (4,732) (481) (683)
Financial commitments and contingencies, net 695,243  660,722  733,044 
As at 31 December 2014 capital expenditure represented the commitment for purchase of property and capital repairs of GEL 9,810 and 
software and other intangible assets of GEL 225. As at 31 December 2013 capital expenditure represented the commitment for purchase  
of property and capital repairs of GEL 8,796 and software and other intangible assets of GEL 2,667. As at 31 December 2012 capital 
expenditure represented the commitment for purchase of property and capital repairs of GEL 948 and software and other intangible  
assets of GEL 2,121. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 162
22. Equity
Share capital
As at 31 December 2014, issued share capital comprised 39,500,320 common shares, of which 39,500,320 were fully paid (31 December 
2013: 35,909,383 issued share capital, of which 35,909,383 were fully paid, 31 December 2012: 35,909,383 issued share capital, of which 
35,909,383 were fully paid). Each share has a nominal value of one (1) British pence (31 December 2013: one (1) British pence, 31 December 
2012: one (1) British pence). Shares issued and outstanding as at 31 December 2014 are described below:
Number
of shares
Ordinary
Amount
of shares
Ordinary
31 December 2011 32,877,547  32,878 
Issue of share capital* 3,635,006  3,635 
Conversion of shares following the Tender Offer** (603,170) (36,513)
Share capital adjustment for new nominal value*** – 943 
Effect of translation of equity components to presentation currency – 14 
31 December 2012 35,909,383  957 
Effect of translation of equity components to presentation currency – 71 
31 December 2013 35,909,383  1,028 
Issue of share capital 3,590,937  108 
Effect of translation of equity components to presentation currency – 7 
31 December 2014 39,500,320  1,143 
*  Conversion of US$49,903 convertible borrowings by EBRD and IFC into the Bank’s 3,635,006 shares.
**  603,170 is the number of JSC Bank of Georgia shares that were not converted into Bank of Georgia Holdings Plc shares during the Tender Offer.
**  GEL 943 is the nominal value of 35,909,383 Bank of Georgia Holdings Plc shares translated in GEL with the share conversion date official exchange rate.
On 4 December 2014, a total of 3,590,937 ordinary shares of one British pence each in the capital of BGH (the “Placing Shares”) have been 
placed by Citigroup Global Markets Limited (“Citi”), Numis Securities Limited (“Numis”) and RBC Capital Markets (“RBC”) at a price of 2.025 
British pence per Placing Share, raising GEL 215,659 in net proceeds. The Placing Shares issued represented 9.99% of the issued ordinary 
shares of BGH prior to the Placing. On 10 December 2014 the Placing Shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official 
List of the UK Listing Authority and to the London Stock Exchange. The Placing Shares are credited as fully paid and rank pari passu in all 
respects with the existing ordinary shares of one British pence each in the capital of the Group, including the right to receive all dividends 
and other distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of such shares after the date of issue of the Placing Shares. Citi acted as 
Global Coordinator in respect of the Placing and together with Numis and RBC as Joint Bookrunners in respect of the Placing.
On 28 February 2012 the Group completed the Tender Offer under which 35,909,383 of the Bank’s shares then outstanding (or 98.35 per 
cent) were converted into 35,909,383 shares of BGH (Note 1).
On 24 February 2012 EBRD and IFC utilised the convertibility feature and converted US$49,903 of their loans to the Bank into the Bank’s 
shares (Note 19). The total number of ordinary shares issued under this transaction comprised 3,635,006.
Capital reduction
Following the Admission (Note 1), the Directors of BGH undertook a reduction of capital in order to create distributable reserves for BGH. 
The original difference between the nominal value of BGH’s shares and the fair value of the Bank’s shares was credited to the merger 
reserve created in connection with the Tender Offer. It was the intention of BGH’s Directors that the maximum amount of distributable 
reserves should be created and therefore any merger reserve created in connection with the Tender Offer was capitalised into Class A 
shares. The Class A shares were allotted pro rata to holders of BGH shares. BGH Directors implemented a Court approved reduction of 
capital which reduced the original (Tender Offer) nominal value of BGH shares and cancelled all the Class A shares in issue resulting from 
the capitalisation of the merger reserve. 
BGH shares had an original (Tender Offer) nominal value of GBP 6.00 per share. Following the reduction of capital the nominal value of BGH 
shares was reduced to GBP 0.01. Reduction of the capital created a new reserve on the statement of financial position of BGH (comprising 
the reduction of the original nominal value from GBP 6.00 to GBP 0.01 per share plus the aggregate nominal amount of all of the Class A 
shares which were cancelled). The reduction of capital is a legal and accounting adjustment and did not, of itself, have any direct impact  
on the market value of BGH shares.
As a result of the capital reduction in BGH, the Group’s total additional paid-in capital outstanding at the time became distributable to the 
shareholders and was fully reclassified to retained earnings.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 163
Treasury shares
Treasury shares are held by the Group solely for the employee’s future share-based compensation purposes.
The number of treasury shares held by the Group as at 31 December 2014 comprised 1,522,185 (31 December 2013: 1,973,376,  
31 December 2012: 2,576,747).
Treasury shares of GEL 46 as at 31 December 2014 comprise the Group’s shares owned by the Group (31 December 2013: GEL 56,  
31 December 2012: GEL 69).
Dividends
Shareholders are entitled to dividends in British Pounds.
On 28 May 2014, the Directors of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC declared 2013 interim dividends comprising GEL 2.0 per share. The 
currency conversion date was set at 9 June 2014, with the official GEL/GBP exchange rate of 2.9815, resulting in a GBP denominated 
interim dividend of 0.6708 per share. Payment of the total GEL 71,633 interim dividends was received by shareholders on 18 June 2014.
On 23 May 2013, the Directors of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC declared an interim dividend for 2013 of GEL 1.5 per share. The currency 
conversion date was set at 10 June 2013, with the official GEL/GBP exchange rate of 2.6051, resulting in a GBP denominated interim 
dividend of 0.5758 per share. Payment of the total GEL 51,235 interim dividends was received by shareholders on 19 June 2013.
On 7 June 2012, the Directors of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC declared an interim dividend for 2012 of GEL 0.7 per share. The currency 
conversion date was set at 25 June 2012, with the official GEL/GBP exchange rate of 2.5626, resulting in a GBP-denominated interim 
dividend of 0.2732 per share. Payment of the total GEL 23,618 interim dividends was received by shareholders on 2 July 2012.
Nature and purpose of other reserves
Revaluation reserve for property and equipment 
The revaluation reserve for property and equipment is used to record increases in the fair value of office buildings and service centres  
and decreases to the extent that such decrease relates to an increase on the same asset previously recognised in equity.
Unrealised gains (losses) on investment securities available-for-sale
This reserve records fair value changes on investments available-for-sale. 
Unrealised gains (losses) from dilution or sale/acquisition of shares in existing subsidiaries
This reserve records unrealised gains (losses) from dilution or sale/acquisition of shares in existing subsidiaries.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements  
of foreign subsidiaries.
Movements in other reserves during the years ended 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 are presented in  
the statements of other comprehensive income. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 164
22. Equity (continued)
Earnings per share
2014 2013 2012
Basic earnings per share
Profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group 232,509  201,490  174,437 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 34,584,751  33,983,014  33,405,181 
Basic earnings per share 6.7228 5.9291 5.2218
Dilution effect
Interest expenses on convertible debt instruments, net of tax – – 1,116 
Number of dilutive potential ordinary shares – – 526,381 
Diluted earnings per share
Profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group 232,509  201,490  175,553 
Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding during the year 34,584,751  33,983,014  33,931,562 
Diluted earnings per share 6.7228 5.9291 5.1737
During the year ended 31 December 2012 dilutive potential ordinary shares were accounted for by convertible loans granted by EBRD and IFC. 
On 24 February 2012 the Bank converted certain part of its loans taken from EBRD and IFC into 3,635,006 ordinary shares of the Bank. 
Their conversion decreased earnings per share from continuing operations. However, it also reduced the Group’s interest expense on these 
debt instruments and increased the total profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group.
23. Net fee and commission income
2014 2013 2012
Settlements operations 87,096  76,542  69,208 
Guarantees and letters of credit 21,504  23,781  26,846 
Cash operations 9,664  9,049  8,826 
Brokerage service fees 7,669  803  911 
Currency conversion operations 3,204  2,653  1,802 
Advisory – 272 –
Other 3,318  2,006  1,685 
Fee and commission income 132,455  115,106  109,278 
Settlements operations (21,730) (18,893) (15,234)
Guarantees and letters of credit (4,004) (3,968) (4,046)
Cash operations (3,784) (2,707) (1,510)
Insurance brokerage service fees (849) (871) (910)
Currency conversion operations (185) (95) (73)
Other (2,241) (1,676) (1,018)
Fee and commission expense (32,793) (28,210) (22,791)
Net fee and commission income 99,662  86,896  86,487 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 165
24. Net insurance revenue
Net insurance premiums earned, net insurance claims incurred and respective net insurance revenue for the years ended 31 December 
2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 comprised: 
2014 2013 2012
Life insurance contracts premium written 5,381  3,610  4,069 
General insurance contracts premium written 81,691  135,635  113,810 
Total premiums written  87,072  139,245  117,879 
Gross change in life provision 70  881  (98)
Gross change in general insurance contracts unearned premium provision 26,621  2,913  (14,931)
Total gross premiums earned on insurance contracts  113,763  143,039  102,850 
Reinsurers’ share of life insurance contracts premium written (53) (505) (658)
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance contracts premium written (18,328) (14,660) (8,925)
Reinsurers’ share of change in life provision (32) 5  (65)
Reinsurers’ share of change in general insurance contracts unearned premium provision 500  2,114  (2,026)
Total reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums on insurance contracts  (17,913) (13,046) (11,674)
Net insurance premiums earned  95,850  129,993  91,176 
Life insurance claims paid (1,364) (954) (539)
General insurance claims paid (68,827) (86,425) (60,323)
Total insurance claims paid  (70,191) (87,379) (60,862)
Reinsurers’ share of life insurance claims paid 120  441  84 
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance claims paid 1,858  1,036  1,282 
Gross change in total reserves for claims 443  2,325  1,742 
Reinsurers’ share of change in total reserves for claims 1,349  (1,083) 716 
Net insurance claims incurred  (66,421) (84,660) (57,038)
Net insurance revenue  29,429  45,333  34,138 
25. Net healthcare revenue
2014 2013 2012
Revenue from Government programmes 78,967  19,810  13,184 
Revenue from free flow (non-insured retail individuals) 33,854  17,677  21,133 
Revenue from insurance companies 11,562  22,418  16,937 
Other revenue from medical services 1,337  108  3,122 
Healthcare revenue 125,720  60,013  54,376 
Direct salary expenses (39,022) (20,182) (21,980)
Direct materials (17,304) (13,569) (6,799)
Expenses on medical service providers (12,042) (1,885) (2,081)
Other direct expenses (10,468) (2,008) (170)
Cost of healthcare services (78,836) (37,644) (31,030)
Net healthcare revenue  46,884  22,369  23,346  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 166
26. Net real estate revenue
2014 2013 2012
Revenue from affordable housing 56,993  7,151  12,044 
Income from operating lease 4,163  3,168  2,987 
Gain from sale of real estate properties 1,842  2,706  2,272 
Real estate revenue 62,998  13,025  17,303 
Cost of affordable housing properties (46,810) (5,929) (9,108)
Loss on real estate property sale (406) (1,198) (728)
Net real estate revenue 15,782  5,898  7,467 
27. Salaries and other employee benefits, and general and administrative expenses
2014 2013 2012
Salaries and bonuses (150,889) (132,758) (121,046)
Social security costs (2,918) (2,307) (1,510)
Salaries and other employee benefits  (153,807) (135,065) (122,556)
The average number of staff employed by the Group for the years ended 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 
comprised:
2014 2013 2012
The Bank 3,622 3,686 3,523
Insurance companies** 597 589 459
BNB 433 362 290
Other 840 807 750
Average number of staff employed excluding healthcare* 5,492 5,444 5,022
Healthcare companies*** 7,242 6,046 4,288
Average total number of staff employed 12,734 11,490 9,310
* Salary expenses on staff employed in the healthcare segment are included in cost of healthcare services.
** JSC Insurance Company Imedi L and JSC Insurance Company Aldagi.
*** JSC Medical Corporation EVEX and its subsidiaries.
Salaries and bonuses include GEL 27,193, GEL 18,702 and GEL 17,122 of the Equity Compensation Plan costs for the years ended  
31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, respectively, associated with the existing share-based compensation 
scheme approved in the Group (Notes 29 and 33). 
2014 2013 2012
Occupancy and rent (11,351) (9,783) (9,644)
Marketing and advertising (10,901) (9,467) (9,644)
Legal and other professional services (9,742) (8,399) (10,055)
Repairs and maintenance (9,065) (7,482) (11,164)
Office supplies (6,246) (6,119) (8,358)
Communication (5,107) (4,750) (4,601)
Operating taxes (5,074) (4,567) (4,824)
Corporate hospitality and entertainment (4,139) (3,233) (2,669)
Security (2,577) (2,149) (1,964)
Personnel training and recruitment (1,697) (1,212) (854)
Travel expenses (1,621) (1,441) (1,407)
Insurance (443) (520) (419)
Banking services (48) (196) (62)
Penalties (55) (75) (318)
Other (5,119) (971) (1,058)
General and administrative expenses (73,185) (60,364) (67,041)
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 167
Auditors’ remuneration is included within legal and other professional services expenses above and comprises:
Audit/ 
review
Audit
related
Other
services Total
2014
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 1,784 – – 1,784 
Review of the Group’s interim accounts 124 – – 124 
Other assurance services 627  46  263  936 
Total auditors’ remuneration 2,535  46  263  2,844 
2013
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 1,430 – – 1,430 
Review of the Group’s interim accounts 226 – – 226 
Other assurance services 58  40  260  358 
Total auditors’ remuneration 1,714  40  260  2,014 
2012
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 1,445 – – 1,445 
Review of the Group’s interim accounts 302 – – 302 
Other assurance services – 50  424  474 
Total auditors’ remuneration 1,747  50  424  2,221 
The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates. Fees paid to other auditors not associated 
with Ernst & Young LLP in respect of the audit of the Group’s subsidiaries were GEL 17 (2013: GEL 145, 2012: GEL 85) and in respect of 
other services of the Group were GEL 327 (2013: GEL 634, 2012: GEL 225).
28. Net non-recurring expenses
2014 2013 2012
Negative goodwill on business combination 1,003 – –
Gain from building transferred to healthcare segment from the Government 524 – –
Gain from penalties on unfulfilled obligations by contractors – 201  149 
Other non-recurring income/gain 277  515  694 
Total non-recurring income/gain 1,804  716  843 
Impairment of investment securities available-for-sale (3,837) – (2,078)
Loss from Belarus Hyperinflation (3,073) (1,694) (443)
Loss from early repayments of borrowings from international credit institutions (2,503) – –
Charity expenses (210) (240) –
Impairment of receivabled from sale of BG Bank – (3,100) (3,903)
Impairment of investment in associate – (2,441) –
Impairment of property and equipment, and intangible assets – (1,171) (299)
Management leave compensation expense – (577) (786)
Loss from damaged physical assets – (531) –
Unforseen loss on Affordable Housing pilot project – (389) –
Premium listing related expenses – – (6,191)
Write-off of prepayments for an intangible asset – – (2,432)
Impairment of goodwill – – (655)
Other (3,198) (3,404) (3,690)
Total non-recurring expense/loss (12,821) (13,547) (20,477)
Net non-recurring expense/loss (11,017) (12,831) (19,634) Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 168
29. Share-based payments
Executives’ Equity Compensation Plan
Abacus Corporate Trustee Limited (the “Trustee”) acts as the trustee of the Group’s Executives’ Equity Compensation Plan (“EECP”). 
In February 2014 the Bank’s Supervisory Board resolved to award 135,500 ordinary shares of BGH to the members of the Management 
Board and 88,775 ordinary shares of BGH to the Group’s 27 executives. Shares awarded to the Management Board are subject to two-year 
vesting, while shares awarded to the other 27 executives are subject to three-year vesting, with continuous employment being the only 
vesting condition for both awards. The Group considers 24 February 2014 as the grant date. The Group estimates that the fair value of  
the shares awarded on 24 February 2014 was GEL 67.90 per share.
In February 2013 the Bank’s Supervisory Board resolved to award 200,000 ordinary shares of BGH to the members of the Management 
Board and 137,850 ordinary shares of BGH to the Group’s 28 executives. Shares awarded to the Management Board are subject to 
two-year vesting, while shares awarded to the other 28 executives are subject to three-year vesting, with continuous employment being the 
only vesting condition for both awards. The Group considers 15 February 2013 as the grant date. The Group estimates that the fair value of 
the shares awarded on 15 February 2013 was GEL 35.56 per share.
In March 2012 the Bank’s Supervisory Board resolved to award 220,000 ordinary shares of BGH to the members of the Management Board 
and 199,358 ordinary shares of BGH to the Group’s 28 executives. Shares awarded to the Management Board are subject to two-year 
vesting, while shares awarded to the other 28 executives are subject to three-year vesting, with continuous employment being the only 
vesting condition for both awards. The Group considers 6 March 2012 as the grant date. The Group estimates that the fair value of the 
shares awarded on 6 March 2012 was GEL 26.07 per share.
Additionally, in February 2013 the CEO of the Bank and the deputies signed new three-year fixed contingent share-based compensation 
agreements with the Bank for the total of 840,000 ordinary shares of BGH. The total amount of shares fixed to each executive will be 
awarded in three equal instalments during the three consecutive years starting January 2014, of which each award will be subject to a 
four-year vesting period. The Group considers 18 February 2013 as the grant date for the awards. The Group estimates that the fair value  
of the shares on 18 February 2013 was GEL 35.45.
The Bank grants share compensation to its mid-management employees too. In February 2014, in February 2013 and in March 2012,  
the Supervisory Board of the Bank resolved to award 42,745, 68,850 and 42,600 ordinary shares to its mid-management employees, 
respectively. All these awards are subject to three-year vesting, with continuous employment being the only vesting condition for all awards. 
The Group considers 24 February 2014, 15 February 2013 and 6 March 2012 as the grant dates of these awards, respectively. The Group 
estimates that the fair values of the shares awarded on 24 February 2014, 15 February 2013 and 6 March 2012 were GEL 67.90, 35.56 and 
26.07 per share, respectively.
Summary 
Fair value of the shares granted at the measurement date is determined based on available market quotations.
The weighted average fair value of share-based awards at the grant date comprised GEL 67.90 per share in the year ended  
31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: GEL 35.48 per share, 31 December 2012: GEL 26.07 per share).
The Group’s total share-based payment expenses for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprised GEL 27,193 (31 December 2013:  
GEL 18,702, 31 December 2012: GEL 17,122) and are included in “salaries and other employee benefits” as “salaries and bonuses”.
Below is the summary of the share-based payments related data: 
2014 2013 2012
Total number of equity instruments awarded* 267,020  1,246,700  461,958 
– Among them, to top management and Board of Directors** 135,500  300,000  34,000 
Weighted average value at grant date, per share (GEL in full amount) 67.90  35.48  26.07 
Value at grant date, total (GEL)  18,132  44,238  12,044 
Total expense recognised during the year (GEL)  (27,193) (18,702) (17,122)
*  2013 award includes fixed contingent share-based compensation of 840,000 ordinary shares per new employment agreements of CEO and deputies, signed in 
February 2013 for the subsequent consecutive three-year period.
During 2014 total gain from exercise of the share options by BGH Directors amounted to GEL 7,437 (2013: GEL 2,558).
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 169
30. Risk management
Introduction
Risk is inherent in the Group’s activities but it is managed through a process of ongoing identification, measurement and monitoring, subject 
to risk limits and other controls. This process of risk management is critical to the Group’s continuing profitability and each individual within 
the Group is accountable for the risk exposures relating to his or her responsibilities. The Group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and 
market risk, the latter being subdivided into trading and non-trading risks. It is also subject to operational risks. 
The independent risk control process does not include business risks such as changes in the environment, technology and industry.  
They are monitored through the Group’s strategic planning process. 
Risk management structure
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is an independent body and is directly monitored by the Board. It has the overall responsibility for developing and 
implementation of overall risk assessment and risk mitigation strategies, principles, frameworks, policies and limits. The Audit Committee is 
responsible for the fundamental risk issues and manages and monitors relevant risk decisions covering, but not limited to: macroeconomic 
and environmental risks, general control environment, manual and application controls, risks of intentionally or unintentional misstatements, 
risk of fraud or misappropriation of assets, information security, anti-money laundering, information technology risks, etc.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee was established in 2014. It has the responsibility to ensure that the Group’s risk appetite and exposure are addressed 
as part of strategy and advise the Board on the appropriateness of this risk strategy and appetite; oversee and advise the Board on the 
current and emerging risk exposures of the Group; oversee and monitor the implementation of the risk strategy by senior management to 
address the risk exposures of the Group; review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management framework and internal control systems 
(other than internal financial control systems which is the responsibility of the BGH Audit Committee); assess the adequacy and quality of  
the risk management function and the effectiveness of risk reporting within the Group; ensure that risk is properly considered in setting the 
Group’s remuneration policy; oversee the communication regarding risk management through entire management structure; review and 
approve the Group’s risk management policy. 
Management Board
The Management Board has the responsibility to monitor and manage the entire risk process within the Group, on a regular basis, by 
assigning tasks, creating different executive committees, designing and setting up risk management policies and procedures as well as 
respective guidelines and controlling their implementation and performance of relevant departments and committees. 
Asset and Liability Management Committee 
The Bank’s Asset and Liability Management Committee (“ALCO”) is the core risk management body. It is responsible for managing the 
Bank’s assets and liabilities, all risks associated with them as well as overall financial structure of the Group. It is also primarily responsible 
for the funding, capital adequacy risk, liquidity risks and market risks of the Bank.
Internal Audit
Risk management processes throughout the Group are audited annually by the internal audit function that examines both the adequacy of 
the procedures and the Group’s compliance with the procedures. Internal Audit discusses the results of all assessments with management, 
and reports its findings and recommendations to the Audit Committee.
Risk measurement and reporting systems
The Group’s risks are measured using a method which reflects both the expected loss likely to arise in normal circumstances and 
unexpected losses, which are an estimate of the ultimate actual loss based on different forecasting models. The models make use of 
probabilities derived from historical experience, adjusted to reflect the economic environment. The Group runs three different basic 
scenarios, of which one is Base Case (forecast under normal business conditions) and the other two are Troubled and Distressed 
Scenarios, which are worse and the worst case scenarios, respectively, that would arise in the event that extreme events which  
are unlikely to occur do, in fact, occur.
Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily performed based on limits established by the Group. These limits reflect the business strategy 
and market environment of the Group as well as the level of risk that the Group is willing to accept, with additional emphasis on selected 
industries. In addition, the Group monitors and measures the overall risk-bearing capacity in relation to the aggregate risk exposure across 
all risks types and activities. 
Information compiled from all the businesses is examined and processed in order to analyse, control and identify early risks. This information 
is presented and explained to the Management Board, and the head of each business division. The reports include aggregate credit 
exposures and their limits, exceptions to those limits, liquidity ratios and liquidity limits, market risk ratios and their limits, and changes to  
the risk profile. Senior management assesses the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly basis. The Management 
Board receives a comprehensive Credit Risk report and ALCO report once a month. These reports are designed to provide all the 
necessary information to assess and conclude on the risks of the Group. 
For all levels throughout the Group, specifically tailored risk reports are prepared and distributed in order to ensure that all business  
divisions have access to extensive, relevant and up-to-date information.
A daily briefing is given to the Management Board and all other relevant employees of the Group on the utilisation of market limits, 
proprietary investments and liquidity, plus any other risk developments. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 170
30. Risk management (continued)
Risk mitigation
As part of its overall risk management, the Group uses derivatives and other instruments to manage exposures resulting from changes in 
interest rates, foreign currencies, equity risks, credit risks, and exposures arising from forecast transactions. While these are intended for 
hedging, these do not qualify for hedge accounting. 
The Group actively uses collateral to reduce its credit risks (see below for more detail).
Excessive risk concentration
Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographic 
region, or these counterparties represent related parties to each other, or have similar economic features that would cause their ability  
to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations also involve 
combined, aggregate exposures of large and significant credits compared to the total outstanding balance of the respective financial 
instrument. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry  
or geographical location.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risks, the Group’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on maintaining  
a diversified portfolio of both financial assets as well as financial liabilities. Identified concentrations of credit risks or liquidity/repayment risks 
are controlled and managed accordingly.
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that the Group will incur a loss because its customers, clients or counterparties failed to discharge their contractual 
obligations. The Group manages and controls credit risk by setting limits on the amount of risk it is willing to accept for individual 
counterparties and for geographical, industry, product and currency concentrations, and by monitoring exposures in relation to such limits. 
The Group has established a credit quality review process to provide early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of 
counterparties, including regular collateral revisions. Counterparty limits are established by the use of a credit risk classification system, 
which assigns each counterparty a risk rating. Risk ratings are subject to regular revision.
The credit quality review process allows the Group to assess the potential loss as a result of the risks to which it is exposed and take 
corrective action.
Derivative financial instruments
Credit risk arising from derivative financial instruments is, at any time, limited to those with positive fair values, as recorded in the statement 
of the financial position.
Credit-related commitments risks
The Group makes available to its customers guarantees which may require that the Group make payments on their behalf. Such payments 
are collected from customers based on the terms of the letter of credit. They expose the Group to similar risks to loans and these are 
mitigated by the same control processes and policies.
Credit quality per class of financial assets
The credit quality of financial assets is managed by the Group through internal credit ratings. The table below shows the credit quality by 
class of asset for loan-related lines in the statement of financial position, based on the Group’s credit rating system.
31 December 2014 Notes
Neither past due nor impaired
Past due or 
individually 
impaired Total High grade
Standard 
grade
Sub-standard 
grade
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 418,281 – – – 418,281 
Debt investment securities available-for-sale 9 768,300 – – – 768,300 
Loans to customers: 10
 Commercial loans 1,648,561  138,115  159,074  248,531  2,194,281 
 Consumer loans 739,767  22,293  1,541  37,873  801,474 
 Micro and SME loans 663,388  83,413  7,799  17,683  772,283 
 Residential mortgage loans 570,879  16,565  2,009  14,690  604,143 
 Gold – pawn loans 53,785 – – – 53,785 
  3,676,380  260,386  170,423  318,777  4,425,966 
Finance lease receivables 11 19,437  4,684  2,150  12,977  39,248 
Total 4,882,398  265,070  172,573  331,754  5,651,795 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 171
31 December 2013 Notes
Neither past due nor impaired
Past due or 
individually 
impaired Total High grade
Standard  
grade
Sub-standard 
grade
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 347,261 – – – 347,261 
Debt investment securities available-for-sale 9 514,357 – – – 514,357 
Loans to customers: 10
 Commercial loans 1,469,635  114,248  110,791  167,993  1,862,667 
 Consumer loans 607,344  19,849  1,475  31,552  660,220 
 Micro and SME loans 486,536  63,501  4,198  12,038  566,273 
 Residential mortgage loans 411,291  21,359  2,303  12,110  447,063 
 Gold – pawn loans 61,871 – – – 61,871 
  3,036,677  218,957  118,767  223,693  3,598,094 
Finance lease receivables 11 30,325  4,020  1,918  9,986  46,249 
Total 3,928,620  222,977  120,685  233,679  4,505,961 
31 December 2012 Notes
Neither past due nor impaired
Past due or 
individually 
impaired Total High grade
Standard  
grade
Sub-standard 
grade
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 396,559 – – – 396,559 
Debt investment securities available-for-sale 9 458,017 – – – 458,017 
Loans to customers: 10
 Commercial loans 1,359,856  62,048  73,681  169,006  1,664,591 
 Consumer loans 530,333  18,945  1,181  41,509  591,968 
 Micro and SME loans 376,940  14,789  1,842  6,982  400,553 
 Residential mortgage loans 358,742  18,692  3,305  17,375  398,114 
 Gold – pawn loans 75,445 – – – 75,445 
  2,701,316  114,474  80,009  234,872  3,130,671 
Finance lease receivables 11 19,153  1,770  440  50,830  72,193 
Total 3,575,045  116,244  80,449  285,702  4,057,440 
Past due loans to customers, analysed by age below, include those that are past due by not more than a few days. These loans are  
not impaired.
It is the Group’s policy to maintain accurate and consistent risk ratings across the credit portfolio. This facilitates focused management  
of the applicable risks and the comparison of credit exposures across all lines of business, geographic regions and products. The rating 
system is supported by a variety of financial analytics to provide the main inputs for the measurement of counterparty risk. All internal risk 
ratings are tailored to the various categories and are derived in accordance with the Group’s rating policy. Attributable risk ratings are 
assessed and updated regularly.
The credit risk assessment policy for non-past due and individually non-impaired financial assets has been determined by the Group  
as follows:
 – a financial asset that is neither past due nor impaired at the reporting date, but historically used to be past due no more than 30 days 
is assessed as a financial asset with High Grade; 
 – a financial asset that is neither past due nor impaired at the reporting date, but historically used to be past due more than 30 but less 
than 60 days is assessed as a financial asset with Standard Grade; and
 – a financial asset that is neither past due nor impaired at the reporting date, but historically used to be past due more than 60 days or 
the borrower of this loan has at least an additional borrowing in past due more than 60 days as at reporting date is assessed as a 
financial asset with Sub-Standard Grade.  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 172
30. Risk management (continued)
Aging analysis of past due but not impaired loans per class of financial assets
31 December 2014
Less than
30 days
31 to
60 days
61 to
90 days
More than
90 days Total
Loans to customers: 
 Consumer loans 19,266 4,758  2,703  9,222  35,949 
 Micro and SME loans 2,926  3,307  259  598  7,090 
 Residential mortgage loans 3,822  788  304  1,832  6,746 
 Commercial loans 2,673  528  342  1,162  4,705 
Finance lease receivables 1,977  9,154  156  203  11,490 
Total 30,664  18,535  3,764  13,017  65,980 
31 December 2013
Less than
30 days
31 to
60 days
61 to
90 days
More than
90 days Total
Loans to customers: 
 Commercial loans 9,118  2,422  847  11,584  23,971 
 Consumer loans 16,735 – – 1  16,736 
 Residential mortgage loans 4,201  547  288  283  5,319 
 Micro and SME loans 843  18  200  52  1,113 
Finance lease receivables 5,839  3,081  88  108  9,116 
Total 36,736  6,068  1,423  12,028  56,255 
31 December 2012
Less than
30 days
31 to
60 days
61 to
90 days
More than
90 days Total
Loans to customers: 
 Consumer loans 17,803  13  5  5  17,826 
 Commercial loans 634  1,534  7,891  6,679  16,738 
 Residential mortgage loans 3,453  1,605  650  948  6,656 
 Micro and SME loans 1,099 – – 263  1,362 
Finance lease receivables 4,144  535  44,850  293  49,822 
Total 27,133  3,687  53,396  8,188  92,404 
See Notes 10 and 11 for more detailed information with respect to the allowance for impairment of loans to customers and finance lease 
receivables, respectively.
The Group specifically monitors performance of the loans with overdue payments in arrears for more than 90 days. The gross carrying value 
(i.e. carrying value before deducting any allowance for impairment) of such loans comprised GEL 118,131, GEL 123,975 and GEL 82,524 as 
at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, respectively. 
Carrying amount per class of financial assets whose terms have been renegotiated
The table below shows the carrying amount for renegotiated financial assets, by class. 
2014 2013 2012
Loans to customers: 
 Commercial loans 115,155  44,559  86,910 
 Micro and SME loans 8,734  5,147  2,754 
 Residential mortgage loans 3,446  9,418  7,312 
 Consumer loans 617  1,031  1,573 
Finance lease receivables  4,957  1,533  1,170 
Total 132,909  61,688  99,719 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 173
Impairment assessment 
The main considerations for the loan impairment assessment include whether any payments of principal or interest are overdue by any 
number of days or there are any known difficulties in the cash flows of counterparties, credit rating downgrades, or infringement of the 
original terms of the contract. The Group addresses impairment assessment in two areas: individually assessed allowances and collectively 
assessed allowances. Loans are considered to be individually impaired if they are past due by a certain number of days as prescribed per  
the Group methodology, or history of the debt service is deteriorated by a certain percentage, as defined per the Group methodology,  
or any other defined event of default is identified. Impairment for all such loans is assessed individually, rather than through a collective 
impairment assessment model of the Group. 
Individually assessed allowances
For loan loss allowance determination purposes the Group considers all individually significant loans and classifies them between being 
individually impaired or not impaired. The allowance for those individually significant loans that are determined to be individually impaired  
is determined through individual assessment of the associated credit risk by assigning a proper credit rating. The allowances for non-
significant loans that are determined to be individually impaired are also individually assessed. The allowance for losses for individually 
significant loans that are determined not to be individually impaired is assessed through the collective assessment approach described 
below. Items considered when determining allowance amounts include the sustainability of the counterparty’s business plan, its ability to 
improve performance once a financial difficulty has arisen, projected receipts and the expected dividend payout should bankruptcy ensue, 
the availability of other financial support and the realisable value of collateral, the timing of the expected cash flows and past history of the 
debt service of the borrower. Impairment losses are evaluated at each reporting date, unless unforeseen circumstances require more  
careful attention. 
Collectively assessed allowances
Allowances are assessed collectively for all loans (including but not limited to credit cards, residential mortgages, and unsecured  
consumer lending, commercial lending, etc.), both, significant as well as non-significant, where there is not yet objective evidence  
of individual impairment. Allowances are evaluated on each reporting date with each portfolio receiving a separate review.
The collective assessment takes into account the impairment that is likely to be present in the portfolio even though there is not yet  
objective evidence of the impairment in an individual assessment. Impairment losses are estimated by taking into consideration the following 
information: historical losses on the portfolio, current economic conditions, the appropriate delay between the time a loss is likely to have 
been incurred and the time it will be identified as requiring an individually assessed impairment allowance, and expected receipts and 
recoveries once impaired. Local management is responsible for deciding the length of this period which can extend for as long as one  
year, depending on the product. The impairment allowance is then reviewed by credit management to ensure alignment with the Group’s 
overall policy.
Financial guarantees and letters of credit are assessed and provision is made in a similar manner as for loans. 
The geographical concentration of the Group’s assets and liabilities is set out below:
2014
Georgia OECD
CIS and other 
foreign 
countries Total
Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 475,858  136,559 97,727  710,144
Amounts due from credit institutions 393,975  1,686 22,620  418,281
Investment securities available-for-sale 726,880  25,069 17,763 769,712
Loans to customers 4,068,261  –  253,925  4,322,186 
Finance lease receivables 26,491  –  12,028  38,519 
All other assets  1,254,050  10,069  56,184  1,320,303 
 6,945,515  173,383 460,247  7,579,145
Liabilities:
Amounts due to customers 2,163,559  515,879  659,287  3,338,725 
Amounts due to credit institutions 582,906  770,838  55,470  1,409,214 
Debt securities issued 46,216  810,479  –  856,695 
All other liabilities  324,846  3,709  11,863  340,418 
 3,117,527  2,100,905  726,620  5,945,052 
Net balance sheet position 3,827,988  (1,927,522) (266,373) 1,634,093  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 174
30. Risk management (continued)
2013 2012
Georgia OECD
CIS and
other foreign 
countries Total Georgia OECD
CIS and
other foreign 
countries Total
Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 480,651  485,740  87,280  1,053,671  430,523  285,947  46,357  762,827 
Amounts due from credit institutions 293,163  3,638  50,460  347,261  340,177  23,659  32,723  396,559 
Investment securities available-for-sale 515,774  –  3,849  519,623  460,102  –  3,858  463,960 
Loans to customers 3,287,532  –  189,777  3,477,309  2,908,489  –  112,145  3,020,634 
Finance lease receivables 36,075  –  9,531  45,606  66,487  –  5,199  71,686 
All other assets  996,491  4,556  76,452  1,077,499  810,823  16,123  112,983  939,929 
5,609,686 493,934 417,349 6,520,969 5,016,601 325,729 313,265 5,655,595
Liabilities:
Amounts due to customers 2,165,890  243,697  708,145  3,117,732  1,854,152  265,838  573,035  2,693,025 
Amounts due to credit institutions 359,374  705,177  93,428  1,157,979  393,345  760,140  82,828  1,236,313 
Debt securities issued –  728,117  –  728,117  –  420,849  –  420,849 
All other liabilities  258,963  7,532  9,592  276,087  225,640  12,500  7,756  245,896 
2,784,227 1,684,523 811,165 5,279,915 2,473,137 1,459,327 663,619 4,596,083
Net balance sheet position 2,825,459 (1,190,589) (393,816) 1,241,054 2,543,464 (1,133,598) (350,354)  1,059,512
Liquidity risk and funding management
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due under normal and stress circumstances. 
To limit this risk, management has arranged diversified funding sources in addition to its core deposit base, manages assets with liquidity  
in mind, and monitors future cash flows and liquidity on a regular basis. This incorporates an assessment of expected cash flows and the 
availability of high-grade collateral which could be used to secure additional funding if required.
The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable and diverse assets that can be easily liquidated in the event of an unforeseen 
interruption of cash flow. The Group also has committed lines of credit that it can access to meet liquidity needs. In addition, the Group 
maintains a cash deposit (obligatory reserve) with the NBG, the amount of which depends on the level of customer funds attracted. 
The liquidity position is assessed and managed by the Group primarily on a standalone Bank basis, based on certain liquidity ratios 
established by the NBG. As at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 these ratios were as follows: 
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
Average liquidity ratio 39.3% 42.3% 40.0%
Maximum liquidity ratio 46.8% 48.1% 49.1%
Minimum liquidity ratio 31.7% 35.5% 31.1%
The average liquidity ratio is calculated on a stand-alone basis for JSC Bank of Georgia as the annual average (arithmetic mean) of daily 
liquidity ratios, computed as the ratio of liquid assets to liabilities determined by the National Bank of Georgia as follows:
Liquid assets comprise cash, cash equivalents and other assets that are immediately convertible into cash. Those assets include investment 
securities issued by the Georgian Government plus Certificates of Deposit issued by NBG and do not include amounts due from credit 
institutions, other than inter-bank deposits, and/or debt securities of Governments and Central Banks of non-OECD countries, amounts in 
nostro accounts which are under lien, impaired inter-bank deposits and amounts on obligatory reserve with NBG that are pledged due to 
borrowings from NBG.
Liabilities comprise the total balance sheet liabilities, less amounts due to credit institutions that are to be exercised or settled later than  
six months from the reporting date, plus off-balance sheet commitments with residual maturity subsequent to the reporting date of less  
than six months. Off-balance sheet commitments include all commitments except financial guarantees and letters of credit that are fully 
collateralised by cash covers in the Bank, and commitments due to dealing operations with foreign currencies. The maximum and minimum 
liquidity ratios are taken from historical data of the appropriate reporting years. 
The Group also matches the maturity of financial assets and financial liabilities and imposes a maximum limit on negative gaps compared  
to the Bank’s stand-alone total regulatory capital calculated per NBG regulation. The ratios are assessed and monitored monthly and 
compared against set limits. In the case of deviations, amendment strategies/actions are discussed and approved by ALCO.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 175
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations. 
Repayments which are subject to notice are treated as if notice were to be given immediately. However, the Group expects that many 
customers will not request repayment on the earliest date the Bank could be required to pay and the table does not reflect the expected 
cash flows indicated by the Bank’s deposit retention history. 
Financial liabilities
As at 31 December 2014
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to 5
years
Over
5 years Total
Amounts due to customers 891,081  2,076,523  461,975  22,098  3,451,677 
Amounts due to credit institutions 616,480  225,911  535,643  189,493  1,567,527 
Debt securities issued 45,941  73,767  879,653  –  999,361 
Other liabilities 37,183  37,004  17,422  –  91,609 
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 1,590,685 2,413,205 1,894,693 211,591 6,110,174
Financial liabilities
As at 31 December 2013
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to 5
years
Over
5 years Total
Amounts due to customers 828,938  2,061,435  476,370  32,099  3,398,842 
Amounts due to credit institutions 437,600  207,191  539,324  141,842  1,325,957 
Debt securities issued 27,822  26,913  855,086  –  909,821 
Other liabilities 20,866  70,713  14,242  3  105,824 
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 1,315,226  2,366,252  1,885,022  173,944  5,740,444 
Financial liabilities
As at 31 December 2012
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to 5
years
Over
5 years Total
Amounts due to customers 1,759,707  638,935  371,691  33,548  2,803,881 
Amounts due to credit institutions 449,947  205,584  571,841  177,950  1,405,322 
Debt securities issued 15,429  15,876  536,710  –  568,015 
Other liabilities 28,359  76,982  9,356  –  114,697 
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 2,253,442  937,377  1,489,598  211,498  4,891,915 
The table below shows the contractual expiry by maturity of the Group’s financial commitments and contingencies.
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to 5
years
Over
5 years Total
31 December 2014 320,945 257,065 162,858 12,500 753,368
31 December 2013 272,385 244,987 181,044 16,690 715,106
31 December 2012 337,465 177,907 236,948 12,846 765,166
The Group expects that not all of the contingent liabilities or commitments will be drawn before expiry of the commitments.
The maturity analysis does not reflect the historical stability of current accounts. Their liquidation has historically taken place over a longer 
period than indicated in the tables above. These balances are included in amounts due in less than three months in the tables above. 
Included in amounts due to customers are term deposits of individuals. In accordance with Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged to repay 
such deposits upon the demand of a depositor (Note 18).
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such  
as interest rates, foreign exchanges, and equity prices. The Group classifies exposures to market risk into either trading or non-trading 
portfolios. Trading and non-trading positions are managed and monitored using sensitivity analysis. 
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on 
the Group’s consolidated income statement.  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 176
30. Risk management (continued)
The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the net interest income for  
the year, based on the floating rate non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2014. During the year ended  
31 December 2014, year ended 31 December 2013 and year ended 31 December 2012, sensitivity analysis did not reveal any significant 
potential effect on the Group’s equity.
Currency
Increase in
basis points
2014
Sensitivity of net 
interest income
2014
Sensitivity of other 
comprehensive 
income
2014
GEL 0.07% 198  – 
EUR 0.01% (6) – 
USD 0.01% 84  – 
Currency
Decrease in
basis points
2014
Sensitivity of net 
interest income
2014
Sensitivity of other 
comprehensive 
income
2014
GEL 0.07% (198) – 
EUR 0.01% 6  – 
USD 0.01% (84) – 
Currency
Increase in
basis points
2013
Sensitivity of net 
interest income
2013
Sensitivity of other 
comprehensive 
income
2013
GEL 0.14% 34  – 
USD 0.01% 29  – 
Currency
Decrease in
basis points
2013
Sensitivity of net 
interest income
2013
Sensitivity of other 
comprehensive 
income
2013
GEL 0.14% (34) – 
USD 0.01% (29) – 
Currency
Increase in
basis points
2012
Sensitivity of net 
interest income
2012
Sensitivity of other 
comprehensive 
income
2012
GEL 0.17% (40) – 
USD 0.01% (49) – 
Currency
Decrease in
basis points
2012
Sensitivity of net 
interest income
2012
Sensitivity of other 
comprehensive 
income
2012
GEL 0.17% 40  – 
USD 0.01% 49  – 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 177
Currency risk
Currency risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The Management 
Board has set limits on positions by currency based on the NBG regulations. Positions are monitored daily. 
The tables below indicate the currencies to which the Group had significant exposure at 31 December 2014 on its trading and non-trading 
monetary assets and liabilities and its forecast cash flows. The analysis calculates the effect of a reasonably possible movement of the 
currency rate against the Georgian Lari, with all other variables held constant on the income statement (due to the fair value of currency 
sensitive non-trading monetary assets and liabilities). A negative amount in the table reflects a potential net reduction in income statement or 
equity, while a positive amount reflects a net potential increase. During the year ended 31 December 2014, year ended 31 December 2013 
and year ended 31 December 2012, sensitivity analysis did not reveal any significant potential effect on the Group’s equity.
Currency
To 2014 To 2013 To 2012
Expected
change in
currency
rate in %
Effect 
on profit
before tax
Expected
change in
currency
rate in %
Effect
on profit
before tax
Expected
change in
currency
rate in %
Effect
on profit
before tax
EUR 14.3% 11 1.9% (7) 2.6% (2,079)
GBP 22.9% (6) 2.1% (0) 1.8% (19)
USD 23.4% (4,745) 0.8% (1) 0.8% (2,331)
Prepayment risk
Prepayment risk is the risk that the Group will incur a financial loss because its customers and counterparties repay or request repayment 
earlier than expected, such as fixed rate mortgages when interest rates fall, or other credit facilities, for similar or whatever reasons.
The Group calculates the effect of early repayments by calculating the weighted average rates of early repayments across each loan product 
individually, applying these historical rates to the outstanding carrying amount of respective products as at the reporting date and multiplying 
by the weighted average effective annual interest rates for each product. The model does not make a distinction between different reasons 
for repayment (e.g. relocation, refinancing and renegotiation) and takes into account the effect of any prepayment penalties on the 
Group’s income. 
The estimated effect of prepayment risk on profit and equity of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 
31 December 2012 is as follows:
Effect on
net interest 
income
2014 (16,744)
2013 (5,944)
2012 (3,971)
Operational risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls fail to perform, 
operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss. The Group cannot expect  
to eliminate all operational risks, but through a control framework and by monitoring and responding to potential risks, the Group is able to 
manage the risks. Controls include effective segregation of duties, access, authorisation and reconciliation procedures, staff education and 
assessment processes, including the use of internal audit. 
Operating environment
Most of the Group’s business in concentrated in Georgia. As an emerging market, Georgia does not possess a well-developed business 
and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature market economy. Operations in Georgia may involve risks that  
are not typically associated with those in developed markets (including the risk that the Georgian Lari is not freely convertible outside the 
country, and undeveloped debt and equity markets). However, over the last few years the Georgian Government has made a number of 
developments that positively affect the overall investment climate of the country, specifically implementing the reforms necessary to create 
banking, judicial, taxation and regulatory systems. This includes the adoption of a new body of legislation (including new Tax Code and 
procedural laws). In the view of the Board, these steps contribute to mitigate the risks of doing business in Georgia. 
The existing tendency aimed at the overall improvement of the business environment is expected to persist. The future stability of the 
Georgian economy is largely dependent upon these reforms and developments and the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary 
measures undertaken by the Government. However, the Georgian economy is vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns 
elsewhere in the world.  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 178
31. Fair value measurements
Fair value hierarchy
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics 
and risks of the asset or liability. The following tables show analysis of assets and liabilities measured at fair value or for which fair values are 
disclosed by level of the fair value hierarchy:
31 December 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets measured at fair value
Total investment properties –  –  190,860  190,860 
 Land –  –  92,285  92,285 
 Residential properties –  –  31,632  31,632 
 Non-residential properties –  –  66,943  66,943 
Investment securities available-for-sale –  768,300  1,412  769,712 
Other assets – derivative financial assets  –  45,733  –  45,733 
Other assets – trading securities owned  1,034  –  –  1,034 
Total revalued property –  –  223,547  223,547 
 Office buildings –  –  112,082  112,082 
 Service centres –  –  111,465  111,465 
Assets for which fair values are disclosed
Cash and cash equivalents –  –  710,144  710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions –  –  418,281  418,281 
Loans to customers –  –  4,422,313  4,422,313 
Finance lease receivables –  –  38,519  38,519 
Liabilities measured at fair value:
Other liabilities – derivative financial liabilities –  7,505  –  7,505
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Amounts due to customers –  –  3,366,109  3,366,109 
Amounts due to credit institutions –  –  1,409,214  1,409,214 
Debt securities issued –  –  856,695  856,695 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 179
31 December 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets measured at fair value
Total investment properties –  –  157,707  157,707 
 Land –  –  26,749  26,749 
 Residential properties –  –  42,954  42,954 
 Non-residential properties –  –  88,004  88,004 
Investment securities available-for-sale –  514,401  5,222  519,623 
Other assets – derivative financial assets  –  39,431  –  39,431 
Other assets – trading securities owned  1,149 –  –  1,149 
Total revalued property –  –  205,475  205,475 
 Office buildings –  –  85,400  85,400 
 Service centres –  –  120,075  120,075 
Assets for which fair values are disclosed
Cash and cash equivalents –  –  1,053,671  1,053,671 
Amounts due from credit institutions –  –  347,261  347,261 
Loans to customers –  –  3,592,147  3,592,147 
Finance lease receivables –  –  45,606  45,606 
Liabilities measured at fair value:
Other liabilities – derivative financial liabilities – 1,513 – 1,513
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Amounts due to customers –  –  3,159,482  3,159,482 
Amounts due to credit institutions –  –  1,157,979  1,157,979 
Debt securities issued –  –  728,117  728,117 
31 December 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets measured at fair value
Investment properties –  –  160,353  160,353 
Investment securities available-for-sale 47  458,025  5,888  463,960 
Other assets – derivative financial assets  –  36,784  –  36,784 
Other assets – trading securities owned  971  –  –  971 
Revalued property –  –  203,302  203,302 
Assets for which fair values are disclosed
Cash and cash equivalents –  –  762,827  762,827 
Amounts due from credit institutions –  –  396,559  396,559 
Loans to customers –  –  2,995,632  2,995,632 
Finance lease receivables –  –  71,686  71,686 
Liabilities measured at fair value:
Other liabilities – derivative financial liabilities –  4,867 – 4,867
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Amounts due to customers –  –  2,707,231  2,707,231 
Amounts due to credit institutions –  –  1,236,313  1,236,313 
Debt securities issued –  –  420,849  420,849 
The following is a description of the determination of fair value for financial instruments which are recorded at fair value using valuation 
techniques. These incorporate the Group’s estimate of assumptions that a market participant would make when valuing the instruments. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 180
31. Fair value measurements (continued)
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments valued using a valuation technique with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, currency 
swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, 
using present value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot 
and forward rates and interest rate curves.
Trading securities and investment securities available-for-sale
Trading securities and a certain part of investment securities available-for-sale are quoted equity and debt securities. Investment securities 
available-for-sale valued using a valuation technique or pricing models consist of unquoted equity and debt securities. These securities  
are valued using models which sometimes only incorporate data observable in the market and at other times use both observable and 
non-observable data. The non-observable inputs to the models include assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the 
investee, its risk profile, and economic assumptions regarding the industry and geographical jurisdiction in which the investee operates.
Movements in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value
The following tables show a reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of level 3 financial assets which are recorded at fair value:
31 December 
2011
Sale of AFS 
securities
Transfers 
from level 2
At 31 
December 
2012
Sale of AFS 
securities
At 31 
December 
2013
Impairment of 
Investment in 
BG Bank
Transfers 
from level 2
At 31 
December 
2014
Level 3 financial assets
Equity investment 
securities available-for-sale 4,034  (1,983) 3,837  5,888  (666) 5,222  (3,837) 27  1,412 
Movements in level 3 non-financial assets measured at fair value
All investment properties and revalued properties of property and equipment are of level 3. Reconciliations of their opening and closing 
amounts are provided in Notes 13 and 14 respectively.
Impact on fair value of level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value of changes to key assumptions
The following table shows the impact on the fair value of level 3 instruments of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions:
2014 2013 2012
Carrying
amount
Effect of 
reasonably
possible 
alternative
assumptions
Carrying
amount
Effect of 
reasonably
possible 
alternative
assumptions
Carrying
amount
Effect of 
reasonably
possible 
alternative
assumptions
Level 3 financial assets
Equity investment securities available-for-sale 1,412  +/- 212  5,222  +/- 786  5,888  +/- 886 
In order to determine reasonably possible alternative assumptions the Group adjusted key unobservable model inputs as follows:
For equities, the Group adjusted the price-over-book-value multiple by increasing and decreasing the ratio by 10%, which is considered by 
the Group to be within a range of reasonably possible alternatives based on the price-over-book-value multiples used across peers within 
the same geographic area of the same industry.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 181
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuations of non-financial assets
The following tables show descriptions of significant unobservable inputs to level 3 valuations of investment properties and revalued 
properties and equipment:
2014
Valuation
technique
Significant
unobservable
inputs
Range
(weighted
average)
Other key
information
Range
(weighted
average)
Sensitivity
of the input
to fair value
Investment property 190,860 
Land 92,285 Market 
approach
Price per 
square metre
1–870
(361)
Square 
metres, land
57–100,000
(24,501)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in  
fair value by 1,800
Residential properties 31,632 
 29,747 Market 
approach
Price per 
square metre
5–13,750
(2,135)
Square 
metres, land
Square 
metres, 
building
257–20,000
(679)
9–2,892
(860)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in  
fair value by 2,786
 1,885 Cost 
approach
Replacement 
cost per 
square metre
12–703
(307)
Square 
metres, 
building
45–2,475
(828)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the replacement cost 
per square metre would 
result in an increase 
(decrease) in fair value  
by 108
Developers’ 
profit margin
15.0% 1% increase (decrease)  
in the developers’ profit 
margin would result in  
an increase (decrease)  
in fair value by 11
Land price 
per square 
metre
1–574
(58)
Square 
metres, land
54–8,808
(3,536)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in  
fair value by 70
Non-residential 
properties
66,943
40,642 Market 
approach
Price per 
square metre
17–5,545
(2,128)
Square 
metres, land
Square 
metres, 
building
59–18,487
(1,241)
8–4,337
(2,147)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in  
fair value by 3,422
 26,301 Cost 
approach
Replacement 
cost per 
square metre
8–3,403
(1,634)
Square 
metres, 
building
12–14,520
(5,092)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the replacement cost 
per square metre would 
result in an increase 
(decrease) in fair value  
by 1,496
Developers’ 
profit margin
15.0% 1% increase (decrease)  
in the developers’ profit 
margin would result in  
an increase (decrease)  
in fair value by 150
Land price 
per square 
metre
1–459
(84)
Square 
metres, land
171–230,398
(87,094)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in  
fair value by 889 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 182
31. Fair value measurements (continued)
2014
Valuation
technique
Significant
unobservable
inputs
Range
(weighted
average)
Other key
information
Range
(weighted
average)
Sensitivity
of the input
to fair value
Property and 
equipment
 223,547
Office buildings 112,082
 58,060 Market 
approach
Price per 
square metre
689–5,975
(4,812)
Square 
metres, land
Square 
metres, 
building
57–100,000
(24,501)
40–4,787
(2,869)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in fair 
value by 3,576
 54,022 Cost 
approach
Replacement 
cost per 
square metre
574–990
(845)
Square 
metres, 
building
557–8,594
(7,003)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the replacement cost 
per square metre would 
result in an increase 
(decrease) in fair value  
by 690
Developers’ 
profit margin
15.0% 1% increase (decrease)  
in the developers’ profit 
margin would result in an 
increase (decrease) in fair 
value by 85
Land price 
per square 
metre
16–3,033
(2,413)
Square 
metres, land
877–13,900
(12,849)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in fair 
value by 3,172
Service centres 111,465
 90,168 Market 
approach
Price per 
square metre
40–14,681
(4,336)
Square 
metres, land
Square 
metres, 
building
113–3,164
(490)
15–1,589
(585)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in fair 
value by 7,054
 21,297 Cost 
approach
Replacement 
cost per 
square metre
72–2,079
(1,149)
Square 
metres, 
building
149–6,461
(1,789)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the replacement cost 
per square metre would 
result in an increase 
(decrease) in fair value  
by 1,155
Developers’ 
profit margin
15.0% 1% increase (decrease)  
in the developers’ profit 
margin would result in an 
increase (decrease) in fair 
value by 113
Land price 
per square 
metre
4–582
(202)
Square 
metres, land
124–34,672
(11,102)
10% increase (decrease) 
in the price per square 
metre would result in an 
increase (decrease) in fair 
value by 383
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 183
Financial instruments overview
Set out below is an overview of all financial instruments, other than cash and short-term deposits, held by the Group as at 31 December 
2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012:
31 December 2014
Loans and 
receivables
Available- 
for-sale
Fair value
through
profit or loss
Financial assets
Amounts due from credit institutions 418,281  –  – 
Loans to customers 4,322,186  –  – 
Finance lease receivables 38,519  –  – 
Trade and other receivables (in other assets) 62,164  –  – 
Equity instruments –  1,412  41 
Debt instruments –  768,300  993 
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments –  –  45,733 
Total 4,841,150  769,712  46,767 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts owed to customers 3,338,725  –  – 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,409,214  –  – 
Debt securities issued 856,695  –  – 
Trade and other payables (in other liabilities) 82,980  –  – 
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments –  –  7,505 
Total 5,687,614 –  7,505
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Loans and 
receivables
Available- 
for-sale
Fair value
through
profit or loss
Loans and 
receivables
Available- 
for-sale
Fair value
through
profit or loss
Financial assets
Amounts due from credit institutions 347,261 – – 396,559 – –
Loans to customers 3,477,309 – – 3,020,634 – –
Finance lease receivables 45,606 – – 71,686 – –
Trade and other receivables (in other assets) 52,171 – – 100,893 – –
Equity instruments – 5,266  58 – 5,943  211 
Debt instruments – 514,357  1,091 – 458,018  760 
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments – – 39,408 – – 36,518 
Commodity options – – 23 – – 266 
Total 3,922,347  519,623  40,580  3,589,772  463,961  37,755 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts owed to customers 3,117,732  –  –  2,693,025  – –
Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,157,979  –  –  1,236,313  – –
Debt securities issued 728,117  –  –  420,849  – –
Trade and other payables (in other liabilities) 49,287  –  –  59,980  – –
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments –  –  60 – –  84 
Interest rate swaps –  –  1,453 – –  4,783 
Total 5,053,115 –  1,513 4,410,167  –  4,867  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 184
31. Fair value measurements (continued)
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities not carried at fair value
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements. The table does not include the fair values of non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities.
Carrying
value
2014
Fair value 
2014
Unrecognised
gain (loss)
2014
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 710,144  710,144  – 
Amounts due from credit institutions 418,281  418,281  – 
Loans to customers 4,322,186  4,422,313  100,127 
Finance lease receivables 38,519  38,519  – 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts due to customers 3,338,725  3,366,109  (27,384)
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,409,214  1,409,214  – 
Debt securities issued 856,695  856,695  – 
Total unrecognised change in unrealised fair value 72,743
Carrying
value
2013
Fair value 
2013
Unrecognised
loss
2013
Carrying
value
2012
Fair value 
2012
Unrecognised
loss
2012
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,053,671  1,053,671  –  762,827  762,827  – 
Amounts due from credit institutions 347,261  347,261  –  396,559  396,559  – 
Loans to customers 3,477,309  3,592,147  114,838  3,020,634  2,995,632  (25,002)
Finance lease receivables 45,606  45,606  –  71,686  71,686  – 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts due to customers 3,117,732  3,159,482  (41,750) 2,693,025  2,707,231  (14,206)
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,157,979  1,157,979  –  1,236,313  1,236,313  – 
Debt securities issued 728,117  728,117  –  420,849  420,849  – 
Total unrecognised change in unrealised fair value 73,088 (39,208)
The following describes the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for those financial instruments which are not 
already recorded at fair value in the consolidated financial statements.
Assets for which fair value approximates carrying value
For financial assets and financial liabilities that are liquid or have a short-term maturity (less than three months) it is assumed that the 
carrying amounts approximate to their fair value. This assumption is also applied to demand deposits, savings accounts without a specific 
maturity and variable rate financial instruments.
Fixed rate financial instruments
The fair value of fixed rate financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost are estimated by comparing market interest rates when 
they were first recognised with current market rates offered for similar financial instruments. The estimated fair value of fixed interest-bearing 
deposits is based on discounted cash flows using prevailing money-market interest rates for debts with similar credit risk and maturity. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 185
32. Maturity analysis of financial assets and liabilities
The table below shows an analysis of financial assets and liabilities according to when they are expected to be recovered or settled. See 
Note 30 “Risk management” for the Group’s contractual undiscounted repayment obligations. 
2014
On
demand
Up to
3 months
Up to
6 months
Up to
1 year
Up to
3 years
Up to
5 years
Over
5 years Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  691,573  18,571  –  –  –  –  –  710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions 382,714  808  3,974  26,324  2,486  –  1,975  418,281 
Investment securities available-for-sale 327,846  383,657  7,361  9,698  34,008  1,966  5,176  769,712 
Loans to customers –  682,747  505,604  728,739  1,275,465  629,311  500,320  4,322,186 
Finance lease receivables –  17,900  5,466  5,791  8,687  675  –  38,519 
Total 1,402,133 1,103,683 522,405 770,552 1,320,646 631,952 507,471 6,258,842 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts due to customers 272,235 603,510 366,000 1,686,080 355,892 39,995 15,013 3,338,725 
Amounts due to credit institutions 32,951  582,882  63,704  153,848  314,313  152,742  108,774  1,409,214 
Debt securities issued –  45,864  28,930  43,425  738,476  –  –  856,695 
Total 305,186 1,232,256 458,634 1,883,353 1,408,681 192,737 123,787 5,604,634 
Net 1,096,947  (128,573) 63,771 (1,112,801) (88,035) 439,215  383,684  654,208 
Accumulated gap 1,096,947  968,374  1,032,145  (80,656) (168,691) 270,524  654,208 
2013
On
demand
Up to
3 months
Up to
6 months
Up to
1 year
Up to
3 years
Up to
5 years
Over
5 years Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  884,728  168,943  –  –  –  –  –  1,053,671 
Amounts due from credit institutions 289,926  7,438  7,296  29,199  8,953  4,449  –  347,261 
Investment securities available-for-sale 256,140  254,202  3,518  1,697  2,915  823  328  519,623 
Loans to customers –  657,902  402,551  696,307  1,051,950  427,194  241,405  3,477,309 
Finance lease receivables –  16,056  5,713  10,184  10,885  1,923  845  45,606 
Total 1,430,794  1,104,541  419,078  737,387  1,074,703  434,389  242,578  5,443,470 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts due to customers 284,099  525,229  460,880  1,542,062  251,091  43,228  11,143  3,117,732 
Amounts due to credit institutions 13,620  401,781  61,071  137,223  272,072  182,508  89,704  1,157,979 
Debt securities issued –  26,886  –  25,938  94,848  580,445  –  728,117 
Total 297,719 953,896 521,951 1,705,223 618,011 806,181 100,847 5,003,828 
Net 1,133,075  150,645  (102,873) (967,836) 456,692  (371,792) 141,731  439,642 
Accumulated gap 1,133,075  1,283,720  1,180,847  213,011  669,703  297,911  439,642  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 186
32. Maturity analysis of financial assets and liabilities (continued)
2012
On
demand
Up to
3 months
Up to
6 months
Up to
1 year
Up to
3 years
Up to
5 years
Over
5 years Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  586,852  175,975  –  –  –  –  –  762,827 
Amounts due from credit institutions 322,871  48,143  5,790  4,557  9,136  4,448  1,614  396,559 
Investment securities available-for-sale 5,200  168,670  114,920  41,159  76,185  51,777  6,049  463,960 
Loans to customers –  605,509  312,302  624,819  923,503  361,248  193,253  3,020,634 
Finance lease receivables –  9,058  5,716  10,353  25,886  13,049  7,624  71,686 
Total 914,923  1,007,355  438,728  680,888  1,034,710  430,522  208,540  4,715,666 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts due to customers 355,835  453,796  214,743  1,337,512  283,000  39,694  8,445  2,693,025 
Amounts due to credit institutions 40,321  420,742  49,362  148,883  285,822  189,484  101,699  1,236,313 
Debt securities issued –  15,413  –  15,254  55,357  334,825  –  420,849 
Total 396,156  889,951  264,105  1,501,649  624,179  564,003  110,144  4,350,187 
Net 518,767  117,404  174,623  (820,761) 410,531  (133,481) 98,396  365,479 
Accumulated gap 518,767  636,171  810,794  (9,967) 400,564  267,083  365,479 
The Group’s capability to discharge its liabilities relies on its ability to realise equivalent assets within the same period of time. In the Georgian 
marketplace, where most of the Group’s business is concentrated, many short-term credits are granted with the expectation of renewing 
the loans at maturity. As such, the ultimate maturity of assets may be different from the analysis presented above. To reflect the historical 
stability of current accounts, the Group calculates the minimal daily balance of current accounts over the past two years and includes the 
amount in the less than one year category in the table above. The remaining current accounts are included in the on demand category. 
The Group’s principal sources of liquidity are as follows:
 – deposits; 
 – borrowings from international credit institutions; 
 – inter-bank deposit agreement;
 – debt issues;
 – proceeds from sale of securities;
 – principal repayments on loans;
 – interest income; and
 – fees and commissions income.
As at 31 December 2014 amounts due to customers amounted to GEL 3,338,725 (2013: GEL 3,117,732, 2012: GEL 2,693,025) and 
represented 56% (2013: 59%, 2012: 59%) of the Group’s total liabilities. These funds continue to provide a majority of the Group’s funding 
and represent a diversified and stable source of funds. As at 31 December 2014 amounts owed to credit institutions amounted to 
GEL 1,409,214 (2013: GEL 1,157,979, 2012: GEL 1,236,313) and represented 24% (2013: 22%, 2012: 27%) of total liabilities. As at  
31 December 2014 debt securities issued amounted to GEL 856,695 (2013: GEL 728,117, 2012: GEL 420,849) and represented 14%  
(2013: 14%, 2012: 9%) of total liabilities.
In the Board’s opinion, liquidity is sufficient to meet the Group’s present requirements. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 187
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or settled: 
31 December 2014
Less than
1 year
More than
1 year Total
Cash and cash equivalents 710,144  –  710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions 413,820  4,461  418,281 
Investment securities available-for-sale 728,562  41,150  769,712 
Loans to customers 1,917,090  2,405,096  4,322,186 
Finance lease receivables 29,157  9,362  38,519 
Investments in associates –  48,659  48,659 
Investment properties –  190,860  190,860 
Property and equipment –  588,513  588,513 
Intangible assets –  34,432  34,432 
Goodwill –  49,633  49,633 
Current income tax assets 4,215  –  4,215 
Deferred income tax assets –  18,530  18,530 
Prepayments 17,848  15,926  33,774 
Other assets 211,176  140,511  351,687 
Total assets 4,032,012  3,547,133  7,579,145 
Amounts due to customers 2,927,825  410,900  3,338,725 
Amounts due to credit institutions 833,385  575,829  1,409,214 
Debt securities issued  118,219  738,476  856,695 
Current income tax liabilities 11,093  –  11,093 
Deferred income tax liabilities  –  86,471  86,471 
Provisions 3,934  798  4,732 
Other liabilities 124,895  113,227  238,122 
Total liabilities 4,019,351  1,925,701  5,945,052 
Net 12,661  1,621,432  1,634,093  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 188
32. Maturity analysis of financial assets and liabilities (continued)
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Less than
1 year
More than
1 year Total
Less than
1 year
More than
1 year Total
Cash and cash equivalents 1,053,671  –  1,053,671  762,827  –  762,827 
Amounts due from credit institutions 333,859  13,402  347,261  381,361  15,198  396,559 
Investment securities available-for-sale 515,557  4,066  519,623  329,949  134,011  463,960 
Loans to customers 1,756,760  1,720,549  3,477,309  1,542,630  1,478,004  3,020,634 
Finance lease receivables 31,953  13,653  45,606  25,127  46,559  71,686 
Investments in associates –  –  –  –  2,441  2,441 
Investment properties –  157,707  157,707  –  160,353  160,353 
Property and equipment –  470,669  470,669  –  430,877  430,877 
Intangible assets –  26,434  26,434  –  23,078  23,078 
Goodwill –  48,720  48,720  –  45,657  45,657 
Current income tax assets 4,552  –  4,552  944  –  944 
Deferred income tax assets –  14,544  14,544  –  14,352  14,352 
Prepayments 14,802  10,732  25,534  12,833  28,314  41,147 
Other assets 221,640  107,699  329,339  138,014  83,066  221,080 
Total assets 3,932,794  2,588,175  6,520,969  3,193,685  2,461,910  5,655,595 
Amounts due to customers 2,812,270  305,462  3,117,732  2,361,886  331,139  2,693,025 
Amounts due to credit institutions 613,695  544,284  1,157,979  659,308  577,005  1,236,313 
Debt securities issued  52,824  675,293  728,117  30,667  390,182  420,849 
Current income tax liabilities 2,928  –  2,928  13,818  –  13,818 
Deferred income tax liabilities  –  66,100  66,100  –  46,184  46,184 
Provisions 481  –  481  683  –  683 
Other liabilities 185,353  21,225  206,578  125,063  60,148  185,211 
Total liabilities 3,667,551  1,612,364  5,279,915  3,191,425  1,404,658  4,596,083 
Net 265,243  975,811  1,241,054  2,260  1,057,252  1,059,512 
33. Related party disclosures
In accordance with IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”, parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other 
party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operational decisions. In considering each possible related 
party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
Related parties may enter into transactions which unrelated parties might not, and transactions between related parties may not be effected 
on the same terms, conditions and amounts as transactions between unrelated parties. All transactions with related parties disclosed below 
have been conducted on an arm’s-length basis.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 189
The volumes of related party transactions, outstanding balances at the year end, and related expenses and income for the year are 
as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Share-
holders Associates
Key
management
personnel*
Share-
holders Associates
Key
management
personnel*
Share-
holders Associates
Key
management
personnel*
Loans outstanding at 
1 January, gross –  –  1,484  –  –  5,136  –  304  6,558 
Loans issued during the year –  85,933  4,853  –  –  2,871  –  –  7,457 
Loan repayments during 
the year –  (16,376) (4,474) –  –  (2,319) –  (259) (8,389)
Other movements –  9,035  185  –  –  (4,204) –  (45) (490)
Loans outstanding at 
31 December, gross –  78,592  2,048  –  –  1,484  –  –  5,136 
Less: allowance for impairment  
at 31 December –  (743) (1) –  –  (20) –  –  (76)
Loans outstanding at 
31 December, net –  77,849  2,047  –  –  1,464  –  –  5,060 
Interest income on loans –  1,767  86  –  –  66  –  14  640 
Loan impairment charge – (743)  –  –  –  (14) –  –  (1)
Deposits at 1 January –  50  11,455  11,636  17  9,681  36,730  171  5,903
Deposits received during  
the year –  132,087  33,646  –  168  20,444  5,373  11,040  28,561
Deposits repaid during 
the year –  (128,859) (31,225) –  (119) (15,018) (29,494) (11,191) (25,264)
Other movements –  1,697  3,624  (11,636) (16) (3,652) (973) (3) 481 
Deposits at 31 December –  4,975  17,500  –  50  11,455  11,636  17  9,681 
Interest expense on deposits –  (2) (513) (488) –  (425) (1,738) (26) (612)
Other income –  2  92  –  –  86  –  –  121 
Borrowings at 1 January 233,209  –  –  233,441  –  –  –  –  – 
Conversion of convertible   
subordinated debts** –  –  –  –  –  –  264,481  –  – 
Borrowings received during   
the year –  –  –  61,224  –  –  16,470  –  – 
Borrowings repaid during   
the year 1,453 –  –  (68,135) –  –  (56,506) –  – 
Other movements** (234,662) –  –  6,679  –  –  8,996  –  – 
Borrowings at    
31 December –  –  –  233,209  –  –  233,441  –  – 
Interest expense on 
borrowings (6,750) –  –  (16,569) –  –  (16,589) –  – 
Interest rate swaps***  
at 1 January 1,453  –  –  4,783  –  – – –  – 
Conversion of convertible   
subordinated debts** –  –  –  –  –  –  6,882  –  – 
Payments during the year (1,453) –  –  (3,728) –  –  (3,040) –  – 
Other movements –  –  –  398  –  –  941  –  – 
Interest rate swaps  
at 31 December –  –  –  1,453  –  –  4,783  –  – 
Net loss from interest  
rate swaps –  –  –  (398) –  –  (942) –  – 
* Key management personnel include members of BGH’s Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and Deputies of the Bank.
**  On 24 February 2012 the EBRD and IFC utilised the equity conversion feature of subordinated convertible loans, becoming shareholders of the Group and sold 
their shares in 2014.
*** Interest rate swap agreements with IFC. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 190
33. Related party disclosures (continued)
Compensation of key management personnel comprised the following:
2014 2013 2012
Salaries and other benefits 4,143  3,688  2,656 
Share-based payments compensation 14,763  12,309  8,048 
Social security costs 43  28  24 
Total key management compensation  18,949  16,025  10,728 
Key management personnel do not receive cash-settled compensation, except for fixed salaries. The major part of the total compensation 
is share-based (Note 29). The number of key management personnel at 31 December 2014 was 16 (31 December 2013: 15, 31 December 
2012: 15). 
34. Capital adequacy
The Group maintains an actively managed capital base to cover risks inherent in the business. The adequacy of the Group’s capital is 
monitored using, among other measures, the ratios established by the NBG in supervising the Bank and the ratios established by the Basel 
Capital Accord 1988.
Approved and published on 28 October 2013 by NBG, a new capital adequacy regulation becomes effective in 2014, based on Basel II/III 
requirements, adjusted for NBG’s discretionary items. Pillar 1 requirements became effective on 30 June 2014, with Pillar II (ICAAP) 
requirements becoming effective 30 June 2015. A transition period is to continue through 1 January 2017, during which the Bank  
will be required to comply with both the new, as well as the current, capital regulations of the NBG.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Bank and the Group complied in full with all its externally imposed capital requirements.
The primary objectives of the Group’s capital management are to ensure that the Bank complies with externally imposed capital 
requirements and that the Group maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise 
shareholders’ value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk 
characteristics of its activities. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividend payment to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue capital securities. No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes 
from the previous years.
NBG Capital Adequacy ratio
The NBG requires banks to maintain a minimum Capital Adequacy ratio of 12% of risk-weighted assets, computed based on the Bank’s 
stand-alone special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with NBG regulations and pronouncements. As at 31 December 
2014, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, the Bank’s Capital Adequacy ratio on this basis was as follows: 
2014 2013 2012
Core capital 895,318  810,545  739,880 
Supplementary capital 398,598  313,220  389,685 
Less: Deductions from capital (365,487) (256,471) (262,616)
Total regulatory capital 928,429 867,294 866,949
Risk-weighted assets 6,719,169 5,638,556 5,352,187
Total Capital Adequacy ratio 13.8% 15.4% 16.2%
Core capital comprises share capital, additional paid-in capital and retained earnings (without current period profits), less intangible assets 
and goodwill. Supplementary capital includes subordinated long-term debt, current period profits and general loss provisions. Deductions 
from the capital include investments in subsidiaries. Certain adjustments are made to IFRS-based results and reserves, as prescribed by 
the NBG.
Notes to consolidated financial statements continued
(Thousands of Georgian Lari) Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 191
New NBG (Basel II/III) Capital Adequacy ratio
Effective 30 June 2014, the NBG requires banks to maintain a minimum total Capital Adequacy ratio of 12.5% of risk-weighted assets, 
computed based on the Bank’s stand-alone special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with NBG regulations and 
pronouncements, based on Basel II/III requirements. As at 31 December 2014 the Bank’s Capital Adequacy ratio on this basis was 
as follows: 
2014
Tier 1 Capital 1,128,004 
Less: Deductions from capital (327,539)
Tier 2 Capital 217,100 
Total capital 1,017,565 
Risk-weighted assets 7,204,080
Total Capital ratio 14.1%
Tier 1 Capital ratio 11.1%
Minimum Capital Adequacy ratio 8.0%
Tier 1 Capital comprises share capital, additional paid-in capital and retained earnings, less investments in subsidiaries, intangible assets 
and goodwill. Tier 2 Capital includes subordinated long-term debt and general loss provisions. Certain adjustments are made to IFRS-based 
results and reserves, as prescribed by the NBG.
Capital Adequacy ratio under Basel Capital Accord 1988
The Bank’s Capital Adequacy ratio based on the consolidated statement of financial position and computed in accordance with the Basel 
Capital Accord 1988, with subsequent amendments including the amendment to incorporate market risks, as at 31 December 2014,  
31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, was as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Tier 1 Capital 1,431,399  1,170,104  1,006,756 
Less: Deductions goodwill (49,633) –  – 
Tier 2 Capital 249,419  256,224  284,677 
Less: Deductions from capital (1,522) (51,147) (48,697)
Total capital 1,629,663  1,375,181  1,242,736 
Risk-weighted assets 6,252,992  5,080,827  4,749,484 
Total Capital ratio 26.1% 27.1% 26.2%
Tier 1 Capital ratio 22.1% 23.0% 21.2%
Minimum Capital Adequacy ratio 8.0% 8.0% 8.0%
35. Event after the reporting period
Acquisition of JSC Privatbank
In January 2015 the Bank completed the acquisition of shares in JSC Privatbank, a bank operating in Georgia with a focus on retail banking. 
Total consideration given for the acquisition was GEL 92,483. 
Initial purchase accounting is currently in progress and not all of the asset valuations and accounting estimates are formally finalised. 
Therefore, management considers a more detailed disclosure impracticable. A full and complete IFRS 3 disclosure will be presented  
in the Group’s 2015 half-yearly financial statements. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 192
Abbreviations 
ADB Asian Development Bank
AFS Available-for-sale
AGM Annual General Meeting
ALCO Asset and Liability Committee
AML Anti-money laundering
ATMs Automated Teller Machines
WM Wealth Management
BGH Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC
BIS Bank for International Settlement
BKNP Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park
BNB Belarusky Narodny Bank 
BYR Belarusian Rouble, national currency of the 
Republic of Belarus
CAGR Compounded annual growth rate
CAR Capital Adequacy ratio
CD Certificate of Deposit
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CPI Consumer price index
CRM Customer relationship management
CRO Chief Risk Officer
DCFTA Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement
DFI Development Finance Institutions
EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction  
and Development
EECP Executives’ Equity Compensation Plan
EPS Earnings per share
ESMS Environmental and Social Risk Management 
Procedures
EUR Euro
EY Ernst & Young
FDI Foreign direct investment
FMO Financierings-Maatschappij voor 
Ontwikkelingslanden
FMS Financial Monitoring Services
FRC Financial Reporting Council
GBP Great British Pound, national currency of the UK
GDP Gross domestic product
GDRs Global Depositary Receipts
GEL Georgian Lari or Lari, national currency  
of Georgia
GHG Georgia Healthcare Group
GLC Georgian Leasing Company
GPW Gross Premiums Written
IAS International Accounting Standards
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IDPs Internally Displaced Persons
IMF International Monetary Fund
IFC International Finance Corporation
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF International Monetary Fund
IRR Internal Rate of Return
IT Information Technology
JSC Joint stock company
KfW Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
KPIs Key performance indicators
LCR Liquidity Coverage ratio
LSE London Stock Exchange
MFC My Family Clinic
MOH Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs
MPA Motor personal accident
MSME Micro small and medium enterprise Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 193
MTPL Motor third-party liability insurance
NBG National Bank of Georgia
NBRB National Bank of the Republic of Belarus
NGO Non-governmental organisation
NIM Net Interest Margin
NMF Not meaningful to present
NPLs Non-performing loans
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation  
and Development
OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control
PA Personal accident
P&C Property & Casualty
PFFIs Participating foreign financial institutions
PLC Public limited company
POS Point of Sale
PPP Purchasing power parity
ROAA Return on Average Assets
ROAE Return on Average Equity
ROCE Return on Capital Employed
SBRE SB Real Estate
SMEs Small and medium size enterprises
TNS Taylor Nelson Sofres
TSR Total Shareholder Return
TUB Tbiluniversal Bank, Georgia
UAH Ukrainian Hryvna, national currency  
of Ukraine
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland
US$ The US Dollar, national currency  
of the United States of America
VAR Value at Risk
WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 194
Glossary
Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) The core risk-management body that establishes policies and guidelines with respect 
to various aspects of risk-management strategy
Asian Development Bank (ADB) 
of countries in Asia
A regional development bank established to facilitate economic development
Average Interest Earning Assets Interest-earning assets include: fixed income investment and trading securities, 
amounts due from credit institutions and loans to customers and finance lease 
receivables
Basic EPS Profit for the period from operations attributable to shareholders of the Group divided  
by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares over the same period
Belarusky Narodny Bank (BNB) Belarusian banking subsidiary of Bank of Georgia Group
BIS Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio Tier I Capital divided by total risk-weighted assets, both calculated in accordance  
with the requirements of Basel Accord I
BIS Total Capital Adequacy ratio Total Capital divided by total risk-weighted assets, both calculated in accordance  
with the requirements of Basel Accord I
Book value per share Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Group divided by ordinary shares 
outstanding at period end; net ordinary shares outstanding equals total number  
of ordinary shares outstanding at period end less number of treasury shares at  
period end
Cost of Funding Interest expense of the period (adjusted for the gains or losses from revaluation  
of interest rate derivatives) divided by monthly average interest-bearing liabilities; 
interest-bearing liabilities include: amounts due to credit institutions, amounts  
due to customers, debt securities issued and interest rate derivatives
Cost to Income ratio Operating expenses divided by revenue
Development Finance Institutions 
(DFIs)
Development finance institutions established (or chartered) by more than one country 
which are subject to international law and whose owners or shareholders are generally 
national governments, including, among others, the EBRD, IFC, ADB, etc
East-West Highway The main highway in Georgia
Environmental and Social Policy A policy adopted by the BGH Board of Directors in 2012
EVEX JSC Medical Corporation EVEX holds the Group’s healthcare subsidiaries
Express banking A wide array of services and products including Express branches, Express cards  
and Express Pay terminals, aimed at attracting mass-market customers
Express branch A small-format branch offering predominantly transactional banking services through 
ATMs and Express Pay terminals
Express card A contactless card with a loyalty programme linked to the customer’s current account, 
which can also be used for transport payments
Express Metro branches Express branches in metro stations in Tbilisi
Express Pay (self-service) terminal A payment terminal enabling customers to make various payments remotely including 
utility bill payments and loan repayments at a wide variety of locations
FMO Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden: The Netherlands 
Development Bank
Galt & Taggart Former BG Capital
Georgian Leasing Company (GLC) The Bank’s wholly-owned subsidiary through which it provides finance leasing services
Geostat National Statistics Office of Georgia
Global Depositary Receipt (GDR) A certificate issued by a depositary bank, which represents ownership of an underlying 
number of shares
Gross loans In all sections of the Annual Report, except for the consolidated financial statements, 
gross loans are defined as gross loans to customers and gross finance lease receivables
International Finance Corporation (IFC) A member of the World Bank Group, the largest global development institution focused 
exclusively on the private sector in developing countries
Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) German Government-owned development bank
Liberty Consumer A Georgia-focused investment company in which the Group holds a 70% stake
Loan Yield Interest income from loans to customers and finance lease receivables divided by 
average gross loans to customers and finance lease receivables
m
2
 Real Estate Real Estate business of the Group, formerly known as SB Real Estate Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 195
Market share(s) Market share data is based on the information provided by the National Bank of 
Georgia. For Bank of Georgia, market share represents market share based on total 
assets as of 31 December 2014 (unless noted otherwise) on a stand-alone basis.  
For Aldagi, market share is provided based on the gross insurance premium revenue 
as of 31 December 2014
Net Interest Margin (NIM) Net interest income of the period (adjusted for the gains or losses from revaluation  
of interest rate derivatives) divided by average interest-earning assets for the  
same period
Net loans In all sections of the Annual Report, except for the consolidated audited financial 
statements, net loans are defined as gross loans to customers and finance lease 
receivables less allowance for impairment
Non-performing loans (NPLs) The principal and interest on loans overdue for more than 90 days and any  
additional potential losses estimated by management
Operating cost Equals operating expenses
Operating leverage Percentage change in revenue less percentage change in operating expenses
Reserve for loan losses to gross loans Allowance for impairment of loans and finance lease receivables divided by gross  
loans and finance lease receivables
Return on Average Total Assets (ROAA) Profit for the period divided by monthly Average Total Assets for the same period
Return on Average Total Equity (ROAE) Profit for the period attributable to shareholders of the Group divided by monthly 
average equity attributable to shareholders of the Bank for the same period
Tender Offer BGH, a public limited liability company, launched the Tender Offer to exchange its 
entire ordinary share capital for an equivalent number of the Bank’s ordinary shares 
and thus to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital, including those 
shares represented by GDRs, of the Bank in December 2011. The Tender Offer was 
successfully completed in February 2012
Weighted average number of  
ordinary shares
Average of daily outstanding number of shares less daily outstanding number of 
treasury shares
Weighted average diluted number  
of ordinary shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares plus weighted average dilutive number  
of shares known to the management during the same period Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC
84 Brook Street
London W1K 5EH
United Kingdom
www.bogh.co.uk
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 196
Shareholder information
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of BGH (the AGM) will be held at  
10:00 am (London time) on Thursday, 21 May 2015 at Freshfields 
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS.  
Details of the business to be conducted at the AGM are contained  
in the Notice of AGM which will be mailed to shareholders on or 
about 28 April 2015 and will be available on the BGH’s website: 
www.bogh.co.uk
Shareholder inquiries
BGH’s share register is maintained by Computershare Investor 
Services PLC.
Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, 
such as change of address or change of ownership, should be 
directed to the address or telephone number immediately below. 
Holders of ordinary shares may also check details of their 
shareholding, subject to passing an identity check, by visiting  
the Registrar’s website: www.investorcentre.co.uk
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
United Kingdom
+44 (0)870 873 5866
Dividends
On 20 February 2015, the Directors of BGH declared their intention 
to recommend an annual dividend in the amount of GEL 2.1 per 
share (payable in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate), 
subject to approval by the shareholders at BGH’s AGM. As a holding 
company whose principal assets are the shares of its subsidiaries, 
BGH relies primarily on dividends and other statutorily and 
contractually permissible payments from its subsidiaries, principally 
the Bank, to generate reserves necessary to pay dividends to its 
shareholders.
If the annual dividend is approved at BGH’s AGM on 21 May 2015, 
BGH envisions the following dividend timetable:
Ex-Dividend Date: 4 June 2015
Record Date: 5 June 2015
Currency Conversion Date: 8 June 2015
Payment Date: 16 June 2015
Share price information
BGH shareholders can access both the latest and historical  
prices via our website, www.bogh.co.uk, as well as listings in  
the Financial Times.
Forward-looking statements
Where this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements, 
these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the 
information available to them at the time of their approval of this 
Annual Report. These statements should be treated with caution 
due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such 
forward-looking information. The Group cautions investors that a 
number of important factors, including those in this Annual Report, 
could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained  
in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are  
not limited to, those discussed under “Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties” on pages 32 to 35 of this Annual Report.
The paper used in this Report is  
derived from sustainable sources Sulphur Bath, Tbilisi Doll Museum, Tbilisi Street lighting, Tbilisi Presidential Palace, Tbilisi
Fragment of Leaning Tower wall, Tbilisi Marionette Tower, Tbilisi
Old town, Tbilisi Georgian wine
Traditional dish “Khachapuri”  
(cheese-filled bread) Georgian wine
Public Hall, Tbilisi Old town, Tbilisi
Old town view from restaurant Kopala, Tbilisi
Old town, Tbilisi
Old town, Tbilisi
Old town, Tbilisi Old town, Tbilisi
Mineral water spring, Borjomi
Georgian orthodox monastery  
wall painting, Kutaisi Traditional Georgian carpet Ski resort, Gudauri
