 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009
barclays.com/annualreport09 Contents
Section 1
About Barclays
02 About Barclays
03 Our performance in brief
04 Barclays at a glance
06 Group Chairman’ s statement
10 Leadership and governance
Section 2
Strategy
14 Group Chief Executive’ s review
20 The role of banks and banking in society
22 Sustainability
24 Our people
Section 3
Barclays performance
26 Key performance indicators
31 Financial review
Section 4
Risk management and governance
82 Risk management
147 Directors’ report
151 Corporate governance report
170 Remuneration report
187 Accountability and audit
Section 5
Financial statements
190 Presentation of information
191 Independent Auditors’ report/Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm’ s report 
193 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
309 Barclays Bank PLC data
Section 6
Shareholder information
328 Shareholder information
335 Shareholder enquiries
336 Annual Report 2009 index
338 Glossary of terms
The term ‘Barclays PLC Group’ means Barclays PLC together with its subsidiaries and the term ‘Barclays Bank PLC Group’ means Barclays Bank PLC together with its subsidiaries.
‘Barclays’ and ‘Group’ are terms which are used to refer to either of the preceding groups when the subject matter is identical. The term ‘Company’, ‘Parent Company’ or ‘Parent’ refers to
Barclays PLC and the term ‘Bank’ refers to Barclays Bank PLC. The term ‘Absa Group Limited’ is used to refer to Absa Group Limited and its subsidiaries and the term ‘Absa’ is used to refer
to the component of the Global Retail and Commercial Banking segment represented by this business. In this report, the abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ represent millions and thousands
of millions of pounds sterling respectively; the abbreviations ‘US$m’ and ‘US$bn’ represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars respectively and ‘¤m’ and ‘¤bn’ represent
millions and thousands of millions of euros respectively.
Information and discussion is provided on pages 31 to 80 and page 3 relating to the Group’s total results rather than separating out discontinued operations, representing
the Barclays Global Investors (BGI) business sold on 1st December 2009. These non-IFRS measures are provided because management considers that including BGI as part of Group
operations and separately identifying the gain on this disposal provides more useful information about the performance of the Group as a whole and better reflects how the operations
were managed until the disposal of BGI. The consolidated summary income statement on page 30 provides a reconciliation between continuing and total Group results. 
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to certain of the Group’s plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Barclays cautions readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-
looking statements. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use
words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘seek’, ‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’ or other words of similar meaning. Examples of forward-looking
statements include, among others, statements regarding the Group’s future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, business strategy, capital ratios, leverage,
payment of dividends, projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs, estimates of capital expenditures, and plans and objectives for future operations
and other statements that are not historical fact. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances,
including, but not limited to, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, market related risks such as changes in
interest rates and exchange rates, effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures, changes in valuation of issued notes, the policies and actions of governmental and
regulatory authorities, changes in legislation, the further development of standards and interpretations under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to past,
current and future periods, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, the outcome of pending and future litigation, the success of
future acquisitions and other strategic transactions and the impact of competition – a number of such factors being beyond the Group’s control. As a result, the Group’s actual future
results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in the Group’s forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made herein speak only as of the date they are made. Except as required by the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA), the London Stock
Exchange or applicable law, Barclays expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in
this announcement to reflect any change in Barclays expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Barclays has made or may make in documents it has filed or may file with the SEC. 02 About Barclays
03 Our performance in brief
04 Barclays at a glance
06 Group Chairman’ s statement
10 Leadership and governance
About
Barclays 02 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
About Barclays
Listed in London and New Y ork, Barclays 
is a major global financial services provider
engaged in retail banking, credit cards,
corporate and investment banking, and
wealth management with an extensive 
international presence in Europe, 
United States, Africa and Asia. 
Priorities
– Staying close to our
customers and clients
– Managing our risks
– Maintaining strategic
momentum
Strategic framework
– Continue to act 
as responsible 
corporate citizens
– Maintain a sound
financial and
organisational footing
– Pursue a progressive
dividend policy
– Allocate capital on 
an economic and
strategic basis
– Deliver another year of
significant profitability
Goal
– Produce top quartile 
T otal Shareholder Returns
(TSR) over time www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 03
Our performance in brief
– Group profit before tax was £1 1 ,642m, 92% up on 2008, including the
£6,331m gain on sale from the disposal of Barclays Global Investors (BGI)
– Global Retail and Commercial Banking generated good income growth of 
£1 ,004m (7%) to £1 6,097m
– Investment Banking and Investment Management recorded very strong
profit growth driven by Barclays Capital’ s profit before tax increase of 89% 
to £2,464m (2008: £1 ,302m) and the sale of BGI
– BGI was sold resulting in a profit on disposal of £6,331m and a retained
1 9.9% economic interest in the enlarged BlackRock group (the disposed
business is treated as discontinued operations below)
– Core Tier 1 capital ratio was 1 0.0% at 31st December 2009 (2008: 5.6%)
and Tier 1 capital ratio was 1 3.0% (2008: 8.6%)
1 2
1. Global Retail and Commercial Banking
£16bn (52%)
2. Investment Banking and 
Investment Management
£15bn (48%)
Contribution to Group total income
£m
Global Retail and Commercial
Banking comprised:
– UK Retail Banking 
– Barclays Commercial Bank 
– Barclaycard
– GRCB – Western Europe
– GRCB – Emerging Markets
– GRCB – Absa
Investment Banking and
Investment Management
comprised:
– Barclays Capital
– Barclays Global Investors
– Barclays Wealth
Income statement highlights – Group total
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008
Continuing Discontinued Total Total
£m £m £m £m
Total income net of insurance claims 29,123 1,863 30,986 23,115
Impairment charges and other credit provisions (8,071) – (8,071) (5,419)
Operating expenses (16,715) (1,137) (17,852) (14,366)
Gain on sale of Barclays Global Investors – 6,331 6,331 –
Profit before tax 4,585 7,057 11,642 6,077
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 2,628 6,765 9,393 4,382
Basic earnings per share 86.2p 59.3p
Dividend per ordinary share 2.5p 11.5p
Return on average shareholders’ equity 23.8% 16.5%
Cost:income ratio 58% 62%
Core Tier 1 ratio 10.0% 5.6% 04 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays at a glance
Barclays operates a universal banking business 
model helping the Group stay strong, profitable 
and independent throughout the crisis.
In November 2009, Barclays restructured the Group
so the businesses could better support customers
and clients. The 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
reflects the Group’ s reporting structure in place 
during 2009.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking (GRCB)
UK Retail Banking
UK Retail Banking
provides a wide range 
of products, investment
and banking services to
small businesses, retail
and affluent customers
as well as offering a
gateway to more
specialised services from
other parts of Barclays.
£4.0
bn
total income  
14.9
m
customers
13.2
m
savings accounts
1 ,700
branches
Barclays 
Commercial Bank
Barclays Commercial
Bank provides banking
services to customers via
a network of relationship,
regional, industry-sector
and product specialists.
£2.8
bn
total income  
1 1 3,500
customers
Best
customer relationship initiative
B2B Mark eting Awards 2009
925
relationship managers 
and regional directors
Barclaycard
Barclaycard is a multi-
brand international
credit card, consumer
lending and payment
processing business.
Barclaycard is one of 
the leading credit card
businesses in Europe,
with a fast growing
business in the United
States and South Africa.
£4.0
bn
total income 
21 .2
m
customers
1 45,000
corporate customers
87 ,000
retailer 
relationships
GRCB 
– Western Europe
GRCB – Western Europe
serves approximately
2.8 million retail and
commercial banking
customers in France, 
Italy, Portugal, Spain and
Russia through 1,300
distribution channels.
£1 . 7
bn
total income 
2.8
m
customers
1 ,500
ATMs
1, 1 00
branches 
GRCB 
– Emerging Markets
GRCB – Emerging 
Markets serves retail 
and commercial banking
customers in Botswana,
Egypt, Ghana, India,
Kenya, Mauritius,
Pakistan, Seychelles,
T anzania, Uganda, the
UAE, Zambia, Indonesia
and Zimbabwe.
£1 .0
bn
total income 
3. 7
m
customers
£8.5
bn
customer 
deposits
500
branches www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 05
Key points
– Over 300 years of history and expertise in banking
– Over 50 countries in which we operate
– 144,200 employees
– 48 million customers and clients globally
Investment Banking and Investment Management
GRCB 
– Absa
GRCB – Absa offers a
complete range of banking
products and services,
including current accounts,
savings products,
bancassurance, mortgages,
instalment finance as well
as customised business
solutions for commercial
and large corporate
customers.
£2.5
bn
total income 
11 . 4
m
retail customers
1 00,000
corporate customers
8,500
ATMs
Barclays 
Capital
Barclays Capital is a global
investment bank, which offers
clients the full range of services
covering strategic advisory and
M&A; equity and fixed income
capital raising and corporate
lending; and risk management
across foreign exchange, interest
rates, equities and commodities.
£1 1.6
bn
total income  
232
clients generating more 
than £10m income
No. 1
Bond House of the Y ear
IFR Awards 2009
£5 1 5,000
average total income 
generated per
member of staff
Barclays Global
Investors
BGI transformed the investment
industry by creating the first index
strategy in 1971 and the first
quantitative active strategy in 1979.
On 1st December 2009, Barclays
completed the sale of BGI to
BlackRock.
£1 .9
bn
total income 
£6.3
bn
profit on disposal before tax
1
st
Dec
successful completion of 
BGI transaction
19 . 9
%
economic interest in BlackRock
following BGI disposal
Barclays 
Wealth
Barclays Wealth provides
international and private banking,
fiduciary services, investment
management, and brokerage and
works closely with all other parts 
of the Group to leverage synergies
from client relationships and 
product capabilities.
£1 .3
bn
total income 
£1 51 .3
bn
client assets
25
country locations
No. 1
UK wealth manager 
for 4th year running
Private Asset Managers report
US
12,300 employees
£6.6bn income
£400m profit before tax
UK
55,700 employees
£13.3bn income
£2,500m profit before tax
Rest of Europe
13,500 employees
£4.5bn income
£900m profit before tax
Africa and Middle East
50,700 employees
£3.9bn income
£900m profit before tax
Rest of World
12,000 employees
£2.7bn income
£600m profit before tax
Diversified operations
Data excludes gain on sale of BGI 06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chairman’ s statement
Marcus Agius
Barclays recognises the 
vital economic and social
purpose that banks play ,
and we are committed to
meeting our responsibilities
to stak eholders and society
in general.” www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 07
Key points
– Regulation needs to be strengthened but it must not
result in a financial system that cannot serve the needs 
of the global economy
2
009 has been another difficult year for a number of the major
economies in the world and this has continued to impact not just
the banking industry , but also our customers and our clients.
Despite the exceptional efforts of governments, central bankers
and regulators to stabilise matters in the second half of 2008 –
particularly in the UK – confidence generally continued to decline to
dangerously low levels in early 2009. And while conditions improved as the
year progressed – such that essential stability in the financial system has
now been restored – the resulting impact in terms of higher global economic
growth has still to be felt. Good progress has been made within the G20
forum as to the nature and extent of future regulations for the banking
industry and there is a reasonable measure of international consensus as to
the future measures which will need to be implemented. Regulation remains
the focus of intense international debate, however, and much work remains
to be done in order to deliver an effective solution on a co-ordinated basis.
At Barclays we believe it is important that the banking industry itself
learns the lessons from the crisis given the economic and financial costs that
have arisen. I said in my report to shareholders last year – and I repeat it now
– that we very much regret the problems that banks have caused. We also
acknowledge and are grateful for the help and assistance given to the
banking sector by governments across the world. We are determined that
there must be no repeat of the turmoil that has affected the industry and
wider economy , and fully recognise that changes have to be made. Banks
must earn once more the confidence and trust of key stakeholders such as
customers and clients, employees, shareholders, regulators, politicians and
society in general. While much remains to be done in this respect, we should
not lose sight of what has already been achieved, particularly in the UK, in
terms of strengthening capital ratios and improving liquidity across the
sector, whilst also reducing leverage.
The regulatory reform agenda is a vital component of rebuilding
confidence and trust and providing a healthy , stable and sound financial
system, but it is essential that this agenda produces a level playing field
internationally . Both financial and human capital are mobile and in the
absence of internationally agreed standards, such capital will migrate to take
advantage of differences in regulation. We therefore welcome the efforts by
bodies such as the Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee to
produce internationally agreed standards and we will continue to co-operate
with these international agencies as they work towards determining these
standards.
It is also important that we do not seek to regulate too hastily or, 
in the understandable desire to avoid a repetition of recent events, go too 
far in terms of the reform agenda. Regulation needs to be strengthened 
but it must not result in a financial system that cannot serve the needs of 
the global economy . As recent events have shown, the financial sector has
become increasingly interconnected in recent years in support of the trends
in globalisation which have occurred. It follows that new solutions must 
be carefully balanced and fully thought through and agreed before
implementation. We must take the time properly to understand the
consequences and in particular the cumulative impact of the regulatory
reforms being contemplated. We must ensure that the end result achieves
three objectives:
– First, a safer and more secure financial system;
– Second, a banking industry that is well equipped to support the needs 
of the global economy; and
– Third, the ability of the suppliers of capital to earn an economic return 
on their capital.
All parties need to have confidence that any new regulation will be effective,
but it must not be so heavy-handed as to restrict the banking industry’ s
ability to support economic growth or to limit its ability to attract new capital
in the future.
Barclays own focus in 2009 was to maintain strategic momentum
despite the difficult environment. In particular, we have:
– Significantly strengthened our capital and liquidity positions and reduced
our leverage;
– Focused on our customers and clients;
– Managed the business through the economic downturn, by a
combination of income growth, strong cost control and careful risk
management; and
– Contributed to the evolving debate on the future of the industry . 08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chairman’ s statement
continued
Compensation has been the subject of considerable comment over the
last 12 months. We understand public concerns over bank bonuses and are
fully committed to implementing the Financial Stability Board Implementation
Standards endorsed by the G20 and the FSA Remuneration Code. We will
ensure that our remuneration systems do not reward failure but only reward
long-term success and only on a risk adjusted basis. The Board HR and
Remuneration Committee has exercised careful governance over the
process for determining overall levels of compensation with the objective
of maximising long-term shareholder value by restricting compensation
to the minimum level consistent with retaining high quality employees in
an intensely competitive international marketplace for talent. A full report
is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 170 to 186.
Looking forward, the competitive and regulatory environment will be
very different from the recent past. Barclays strategy will evolve in response
to these changes but we remain committed to the universal banking model
since we believe that the diversification benefits of this model have
protected shareholders from the worst effects of the crisis over the last two
years. And as the global economy becomes more interlinked, it will continue
to require integrated and international banks that are able to serve the needs
of the increasing number of large multinational companies (and other major
clients, such as sovereign governments themselves) that require a broad
range of services from their banks, including credit provision, payments
capability , access to the capital markets and the ability to manage the
financial risks they face, such as interest rate, foreign exchange rate and
commodity price risk. 
This requirement to serve the needs of our customers and clients
highlights the economic and social roles played by banks. The banking
industry , through its core activities of payments, delivering safe storage for
deposits, lending, asset management and investment banking, plays a key
role in the smooth functioning and well being of economies. We exist to
enable our customers to achieve and progress their financial objectives. And
it will be critical to the future growth of the global economy that integrated
banks such as Barclays are able to continue to finance the increase in global
trade that has led to such an increase in living standards in both developed
and developing economies.
At Barclays, we are committed to meeting our responsibilities to
stakeholders. These include customers and clients, shareholders,
employees, government and regulators and society in general. We recognise
in particular that we have a responsibility to:
– Support appropriate risk-taking by customers;
– Treat our customers fairly;
– Invest for the future;
– Act as a responsible global citizen;
– Pay responsibly;
– Manage our affairs prudently and in a way that creates confidence;
– Produce good returns for our shareholders; and 
– Pay our fair share of taxes to the revenue authorities.
These have been and will be our guiding lights as we seek to regain the trust
and confidence of stakeholders. And we are under no illusion that this will
take time and that we will be judged by our actions. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 09
– Banks must recognise that we must earn once more 
the confidence and trust of k ey stak eholders such as
customers and clients, employees, shareholders,
regulators, politicians and society in general
– Barclays focus in 2009 was to maintain strategic
momentum despite the difficult environment
Board changes
There have been a number of Board changes during the year with five
Directors leaving the Board and two new non-executive Directors being
appointed. I stated in last year’ s report that Sir Nigel Rudd and Professor
Dame Sandra Dawson would retire at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Stephen Russell retired in October after nine years’ dedicated service,
including six years’ sterling work as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee.
Patience Wheatcroft retired from the Board in order to take up a position as
Editor in Chief, Wall Street Journal Europe. All made a valuable contribution,
particularly during the recent crisis, and we wish them well. Amongst the
executive Directors, we were sad to see Frits Seegers leave the Group in
November following changes to the structure of the Group. On behalf of the
Board, I would like to thank Frits for his significant efforts on Barclays behalf
and wish him success for the future.
We appointed two new non-executive Directors during the year, Simon
Fraser and Reuben Jeffery . Simon brings valuable experience from his time as
Chief Investment Officer for Fidelity International and Reuben has extensive
experience in investment banking, regulation and government services.
Marcus Agius
Group Chairman
9th March 2010
£35bn of new lending to UK
households and businesses
of all sizes
Barclays continues to support businesses throughout
the downturn
Local businesses and start-ups supported through the
Enterprise Finance Guarantee (EFG)
A
t the beginning of 2009, we committed to making an
additional £1 1 bn new credit available to the UK economy .
At the end of 2009, the actual figure was over £35bn
with around half to businesses, including support for
more business start-ups in 2009 than for many years.
A particular focus has been on viable local businesses that,
because they cannot offer sufficient security to meet normal
commercial lending, would not otherwise be able to obtain finance
for their business to survive and grow.
We announced a further £88m in early 2010 to lend through
the EFG, to help more businesses obtain finance. Under the
scheme the Government guarantees a proportion of the lending if
the customer is unable to repay the debt and loans are available to
businesses with sales turnover of up to £25m operating in the UK.
We have worked closely with the Government on the scheme
and have already made available over £150m in EFG loans in the
last year. 
We have been a leading supporter of support schemes 
for local businesses since the downturn began. In addition to
providing nearly one in every four EFG loans across the UK last 
year, we continued to provide loans receiving European Investment
Bank (EIB) support in 2009 with over £330m of finance approved
as eligible for EIB cash back.
For more information on Barclays lending
go to www.barclays.com/annualreport09 10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Leadership and governance
Board of Directors
Leigh Clifford, AO (62)
Non-executive Director 
Sir Richard Broadbent (56)
Deputy Chairman and
Senior Independent
Director
Marcus Agius (63) 
Group Chairman
David Booth (55)
Non-executive Director
Fulvio Conti (62)
Non-executive Director
Reuben Jeffery III (56)
Non-executive Director
Marcus’ extensive background in banking
began at Lazard where he worked from 1972
to 2006, latterly as Chairman of Lazard in
London and Deputy Chairman of Lazard LLC.
He was Chairman of BAA plc until 2006 and
is currently Senior Independent Director of
the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC)
and Chairman of the Trustees of The Royal
Botanic Gardens.
Term of office: Marcus joined the Board 
in September 2006 as a non-executive
Director and was appointed Chairman on 
1st January 2007. Marcus was last re-elected
by shareholders at the AGM in 2009. 
Independent: On appointment
External appointments: Senior Independent
Director of the BBC since 2006. Chairman of
the Trustees of the Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew. Chairman of The Foundation and
Friends of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Chairman of Lazard in London and Deputy
Chairman of Lazard LLC until 2006.
Chairman of BAA plc until 2006.
Committee membership: Chairman of 
the Board Corporate Governance and
Nominations Committee since January 2007.
Member of the Board HR and Remuneration
Committee since January 2007.
David manages his own venture capital
investments, having retired from the
Management Committee of Morgan Stanley
in 1997. David was employed by Morgan
Stanley from 1982 to 1992, and again from
1995 to 1997. He held various key positions
there, including Head of Government Bond
Trading, Head of Mortgage Trading, Sales
and Finance and Head of Global Operations
and T echnology .
Term of office: David joined the Board in 
May 2007. David was last re-elected by
shareholders at the AGM in 2009.  
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Director of East
Ferry Investors, Inc. Trustee of the Brooklyn
Botanic Garden. Various positions at 
Morgan Stanley & Co. until 1997. Director 
of the Discount Corporation of New Y ork 
until 1993.
Committee membership: Chairman of the
Board Risk Committee since January 2010
(member since January 2008). Member 
of Board Corporate Governance and
Nominations Committee since January 2010.
Sir Richard has experience of both the private
and public sector having worked in high-level
banking roles and the Civil Service. He was
the Executive Chairman of HM Customs 
and Excise from 2000 to 2003. Formerly a
member of the Group Executive Committee
of Schroders PLC and a non-executive
Director of the Securities Institute. 
Sir Richard is Chairman of Arriva PLC.
Term of office: Sir Richard joined the Board 
in September 2003. Appointed Senior
Independent Director on 1st September
2004 and Deputy Chairman on 16th July
2009. Sir Richard was last re-elected by
shareholders at the AGM in 2009. 
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Chairman of Arriva
PLC since 2004. Executive Chairman of HM
Customs and Excise until 2003. Former
Group Executive Committee member of
Schroders PLC. Non-executive Director 
of the Securities Institute until 1995.
Committee membership: Member of the
Board Risk Committee since April 2004
(Chairman January 2006 to December 2009).
Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration
Committee since January 2007 (member
since April 2004). Member of the Board
Corporate Governance and Nominations
Committee since September 2004.
Leigh is Chairman of Qantas Airways Limited,
a Director of Bechtel Group Inc, Chairman of
Bechtel Australia Pty Ltd and Senior Adviser to
Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts and Co. Leigh joined
the Rio Tinto Group in 1970 and was a Director
of Rio Tinto plc from 1994 and Rio Tinto
Limited from 1995, and was Chief Executive 
of the Rio Tinto Group from 2000 until 2007. 
Term of office: Leigh joined the Board in
October 2004. Leigh was last re-elected by
shareholders at the AGM in 2009. 
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Chairman of Qantas
Airways Limited since November 2007.
Chairman of Bechtel Australia Pty Ltd since
July 2009. Director of Bechtel Group Inc since
July 2009. Senior Adviser to Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co since January 2009. Chairman
of the Murdoch Childrens Research Institute
since December 2009. Board Member of the
National Gallery of Victoria Foundation. Chief
Executive of Rio Tinto from 2000 until 2007.
Director of Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold
Inc. until 2004.
Committee membership: Member of the
Board HR and Remuneration Committee
since July 2005. Member of the Barclays Asia
Pacific Advisory Committee. 
Fulvio is currently Chief Executive Officer 
and General Manager of Enel SpA, the Italian
energy group, where he was previously Chief
Financial Officer from 1999-2005. Fulvio has
held a number of high-level financial roles,
including Chief Financial Officer and General
Manager of T elecom Italia and General
Manager and Chief Financial Officer of
Ferrovie dello Stato. He was also head of the
accounting, finance, and control department
of Montecatini and was in charge of finance
at Montedison-Compart. He has held
positions in finance and operations in 
various affiliates of Mobil Oil Corporation 
in Italy and Europe.
Term of office: Fulvio joined the Board in
April 2006. Fulvio was last re-elected by
shareholders at the AGM in 2009.
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Chief Executive of
Enel SpA since 2005. Director of ENDESA SA
since June 2009. Director of AON Corporation
since January 2008. Chief Financial Officer
and General Manager of T elecom Italia until
1999. General Manager and Chief Financial
Officer of Ferrovie dello Stato until 1998.
Committee membership: Member of the
Board Audit Committee since September
2006.
Reuben is a Senior Adviser at the Center 
for Strategic & International Studies in
Washington, D.C. and previously served in 
the US government as Under Secretary of
State for Economic, Energy and Agricultural
Affairs (2007-2009). Prior to joining the
Department of State, Reuben was the
Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (2005-2007) and before that
held a number of positions in US government
service (2002-2005). He spent 18 years at
Goldman, Sachs & Co. between 1983-2001,
where he was managing partner of Goldman
Sachs in Paris and of the firm’ s European
Financial Institutions Group in London.
Term of office: Reuben Jeffery joined the
Board in July 2009.
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Senior Adviser 
at the Center for Strategic & International
Studies, Washington D.C.
Committee membership: Member of Board
Risk Committee since January 2010.
Simon Fraser (50)
Non-executive Director 
Sir Andrew Likierman (66)
Non-executive Director
Sir Andrew is Chairman of the National Audit
Office, having held a number of public roles
in the financial services sector, including
Managing Director, Financial Management,
Reporting and Audit and Head of the
Government Accountancy Service at HM
Treasury and non-executive Director of the
Bank of England. Sir Andrew is also Dean of
the London Business School. He has been at
the London Business School from 1974-
1976, 1979-1993 and since 2004.
Term of office: Sir Andrew joined the Board
in September 2004. Sir Andrew was last re-
elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2009.
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Dean of the London
Business School since January 2009.
Chairman of the National Audit Office since
December 2008. Trustee of the Institute for
Government since September 2008.
Chairman of Applied Intellectual Capital Inc.
until 2008. Non-executive Director of the
Bank of England until 2008. Non-executive
Director and Vice-Chairman of the T avistock
and Portman NHS Trust until 2008. Non-
executive Director and Chairman of the MORI
Group until 2005.  
Committee membership: Member of the
Board Audit Committee since September
2004. Member of the Board Risk Committee
since September 2004.
Simon has extensive experience of the
institutional fund management industry ,
having worked at Fidelity International from
1981 to 2008, latterly as President of the
Investment Solutions Group and President 
of the Retirement Institute. Simon held a
number of positions during his career at
Fidelity International, including President,
European & UK Institutional Business, Global
Chief Investment Officer, Chief Investment
Officer for Asia Pacific and Chief Investment
Officer of the European Investment Group.
Simon remains a Director of Fidelity
European Values PLC and Fidelity Japanese
Values PLC.
Term of office: Simon Fraser joined the
Board in March 2009. Simon was last re-
elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2009.
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Director of Fidelity
European Values PLC since July 2002.
Director of Fidelity Japanese Values PLC since
May 2000. Director of The Merchants Trust
PLC since August 2009. Director and
Chairman Designate of Foreign & Colonial
Investment Trust PLC since September 2009.
Committee membership: Member of the
Board Audit Committee since May 2009.
Member of the Board HR and Remuneration
Committee since May 2009. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 11
Robert E Diamond Jr (58)
President of Barclays PLC
and CEO of Corporate and
Investment Banking, and
Wealth Management,
Executive Director
John Varley (53)
Group Chief Executive,
Executive Director 
Chris Lucas (49)
Group Finance Director,
Executive Director
John was appointed Group Chief Executive 
of Barclays on 1st September 2004, prior to
which he had been Group Deputy Chief
Executive from 1st January 2004. He joined
Barclays in 1982 and has held various
positions across the Group, including the
position of Group Finance Director from
2000 until the end of 2003. He was Chief
Executive of Retail Financial Services from
1998 to 2000 and Chairman of the Asset
Management Division from 1995 to 1998.
Following the sale of BGI, John is a non-
executive Director of BlackRock, Inc. John is
also a non-executive Director of AstraZeneca
PLC. He is Chairman of Business Action on
Homelessness, President of the Employer’ s
Forum on Disability , Honorary President of
the UK Drug Policy Commission and a
member of the International Advisory Panel
of the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Term of office: John joined the Executive
Committee in September 1996 and was
appointed to the Board in June 1998. John
was last re-elected at the AGM in 2009.
External appointments: Non-executive
Director of BlackRock, Inc since December
2009. Non-executive Director of AstraZeneca
PLC since 2006. Non-executive Director of
British Grolux Investments Limited since
1999. Chairman of Business Action on
Homelessness since 2006. President of the
Employer’ s Forum on Disability since 2005.
Honorary President of the UK Drug Policy
Commission since 2007. Member of the
International Advisory Panel of the Monetary
Authority of Singapore since 2006.
Robert E Diamond Jr is responsible for 
the Corporate and Investment Banking 
and Wealth Management businesses of the
Barclays Group, comprising Barclays Capital,
Barclays Corporate and Barclays Wealth. Bob
was formerly Vice Chairman and Head of
Global Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange
at CS First Boston and he was a member 
of the Executive Board and Operating
Committee of CS First Boston. Following the
sale of BGI, Bob is a non-executive Director 
of BlackRock Inc.
Term of office: Bob was appointed President
and became an executive Director in June
2005. He has been a member of the Barclays
Executive Committee since September 1997.
Bob was last re-elected by shareholders at
the AGM in 2009.
External appointments: Non-executive
Director of BlackRock, Inc. Chairman, Board
of Trustees of Colby College, Waterville,
Maine. Chairman, Old Vic Productions Plc.
Trustee, The Mayor’ s Fund for London.
Member of the Advisory Board, Judge
Business School. Member of International
Advisory Board, British-American Business
Council. Life Member of The Council 
on Foreign Relations. Member of 
The International Advisory Board, 
The Atlantic Council.
Chris has worked across financial services for
most of his career, including three years in
New Y ork as Head of the US Banking Audit
Practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
Chris joined Barclays from
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , where he was
UK Head of Financial Services and Global
Head of Banking and Capital Markets. He
was Global Relationship Partner for Barclays
for the 1999-2004 financial years and
subsequently held similar roles for other
global financial services organisations.
Term of office: Chris was appointed Group
Finance Director and became a member 
of the Executive Committee in April 2007. 
Chris was last re-elected by shareholders 
at the AGM in 2009. 
External appointments: UK Head of
Financial Services and Global Head of
Banking and Capital Markets of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP until 2006.
Sir John Sunderland (64)
Non-executive Director
Sir Michael Rake (62)
Non-executive Director
Sir Michael is currently Chairman of BT 
Group PLC, Chairman of the UK Commission
for Employment and Skills and Chairman of
easyJet plc. Sir Michael previously worked 
at KPMG from 1974-2007 where he spent a
number of years in Continental Europe and
the Middle East. He was Senior Partner of 
the UK firm from 1998-2000 and Chairman
of KPMG International from 2002-2007.
Term of office: Sir Michael joined the Board
in January 2008. Sir Michael was last re-
elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2009.
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Chairman of BT
Group PLC since 2007. Chairman of easyJet
plc since January 2010 (Deputy Chairman
June 2009-December 2009). Director of the
Financial Reporting Council since 2007.
Chairman of the UK Commission for
Employment and Skills since 2007. Director
of the McGraw-Hill Companies since 2007.
Chairman of KPMG International until 2007.
Chairman of Business in the Community
from 2004 until 2007. 
Committee membership: Chairman of the
Board Audit Committee since March 2009
(member since January 2008). Member of
the Board Risk Committee since May 2009.
Member of Board Corporate Governance and
Nominations Committee since May 2009.
Sir John is Chairman of Merlin
Entertainments Limited. Until July 2008 he
was Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes PLC,
having worked at Cadbury’ s in various roles,
including that of Chief Executive, since 1968.
He is a Director of the Financial Reporting
Council, an Adviser to CVC Capital Partners,
an Association Member of BUP A and a
Governor of both Reading and Aston
University Councils.
Term of office: Sir John joined the Board in
June 2005. Sir John was last re-elected by
shareholders at the AGM in 2009. 
Independent: Yes
External appointments: Chairman of Merlin
Entertainments Limited since December
2009. Deputy President of the Chartered
Management Institute 2008-2009
(President 2007-2008). Director of the
Financial Reporting Council since 2004.
Adviser to CVC Capital Partners. Chairman 
of Cadbury Schweppes PLC until July 2008.
Deputy President of the CBI until June 2008
(former member and President). Non-
executive Director of the Rank Group PLC
until 2006. 
Committee membership: Member of 
the Board Corporate Governance and
Nominations Committee since September
2006. Member of the Board HR and
Remuneration Committee since July 2005.
Key responsibilities
Board of Directors
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group: the
executive Directors are directly responsible for running the business
operations and the non-executive Directors are responsible for bringing
independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board. 
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the
Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities. The Board determines
the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to deliver long-term
value, providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate 
framework of rewards, incentives and controls.
Executive Committee
The Board delegates the responsibility for the day-to-day management 
of the Company to the Group Chief Executive and he is responsible for
ensuring that the business is operating effectively . The Group Chief
Executive chairs the Executive Committee, which supports him in this role.
The Executive Committee is supported by a number of management
committees, including the Disclosure Committee, the Group Governance
and Control Committee, the Group Risk Oversight Committee and the
Group Brand and Reputation Committee.
Further information on the responsibilities of the Board and the Executive Committee
can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 151 to 169. 12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Leadership and governance
Executive committee
Antony Jenkins
Chief Executive of 
Global Retail Banking
Mark Harding
Group General Counsel
Thomas L Kalaris
Chief Executive of 
Barclays Wealth
Jerry del Missier
President of Barclays
Capital and Co-Chief
Executive of Corporate 
and Investment Banking
Jerry is responsible for the firm’ s Global
Markets businesses, encompassing the
Trading, Sales and Research functions
globally . He joined Barclays Capital in June
1997 from Bankers Trust in London where 
he had been a Senior Managing Director of
Derivatives Products, responsible for the
European business. Prior to this, he was
based in T oronto, Canada, where he was
responsible for the Canadian Dollar interest
rate derivatives business. Before Bankers
Trust, he worked for the Bank of Nova Scotia.
Jerry currently serves on the Boards of SIFMA
(Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association), Room to Read and Queen’ s
University.
Mark joined Barclays as Group General
Counsel in 2003. Included within his area 
of responsibility are legal and regulatory
compliance issues throughout the bank. He
chairs the Group Operating Committee and
Group Governance and Control Committee.
Previously , Mark was a partner in the
international law firm, Clifford Chance, where
his practice spanned bank finance, capital
markets and financial services regulation. He
spent four years at UBS as General Counsel
of its investment bank. Mark is past
Chairman of the General Counsel 100 Group
and of the Board of the International Swaps
and Derivatives Association (ISDA). He is a
Governor of the College of Law.
Antony was appointed Chief Executive of
Global Retail Banking and joined the Barclays
Executive Committee in November 2009.
Prior to that he had been Chief Executive of
Barclaycard since January 2006. Antony is a
Barclays appointed non-executive Director of
Absa, which is majority owned by Barclays.
Since October 2008, Antony has been on the
Board of Visa Europe Ltd.
T om joined Barclays in September 1996 
after 18 years at JP Morgan where he held 
a number of roles, including Head of Fixed
Income Sales, Trading and Research, and
was responsible for all activities with
investors in the United States. He has served
on the US Treasury Borrowing Advisory
Committee and is a former Chair of the US
Bond Market Association, a predecessor
organisation to SIFMA (Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association).
Rich Ricci
Co-Chief Executive of
Corporate and Investment
Banking
Maria Ramos
Group Chief Executive
of Absa
Robert Le Blanc
Chief Risk Officer
Cathy Turner
Barclays Human
Resources Director
Robert has been the Chief Risk Officer for
Barclays Group since 2004. He first joined
Barclays in 2002 as Head of Risk
Management at Barclays Capital. Robert is 
a non-executive Director of Absa, which is
majority owned by Barclays. Before joining
Barclays, Robert spent most of his career at 
JP Morgan in the capital markets, fixed
income, emerging market and credit areas 
in New Y ork and London.
Maria is the Group Chief Executive of 
Absa Group Ltd, which is majority owned by
Barclays. Prior to joining Absa on 1st March
2009, she was Group Chief Executive of
Transnet Limited, the state-owned South
African freight transport and logistics 
service provider. This was after a successful
term as Director-General of the National
Treasury (formerly the Department of
Finance). Maria is an accomplished
academic, who has previously taught at
various institutions. She currently serves 
on the executive committees of the
International Business Council, the World
Bank Chief Economist Advisory Panel,
Business Trust (South Africa), Business
Leadership South Africa and the Banking
Association of South Africa.
Rich joined Barclays Capital in 1994 and
assumed responsibility for several of its
support areas. He became Chief Operating
Officer (COO) of Barclays Global Investors
(BGI) and a member of the BGI Executive
Committee in December 2002. In January
2005, Rich was appointed COO of Barclays
Investment Banking and Investment
Management businesses comprising
Barclays Capital, Barclays Wealth and BGI.
Prior to joining Barclays Capital, Rich held
senior front-office, finance and technology
positions at the Bank of Boston and the Bank
of New England.
Cathy was appointed as Group Human
Resources Director in April 2005 prior to
which she held the position as Investor
Relations Director for four years. In July 2008
her remit was extended to include Strategy ,
Corporate Affairs and Brand and Marketing.
Prior to Barclays, Cathy was a Practice Leader
at Ernst and Y oung and has previously held
roles at Deloitte, Watson Wyatt, Percom and
Volex Plc. Cathy is a Council Member of the
Royal College of Art and a Board Member of
the IFS School of Finance.
Robert E Diamond Jr (58)
President of Barclays PLC
and CEO of Corporate and
Investment Banking, and
Wealth Management,
Executive Director
John Varley (53)
Group Chief Executive,
Executive Director,
Chairman of the
Executive Committee
Chris Lucas (49)
Group Finance Director,
Executive Director
See page 11 for full biography . See page 11 for full biography . See page 11 for full biography . 14 Group Chief Executive’ s review
20 The role of banks and banking in society
22 Sustainability
24 Our people
Strategy 14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chief Executive’ s review
John Varley
Our key output goal is to
produce top quartile total
shareholder returns over
time. W e achieved that 
goal for 2009.” www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 15
Summary
Our primary objective is generating returns for shareholders. But we
recognise that we can, and should, in ways consistent with that objective,
contribute to the well-being of society by conducting our business
responsibly and by performing well, on behalf of our customers, our core
functions of payments and money transmission, safe storage of deposits,
maturity transformation and lending, and the provision of advice and
execution in underwriting and trading. These activities lie at the heart 
of economic activity in a modern economy , and if economies are to grow 
– and reap all the beneficial consequences that flow from that growth – 
then banks must help those they serve take appropriate risks. Getting this
balance between our obligation to create returns for our owners and our
need to do that in a responsible way has never been more important.
Economic slowdown last year impacted most parts of the world in
which we operate. But despite that, I am pleased with the way we have
performed both in 2009 and in the two tumultuous years which preceded 
it. That performance allows us to enter 2010 with confidence.
During 2009, we increased our income substantially . Barclays Capital had
a very strong year across all global franchises, in particular as its businesses in
North America started to reap the benefits of the acquisition of the Lehman
Brothers North American business and integration. We have invested during
2009 in building out our equities and advisory platforms in Europe and Asia,
which will be sources of income growth in Barclays Capital in the years ahead.
Barclaycard also produced good income growth. The steadiness of our profit
performance over the past three years, even after absorbing the impact of
higher impairments and the continued legacy of credit market writedowns, 
is attributable to the diversification of income that we have built during 
recent years.
It was clear as we came into 2009 that the regulatory balance sheet
should be an area of considerable focus during the year. So we have
strengthened our capital position, reduced leverage and added to our
liquidity buffer. We are, by consequence, both well prepared for any future
economic weakness and also able to continue to execute on our strategy 
as opportunities arise. 
In March, we decided not to participate in the UK Government’ s Asset
Protection Scheme, following the application of a detailed stress test by 
the UK Financial Services Authority to determine our resilience to stressed 
credit risk, market risk and economic conditions. This test confirmed our
expectation that we would continue to be able to meet our regulatory 
capital obligations. 
In April, we announced our intention to sell the iShares business of
Barclays Global Investors (BGI). Following unsolicited interest for the whole 
of BGI, and strategic analysis of the optimal ownership structure within the
future asset management industry given the direction of regulation, we
agreed in June to sell the whole of BGI to BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock). We
completed this transaction in December for an aggregate consideration of
$15.2bn (£9.5bn), realising a profit on disposal of £6.3bn. Our shareholders
will be able to participate in the institutional asset management sector
through our continuing holding of 37.567 million new BlackRock shares. This
gives us an economic interest of 19.9% in the enlarged BlackRock group, and
also provides a strong basis for a new commercial relationship between
Barclays and BlackRock, which will be particularly relevant to Barclays Capital
as a provider, and Barclays Wealth as a consumer. Bob Diamond and I look
forward to contributing to the progress of this new global leader in asset
management as members of the BlackRock Board of Directors.
Across our retail and commercial banking activities we continued 
to consolidate our position in our core markets through organic revenue,
cost and risk management measures. We took advantage of inorganic
opportunities as they arose. In September, we established a long-term life
insurance joint venture with CNP Assurances (CNP) in Spain, Italy and
Portugal. In the same month, we agreed to acquire the Portuguese credit
card business of Citibank International plc, adding some 400,000 new credit
card customers to our Portuguese business as we continued to invest in the
expansion of our GRCB – Western European retail operations. And in October
we agreed to acquire Standard Life Bank Plc from Standard Life Plc, adding
an attractive mortgage and savings book to our UK Retail business. This
acquisition completed in early January 2010.
2009 priorities
In my review a year ago, I said that we had three priorities for 2009: staying
close to customers and clients; managing our risks and maintaining
strategic momentum. How did we fare in these areas? 
Staying Close to Customers and Clients: In the dense fog that was
brought down on the industry by the credit crunch, it was clear that we
needed a powerful magnetic north – customers. The rapid economic
slowdown of 2008 and 2009 has complicated the lives of many of those 
that we serve. Our job in 2009 was to stay close to them as they sought to
navigate the risks and the opportunities thrown up by the crisis. The income
line is a good proxy for customer activity levels and customer relationships.
And our income generation in 2009 achieved record levels.
I am pleased with the number of new mortgage, savings, Premier
accounts and Local Business customers we have added in UK Retail Banking
and with the increase in customer account balances. 
In Barclays Commercial Bank, we were able to increase average asset
and deposit balances in a difficult business environment. 
In Barclaycard, we rolled out a number of initiatives to offer support to
customers in financial difficulties whilst limiting our exposure to the most at
risk segments of the market.  16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chief Executive’ s review
continued
There is a lot of focus from stakeholders on the willingness of banks to
lend, and of course availability of credit is a critical component of economic
stabilisation and regeneration. In April 2009, we said that we would make 
an additional £11bn of lending available to UK households and businesses.
In fact, our gross new lending to UK households and businesses in 2009
totalled some £35bn, indicating both that we were open for business, and
that we were able to extend credit on terms which we regard as prudent. 
Our retail and commercial banking businesses in GRCB – Western
Europe, where we now serve almost three million customers, have
continued to grow. In addition to the CNP joint venture and cards acquisition
in Portugal, we added nearly 100 new branches in Italy and 50 in Portugal
and attracted almost £8bn of new customer deposits as we increased our
focus on the asset:liability mix of our business flows in these markets. Our
task looking forward is to ensure this business produces sustainable profits,
which will require it to be less reliant on one-offs than it has been in the past
two years.
In the developing countries of the world in which we operate, our
performance in the ten mature markets of Africa and the Indian Ocean
where we are present has been strong. GRCB – Emerging Markets as a
whole made a loss. We now serve almost four million customers across
these markets, but we have been too aggressive in our approach to business
expansion here over the past two years. This business must now convert
investments made in the last three years (in terms of people, customer
recruitment and sales outlets) into sustainable profits.
GRCB – Absa performed resiliently in a very difficult economic
environment. Notable during the year was its ability to continue to grow
customer deposit balances, particularly for the South African consumer. 
Our success in Barclays Capital is reflected both in the exceptional
revenue progress across 2009 and also in some of the client and market-
nominated awards which it has won over the year. These included Primary
Debt House of the Y ear from Euromoney , IFR Bond House of the Y ear,
Derivative House of the Y ear from Risk magazine and the Number 1 Ranking
for US Equity Research and US Fixed Income Research in the Annual
Institutional Investor All-America T eam surveys. 
In Barclays Wealth we continued to attract client assets at a time of great
uncertainty . Our intention for 2010 and beyond is to accelerate growth in the
High Net Worth businesses.
Managing Our Risks: As we expected, 2009 was another year of vicious
testing of our risk management. In February , we shared with the market our
planning assumption for loan loss rates for 2009, indicating that we
expected them to be in the range of 130 to 150 basis points, predicated on
certain macroeconomic assumptions. The economies of the world in 
which we do business performed worse in 2009 than our central planning
case had projected at the beginning of the year. Despite that, our loan loss
rate was 135bps on a consistent basis
a
, towards the bottom end of the 
130-150bps range we planned for. This is evidence of the robust risk
management and planning procedures we have in place. And although
impairment rose significantly in 2009 versus 2008 (and in certain areas 
of our business could rise further in 2010), a combination of strong income
and good cost control enabled us, though substantial profit generation, 
to enter 2010 with our Core Tier 1 capital ratio at 10.0%. At the same time, 
we reduced our leverage to 20x, from 28x, and our total assets by 33%, 
and we increased the surplus of liquid assets in the balance sheet by £84bn. 
Governments, regulators and banks are currently focused on many 
of these metrics of financial and risk management health as they seek to
ensure that the excesses of the previous economic cycle, and the costs 
of financial failure that have resulted from it, are not repeated. We support
these moves and are committed to adapting our business to the changes
that result.
Those reforms need to balance three things: the need for a safer
financial system, the importance of economic growth and the ability of 
the suppliers of bank capital to earn appropriate returns. The achievement 
of those twin objectives, which is so important to the world over the course
of the next decade, will be facilitated by a strong and supportive banking
system providing credit, managing risk and supporting innovation. 
An important dimension of the reform agenda is that decisions about
investment banking are based on science and experience, not on rhetoric.
There has been much talk about ‘gambling by investment banks’. Barclays
Capital no more gambles in the work it does on behalf of its clients than 
the clients do themselves. Its work is the work of risk management and
financing. Its job is to help governments, companies and investors around
the world raise money , stimulate economic growth, create employment, 
and manage pensions and other savings. This is a real economy role. 
Investment banking plays an important part in the universal banking
model that we have built in Barclays because many of those that we serve
need to have access to the capital markets, and because we cannot meet 
their financing and risk management needs without having a strong advisory ,
execution and trading capability within the Group. History and the current
crisis demonstrate that the performance of the capital markets businesses and
retail and commercial businesses is naturally asymmetrical. The asymmetry 
of their respective income and impairment cycles provides a strong source of
resilience. The effects and benefits of that are very clear in the performance of
I
n 2009, Global Retail Banking (GRB) businesses
were resilient in unsettling and challenging
times. We have shown that we are strongly
positioned to build and grow in a tough
environment. For example, the acquisitions of
Standard Life Bank and Citigroup’ s credit card
business in Portugal show our appetite and
capabilities to maximise on market opportunities,
whether through organic or inorganic growth.
Looking forward, I am very excited about the
potential for GRB in 2010 and beyond. We want to
be the best retail bank in our chosen markets and
to be seen as a leader in our industry . We want to
grow our non-UK business and increase, over
time, the ratio of non-UK to UK business. The
emphasis is on creating critical mass in markets
where we have a greater presence. Our ambition
is depth, not breadth.
T o help us achieve this, our key priorities for
this year are:
– Profit growth and profit diversification;
– Improving our liquidity – the ratio between loans
and deposits;
– Deeper penetration of our existing markets and
international diversification; and
– Generation of net equity .
Delivering on these priorities and ensuring that
we maintain control over every aspect of our
operations are key to achieving our ambitions 
and strategy . The external environment has been
extremely difficult, but when the cycle turns, the
profits of GRB and its contribution to Barclays
Group will shift significantly .
Antony Jenkins
Chief Executive,
Global Retail Banking
November 2009: 
Regrouping of activities Global Retail Banking www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 17
Barclays during this cycle. That is one of the principal benefits of the universal
banking model; the others include: capital and funding efficiencies; and
business and risk diversification. Forcing banks to adopt ‘narrow’ business
models, as some have suggested as part of the ongoing reform dialogue, will
not make the system safer. There has been no correlation so far in this crisis
between ‘failure’ and the popular dichotomies drawn of bank business models:
big or small; narrow or broad; domestic or international.
Maintaining Strategic Momentum: Despite the regulatory uncertainty
that will continue to confront the industry this year, our strategic path remains
clear – to increase the growth potential of Barclays by continuing to diversify
our business by customer, product and geography . That strategy lay behind
the broadening of our executive Committee
b
and changes to senior
management responsibilities that I announced in November 2009. 
The executive Directors of the Group, Bob Diamond, Group President, 
Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director, and myself, have been joined on 
the Executive Committee by the leaders of a number of Barclays business
units and control and governance functions. We have also regrouped our
activities to form:
– Global Retail Banking (GRB), comprising UK Retail Banking, Barclaycard
and the former Western Europe and Emerging Markets businesses, led by
Antony Jenkins.
– Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB), comprising Barclays Capital 
and Barclays Commercial Bank (now called Barclays Corporate); 
Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci are Co-Chief Executives of Corporate and
Investment Banking.
GRB focuses on mass consumers, mass affluent consumers and small
business customers. We have significantly changed the footprint here 
over the past three years, and we intend to push that forward, increasing,
through time, the ratio of non-UK to UK business whilst strengthening our
UK franchises. We will place particular emphasis on creating appropriate
scale in the markets in which we have a presence. As we do that, our
objectives will be four-fold: profit growth; an improved loan-to-deposit ratio;
further international diversification through deepening existing presences;
and the generation of net equity .
Barclays Corporate, as part of CIB, focuses on the high end of what we
used to call Barclays Commercial, particularly financial institutions, public
sector entities and corporate clients. We brought this business alongside
Barclays Capital within CIB because we see significant synergy in sharing
relationship management and sector expertise across the two. Realisation 
of that synergy is enabled by the increasing fungibility of client requirements
between traditional corporate banking and investment banking product
needs within our client base. This is a global opportunity with significant
income growth potential for CIB in the years ahead. Our early work has only
reinforced that strongly held belief.
In the area of wealth management, the competitive landscape in the
global industry has gone through a sea change over the course of the last
three years. That creates opportunity , and we intend to seize that by
investing to change the scale of this business over the next five years.
Remuneration
Recognising the political and regulatory focus on remuneration practices,
and the interest of both our shareholders and our staff in the topic, it is
important for me to say that we see compensation as a means of supporting
the implementation of strategy in a way that best serves the interests of our
shareholders. So our objective in this area is to ensure that we use
remuneration well, making it the servant of the interests of our owners. 
We aim to achieve an appropriate balance between paying dividends to
shareholders, investing in the business, strengthening our capital ratios and
paying staff appropriate compensation. I don’t pretend that achieving that
balance is always easy , or that the judgements involved are straightforward.
The market for the best people is both global and intensely competitive.
Banking is a service industry and, if we are to remain successful, we must
attract and retain the best people. We have to pay for performance but, 
I emphasise, we seek to pay no more than the amount consistent with
competitiveness.
Our compensation framework is determined by the Board HR and
Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Board 
which is chaired by our Deputy Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent. My
recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and its decisions are
only made after appropriate input from the Board Group Risk Committee
and the Group Chief Risk Officer to ensure that the level of risk within the
business and the quality of underlying profits generated are taken properly
into account. The Remuneration Committee has also considered the impact
on profits of our usage of Government and Central Bank schemes, higher
liquidity requirements and the shape of the yield curve.
Our discretionary pay awards for 2009 are fully compliant with the 
FSA Remuneration Code and the Financial Stability Board Implementation
Standards, endorsed by the G20. This has resulted in an increase in the
deferred awards by approximately 70% and greater use of equity in deferral
structures, particularly to senior staff. 100% of the discretionary pay awards
for 2009 to our Executive Committee will be deferred.
Corporate and Investment Banking and Wealth Management
I
n November 2009 we announced changes 
to the management structure and leadership
team of the Barclays Group. The formation of
Corporate and Investment Banking and Wealth
Management was designed to accelerate 
the execution of our strategy , continue to adjust
dynamically to the changing environment, and
respond rapidly to client and customer needs.
Now is the time for execution, for capitalising
on the progress we have made and for seizing
the opportunity before us. 
By moving Commercial Banking, now
Barclays Corporate, into the new Corporate and
Investment Banking and Wealth Management
grouping, we signalled our desire to extend the
already attractive synergies and working
practices among our three global businesses,
Barclays Corporate, Barclays Capital and Barclays
Wealth. Barclays Corporate is a great business,
with superb relationships, a client-focused
culture, and outstanding prospects around 
the globe. 
Barclays is now one of a handful of leading
global universal banks able to offer the full array
of products and services to clients, and we are
gathering momentum as we increase market
share in all our franchises. This new structure
allows us to serve our clients even better. 
We have a unique opportunity , and we are
determined to take advantage. We have the right
model, the right culture and the right people to
succeed as long as we continue to manage our
risks and our costs, deliver flawless execution of
our plans, and maintain our momentum. Most
important of all, however, we must as always,
stay close to our clients who need us more 
than ever.
Robert E Diamond Jr
Chief Executive,
Corporate and Investment Banking 
and Wealth Management 18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chief Executive’ s review
continued
The overall quantum of compensation we pay is designed to ensure
that we exceed the FSA ’ s minimum capital requirements at all times. We
understand how important it is to our shareholders that we maintain Core
Tier 1 ratio well in excess of regulatory minima. A direct and intended
consequence of our decisions on pay has been the further strengthening 
of this ratio. Meanwhile, we have been able to meet the commitment that
we announced in April 2009 to resume dividend payments and we seek to
ensure that we manage the business in such a way (including in relation to
compensation) as facilitates the adoption of a conservative but progressive
dividend policy .
Our approach to the UK Bank Payroll T ax since the tax was announced
in December last year has been to manage the compensation pool in such 
a way that the cost of the tax to the Group broadly equates to a reduction in
the size of the pool, with the reduction being borne by senior executives. 
The cost to the Group of the UK Bank Payroll T ax in respect of 2009 cash
compensation is £190m, and £35m in respect of certain prior year awards
which may fall within the proposed legislation. Where a liability arises in
subsequent years, we will follow the same approach.
2010 strategic framework
The economic outlook remains uncertain. The worst of the financial crisis is
behind us, but the environment remains unpredictable, and for that reason,
we have to be very clear about the strategic framework in which we will be
doing business in 2010 and beyond. The principal components are as
follows:
1. We will continue to act as responsible corporate citizens. We will ensure
that our wider responsibilities to society are reflected in how we act. T o
the extent consistent with what is required of us by our regulators and
with our obligations to shareholders, we will continue to play our part as 
a source, via service to customers and clients, of economic growth and
job creation in the geographies in which we operate. We must behave
constructively to help our customers and clients as they cope with the
economic downturn and to support governments and supervisors as
they deal with the effects of the financial crisis.
2. We will ensure that we maintain a sound financial and organisational
footing that anticipates and adapts to the regulatory changes that will 
be required from us. The Basel authorities announced a package of
proposed reforms in December on which they are consulting. We are
working hard to advocate regulatory consistency; to ensure that the
cumulative impact of intended reforms on the economy is well
understood, and to ensure the reforms are implemented over sufficiently
extended transitional periods to enable the banking industry to support
economic growth and job creation. We will be obliged to accommodate
such changes as are finally enacted over the coming years and we will
have the ability over the period to take mitigating actions. Meanwhile, 
we are seeking to anticipate many of the changes that may be required 
of us in the areas of capital, leverage and liquidity . It is within our power 
to be net generators, rather than consumers, of capital, which our
performance in 2009 demonstrates. We will maintain high levels of
liquidity , and we will be very attentive to the size and composition of our
balance sheet. In particular, we will manage leverage tightly , and we will
seek to bring down, over time, our loan to deposit ratio. Stress testing has
been institutionalised across Barclays in recent years. This is also now
part of the FSA supervision cycle. We will ensure that we continue to
monitor regularly our responsiveness to changing economic, market and
operational environments and align our views with those of our regulator.
3. We have recommenced dividend payments in accordance with our 
prior commitments. We will make three quarterly fixed payments in 
2010 and a final variable payment relating to the calendar year 2010 
in March 2011. Given uncertainty about the full consequences of
regulatory reform, prudence dictates that our dividend policy should 
be conservative. But, subject to that caveat, we intend our dividend 
policy to be progressive relative to a 2009 annualised dividend of 
4.5 pence per share.
4. Our allocation of capital across the Group will continue to be made on 
both an economic and strategic basis, reflecting our goal of increasing 
the international diversification of our income sources in the pursuit of
medium-term growth. So we will nurture Barclays Wealth, Barclays
Corporate, Absa and GRB, whilst ensuring that Barclays Capital takes
advantage of the structural changes in the investment banking sector.
2010 will be another year, however, in which we put returns before growth,
and where prudence will determine our approach to balance sheet size.
5. Notwithstanding the regulatory uncertainty which colours the goals I have
described so far, we must deliver another year of significant profitability .
The balance of earnings is also important to us, and we continue over
time to target two-thirds of our profits coming from GRB, Absa, Barclays
Wealth and Barclays Corporate and one-third from Barclays Capital.
S
ince its establishment in 1991, Absa has
grown into a well-diversified financial
services group and although 2009 has
been a test of our resilience as an
organisation, I am satisfied that we have
delivered solid underlying performance, improved
our risk management and continued to
strengthen our balance sheet. Absa maintains a
strong capital base and is well positioned for
future growth. During the year we launched our
‘One Absa’ strategy which aims to drive an
integrated approach across all of our businesses
so that our customers are serviced in a seamless
manner. Our strategic objectives are supported by
four key pillars:
– Achieving sustainable growth in targeted
markets;
– Embedding balance sheet optimisation and
proactive risk management;
– Ensuring a simple streamlined Group for
customer delivery; and
– Instilling a customer and people centred ethos
in our organisation.
Implementation of the strategy is a key priority
and in this regard we have reorganised the top
management team to drive a disciplined focus
on delivery . With the economic prospects in
2010 expected to remain uncertain, we are
confident that our strategy is robust and
positions us well to capitalise on the growth
opportunities that emerge.
Maria Ramos
Group Chief Executive
Absa Group Ltd
Absa www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 19
Goals
As I stated at the time of our Interim Results last August, our key output 
goal is to produce top quartile total shareholder returns (TSR) over time. 
We achieved that goal for 2009, generating a TSR of 80% for 2009, at the
upper end of our peer group
c
. But I recognise that for many shareholders the
starting point from which this return was generated was unacceptably low.
We will continue to measure our performance against this output goal.
We will carefully manage multiple input goals. These include economic
profit; overall balance sheet size and leverage; risk weighted assets (RWAs)
and the returns they generate; the level of our Core Tier 1 capital; our return
on equity; our overall funding and liquidity positions, and our loan to deposit
ratio as part of this; our comparative income and cost performance (the
‘jaws’); and dividend payments. 
Our medium-term goal is to generate an average return on equity that
exceeds our cost of equity over the cycle. In 2009 and again in 2010, the
combination of very high levels of capital and the relatively high cost of
capital make this a very stretching target. But we are well aware of the
direction in which our shareholders expect us to be moving in this context,
and we have constructed our medium-term plans accordingly .
Conclusion
We have over 144,000 employees worldwide who have helped us weather
the economic storm of the last two and a half years. They have not allowed
the events in the market place to distract them from attending to the needs
of those they serve; on behalf of the Board, I thank them warmly . They are as
determined as I am that we shall meet the expectations of our owners in the
year ahead, by putting the resources of the Group to work on behalf of our
customers and clients.
John Varley
Group Chief Executive
Notes
a On consistent year end loans and advances balances and impairment at average 2008
foreign exchange rates.
b The following have been promoted to the Group Executive Committee: Antony Jenkins,
Chief Executive of Global Retail Banking; T om Kalaris, Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth;
Rich Ricci, Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking; Jerry del Missier, 
Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking; Maria Ramos, Chief Executive 
of Absa; Mark Harding, Group General Counsel; Robert Le Blanc, Chief Risk Officer; 
Cathy Turner, Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Affairs.
c TSR (T otal Shareholder Return) is defined as the value created for shareholders through
share price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend payments and is compared against a peer
group containing Banco Santander, BBV A, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, HSBC,
JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Unicredit and UBS.
Maintaining strategic momentum
Premier, full-service, global
investment bank delivering
through the cycle
Providing holistic solutions for customers
Strong client franchise reflected by
top-line income of £1 7.9bn; up 81%
T
he past year has seen us deliver on our vision to be a premier,
full-service, global investment bank. This means we have the
scope and the scale to compete against the very best firms in
all the different businesses in all of the different regions. Our
Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities businesses (FICC)
are top three globally , and our new Equities and M&A advisory franchises
are building real momentum and delivering excellent results. Our vision
means achieving leading positions for our clients in every region and in
every business in which we compete. 
Our clients continue to come to us with their business challenges,
and we are using the breadth and depth of our expertise to help address
their needs comprehensively . We are expertly placed to service the needs
of our clients, whether it’ s a government looking to raise syndicated debt,
an institutional investor wanting to increase its equities exposure or a
large corporate undertaking a rights issue. We provide holistic solutions
for our clients. 
This is what we mean when we say that our client focus is driving
our business. We are helping our clients to meet their challenges, and the
scope of how we can help them is wider than ever. And this is what makes
Barclays Capital such an exciting place to be right now. We are now one of
a handful of leading global, full-service investment banks. Our businesses
are growing with speed, discipline and focus, resulting in a full-service
offering much greater than the sum of those businesses. 
We’re having new conversations with existing clients. We’re
delivering for clients we’ve never worked with before. And we’re using 
the strength of our full-service franchise to make a real difference to 
their success.
Further information on Barclays Capital is available at
www.barclays.com/annualreport09 20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
The role of banks and banking in society
The severity of the current financial crisis and
the magnitude of public support that has been
channelled into the financial sector have
prompted a heated debate about the role, 
scale and usefulness of banks. In this article from
The Sunday T elegraph, John Varley provides a
summary of how we have responded.
My belief is that the work of banks is important to the economies of the
world; and is therefore important to society . But with that role goes the
obligation to conduct our business responsibly and to support economic
progress. 
Most customers that I speak to say that they want to get back on track,
to move forward again and to put the recession behind them. They want
their bank to focus on providing them with the means to build opportunity ,
security and a better future. And they want their bank to put its strength 
and resources at their disposal in a way that is at once helpful and prudent.
T o them, that’ s what ‘supporting economic progress’ means. 
The causes behind the financial crisis are complex and have already
been well rehearsed. The industry has much to be sorry for, and, as the chief
executive of a big bank, I have expressed sorrow and regret for the errors that
we, as a sector, made. Without decisive, determined and significant action to
restore confidence by authorities around the world, including here in the UK,
the banking system would have collapsed. Even those banks that did not
take capital from governments clearly benefited (and continue to benefit)
from these actions. We are grateful for them, and our behaviour should
acknowledge that benefit. 
The task of governments, regulators and banks alike is to learn the
lessons of the last two years and to ensure that nothing like this happens
again. Decisions have to be taken about the banking industry that will
influence its shape and direction over the next 30 years – decisions relating
to capital, funding and liquidity , leverage, provisioning, accounting and
compensation. We have already seen considerable change since the start 
of the crisis: banks are much better capitalised; leverage is down materially;
liquidity buffers have increased; risk management practices have been
strengthened. But there will be more change. 
This means there is an important and difficult trade-off to be
engineered between improving the stability of the financial system on the
one hand and stimulating and supporting economic growth on the other. As
policy-makers strive to get the balance right, we should not lose sight of the
fact that, no matter how painful this crisis, the world is in a much better place
today than it was 30 years ago. Over that period, even having taken into
account the impact of the current recession, the net growth in global GDP 
is well above 120%, representing a real per capita increase of more than
40%. That growth lifted millions of people around the world out of poverty
and gave billions of people a better life. The benefit has been felt as much in
the developing world as the developed. Maintaining it, and continuing to
make people’ s lives better because of it, requires change, but judicious
change. And that includes the requirement that we, the banks, define our
core purpose in a way that people understand and support. 
Banks contribute to society through five core activities: providing 
reliable and efficient payment systems; delivering safe storage (for deposits
and savings); maturity transformation (or the conversion of savings into
loans); asset management; and what is loosely referred to as investment
banking. 
The core activities of an investment bank
Some question the utility of investment banking. I want to explore the
point here for a moment. What lies behind the question is the presumption
that investment banking is ‘gambling’. But it is clear to me that the three core
activities of an investment bank – advice, execution and funding,
each of which I describe below (note that proprietary trading is not a core
function) – are critical to the health of the real economy , because those
activities are aimed at helping clients generate the real economy outputs 
of investment, trade, wealth generation, and employment. Investment
banks are vital intermediaries in the economic system – connecting sources
of funds with investment opportunities. History shows that healthy global
GDP growth requires funding support from the capital markets. 
I’ll illustrate. A list of some clients on whose behalf Barclays Capital, our
own investment bank, has been active recently (a matter of public record)
does not reveal names that you would associate with gambling. These
include Her Majesty’ s Government; The Kingdom of Spain; The Republic 
of France; The Republic of South Africa; Roche; Pfizer; Sainsbury’ s; British
T elecom; Vodafone; Novartis; Centrica; EDF; London Stock Exchange; 
John Lewis; Network Rail; Harvard University and General Electric. 
These governments and companies are no more involved in gambling
than we are gambling by serving them. They represent the real economy .
We support them with their financing and risk management needs which, 
in turn, drive economic growth. While I have cited household names, the
companies we serve in the area of financing and risk management include www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 21
Key points
Banks provide:
– Reliable and efficient payment systems
– Safe storage for deposits and savings
– Maturity transformation
– Asset management
– Investment banking
thousands of mid-sized companies as well – manufacturing and service
businesses which may not be household names but which employ a large
proportion of the UK workforce. 
What does ‘financing and risk management’ mean? As I have noted,
there are three activities in an investment bank. The first is providing advice.
This means working with clients to design solutions for their needs, whether
they are financing government debt; raising funds to build a new factory;
raising funds to complete an acquisition; or hedging the risk of foreign
currency , commodity or interest rate volatility to ensure certainty of cash flow. 
The second is execution. The investment bank helps clients put in place
whatever solution has been designed, irrespective of who designed it. This
could involve ensuring new equity or debt makes its way from investors to
the company . Banks commit to ensure that such issuance will be successful
by promising to take whatever investors do not. Execution could also involve
structuring a risk management solution by purchasing appropriate
securities and packaging them to meet client objectives. Banks take 
risks here to help their clients absorb and manage their own risk. 
The third is funding. The efficiency of markets for new issuance
(whether debt or equity) is entirely reliant on the existence of effective and
efficient secondary markets through which equity and debt securities are
traded. Secondary market activity (that is daily dealing in the stock market)
signals investor appetite for different types of transactions; provides clear
benchmarks for pricing and lowers the cost of issuance. Market makers (like
Barclays Capital) play a critical role in maintaining the efficiency of traded
markets by ensuring that clients can always get access to a price and can be
confident that individual markets will be available when they need them. 
All three of these activities have clear relevance to the health of the real
economy . If you switch off investment banking, you switch off a
fundamental supply of credit to companies and governments. Our analysis
suggests that global economic growth of 4% per annum (which I would
argue is what the world needs to create employment and relieve poverty
through time) requires global capital markets to grow at twice that rate –
8%. I cannot think of a better way to demonstrate the social utility of
investment banking activity . And if you think of the societal issues that
confront our world – an ageing population, a lack of infrastructure
supporting economic growth, the need for greater health provision, climate
change – broadly based banks with capital markets capabilities have the
skills to help. They help with savings and investment products to support 
the privatisation of welfare provision; with financing resource in the areas 
of health provision and infrastructure and with trading skills in the area of 
the management of carbon emissions. 
Regulation in banking
The new regulatory structure will require banks to hold more capital and
more liquidity . There will be a new focus on top down supervision to ensure
that regulators have the tools to manage collective risk (in particular, the
amount of debt) in the system. Products must be simpler and more
transparent. And incentives and compensation must be better aligned to
delivery , must take account of risk, and must be paid out over time. Good
performance should be rewarded fairly . Bad performance should not. This 
is something we have always believed. 
On compensation specifically , the international agreement on reforms
to the structure of remuneration that were announced by the G20 in
September is a good step forward. The British banks have committed to
implementing those, as well as the new FSA Code on Remuneration. At
Barclays, we have been working on reforming our remuneration practices
since the beginning of this year. Our historical practices were generally well
aligned with the changes afoot, but we are amending where we need to.
This is, though, difficult territory . On the one hand, we must be sensitive 
to the views of many stakeholders that bankers are paid too much. On the
other, we have to recognise that talent is not a commodity , and that our
shareholders and customers expect Barclays to field the best people we can
across all of our businesses. We compete in global markets, and labour has,
in my experience, never been more mobile. We will strive to get the balance
right here. Our objective is to pay the minimum compensation consistent
with competitiveness and performance. 
Those calling for an age of simpler, old-fashioned, more tightly regulated
banking were probably not around in the days of Bretton Woods or Glass
Steagall. Because if they were, they would remember a time when less than
50% of the adult population in the developed world had a bank account,
when credit was strictly rationed, when a mortgage cartel controlled home
loans and when, with credit supply directed by governments, industry
complained constantly of being starved of funds. 
Regulation is a substitute neither for sound judgement nor for a sense
of personal and corporate responsibility . The primary obligation lies with
bank boards. We must keep our sights at all times on what our customers
expect of us (helping them achieve their financial goals and helping them
take appropriate risk); and on what our owners expect of us (that we will 
use well the resources generated by running a profitable business). Those
two things, for me, are the essence of responsible banking. 
Translated into an operational agenda, a bank which is behaving
responsibly and a bank which is playing its role in society should invest for
the future. It should support appropriate risk taking by its customers. It
should run capital ratios that create confidence. It should employ talented
staff. It should manage its business in a way that enables it to pay dividends
to its shareholders (mostly pension funds on which retired citizens rely). 
And it should pay due tax to its revenue authorities. 
Success in banking
Success in the banking sector creates good things for society – the
facilitation of wealth creation by customers; the generation of direct and
indirect employment; payment of dividends and tax; economic stabilisation
and growth. But success creates responsibilities, and we must understand
the obligations that go with being a successful bank. We have to make
certain that we use our profits well – in particular, that our contribution to
society recognises society's contribution to our success. 
The strands of responsible banking and successful competition are
intertwined. We are, I believe, at our most productive (in an economic and
social sense) if we compete successfully . The capacity of British banks like
Barclays to support the UK economy in the way that I have been describing
depends on the banking playing field being kept level as the authorities here
and around the world make their decisions. Safeguarding existing jobs and
creating new ones and lending supportively to British householders and
businesses (thereby helping create jobs beyond those which exist directly 
in the banking industry , itself one of the biggest employers in this country).
Ultimately these things depend on our being allowed to compete on equal
terms with the best banks in the world. 
Note
This article by John Varley was first published in The Sunday T elegraph on 
15th November 2009. 22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Despite the difficult
economic conditions in
2009, we have continued to
maintain our commitment
to corporate and social
responsibility as it is an
integral part of how we 
do business. We report
progress on integrating
sustainability through 
five themes.
Sustainability
Responsible banking
Customers 
and clients
Ensuring our 
products and services 
meet the needs of
customers and clients 
by developing innovative
solutions to enhance
performance, 
relationships and
satisfaction.
Progress in 2009
£35
bn
gross new lending to 
UK households and
businesses
£87 .9
bn
total UK mortgage lending
at the end of 2009
Financial
inclusion
Extending the reach 
of banking services 
in developing markets 
and reducing financial
exclusion in developed
markets.
Progress in 2009
3.2
m
entry-level bank accounts 
opened across our global
operations to date
£500 , 000
new funding package 
to support credit unions 
and community finance
organisations in the UK
Environment
Minimising direct
environmental impacts
by mitigating Barclays
energy, water and 
carbon footprints and
managing the risks and
opportunities associated
with climate change.
Progress in 2009
3.5
bn
tonnes of carbon has been
traded to date with a 
notional value of £45bn
79
%
of surveyed employees
believe Barclays is an
environmentally 
responsible bank
Diversity and 
our people
Attracting employees 
from the widest 
possible talent pools 
and developing and
retaining colleagues 
on the basis of
performance and ability.
Progress in 2009
24
%
of Barclays senior 
managers are female
58,000
+
employees received direct
support for fundraising,
volunteering and giving
Citizenship
Managing Barclays
indirect economic, 
ethical, social and
environmental impacts,
encouraging our 
supply chain to be more
sustainable, and investing
in local communities
where we do business.
Progress in 2009
£55
m
invested in communities
globally
157
suppliers completed our
sustainability screening
questionnaire during 2009
B
arclays is making progress on embedding sustainability into our
business. We are ranked in the top quartile of global banks in the
Dow Jones Sustainability Index. However, we realise we have a 
long way to go and will continue to build our programme in the 
year ahead. We have remained ‘open for business’ throughout 
the downturn, and at the same time have reinforced our commitment to be
a responsible lender, providing access to credit and support while
maintaining prudent lending standards. We are focused on offering a strong,
safe and responsible service that contributes to the economic progress of
society as a whole.
As well as supporting our customers and clients, and the communities
in which we operate, we have:
– developed our role as an equal opportunities employer;
– taken action on climate issues; and
– aimed to operate as a responsible global citizen.
The Group Executive Committee is responsible for our overall sustainability
strategy , and works to support the Chief Executive in its implementation.
This Committee, along with the Board, reviews progress against
sustainability objectives twice a year, using a robust reporting framework
that includes over 100 performance indicators. We integrate sustainability
into our operations in five areas.
Customers and clients
In 2009, we continued to help customers make the most of their money
with advice, innovative new products and services, and tailor-made help 
for those in financial difficulty .
Whilst remaining conservative in our approach to risk, we have remained
competitive in the mortgage market and increased our lending by 7% 
to a mortgage balance of £87.9bn at the end of 2009. At the same time
Barclaycard provided a package of support, including a price freeze for many
of our UK customers.
Our strategic sustainability themes www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 23
Go online
Further information on our Sustainability 
policies and performance is available at
www.barclays.com/sustainability
In April 2009, we committed to make an additional £11bn of credit
available to the UK economy over the year. Our gross new lending in 2009
was £35bn, about half to households and half to businesses.
Financial inclusion
In the UK our Cash Card Account is an entry-level bank account with almost
844,000 customers, many living in deprived areas, while Money Skills 
is a new programme designed to help disadvantaged people make
informed, responsible financial decisions.
Across Africa, we offer dedicated accounts for people on low incomes,
and are one of the only global banks to work with indigenous financial
systems as a way of providing wider access to financial services.
Environment
As part of our commitment to minimising our environmental footprint, we
successfully made our global banking operations carbon neutral in 2009.
Barclays Climate Action Programme continues to focus on greater
energy efficiency , as well as working with suppliers to reduce their CO2
emissions and developing products and services that will help our
customers to do the same.
Partnerships are also a crucial part of the programme, such as our work
with the World Wildlife Fund in eastern Africa to pioneer a new era of
conservation in the region where communities are supported to utilise their
resources more sustainably .
Many of our major environmental and social impacts are indirect and
arise through business relationships with suppliers and clients. Our
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment policy focuses on any lending
we carry out in sensitive sectors and is also the mechanism by which we
apply the Equator Principles to our projects. The Equator Principles are based
on the International Finance Corporation’ s Performance standards, which
form the financial services industry standard to manage environmental and
social risks in project finance deals above US$10m. 
Our Environmental Risk Management team operates across the 
Group, and in 2009 it assessed more than 290 project and non-project
finance transactions.
Key points
– £35bn gross new lending to UK households and
businesses
– More than 58,000 employees received direct support 
for fundraising and volunteering
Diversity and our people
Our diversity and inclusion strategy is focused on increasing the number 
of senior women across our business. T o read more, refer to page 24.
Citizenship
With more than 48 million customers in over 50 countries, we must act as 
a responsible global citizen. This means ensuring that we do business in a
socially and ethically responsible way , while working with our supply chain
partners to ensure they adopt a similar set of principles.
Barclays believes that banks have a crucial role to play within the
communities they serve – even more so during these challenging 
economic times.
In 2009, as well as committing over £55m to community initiatives 
around the world, we also invested our skills and resources. 58,000
employees gave their time to support a wide range of projects, from helping
those affected by HIV / AIDS in Africa, to providing free financial advice for
elderly people in the UK.
Barclays operates in accordance with the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, and Barclays Statement on Human Rights further integrates
these issues through our employment policies and practices, our supply
chain and the responsible use of our products and services.
In 2009, working with the United Nations Environment Programme
Finance Initiative, we developed a human rights toolkit, which provides a
framework for lending managers and which we have embedded into our
own employee guidance tools on environmental risk.
As well as managing our own direct social, ethical and environmental
impacts, by working closely with our suppliers we can help them to share
our commitment to sustainability . 
This was underlined in 2009 with the launch of a new statement on
Supply Chain Sustainability , outlining how we work with suppliers and what
we expect from them in return. 
Banking on Change
partnership
Developed partnership with CARE
International and Plan International 
to improve access to basic financial
services in Africa, Asia and South
America
Three-year initiative intends to 
reach 500,000 people and is a 
£10m commitment by Barclays
I
n 2008, Barclays committed to a global
three-year partnership with non-
governmental organisations (NGOs)
CARE International and Plan International
in order to extend innovation and
accelerate sustainable access to basic
financial services. The three-year initiative
aims to reach more than 500,000 people
across Africa, Asia and South America 
and represents a £10m commitment 
by Barclays.
The partnership perfectly combines
the experience and delivery structures of
the two NGOs with the financial expertise
of Barclays. T ogether this will enable us to
promote and train community groups on
savings-led community finance and create
bespoke financial channels, products 
and services.
The initiative gives individuals the
opportunity to save regularly and provides
communities with a way to manage their
money , increasing their ability to deal with
life emergencies, and invest in their own
and their children’ s future. 24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Our people
Global minimum standards
T o maintain the right balance between overall control and effective local
decision making we have established global governance frameworks and
minimum standards to regulate how we manage and treat our employees
around the world. The key areas covered by the minimum standards are
summarised below.
Performance management and compensation
The performance and development process provides employees with the
opportunity to have regular discussions with their line managers about 
their performance and to receive coaching for their personal development.
The performance of employees is typically assessed twice a year and a
performance rating is agreed with the line manager.
We are committed to the principle of pay for performance.
Compensation is based on the performance of individuals and their
businesses. Our compensation philosophy is to drive a high performance
culture within the appropriate risk and governance frameworks.
Employee relations
Barclays recognises and works constructively with 30 employee
representative organisations throughout the world. 
Regular employee opinion surveys are used to assess employee
engagement. The findings are benchmarked against other global financial
services organisations and high-performing organisations. 
Diversity and inclusion
Barclays operates across the globe and engages with employees across a
wealth of diverse and rich cultures. Our mission is to create confidence and
trust to do the right thing for both our customers and employees through
creating a truly inclusive environment. We will achieve this through ensuring
that everything we do treats people fairly through valuing diversity . An
example of the progress made in this area is that currently three of our major
businesses have female Chief Executive Officers who lead more than half of
our employees globally .
Health and safety
Our commitment is to ensure the health, safety and welfare of our
employees and to provide and maintain safe working conditions. Effective
management of health and safety will have a positive effect on the services
we provide. Good working climates will help our employees to perform
better in serving our customers which in turn will create value for all our
stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders and the communities
that we serve.
Training
Developing both existing and new employees is key to our future prosperity .
We undertake this through formal classroom-based training and informal
on-the-job training, education and coaching. Minimum mandatory training
is provided to all employees to ensure that our employees understand
Barclays policies and procedures and their role in meeting our regulatory
responsibilities.
UK Retail Banking
Barclays Commercial Bank
Barclaycard
GRCB – Western Europe
GRCB – Emerging Markets
GRCB – Absa
Barclays Capital
Barclays Wealth
Head Office Functions
Headcount by business unit – full time equivalent
000s 
— 2008
— 2009
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
UK
Africa and Middle East
Continental Europe
Americas
Asia Pacific
Headcount by world region – full time equivalent
000s
— 2008
— 2009
0
8
16
24
32
40
48
56
64
% of female employees
% of senior executives
who are female
% of senior managers
who are female
% of employees
working part-time
Turnover rate
Resignation rate
Sickness absence rate
Global employment statistics
%
— 2008
— 2009
0
7
14
21
28
35
42
49
56 26 Key performance indicators
30 Consolidated summary income statement
31 Income statement commentary
39 Five-year consolidated summary income
statement
40 Consolidated summary balance sheet
41 Balance sheet commentary
45 Capital management
47 Additional financial disclosure
58 Analysis of results by business
Barclays
Performance 26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Key performance indicators
Financial KPIs
Definition
Profit before tax
Profit before tax is one of the two primary
profitability measures used to assess
performance and represents total income less
impairment charges and operating expenses.
Economic profit
Economic Profit (EP) is the other primary 
profitability measure used by Barclays. EP is
profit after tax and non-controlling interests less
a capital charge (average shareholders’ equity 
and goodwill excluding non-controlling interests
multiplied by the Group’ s cost of equity).
Shareholder returns
T otal shareholder return (TSR) is defined as the 
value created for shareholders through share
price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend
payments. We compare Barclays performance
with a group of international peers and aim for
top quartile performance. Return on average
shareholders’ equity is calculated as profit after
tax divided by the average shareholders’ equity
during the year, which is made up of share
capital, retained earnings and other reserves.
Capital ratios
Capital requirements are part of the regulatory
framework governing how banks and 
depository institutions are managed. Capital
ratios express a bank’ s capital as a percentage 
of its risk weighted assets. Both Tier 1 and Core
Tier 1 capital resources are defined by the UK
FSA. Core Tier 1 is broadly tangible shareholders’
funds less the capital deductions from Tier 1.
In the 2008 accounts, we showed Equity Tier 1
ratio which was broadly representative of the
Core Tier 1 ratio. In 2009, the UK FSA formalised
a definition for Core Tier 1 which is now
published consistently by the industry in the UK.
Adjusted gross leverage
Adjusted gross leverage is defined as the
multiple of adjusted total tangible assets over
total qualifying Tier 1 capital. Adjusted total
tangible assets are total assets less derivative
counterparty netting, assets under management
on the balance sheet, settlement balances,
goodwill and intangible assets. Tier 1 capital is
defined by the UK FSA.  
Why it’s important to the business and management
Profit before tax is a key indicator of financial performance 
to many of our stakeholders.
Excluding movement on own credit, gains on acquisitions and
disposals and gains on debt buy-backs, Group profit before
tax increased 243% to £5,634m from £1,643m.
Total Group profit before tax is represented here alongside
profit before tax from continuing operations to aid
comparison.
Barclays believes that economic profit encourages both
profitable growth and the efficient use of capital. 
These measures indicate the returns shareholders are
receiving for their investment in Barclays both in terms 
of relative share price movements and the business
performance. These metrics demonstrate the alignment 
of Barclays strategy and operations with the interests of
shareholders.
Peer group: Banco Santander, BBV A, BNP Paribas, Citigroup,
Deutsche Bank, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds Banking
Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Unicredit and UBS.
The Group’ s capital management activities seek to maximise
shareholders’ value by optimising the level and mix of its
capital resources.
The Group’ s capital management objectives are to:
– Maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum
regulatory capital requirements set by the UK FSA and the
US requirements that a financial holding company be 
‘well capitalised’
– Maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Group’ s
Risk Appetite and economic capital requirements
– Support the Group’ s credit rating
– Ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their
minimum capital requirements
– Allocate capital to businesses to support the Group’ s
strategic objectives, including optimising returns on
economic and regulatory capital.
We expect to maintain our Core Tier 1 and Tier 1 ratios at
levels which significantly exceed the current minimum
requirements of the UK FSA.
Barclays believes that there will be more capital and less
leverage in the banking system and that lower leverage will 
be regarded as a key measure of stability going forward. This 
is consistent with the views of our regulators and investors. 
Total shareholder return
2007 2008 2009
3rd 2nd 1st
quartile quartile quartile
Return on average 
shareholders’ equity
2007 2008 2009
20.3% 16.5% 23.8%
2007 2008 2009
33x 28x 20x
Total profit before tax
2007 2008 2009
£7,076m £6,077m £11,642m
Profit before tax from 
continuing operations
2007 2008 2009
£6,223m £5,136m £4,585m
£4,875m
£1,760m
£2,290m
07
08
09
07
08
09
10.0
5.6
4.7
13.0
8.6
7.6
— Tier 1
— Core Tier 1
Ratios (%)
Core Tier 1 and Tier 1 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 27
Financial KPIs continued
Definition
Loan funding ratio
This is the ratio of customer loans to deposits
and long-term funding. It represents the Group’ s
access to high quality and stable funding sources
to fund customer assets. The ratio is calculated by
dividing customer loans by customer deposits
plus greater than one year funding (in each case,
excluding Absa).
Average term of unsecured liabilities
This is calculated as the term of outstanding
wholesale borrowing (excluding subordinated
debt and excluding Absa, that has country 
specific funding dynamics that differ from the 
rest of the Group), after removing the short-term
deposits that are directly invested in the liquidity
pool. The longer the average term the lower the
aggregate refinancing risk in wholesale mark ets.
Why it’s important to the business and management
International regulators have considered the imposition of a
backstop core funding ratio as a means of limiting liquidity risk to
individual banks and to the financial system as a whole. We have
no clear guidance on whether such a ratio will be developed in the
UK. The Barclays Liquidity Risk Framework already limits the
Group’ s reliance on less stable sources of funding and we use the
ratio to monitor wholesale refinancing risk and to ensure that
short-term wholesale financing is not used to fund core customer
assets. Comparative data for 2007 is unavailable as the Group has
only formally measured this ratio since 2008.
The extension of the term of our wholesale financing has meant
that, as at 31st December 2009, over 81% of net wholesale
funding has remaining maturity greater than one year and, as at
the same date, there was no net wholesale unsecured refinancing
required within six months. This improvement in the term of
wholesale funding has meant that Barclays has no reliance on
short-term wholesale funding markets and consequently has
greatly increased the Group’ s resilience to any future liquidity
stress event. Comparative data for 2007 is unavailable as the
Group has only formally measured the average term of its
unsecured liabilities since 2008.
2007 2008 2009
14% 10% (8)%
– UK
– Non-UK
10.1m
7.7m
10.8m
10.4m
11.6m
11.7m
07
08
09
Strategic KPIs: Build the best bank
Definition
UK retail banking customer satisfaction
The Retail Banking Service Monitor tracks
satisfaction amongst Barclays customers.
Approximately 10,000 customers a month are
researched for this study . The satisfaction score
is measured using the percentage of customers
who state they are ‘Very’ or ‘Completely’
satisfied with Barclays. We also benchmark 
our performance in comparison with
competitors using syndicated or directly
commissioned research.
Net lending in Barclays Commercial Bank
Net lending represents the change in our loans
and advances to customers during the year.
Barclaycard International 
– number of customers
The total number of customers split between 
UK and non-UK.
Why it’s important to the business and management
Putting the customer first and improving customer service is
fundamental to our goal of being the UK’ s best bank. Customer
satisfaction targets are set at a strategic business unit level 
and business area action plans are developed through the
continuous tracking of customer satisfaction and complaints
feedback. Since June 2008 customer satisfaction and 
advocacy have been on an increasing trend as a result of
significant improvements to our service and innovations
in our product offerings.
Building the best bank means we are there for our customers.
We have supported our customers through the recession 
via campaigns such as ‘Turning the Corner’ which has 
been awarded ‘Best Customer Relationship Initiative’ in the 
B2B Marketing Awards. The campaign offers online expert
advice, insight and networking events to connect our
customers, attracting over 70,000 hits on our website 
and over 3,700 people attending connect events. 
We continue to be committed to lend to viable businesses
across all portfolios, demonstrated through £14bn of new 
term lending and our stable approval rates on new 
credit applications.
Barclaycard is one of Europe’ s largest multi-branded credit 
card businesses, with a fast growing business in the United
States and South Africa. In 2003 we targeted growing
Barclaycard’ s international operations to the same scale 
as its UK business over ten years. This KPI demonstrates 
how this target is being balanced and maintained.
07
08
09
72%
64%
67%
08
09
26 months
14 months
81%
93%
08
09
UK Retail Banking Cost:Income Ratio is included within the cost management strategic KPI 
Note
Loan funding ratio and average term of unsecured liabilities have been introduced as monitors of the Group’ s funding model. 28 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Key performance indicators
continued
Strategic KPIs: Develop Retail and Commercial Banking activities in selected countries outside the UK
Definition
Number of distribution outlets outside 
the UK
Represents total number of branches and sales
centres outside the UK.
Proportion of Global Retail and Commercial
Banking international income
Percentage of total Global Retail and Commercial
Banking income earned outside the UK.
Why it’s important to the business and management
This represents the growth in our footprint around the world,
providing a clear indication of the development of our activities
outside the UK.
Sales centres are a low cost option for testing demand for
banking services in small towns and remote areas, and also
augment branch distribution in larger cities. These sites are
reviewed periodically to assess benefits to customers and the
franchise as a whole. In 2009, the number of sales centres in
Emerging Markets were reduced as the demand for products
and services in these areas did not require the presence of
dedicated distribution outlets.
As sales centres do not offer transaction services there is
limited impact on customer service, whereas new customers
or prospects can be served from the nearest Barclays branch.
This demonstrates the successful execution on Barclays
strategy of diversifying our business base by geography 
over time to achieve higher growth.
2007 2008 2009
2,349 3,158 3,063
Strategic KPIs: Enhance operational excellence
Definition
Risk management
Loan loss rate
The loan loss rate represents the impairment 
charge on loans and advances as a proportion 
of the period and balances. 
Why it’s important to the business and management
The granting of credit is one of Barclays major sources of
income and its most significant risk. The loan loss rate is an
indicator of the cost of granting credit.
07
08
09
45%
32%
38%
Strategic KPIs: Build the best bank continued
1.56%
0.95%
0.71%
07
08
09
Definition
International generation of income
Percentage of total income net of insurance
claims and benefits generated outside of the UK.
Why it’s important to the business and management
The goal of increasing the international diversification of 
our income helps to reduce risk and is demonstrated by our
continuing focus to increase the ratio of non-UK to UK
businesses.
07
08
09
57%
43%
47% www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 29
Sustainability
Definition
Global investment in our communities
Barclays total contribution to supporting the
communities where we operate. 
Why it’s important to the business and management
Investing in the communities in which we operate is an integral
part of Barclays sustainability strategy . We are committed to
maintaining investment in our communities for the long-term
– both in good times and in bad.  This metric demonstrates 
our commitment over time. 
Our People
Definition
Colleagues involved in volunteering,
regular giving and fundraising initiatives
The total number of Barclays employees taking
part in volunteering, giving and fundraising
activities with Barclays support. 
Employee opinion survey for Global Retail
and Commercial Banking and Group Centre
A survey of employees, the results of which give
demographic and diversity information as well
as an indication of employee perceptions in four
key areas: Barclays T op Leadership, Business
Unit Leadership, Customer Focus and Employee
Engagement. The results are analysed to show
year on year trends of employee opinion and 
are benchmarked against other global financial
services organisations and high performing
organisations.
Why it’s important to the business and management
Barclays community investment programme aims to engage
and support colleagues around the world to get involved with
our main partnerships, as well as the local causes they care
about. Harnessing their energy , time and skills delivers real
benefit to local communities, to their own personal
development and to their engagement with Barclays. 
The results of the survey provide leaders with insight into
employee views on key business drivers from which they 
can establish action plans for improvements based on both
strengths and weaknesses identified. 
£54.9m
£52.2m
£52.4m
07
08
09
2007 2008 2009
44,000 57,000 58,000
— Employee engagement 
— Response rate
07
08
09
91%
75%
90%
91%
74%
76%
Strategic KPIs: Enhance operational excellence continued
Definition
Cost management
cost:income ratio by business 
– productivity benchmarking
Cost:income ratio is defined as operating
expenses compared to total income net of
insurance claims. This is compared to a peer set
we consider relevant for each business.
Why it’s important to the business and management
This is a measure management use to assess the productivity of
the business operations. We target a top quartile cost:income
ratio of each of our businesses relative to their peers.
50
56
61
40
39
37
27
44
37
37
66
65
49
49
50
67
134
73
65
71
85
UKRB
a
 Absa
b
Barclays 
Capital
c
Barclays
Commercial
Bank
GRCB  –
Western
Europe
Barclays
Wealth
Barclaycard
a Peers include related credit card business
b Absa Group Limited
c Cost:net income
GRCB – Emerging Markets is not disclosed as there 
is not an appropriate peer group for comparison. 
%
— H109 Peer Group Top Quartile CIR 
— FY08 Barclays Business CIR
— FY09 Barclays Business CIR 30 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Consolidated summary income statement
Y ear ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
Continuing Discontinued ContinuingDiscontinued Continuing Discontinued 
operations operations Total operations operations Total operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 11,918 33 11,951 11,469 –    11,469 9,598 12 9,610
Net fee and commission income 8,418 1,759 10,177 6,491 1,916 8,407 5,771 1,937 7,708
Principal transactions 7,057 67 7,124 2,019 (10) 2,009 4,970 5 4,975
Net premiums from insurance 
contracts 1,172 –    1,172 1,090 –    1,090 1,011 –    1,011
Other income 1,389 4 1,393 367 10 377 186 2 188
T otal income 29,954 1,863 31,817 21,436 1,916 23,352 21,536 1,956 23,492
Net claims and benefits incurred 
on insurance contracts (831) – (831) (237) –    (237) (492) – (492)
Total income net of
insurance claims 29,123 1,863 30,986 21,199 1,916 23,115 21,044 1,956 23,000
Impairment charges and 
other credit provisions (8,071) – (8,071) (5,419) –    (5,419) (2,795) –    (2,795)
Net income 21,052 1,863 22,915 15,780 1,916 17,696 18,249 1,956 20,205
Operating expenses (16,715) (1,137) (17,852) (13,391) (975) (14,366) (12,096) (1,103) (13,199)
Share of post-tax results of 
associates and joint ventures 34 –    34 14 –    14 42 –    42
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures 188 –    188 327 –    327 28 –    28
Gains on acquisitions 26 –    26 2,406 –    2,406 –    –    –    
Profit before tax and disposal of 
discontinued operations 4,585 726 5,311 5,136 941 6,077 6,223 853 7,076
Profit on disposal of discontinued 
operations –    6,331 6,331 –    –    –    –    –    –    
Profit before tax 4,585 7,057 11,642 5,136 941 6,077 6,223 853 7,076
Tax (1,074) (280) (1,354) (453) (337) (790) (1,699) (282) (1,981)
Profit after tax 3,511 6,777 10,288 4,683 604 5,287 4,524 571 5,095
Profit for the year attributable to
Equity holders of the Parent 2,628 6,765 9,393 3,795 587 4,382 3,886 531 4,417
Non-controlling interests 883 12 895 888 17 905 638 40 678
3,511 6,777 10,288 4,683 604 5,287 4,524 571 5,095
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share 24.1p 62.1p 86.2p 51.4p 7.9p 59.3p 60.6p 8.3p 68.9p
Diluted earnings per share 22.7p 58.9p 81.6p 49.8p 7.7p 57.5p 58.8p 8.1p 66.9p
The consolidated summary income statement above sets out the Group’ s results analysed between continuing and discontinued operations for each
income statement line for ease of comparability . The income statement on page 204 and the five-year summary included on page 39 shows the income
statement on a continuing basis with profit after tax from discontinued operations shown as a single line under profit after tax from continuing operations, 
in accordance with IFRS. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 31
Financial review
Income statement commentary
2009/08
Barclays delivered net profit for the year of £10,288m in 2009, an increase 
of 95% on 2008. This included the BGI gain on sale of £6,331m before tax,
and was achieved after absorbing: £6,086m in writedowns on credit market
exposures (including impairment of £1,669m), other Group impairment of
£6,402m and a charge of £1,820m relating to the tightening of own credit
spreads. Profit included £1,255m of gains on debt buy-backs and
extinguishment. 
T otal income net of insurance claims grew 34% to £30,986m, and
income from continuing operations grew 37% to £29,123 m, with
particularly strong growth in Barclays Capital. Within Global Retail and
Commercial Banking (GRCB), Barclaycard and GRCB – Western Europe also
reported good income growth. The aggregate revenue performance of
GRCB businesses was, however, affected by the impact of margin
compression on deposit income as a result of the very low absolute levels 
of interest rates. Barclays Capital income was up 122% compared to 2008.
T op-line income rose by £8,004m reflecting the successful integration of 
the acquired Lehman Brothers North American businesses, buoyant market
conditions observed across most financial markets in the first half of 2009
and a good relative performance in the second half of 2009 despite weaker
markets. Income in Barclays Capital was impacted by writedowns of
£4,417m (2008: £6,290m) relating to credit market exposures held in 
its trading books and by a charge of £1,820m (2008: gain of £1,663m)
relating to own credit.
Impairment charges against loans and advances, available for sale
assets and reverse repurchase agreements increased 49% to £8,071m,
reflecting deteriorating economic conditions, portfolio maturation and
currency movements. The impairment charge against credit market
exposures included within this total reduced 5% to £1,669m. Impairment
charges as a percentage of Group loans and advances as at 31st December
2009 increased to 156bps from 95bps, or 135bps on constant 2008 year
end balance sheet amounts and average foreign exchange rates.
T otal operating expenses increased 24% to £17,852m, but by 10% less
than the rate of increase in Group total income. Operating expenses from
continuing operations increased 25% to £16,715m. Expenses in GRCB were
well controlled, with the cost:income ratio improving from 53% to 52%.
Operating expenses in Barclays Capital increased by £2,818m to £6,592m
reflecting the inclusion of the acquired Lehman Brothers North American
business. The Group total cost:income ratio improved from 62% to 58%
(57% on a continuing basis). At Barclays Capital the compensation:income
ratio improved from 44% to 38%. 
2008/07
Net profit for the year increased 4% to £5,287m. This included gains on
acquisitions of £2,406m, including £2,262m gain on acquisition of Lehman
Brothers North American businesses; profit on disposal of Barclays Closed
UK Life assurance business of £326m; gains on Visa IPO and sales of shares
in MasterCard of £291m; and gross credit market losses and impairment 
of £8,053m.
T otal income net of insurance claims grew 1% to £23,115m and income
from continuing operations grew 1% to £21,199m. Income in GRCB
increased 17% and was particularly strong in businesses outside of the UK.
Income in Barclays Capital was affected by very challenging market
conditions in 2008, with income falling by £1,888m (27%) on 2007,
reflecting gross losses of £6,290m relating to credit market assets, partially
offset by gains of £1,663m on the fair valuation of notes issued due to
widening of credit spreads and £1,433m in related income and hedges.
Excluding credit market related losses, gains on own credit and related
income and hedges, income in Barclays Capital increased 6%. 
Impairment charges and other credit provisions of £5,419m increased
94% on the prior year. Impairment charges included £1,763m arising from
US sub-prime mortgages and other credit market exposures. Other
wholesale impairment charges increased significantly as corporate credit
conditions turned sharply worse. Significant impairment growth in GRCB
businesses reflected book growth and  deteriorating credit conditions
particularly in the US, South Africa and Spain. 
T otal operating expenses increased 9% to £14,366m and operating
expenses from continuing operations increased 11% to £13,391m. This
reflected continued investment in the distribution network in the GRCB
businesses. Expenses fell in Barclays Capital due to lower performance
related costs. Group gains from property disposals were £148m (2007:
£267m). Head office costs included £101m relating to the UK Financial
Services Compensation Scheme. Underlying cost growth was well
controlled. The Group cost:income ratio deteriorated by five percentage
points to 62% (63% on a continuing basis).  32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Net fee and commission income 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Brokerage fees 88 56 78
Investment management fees 133 120 122
Banking and credit related fees 
and commissions 9,578 7,208 6,363
Foreign exchange commission 147 189 178
Fee and commission income 9,946 7,573 6,741
Fee and commission expense (1,528) (1,082) (970)
Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,771
Financial review
Income statement commentary
continued
Continuing operations
The commentary below reflects the Group’ s results from continuing
operations.
Net interest income
2009/08
Group net interest income increased 4% (£449m) to £11,918m (2008:
£11,469m) reflecting growth in average customer balances primarily in
Barclaycard and Western Europe, and net funding costs and hedging
recognised in Head Office Functions and Other Operations.
Group net interest income includes the impact of structural hedges
which function to reduce the impact of the volatility of short-term interest
rate movements on equity and customer balances that do not re-price with
market rates. In total, equity structural hedges generated a gain of £1,162m
(2008: £21m gain). 
Further discussion of margins is included in the analysis of results by
business on pages 58 to 79.
2008/07
Group net interest income increased 19% (£1,871m) to £11,469m 
(2007: £9,598m) reflecting balance sheet growth across the Global Retail
and Commercial Banking businesses and in particular very strong growth
internationally driven by expansion of the distribution network and entrance
into new markets. An increase in net interest income was also seen in
Barclays Capital due to strong results from global loans and money markets.
The contribution of structural hedges relative to average base rates
increased income by £117m (2007: £351m expense), largely due to the
effect of the structural hedge on changes in interest rates.
Net fee and commission income
2009/08
Net fee and commission income increased 30% (£1,927m) to £8,418m
(2008: £6,491m). Banking and credit related fees and commissions
increased 33% (£2,370m) to £9,578m (2008: £7,208m), primarily due to
Barclays Capital’ s strong performance in Equities and Investment Banking. 
2008/07
Net fee and commission income increased 12% (£720m) to £6,491m
(2007: £5,771m). Banking and credit related fees and commissions
increased 13% (£845m) to £7,208m (2007: £6,363m), reflecting growth 
in Barclaycard International, increased fees from advisory and origination
activities in Barclays Capital and increased foreign exchange, derivative 
and debt fees in Barclays Commercial Bank.
Net interest income 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Cash and balances with 
central banks 131 174 145
Available for sale investments 1,937 2,355 2,580
Loans and advances to banks 513 1,267 1,416
Loans and advances to customers 18,456 23,754 19,559
Other 199 460 1,596
Interest income 21,236 28,010 25,296
Deposits from banks (634) (2,189) (2,720)
Customer accounts (2,716) (6,697) (4,110)
Debt securities in issue (3,889) (5,910) (6,651)
Subordinated liabilities (1,718) (1,349) (878)
Other (361) (396) (1,339)
Interest expense (9,318) (16,541) (15,698)
Net interest income 11,918 11,469 9,598 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 33
Principal transactions 
2009/08
Principal transactions comprise net trading income and net investment
income. Net trading income increased £5,662m to £7,001m (2008:
£1,339m). The majority of the Group’ s trading income arises in Barclays
Capital. Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities drove the very strong
increase in trading income as the expansion of the business and client 
flows more than absorbed gross credit market losses of £4,417m 
(2008: £6,290m) and losses relating to own credit of £1,820m 
(2008: £1,663m gain). 
Net investment income decreased 92% (£624m) to £56m 
(2008: £680m) driven by realised losses in commercial real estate equity
investments and losses in the principal investments business, partially
offset by gains on disposal of available for sale investments within 
Barclays Capital. 
2008/07
Net trading income decreased 64% (£2,415m) to £1,339m (2007:
£3,754m). The majority of the Group’ s net trading income arose in Barclays
Capital. There was growth in fixed income, prime services, foreign exchange,
commodities and emerging markets. There were net losses from credit
market dislocation partially offset by the benefits of widening credit spreads
on structured notes issued by Barclays Capital. 
Net investment income decreased 44% (£536m) to £680m (2007:
£1,216m) reflecting the lower profits realised on the sale of investments, the
continued decrease in value of assets backing customer liabilities in Barclays
Life Assurance and fair value decreases of a number of investments
reflecting the current market condition. This was offset by a £170m increase
in dividend income reflecting the Visa IPO dividend received by GRCB –
Western Europe, GRCB – Emerging Markets and Barclaycard. 
Net premiums from insurance contracts 
2009/08
Net premiums from insurance contracts increased 8% (£82m) to £1,172m
(2008: £1,090m) primarily reflecting expansion in GRCB – Western Europe
and GRCB – Absa, partially offset by the impact of the sale of the closed life
assurance business in the second half of 2008. 
2008/07
Net premiums from insurance contracts increased 8% (£79m) to £1,090m
(2007: £1,011m), primarily due to expansion in GRCB – Western Europe
reflecting a full year’ s impact of a range of insurance products launched in
late 2007, partially offset by lower net premiums following the sale of the
closed life assurance business in the second half of 2008.
Other income 
2009/08
Other income includes £1,170m gains on debt buy-backs relating to Upper
Tier 2 perpetual debt and its corresponding hedge and £85m (2008: £24m)
from the repurchase of securitised debt issued by Barclays Commercial Bank.
2008/07
Certain asset management products offered to institutional clients by Absa
are recognised as investment contracts. Accordingly , the invested assets and
the related liabilities to investors are held at fair value and changes in those
fair values are reported within other income. Other income in 2008 includes
a £46m gain from the Visa IPO.
Principal transactions 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Net trading income 7,001 1,339 3,754
Net gain from disposal
of available for sale assets 349 212 560
Dividend income 6 196 26
Net gain from financial 
instruments designated at 
fair value (208) 33 293
Other investment income (91) 239 337
Net investment income 56 680 1,216
Principal transactions 7,057 2,019 4,970
Other income 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in fair value 
of assets held in respect of linked 
liabilities to customers under 
investment contracts 102 (1,219) 23
(Increase)/ decrease in liabilities 
to customers under investment 
contracts (102) 1,219 (23)
Property rentals 64 73 53
Gain on debt buy backs 
and extinguishments 1,255 24 –
Other 70 270 133
Other income 1,389 367 186
Net premiums from insurance 
2009 2008 2007
contracts £m £m £m
Gross premiums from 
insurance contracts 1,224 1,138 1,062
Premiums ceded to reinsurers (52) (48) (51)
Net premiums from 
insurance contracts 1,172 1,090 1,011 34 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Impairment charges and other credit provisions 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Impairment charges on loans and advances
– New and increased impairment allowances 8,111 5,116 2,871
– Releases (631) (358) (338)
– Recoveries (150) (174) (227)
Impairment charges on loans and advances 7,330 4,584 2,306
Charge/(release) in respect of provision for undrawn 
contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 28 329 476
Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions 7,358 4,913 2,782
Impairment charges on reverse repurchase agreements 43 124 –
Impairment on available for sale assets 670 382 13
Impairment charges and other credit provisions 8,071 5,419 2,795
Impairment charges and other credit provisions on ABS CDO Super Senior and other credit market exposures 
included above:
Impairment charges on loans and advances 1,205 1,218 300
Charges in respect of undrawn facilities and guarantees – 299 469
Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions on ABS CDO Super Senior and other 
credit market exposures 1,205 1,517 769
Impairment charges on reverse repurchase agreements – 54 –
Impairment charges on available for sale assets 464 192 13 
Impairment charges and other credit provisions on ABS CDO Super Senior and other credit market exposures 1,669 1,763 782
Financial review
Income statement commentary
continued
Net claims and benefits incurred under insurance contracts 
2009/08
Net claims and benefits incurred under insurance contracts increased 251%
(£594m) to £831m (2008: £237m) reflecting the expansion in GRCB –
Western Europe and GRCB – Absa and a credit as a result of falls in equity
markets and the disposal of the closed life assurance business.
2008/07
Net claims and benefits incurred under insurance contracts decreased 
52% (£255m) to £237m (2007: £492m), principally due to a decrease in
the value of unit linked insurance contracts in Barclays Wealth, explained by
falls in equity markets and the disposal of closed life business in October
2008. This was partially offset by the growth in GRCB – Western Europe.
Impairment charges and other credit provisions
2009/08
Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions
increased 50% (£2,445m) to £7,358m (2008: £4,913m). The increase was
primarily due to economic deterioration and portfolio maturation, currency
movements and methodology enhancements, partially offset by a
contraction in loan balances.
The impairment charge in Global Retail and Commercial Banking
increased by 85% (£2,473m) to £5,395m (2008: £2,922m) as charges rose
in all portfolios, reflecting deteriorating credit conditions across all regions. 
In Investment Banking and Investment Management, impairment was
broadly unchanged at £1,949m (2008: £1,980m). 
The impairment charge against available for sale assets and reverse
repurchase agreements increased by 41% (£207m) to £713m (2008:
£506m), driven by impairment against credit market exposures.
Further discussion of impairments is included in the analysis of results
by business on pages 58 to 79.
2008/07
Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions
increased 77% (£2,131m) to £4,913m (2007: £2,782m). The increase was
caused by charges against ABS CDO Super Senior and other credit market
positions and as a result of deteriorating economic conditions coupled with
growth in several portfolios. 
The impairment charge in Global Retail and Commercial Banking
increased by 51% (£983m) to £2,922m (2007: £1,939m) resulting from
deteriorating economic conditions and growth in several portfolios.
In Investment Banking and Investment Management, impairment
increased by 136% (£1,140m) to £1,980m (2007: £840m). This included a
charge of £1,517m against ABS CDO Super Senior and other credit market
positions. The remaining movement primarily related to charges in the
private equity and other loans business. 
The impairment charge against available for sale assets and reverse
repurchase agreements increased by £493m to £506m (2007: £13m)
driven by impairment against credit market exposures. 
Net claims and benefits incurred
2009 2008 2007
on insurance contracts £m £m £m
Gross claims and benefits incurred 
on insurance contracts 858 263 520
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred (27) (26) (28)
Net claims and benefits incurred 
on insurance contracts 831 237 492 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 35
Operating expenses 
2009/08
Operating expenses increased 25% (£3,324m) to £16,715m (2008:
£13,391m). The increase was driven by a 38% increase (£2,744m) in staff
costs to £9,948m (2008: £7,204m). 
Administrative expenses grew 2% (£98m) to £4,889m (2008:
£4,791m) reflecting the impact of acquisitions made during 2008, the costs
of servicing an expanded distribution network across Global Retail and
Commercial Banking, and expenses relating to the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme.
Operating expenses increased due to a £119m decrease in gains from
sale of property to £29m (2008: £148m) as the Group wound down its sale
and leaseback of freehold property programme.
Amortisation of intangibles increased £171m to £447m (2008: £276m)
primarily related to the intangible assets arising from the acquisition of the
Lehman Brothers North American businesses. 
2008/07
Operating expenses increased 11% (£1,295m) to £13,391m 
(2007: £12,096m). 
Administrative expenses grew 30% (£1,100m) to £4,791m 
(2007: £3,691m), reflecting the impact of acquisitions (in particular Lehman
Brothers North American businesses and Goldfish), fees associated with
Group capital raisings, the cost of the Financial Services Compensation
Scheme as well as continued investment in the Global Retail and Commercial
Banking distribution network.
Operating expenses were reduced by gains from the sale of property of
£148m (2007: £267m) as the Group continued the sale and leaseback of
some of its freehold portfolio in 2008.
Amortisation of intangible assets increased 55% (£98m) to 
£276m (2007: £178m), primarily related to intangible assets arising 
from the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American businesses. 
Goodwill impairment of £112m reflects the full write-down of £74m
relating to EquiFirst and a partial write-down of £37m relating to FirstPlus
following its closure to new business in August 2008.
Staff costs 
2009/08
Staff costs increased 38% (£2,744m) to £9,948m (2008: £7,204m) driven
by a 40% increase in salaries and accrued incentive payments, primarily in
Barclays Capital, reflecting the inclusion of the acquired Lehman Brothers
North American businesses and associated net increase of 7,000 employees
in September 2008.
In December 2009, the UK government announced that the Finance 
Bill 2010 will introduce a bank payroll tax of 50% applicable to discretionary
bonuses over £25,000 awarded to UK bank employees between 
9th December 2009 and 5th April 2010. Draft legislation and further
guidance on its application has been published. Based on this, and in
accordance with IAS 19 – Employee benefits, we have accrued for the
estimated tax payable in respect of employee services provided during 
the period. For 2009, £190m has been included within Other Staff Costs
in respect of 2009 cash awards. A further provision of £35m has also 
been included in Other Staff Costs in respect of certain prior year awards
being distributed during the tax window, which may fall within the 
proposed legislation. 
Defined benefit plan pension costs decreased £122m to £33m credit
(2008: cost of £89m) primarily due to the UK Retirement Fund whose
charges decreased as a result of a one-off credit of £371m from the closure
of the final salary scheme to existing members. 
2008/07
Staff costs decreased 5% (£407m) to £7,204m (2007: £7,611m). Salaries
and accrued incentive payments fell overall by 8% (£535m) to £5,787m in
2008 (2007: £6,322m), after absorbing increases of £718m relating to in
year hiring and staff from acquisitions. Performance related costs were 48%
lower, driven mainly by Barclays Capital.
Defined benefit plans pension costs decreased 41% (£61m) 
to £89m (2007: £150m). This was due to recognition of actuarial gains,
higher expected return on assets and reduction in past service costs partially
offset by higher interest costs and reduction in curtailment credit.
Staff costs 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Salaries and accrued 
incentive payments 8,081 5,787 6,322
Social security costs 606 444 480
Pension costs
– defined contribution plans 224 221 119
– defined benefit plans (33) 89 150
Other post retirement benefits 16 19
Other 1,054 662 531
Staff costs 9,948 7,204 7,611
Operating expenses 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Staff costs 9,948 7,204 7,611
Administrative expenses 4,889 4,791 3,691
Depreciation 759 606 453
Impairment charges/(releases)
– property and equipment 33 33 2
– intangible assets 28 (3) 14
– goodwill 1 112 –
Operating lease rentals 639 520 414
Gain on property disposals (29) (148) (267)
Amortisation of intangible assets 447 276 178
Operating expenses 16,715 13,391 12,096 36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Staff numbers 
As at 31st December 2009 2008 2007
UK Retail Banking 30,400 32,600 31,900
Barclays Commercial Bank 9,100 9,500 9,300
Barclaycard 10,300 10,600 9,400
GRCB – Western Europe 11,600 11,800 8,200
GRCB – Emerging Markets 17,400 20,100 13,300
GRCB – Absa 33,300 35,800 35,200
Barclays Capital 23,200 23,100 16,200
Barclays Wealth 7,400 7,900 6,900
Head office functions and 
other operations 1,500 1,400 1,100
T otal Group permanent and fixed-
term contract staff worldwide 144,200 152,800 131,500
Financial review
Income statement commentary
continued
Staff numbers
2009/08
Staff numbers are shown on a full-time equivalent basis. Group permanent
and fixed-term contract staff comprised 55,700 (31st December 2008:
59,600) in the UK and 88,500 (31st December 2008: 93,200)
internationally.
UK Retail Banking number of employees decreased 2,200 to 30,400
(31st December 2008: 32,600) reflecting active cost management. 
Barclays Commercial Bank number of employees decreased 400 to 9,100
(31st December 2008: 9,500) reflecting tightly managed costs, partly offset
by the expansion of risk and offshore support operations. Barclaycard
number of employees decreased 300 to 10,300 (31st December 2008:
10,600) reflecting the centralisation of certain support functions in Absa
from Absa Card and active cost management, offset by increases in
collections capacity . GRCB – Western Europe number of employees
decreased 200 to 11,600 (31st December 2008: 11,800) primarily due 
to restructuring within Spain and Russia, partially offset by increases in
Portugal and Italy to support the expansion of the network in these
countries. GRCB – Emerging Markets number of employees decreased
2,700 to 17,400 (31st December 2008: 20,100) mainly driven by the
introduction of more effective and efficient structures. GRCB – Absa number
of employees decreased 2,500 to 33,300 (31st December 2008: 35,800),
reflecting restructuring and a freeze on recruitment. 
Barclays Capital number of employees increased 100 to 23,200 
(31st December 2008: 23,100) as a net reduction in the first half of the 
year was offset by strategic growth in the business and the annual graduate
intake. Barclays Wealth number of employees decreased 500 to 7,400 
(31st December 2008: 7,900) reflecting active cost management, 
including efficiency savings in non-client facing areas.
2008/07
Staff numbers are shown on a full-time equivalent basis. T otal Group
permanent and fixed-term contract staff comprised 59,600 (2007: 60,900)
in the UK and 93,200 (2007: 70,600) internationally .
UK Retail Banking staff numbers increased 700 to 32,600 
(2007: 31,900). Barclays Commercial Bank staff numbers increased 200 
to 9,500 (2007: 9,300), reflecting investment in product expertise, sales 
and risk capability and associated support areas. Barclaycard staff numbers
increased 1,200 to 10,600 (2007: 9,400), primarily due to the transfer of
staff into Absacard as a result of the acquisition of a majority stake in the
South African Woolworth Financial Services business in October 2008.
GRCB – Western Europe staff numbers increased 3,600 to 11,800 
(2007: 8,200), reflecting expansion of the retail distribution network. GRCB –
Emerging Markets staff numbers increased 6,800 to 20,100 (2007: 13,300),
driven by expansion into new markets and continued investment in
distribution in existing countries. GRCB – Absa staff numbers increased 
600 to 35,800 (2007: 35,200), reflecting continued growth in the business
and investment in collections capacity .
Barclays Capital staff numbers increased 6,900 to 23,100 
(2007: 16,200), due principally to the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North
American businesses. Barclays Wealth staff numbers increased 1,000 to
7,900 (2007: 6,900), principally due to the acquisition of the Lehman
Brothers North American businesses. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 37
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures
2009/08
The share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures increased 
£20m to £34m (2008: £14m), reflecting a £23m increase in results from joint
ventures largely from Barclaycard and Barclays Capital, and a £3m decrease 
in results from associates, mainly due to reduced contributions from private
equity investments.
2008/07
The overall share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures
decreased £28m to £14m (2007: £42m), mainly due to reduced
contributions from private equity associates and Barclays Capital 
joint ventures.
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
2009/08
The profit on disposal of £188m (2008: £327m) is largely attributable to the
sale of 50% of Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compañía de Seguros (£157m),
and the 7% sale of GRCB – Emerging Markets Botswana business (£24m).
2008/07
On 31st October 2008 Barclays completed the sale of Barclays Life
Assurance Company Ltd to Swiss Reinsurance Company for a net
consideration of £729m leading to a net profit on disposal of £326m.
Gains on acquisitions
2009/08
Gains of £26m for the year relate to the acquisition of the Portuguese credit
card business of Citibank International PLC in December 2009.
2008/07
The gains on acquisitions in 2008 related to the acquisition of Lehman
Brothers North American businesses (£2,262m) on 22nd September 2008,
Goldfish credit card UK business (£92m) on 31st March 2008 and
Macquarie Bank Limited Italian residential mortgage business (£52m) 
on 6th November 2008.
Gains on acquisitions 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Gains on acquisitions 26 2,406 –
Share of post-tax results of 
2009 2008 2007
associates and joint ventures £m £m £m
Profit from associates 19 22 33
Profit/(loss) from joint ventures 15 (8) 9
Share of post-tax results of 
associates and joint ventures 34 14 42
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, 
2009 2008 2007
associates and joint ventures £m £m £m
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures 188 327 28 Reconciliation of economic profit 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit attributable to equity 
holders of the Parent 9,393 4,382 4,417
Addback of amortisation charged 
on acquired intangible assets
b
348 254 137
Profit for economic profit 
purposes 9,741 4,636 4,554
Average shareholders’ equity 
for economic profit purposes
c,d
(rounded to nearest £50m) 38,950 27,400 23,700
Post-tax cost of equity 12.5% 10.5% 9.5%
Capital charge
a
(4,866) (2,876) (2,264)
Economic profit 4,875 1,760 2,290
Tax 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit before tax from 
continuing operations 4,585 5,136 6,223
T ax charge at average UK 
corporation tax rate of 28% 
(2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%) 1,284 1,464 1,867
Prior year adjustments (220) (171) (17)
Differing overseas tax rates (27) 175 (82)
Non-taxable gains and income
(including amounts offset by
unrecognised tax losses) (112) (859) (136)
Share-based payments (38) 201 71
Deferred tax assets not 
recognised/(previously 
not recognised) 27 (504) (159)
Change in tax rates (12) (1) 24
Other non-allowable expenses 172 148 131
T ax charge 1,074 453 1,699
Effective tax rate 23% 9% 27%
Notes
a The Group cost of equity changed from 1st January 2009 from 10.5% to 12.5%.
b Amortisation charged for purchased intangibles, adjusted for tax and non-controlling
interests.
c Average ordinary shareholders’ equity for Group economic profit calculation is the sum 
of adjusted equity and reserves plus goodwill and intangible assets arising on acquisition,
but excludes preference shares.
d Averages for the period will not correspond exactly to period end balances disclosed on the
balance sheet. Numbers are rounded to the nearest £50m for presentation purposes only . 
38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Income statement commentary
continued
Tax
2009/08
The effective tax rate for 2009, based on profit before tax on continuing
operations, was 23.4% (2008: 8.8%). The effective tax rate differs from 
the UK tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%) because of non-taxable gains and
income, different tax rates applied to taxable profits and losses outside
the UK, disallowed expenditure and adjustments in respect of prior years.
The low effective tax rate of 8.8% on continuing operations in 2008 mainly
resulted from the Lehman Brothers North American businesses acquisition. 
2008/07
The effective rate of tax for 2008, based on profit before tax on continuing
operations, was 8.8% (2007: 27.3%). The effective tax rate differs from the
2007 effective rate and the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% principally due
to the Lehman Brothers North American businesses acquisition.
Discontinued operations
Profit after tax from discontinued operations
2009/08
Profit after tax from discontinued operations increased £6,173m to
£6,777m, reflecting the gain on sale of the discontinued operations of
£6,331m (2008: £nil) and other profit before tax of £726m (2008: £604m).
The results for 2009 included 11 months of operations compared to
12 months for 2008. 
2008/07
The profit after tax from discontinued operations increased 6% to £604m,
reflecting an 8% appreciation of the average value of the US Dollar against
Sterling and a £128m decrease in operating expenses, principally reflecting
reduced performance related costs, offset by a decline in income from fees
and commissions and a reduction in trading income.
Economic profit
Economic profit comprises:
– Profit after tax and non-controlling interests; less
– Capital charge (average shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling
interests multiplied by Barclays cost of equity).
The Group cost of equity has been applied at a uniform rate of 12.5%
a
. The
costs of servicing preference shares are included in non-controlling interests.
As such, preference shares are excluded from average shareholders’ equity
for economic profit purposes.
Discontinued operations 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit for the year from 
discontinued operations, 
including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 39
Financial review
Five-year consolidated summary income statement
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Net interest income 11,918 11,469 9,598 9,133 8,060
Non-interest income 18,036 9,967 11,938 11,372 8,600
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts (831) (237) (492) (575) (645)
T otal income net of insurance claims 29,123 21,199 21,044 19,930 16,015
Impairment charges and other credit provisions (8,071) (5,419) (2,795) (2,154) (1,571)
Operating expenses (16,715) (13,391) (12,096) (11,723) (9,748)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 34 14 42 46 45
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 188 327 28 323 –
Gain on acquisitions 26 2,406–––
Profit before tax from continuing operations 4,585 5,136 6,223 6,422 4,741
T ax from continuing operations (1,074) (453) (1,699) (1,611) (1,251)
Profit after tax from continuing operations 3,511 4,683 4,524 4,811 3,490
Profit for the year from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571 384 351
Net profit for the year 10,288 5,287 5,095 5,195 3,841
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 9,393 4,382 4,417 4,571 3,447
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 895 905 678 624 394
10,288 5,287 5,095 5,195 3,841
Selected financial statistics
Basic earnings per share 86.2p 59.3p 68.9p 71.9p 54.4p
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 24.1p 51.4p 60.6p 66.6p 49.5p
Diluted earnings per share 81.6p 57.5p 66.9p 69.8p 52.6p
Dividends per ordinary share 2.5p 11.5p 34.0p 31.0p 26.6p
Dividend payout ratio 2.9% 19.4% 49.3% 43.1% 48.9%
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the Parent as a percentage of:
average shareholders’ equity 23.8% 16.5% 20.3% 24.7% 21.1%
average total assets 0.5% 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.4%
Average United States Dollar exchange rate used in preparing the accounts 1.57 1.86 2.00 1.84 1.82
Average Euro exchange rate used in preparing the accounts 1.12 1.26 1.46 1.47 1.46
Average Rand exchange rate used in preparing the accounts 13.14 15.17 14.11 12.47 11.57
The financial information above is extracted from the published accounts. This information should be read together with the information included in the
accompanying financial statements. 40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Consolidated summary balance sheet
As at 31st December 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m 
Assets
Cash and other short-term funds 83,076 31,714 7,637 9,753 5,807
Trading portfolio and financial assets designated at fair value 193,912 306,836 341,171 292,464 251,820
Derivative financial instruments 416,815 984,802 248,088 138,353 136,823
Loans and advances to banks 41,135 47,707 40,120 30,926 31,105
Loans and advances to customers 420,224 461,815 345,398 282,300 268,896
Available for sale financial investments 56,483 64,976 43,072 51,703 53,497
Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 143,431 130,354 183,075 174,090 160,398
Other assets 23,853 24,776 18,800 17,198 16,011
Total assets 1,378,929 2,052,980 1,227,361 996,787 924,357
Liabilities
Deposits and items in the course of collection due to banks 77,912 116,545 92,338 81,783 77,468
Customer accounts 322,429 335,505 294,987 256,754 238,684
Trading portfolio and financial liabilities designated at fair value 137,454 136,366 139,891 125,861 104,949
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,679 69,183 92,639 84,637 85,201
Derivative financial instruments 403,416 968,072 248,288 140,697 137,971
Debt securities in issue 135,902 149,567 120,228 111,137 103,328
Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 198,781 182,285 169,429 136,956 121,178
Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 2,140 2,152 3,903 3,878 3,767
Subordinated liabilities 25,816 29,842 18,150 13,786 12,463
Other liabilities 14,922 16,052 15,032 13,908 14,918
Total liabilities 1,320,451 2,005,569 1,194,885 969,397 899,927
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests 47,277 36,618 23,291 19,799 17,426
Non-controlling interests 11,201 10,793 9,185 7,591 7,004
Total shareholders’ equity 58,478 47,411 32,476 27,390 24,430
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 1,378,929 2,052,980 1,227,361 996,787 924,357
Risk weighted assets and capital ratios
a
Risk weighted assets 382,653 433,302 353,878 297,833 269,148
Tier 1 ratio 13.0% 8.6% 7.6% 7.7% 7.0%
Risk asset ratio 16.6% 13.6% 11.2% 11.7% 11.3%
Selected financial statistics
Net asset value per ordinary share 414p 437p 353p 303p 269p
Number of ordinary shares of Barclays PLC (in millions) 11,412 8,372 6,601 6,535 6,490
Y ear-end United States Dollar exchange rate used in preparing the accounts 1.62 1.46 2.00 1.96 1.72
Y ear-end Euro exchange rate used in preparing the accounts 1.12 1.04 1.36 1.49 1.46
Y ear-end Rand exchange rate used in preparing the accounts 11.97 13.74 13.64 13.71 10.87
The financial information above is extracted from the published accounts. This information should be read together with the information included in the
accompanying financial statements.
Note
a Risk weighted assets and capital ratios for 2006 and 2005 are calculated on a Basel I basis.
Risk weighted assets and capital ratios for 2009, 2008 and 2007 are calculated on a 
Basel II basis. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 41
Financial review
Balance sheet commentary 
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity , including non-controlling interests, increased 23% 
to £58.5bn in 2009 driven by profit after tax of £10.3bn. Net tangible asset
value increased by 47% to £38.5bn. Net tangible asset value per share
increased to 337p (2008: 313p). 
Balance sheet
T otal assets decreased by £674bn to £1,379bn in 2009, primarily reflecting
movements in market rates and active reductions in derivative balances.
Balances attributable to derivative assets and liabilities would have been
£374bn lower (31st December 2008: £917bn lower) than reported under
IFRS if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities with the same
counterparty or for which we hold cash collateral.
Excluding this, assets and liabilities held under investment contracts,
settlement balances, goodwill and intangible assets, our adjusted total
tangible assets were £969bn at 31st December 2009 (31st December
2008: £1,027bn). On this basis, we calculate adjusted gross leverage, 
being the multiple of adjusted total tangible assets over total qualifying 
Tier 1 capital, as 20x as at 31st December (31st December 2008: 28x).
Assets and risk weighted assets were affected by the depreciation 
in value of various currencies relative to Sterling during 2009. As at 
31st December 2009, the US Dollar and the Euro had depreciated 10% 
and 7%, respectively , relative to Sterling. 
Capital management
At 31st December 2009, on a Basel II basis, our Core Tier 1 ratio was 
10.0% (31st December 2008: 5.6%) and our Tier 1 ratio was 13.0% 
(31st December 2008: 8.6%). Capital ratios reflect a 12% decrease (£51bn)
in risk weighted assets to £383bn in 2009. Key drivers included a reduction
in the overall size of the balance sheet and foreign exchange movements. 
Liquidity
The liquidity pool held by the Group increased to £127bn at 31st December
2009 from £43bn at the end of 2008. Whilst funding markets were difficult,
particularly in the first half of 2009, the Group were able to increase available
liquidity and the Group extended the average term of unsecured liabilities
from 14 months to 26 months. The Group issued £15bn equivalent in public
senior unguaranteed debt markets, across multiple currencies and
maturities. In addition, the Group raised £1.8bn equivalent in the covered
bond market and issued £21bn equivalent of structured notes. The Group
have continued to manage liquidity prudently in the light of market
conditions and in anticipation of ongoing regulatory developments. 
Foreign currency translation
During 2009, US Dollar and Euro depreciated 10% and 7%, respectively ,
relative to Sterling. As a result, foreign currency assets and risk weighted
assets decreased in value in Sterling terms.  
The Group’ s hedging strategy in respect of net investments in foreign
currencies is designed to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused
by changes in the Sterling value of foreign currency capital resources and
risk weighted assets due to movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
In this regard, the Group’ s 31st December 2009 Core Tier 1 ratio is hedged
to approximately 75%, 25% and 80% of the movements in US Dollar, Euro
and South African Rand respectively against Sterling.
The currency translation reserve reduced by £1.2bn in 2009. This
reflected movements in foreign currency net investments which are partially
economically hedged through preference share capital (denominated in
US Dollars and Euros) that is not revalued for accounting purposes. Total assets and risk weighted assets by business 
2009/08
T otal assets decreased by £674bn to £1,379bn and risk weighted assets
decreased £51bn to £383bn.
Barclays UK Retail Bank’ s total assets increased 4% to £105.2bn
(31st December 2008: £101.4bn) driven by growth in mortgage balances.
Risk weighted assets increased 6% (£1.7bn) to £32.2bn (2008: £30.5bn), 
a significant contributor being the growth in the mortgage book.
T otal assets in Barclays Commercial Bank fell 10% (£8.5bn) to £75.5bn
(2008: £84.0bn) driven by reduced overdraft borrowings and lower volumes
in Barclays Asset and Sales Finance business. New term lending was £14bn.
Risk weighted assets fell 4% (£2.8bn) to £60.3bn (2008: £63.1bn) largely
reflecting a reduction in net balance sheet exposures offset by the impact 
of deteriorating credit conditions.
T otal assets decreased 2% to £30.2bn (2008: £30.9bn) in Barclaycard
reflecting the depreciation in the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling, the
decision to stop writing new business in FirstPlus and tighter lending criteria.
Risk weighted assets increased 12% (£3.3bn) to £30.6bn (2008: £27.3bn)
due to higher volumes and the impact of moving toward an advanced risk
measurement methodology offset by favourable foreign exchange and
lower secured lending balances in FirstPlus.
T otal assets in GRCB – Western Europe remained stable at £64.2bn
(2008: £65.5bn), as underlying asset growth was offset by depreciation 
in the period end value of the Euro against Sterling. Risk weighted assets
decreased 12% (£4.6bn) to £32.4bn (2008: £37.0bn) driven by active
management and the migration of certain retail portfolios onto the
advanced credit risk approach.
GRCB – Emerging Markets’ total assets decreased 14% (£2.0bn) to
£11.9bn (2008: £13.9bn), and risk weighted assets decreased 15%
(£2.2bn) to £12.4bn (2008: £14.6bn) due to the business pro-actively
managing down portfolio exposures and the impact of exchange rate
movements driven by a realignment of lending strategy in light of the
economic downturn. Customer assets decreased 25% (£2.4bn) to £7.3bn
(2008: £9.7bn) and customer deposits decreased 9% (£0.8bn) to £8.5bn
(2008: £9.3bn). 
T otal assets in GRCB – Absa increased 13% to £45.8bn 
(2008: £40.4bn) and risk weighted assets increased 14% (£2.6bn) to
£21.4bn (2008: £18.8bn), reflecting the impact of exchange rate movements. 
T otal assets in Barclays Capital reduced 37% to £1,019.1bn (2008:
£1,629.1bn) primarily as a result of lower derivative balances. There were
further reductions in the trading portfolio and lending as well as depreciation
in the value of other currencies relative to Sterling. These reductions
contributed to an overall decrease of 9% in the adjusted gross leverage
assets to £618.2bn (2008: £681bn). Risk weighted assets reduced 20%
(£46.3bn) to £181.1bn (2008: £227.4bn) following reductions in the size of
the balance sheet and reclassification of certain securitisation assets to
capital deductions and depreciation on the value of other currencies against
Sterling, partially offset by a deterioration in credit conditions which
increased probabilities of default. 
Barclays Global Investors’ total assets have decreased £65.9bn to
£5.4bn (2008: £71.3bn) reflecting the sale of BGI and the Group’ s ongoing
interest in BlackRock shares.
In Barclays Wealth, total assets increased 14% to £15.1bn 
(2008: £13.3bn) and risk weighted assets increased 10% (£1.1bn) to
£11.4bn (2008: £10.3bn) reflecting growth in loans and advances.
Total assets by business 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
UK Retail Banking 105,228 101,384 88,477
Barclays Commercial Bank 75,547 84,029 74,566
Barclaycard 30,220 30,925 22,121
GRCB – Western Europe 64,185 65,519 43,702
GRCB – Emerging Markets 11,874 13,866 9,188
GRCB – Absa 45,824 40,391 36,368
Barclays Capital 1,019,120 1,629,117 839,850
Barclays Global Investors 5,406 71,340 89,218
Barclays Wealth 15,095 13,263 18,188
Head office functions and other 
operations 6,430 3,146 5,683
Total assets 1,378,929 2,052,980 1,227,361
Risk weighted assets
2009 2008 2007
by business under Basel II £m £m £m
UK Retail Banking 32,176 30,491 31,463
Barclays Commercial Bank 60,292 63,081 57,040
Barclaycard 30,566 27,316 20,199
GRCB – Western Europe 32,396 36,953 24,971
GRCB – Emerging Markets 12,399 14,607 10,484
GRCB – Absa 21,410 18,846 17,829
Barclays Capital 181,117 227,448 178,206
Barclays Global Investors 73 3,910 4,369
Barclays Wealth 11,354 10,300 8,216
Head office functions 
and other operations 870 350 1,101
Total risk 
weighted assets 382,653 433,302 353,878
42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Balance sheet commentary 
continued www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 43
2008/07
T otal assets increased 67% to £2,053.0bn (2007: £1,227.4bn). 
Risk weighted assets increased 22% to £433.3bn (2007: £353.9bn). 
UK Retail Banking total assets increased 15% to £101.4bn (2007:
£88.5bn) driven by growth in mortgage balances. Risk weighted assets
decreased 3% to £30.5bn (2007: £31.5bn) as lending growth mainly in 
high quality , low risk mortgages was more than offset in capital terms by
active risk management.
Barclays Commercial Bank total assets grew 13% to £84.0bn 
(2007: £74.6bn) driven by higher loans and advances. Risk weighted 
assets increased 11% to £63.1bn (2007: £57.0bn). This was slightly lower 
than asset growth, reflecting a relative increase in lower risk portfolios.
Barclaycard total assets increased 40% to £30.9bn ( 2007: £22.1bn)
reflecting increases in International assets, the acquisition of Goldfish and
the appreciation of the Euro and US Dollar against Sterling. Risk weighted
assets increased 35% to £27.3bn ( 2007: £20.2bn), driven by acquisitions,
the redemption of securitisation deals and exposure growth predominantly
in the US.
GRCB – Western Europe total assets grew 50% to £65.5bn 
(2007: £43.7bn) reflecting growth in retail mortgages, unsecured lending,
commercial lending and a 31% appreciation over the year in the value of 
the Euro against Sterling. Risk weighted assets increased 48% to £37bn
(2007: £25.0bn), primarily reflecting underlying lending growth and the
appreciation of the Euro.
GRCB – Emerging Markets total assets grew 51% to £13.9bn
(2007: £9.2bn) reflecting increases in retail and commercial lending
combined with the impact of Sterling depreciation. Risk weighted assets
increased 39% to £14.6bn (2007: £10.5bn), reflecting portfolio growth.
GRCB – Absa total assets increased 11% to £40.4bn (2007: £36.4bn)
reflecting broad based asset growth. Risk weighted assets increased 6% to
£18.8bn (2007: £17.8bn), reflecting balance sheet growth.
Barclays Capital total assets increased 94% (£789.2bn) to £1,629.1bn
(2007: £839.9bn) due to an increase in derivative assets of £736.7bn,
predominantly driven by significant volatility and movements in yield curves
in 2008, together with a substantial depreciation in Sterling against most
major currencies. T otal assets excluding derivatives increased by 9% in
Sterling. On a constant currency basis, total assets excluding derivatives
decreased by approximately 15%. Risk weighted assets increased 28% to
£227.4bn (2007: £178.2bn). This was driven by the depreciation in Sterling
against the US Dollar and Euro, and an increase in market volatility .
The total assets of our former business, Barclays Global Investors,
decreased 20% to £71.3bn (2007: £89.2bn), mainly attributable to adverse
market movements in certain asset management products recognised as
investment contracts. Risk weighted assets decreased 11% to £3.9bn (2007:
£4.4bn) mainly attributed to changes in the asset class mix, partially offset by
the weakening of Sterling against other currencies.
Barclays Wealth total assets decreased 27% to £13.3bn (2007: £18.2bn)
reflecting the sale of the closed life assurance business partially offset by
strong growth in lending to high net worth and intermediary clients. Risk
weighted assets increased 26% to £10.3bn (2007: £8.2bn) reflecting strong
growth in lending. 
Head office functions and other operations total assets decreased 46% to
£3.1bn (2007: £5.7bn). Risk weighted assets decreased 64% to £0.4bn (2007:
£1.1bn). The decrease in the year was mainly attributable to the increased
netting of Group deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Adjusted gross leverage
2009/08
The adjusted gross leverage ratio is defined as the multiple of adjusted total
tangible assets over total qualifying Tier 1 capital.
Limited netting is permitted under IFRS, even for receivables and
payables with the same counterparty where there are contractually agreed
netting arrangements. Derivative assets and liabilities would be £374bn
(2008: £917bn) lower than reported under IFRS if netting were permitted 
for assets and liabilities with the same counterparty or for which we hold 
cash collateral.
Assets and liabilities also include amounts held under investment
contracts with third parties of a further £2bn as at 31st December 2009
(2008: £69bn). These constitute asset management products offered to
institutional pension funds which are required to be recognised as financial
instruments. Changes in value in these assets are entirely to the account of
the beneficial owner of the asset.
Adjusted gross leverage 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
T otal assets 1,378,929 2,052,980 1,227,361
Counterparty net/
collateralised derivatives (374,099) (917,074) (215,485)
Financial assets designated at 
fair value and associated cash 
balances – held in respect of 
linked liabilities to customers
under investment contracts (1,679) (69,183) (92,639)
Net settlement balances (25,825) (29,786) (22,459)
Goodwill and intangible assets (8,795) (10,402) (8,296)
Adjusted total tangible assets 968,531 1,026,535 888,482
Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 49,637 37,250 26,743
Adjusted gross leverage 20 28 33 Excluding these items, settlement balances, goodwill and intangible
assets, our adjusted total tangible assets were £969bn at 31st December
2009 (2008: £1,026bn). At 31st December 2009 adjusted gross leverage was
20x (2008: 28x).
Adjusted total tangible assets include cash and balances at central
banks of £81.5bn (2008: £30.0bn). Excluding these balances the adjusted
gross leverage would be 18x (2008: 27x).
2008/07
Derivative assets and liabilities would be £917bn lower than reported 
under IFRS if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities with the same
counterparty or for which we hold cash collateral. Assets and liabilities also
include amounts held under investment contracts with third parties of a
further £69bn as at 31st December 2008. These constitute asset
management products offered to institutional pension funds which are
required to be recognised as financial instruments. Changes in value in 
these assets are entirely to the account of the beneficial owner of the asset.
Excluding these items, settlement balances, goodwill and intangible
assets, our adjusted total tangible assets were £1,026bn at 31st December
2008 (2007: £888bn). At 31st December 2008 adjusted gross leverage was
28x (2007: 33x).
Total shareholders’ equity
2009/08
T otal shareholders’ equity increased £11,067m to £58,478m (2008:
£47,411m).
Called up share capital comprises 11,412 million ordinary shares of 
25p each (2008: 8,372 million ordinary shares of 25p each). 
Retained earnings increased £9,637m to £33,845m (2008: £24,208m).
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the Parent of £9,393m and the
proceeds of capital raising of £784m were partially offset by dividends
paid to shareholders of £113m. Other equity in the prior year represents
Mandatorily Convertible Notes, which were converted into ordinary shares 
by June 2009.
Movements in other reserves, except the capital redemption reserve
and other capital reserve, reflect the relevant amounts recorded in the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 205.
Non-controlling interests increased £408m to £11,201m (2008:
£10,793m). The increase primarily reflects profit for the year attributable 
to non-controlling interests of £895m, currency translation differences of
£277m, offset by dividends paid of £767m.
The Group’ s authority to buy back equity shares was renewed at the
2009 AGM.
2008/07
T otal shareholders’ equity increased £14,935m to £47,411m 
(2007: £32,476m).
Called up share capital comprised 8,372 million ordinary shares of 
25p each (2007: 6,600 million ordinary shares of 25p each and 1 million
staff shares of £1 each). 
Retained earnings increased £3,238m to £24,208m (2007: £20,970m).
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the Parent of £4,382m and the
proceeds of capital raising of £1,410m were partially offset by dividends paid
to shareholders of £2,344m. Other equity of £3,652m represents the issue
of Mandatorily Convertible Notes, which were subsequently converted into
ordinary shares prior to 1st July 2009.
Movements in other reserves, except the capital redemption reserve
and other capital reserve, reflect the relevant amounts recorded in the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 205.
Non-controlling interests increased £1,608m to £10,793m (2007:
£9,185m). The increase primarily reflects a 2008 preference share issuance
by Barclays Bank PLC of £1,345m.
Barclays Bank PLC
Preference shares issued by Barclays Bank PLC are included within share
capital and share premium in the Barclays Bank PLC Group but represent
non-controlling interests in the Barclays PLC Group. Certain issuances of
reserve capital instruments and capital notes by Barclays Bank PLC are
included within other shareholders’ equity in the Barclays Bank PLC Group
but represent non-controlling interests in Barclays PLC Group.
Total shareholders’ equity 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Barclays PLC Group
Called up share capital 2,853 2,093 1,651 
Share premium account 7,951 4,045 56 
Other equity – 3,652 –
Available for sale reserve (110) (1,190) 154 
Cash flow hedging reserve 252 132 26 
Capital redemption reserve 394 394 384 
Other capital reserve 617 617 617 
Currency translation reserve 1,615 2,840 (307)
Other reserves 2,768 2,793 874 
Retained earnings 33,845 24,208 20,970 
Less: Treasury shares (140) (173) (260)
Shareholders’ equity excluding 
non-controlling interests 47,277 36,618 23,291 
Non-controlling interests 11,201 10,793 9,185 
Total shareholders’ equity 58,478 47,411 32,476 
Total shareholders’ equity 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Barclays Bank PLC Group
Called up share capital 2,402 2,398 2,382
Share premium account 12,092 12,060 10,751
Available for sale reserve (84) (1,249) 111
Cash flow hedging reserve 252 132 26
Currency translation reserve 1,615 2,840 (307)
Other reserves 1,783 1,723 (170)
Other shareholders’ equity 2,559 2,564 2,687
Retained earnings 37,089 22,457 14,222
Shareholders’ equity excluding 
non-controlling interests 55,925 41,202 29,872
Non-controlling interests 2,774 2,372 1,949
Total shareholders’ equity 58,699 43,574 31,821
44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Balance sheet commentary 
continued www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 45
Financial review
Capital management
Capital resources
2009/08
Core Tier 1 capital for Barclays PLC Group increased £14.1bn to £38.4bn 
and Tier 1 capital increased £12.4bn to £49.6bn.
Retained earnings and capital issues (including the conversion of the
Mandatorily Convertible Notes) contributed £9.3bn and £4.7bn respectively
to Core Tier 1 and Tier 1 capital. Reductions in the adjustment for own credit
(£1.3bn) and deduction for intangible assets (£1.6bn) were broadly offset
by the increase in securitisation deductions (£2.1bn).
The investment in BlackRock contributed to the £2.6bn increase in
deductions from Tier 1 capital. This was partially offset by an increase in 
the amount of Reserve Capital Instruments eligible for inclusion in Tier 1.
Tier 2 capital decreased by £7.6bn. Deductions increased by £4.6bn,
mainly in respect of the investment in BlackRock and securitisation
positions. Subordinated loan capital decreased by £4.0bn, driven by net
redemptions, the impact of exchange rate movements and lower levels 
of Reserve Capital Instruments in excess of the Tier 1 limits.
2008/07
Core Tier 1 capital increased by £7.6bn to £24.4bn and Tier 1 capital
increased by £10.5bn during the year, driven by issues of ordinary shares
(£5.2bn), other capital issuances (£4.3bn), retained profits (£2.0bn) and
exchange rate movements (£3.2bn). These movements were partially 
offset by an increase in intangible assets (£1.3bn), innovative Tier 1 capital 
in excess of regulatory limits being reclassified as Tier 2 capital (£1.3bn) 
and the reversal of gains on own credit, net of tax (£1.2bn).
Tier 2 capital increased by £8.5bn due to issuance of loan capital
(£3.6bn) net of redemptions (£1.1bn), inclusion of innovative capital in
excess of the Tier 1 limits (£1.3bn), increases in collective impairment
(£1.2bn) and exchange rate movements (£3.9bn).
Capital ratios under Basel II 2009 2008 2007 
Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays 
PLC Bank PLC PLC Bank PLC PLC Bank PLC
Group Group Group Group Group Group 
Capital ratios %% %%%%
Core Tier 1 ratio 10.0 10.1 5.6 5.6 4.7 4.5
Tier 1 ratio 13.0 13.0 8.6 8.6 7.6 7.3
Risk asset ratio 16.6 16.6 13.6 13.5 11.2 11.0
Risk weighted assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Credit risk 252,054 252,054 266,912 266,912 244,474 244,469
Counterparty risk 45,450 45,450 70,902 70,902 41,203 41,203
Market risk
– Modelled – VaR 10,623 10,623 14,452 14,452 7,270 7,270
– Modelled – IRDC
a
and non-VaR 5,378 5,378 7,771 7,771 5,522 5,522
– Standardised 38,525 38,525 43,149 43,149 27,020 27,020
Operational risk 30,623 30,623 30,116 30,116 28,389 28,389
Total risk weighted assets 382,653 382,653 433,302 433,302 353,878 353,873
Note
a Incremental Default Risk Charge. Capital resources continued
Total net capital resources under Basel II 2009 2008 2007
Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays 
PLC Bank PLC PLC Bank PLC PLC Bank PLC
Capital resources
Group Group Group Group Group Group 
(as defined for regulatory purposes) £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Ordinary shareholders’ funds 
a
47,277 55,925 36,618 41,202 23,291 29,872
Regulatory adjustments:
MCNs not yet converted –– (3,652) – – –
Available for sale reserve – debt 
b
83 83 372 372 49 49
Available for sale reserve – equity (309) (335) (122) (63) (295) (514)
Cash flow hedging reserve (252) (252) (132) (132) (26) (26)
Defined benefit pension scheme 431 431 849 849 1,052 1,052
Adjustments for scope of regulatory consolidation 196 196 847 847 (191) (191)
Foreign exchange on RCIs and upper Tier 2 loan stock 25 25 (231) (231) 499 499
Adjustment for own credit (340) (340) (1,650) (1,650) (461) (461)
Other adjustments 144 144 305 304 465 465
Equity non-controlling interest 2,351 2,351 1,981 1,981 1,608 1,608
Less: Intangible assets (8,345) (8,345) (9,964) (9,964) (8,191) (8,191)
Less: Net excess of expected loss over impairment at 50% (25) (25) (159) (159) (743) (743)
Less: Securitisation positions at 50% (2,799) (2,799) (704) (704) (335) (335)
Less: Non Core Tier 1 capital issues included in shareholders’ funds – (8,427) – (8,421) – (7,236)
Core Tier 1 Capital 38,437 38,632 24,358 24,231 16,722 15,848
Preference shares 
c
6,256 6,256 6,191 6,191 5,035 5,035
Reserve Capital Instruments 
d
6,724 6,724 5,743 5,721 3,908 3,908
Tier 1 Notes
e
1,017 1,017 1,086 1,086 899 899
T ax on the net excess of expected loss over impairment 88 46 46 207 207
Less: Material holdings in financial companies at 50% (2,805) (2,915) (174) (174) (28) (28)
Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 49,637 49,722 37,250 37,101 26,743 25,869
Revaluation reserves 26 26 26 26 26 26
Available for sale reserve – equity 309 335 122 122 295 295
Collectively assessed impairment allowances 2,443 2,443 1,654 1,654 440 440
Tier 2 non-controlling interests 547 547 607 607 442 442
Qualifying subordinated liabilities 
f
Undated loan capital 1,350 1,350 6,745 6,768 3,191 3,191
Dated loan capital 15,657 15,658 14,215 14,215 10,578 10,578
Less: Net excess of expected loss over impairment at 50% (25) (25) (158) (158) (743) (743)
Less: Securitisation positions at 50% (2,799) (2,799) (704) (704) (335) (335)
Less: Material holdings in financial companies at 50% (2,805) (2,915) (174) (174) (28) (28)
Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 14,703 14,620 22,333 22,356 13,866 13,866
Less: Other regulatory deductions (880) (880) (856) (964) (826) (826)
Total net capital resources 63,460 63,462 58,727 58,493 39,783 38,909
Notes
a For Barclays Bank PLC this balance represents Shareholders’ equity excluding 
non-controlling interests. 
b Adjusted for the scope of regulatory consolidation.
c Preference shares are included in the balance sheet under non-controlling interests for
Barclays PLC and shareholders equity for Barclays Bank PLC. 
d Reserve Capital Instruments comprise instruments that are both debt and equity accounted
and are included in the balance sheet under subordinated liabilities and non-controlling
interests for Barclays PLC and subordinated liabilities and shareholders equity for Barclays
Bank PLC.
e Tier 1 Notes are included in the balance sheet under subordinated liabilities.
f Qualifying subordinated liabilities include excess innovative Tier 1 instruments and are
subject to limits laid down in the regulatory requirements.
46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Capital management
continued www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 47
Financial review
Additional financial disclosure
Deposits and short-term borrowings
Deposits
Deposits include deposits from banks and customers accounts.
Average
a
for the year ended 31st December
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Deposits from banks
Customers in the United Kingdom 13,702 14,003 15,321
Other European Union 48,161 38,210 33,162
United States 14,757 15,925 6,656
Africa 2,218 3,110 4,452
Rest of the World 24,350 36,599 36,626
Total deposits from banks 103,188 107,847 96,217
Customer accounts
Customers in the United Kingdom 197,363 206,020 187,249
Other European Union 38,326 30,909 23,696
United States 32,218 31,719 21,908
Africa 37,009 35,692 29,855
Rest of the World 23,655 27,653 23,032
Customer accounts 328,571 331,993 285,740
Deposits from banks in offices in the United Kingdom received from non-
residents amounted to £51,423m (2008: £63,284m).
Y ear ended 31st December
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Customer accounts 322,429 335,505 294,987
In offices in the United Kingdom:
Current and Demand accounts 
– interest free 45,160 41,351 33,400
Current and Demand accounts 
– interest bearing 24,066 20,898 32,047
Savings accounts 71,238 68,335 70,682
Other time deposits – retail 29,678 33,785 36,123
Other time deposits – wholesale 52,891 74,417 65,726
Total repayable in offices 
in the United Kingdom 223,033 238,786 237,978
In offices outside 
the United Kingdom:
Current and Demand accounts 
– interest free 7,308 4,803 2,990
Current and Demand accounts 
– interest bearing 24,176 15,463 11,570
Savings accounts 9,950 7,673 3,917
Other time deposits 57,962 68,780 38,532
Total repayable in offices 
outside the United Kingdom 99,396 96,719 57,009
Customer accounts deposits in offices in the United Kingdom received from
non-residents amounted to £57,014m (2008: £61,714m).
Short-term borrowings
Short-term borrowings include deposits from banks, commercial paper 
and negotiable certificates of deposit.
Deposits from banks
Deposits from banks are taken from a wide range of counterparties 
and generally have maturities of less than one year.
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Y ear-end balance 76,446 114,910 90,546
Average balance
a
103,188 107,847 96,217
Maximum balance 121,940 139,836 109,586
Average interest rate during year 0.6% 3.6% 4.1%
Y ear-end interest rate 0.4% 2.3% 4.0%
Commercial paper
Commercial paper is issued by the Group, mainly in the United States,
generally in denominations of not less than US$100,000, with maturities of
up to 270 days.
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Y ear-end balance 19,300 27,692 23,451
Average balance
a
21,835 24,668 26,229
Maximum balance 28,756 27,792 30,736
Average interest rate during year 2.5% 4.4% 5.4%
Y ear-end interest rate 2.5% 4.2% 5.2%
Negotiable certificates of deposit
Negotiable certificates of deposits are issued mainly in the United Kingdom
and United States, generally in denominations of not less than US$100,000.
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Y ear-end balance 44,681 61,332 58,401
Average balance
a
54,960 55,122 55,394
Maximum balance 64,054 67,715 62,436
Average interest rate during year 2.3% 4.4% 5.1%
Y ear-end interest rate 2.2% 4.1% 5.0%
Note
a Calculated using month-end balances. Commitments and contractual obligations
Commercial commitments include guarantees, contingent liabilities and standby facilities.
Commercial commitments Amount of commitment expiration per period
Between Between Total
Less than one to three to After amounts
one year three years five years five years committed
£m £m £m £m £m
2009
Acceptances and endorsements 372 3 – – 375
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 6,770 4,103 1,286 3,247 15,406
Securities lending arrangements
a
27,406 – – – 27,406
Other contingent liabilities 7,637 853 381 716 9,587
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 722 38 2 – 762
Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 46 – – – 46
Standby facilities, credit lines and other 145,916 44,004 9,794 6,753 206,467
2008
Acceptances and endorsements 576 6 3 – 585
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 7,272 2,529 1,781 4,070 15,652
Securities lending arrangements
a
38,290 – – –38,290
Other contingent liabilities 7,989 1,604 372 1,818 11,783
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 770 88 1 – 859
Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 50 241 – – 291
Standby facilities, credit lines and other 195,035 29,666 26,150 8,815 259,666
Contractual obligations include debt securities, operating lease and purchase obligations.
Contractual obligations Payments due by period
Between Between 
Less than one to three to After 
one year three years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
2009
Long-term debt 80,824 31,138 12,982 28,626 153,570
Operating lease obligations 468 808 675 2,936 4,887
Purchase obligations 1,109 940 541 1,243 3,833
Total 82,401 32,886 14,198 32,805 162,290
2008
Long-term debt 108,172 24,701 10,855 22,008 165,736
Operating lease obligations 280 690 785 2,745 4,500
Purchase obligations 214 225 61 20 520
Total 108,666 25,616 11,701 24,773 170,756
The long-term debt does not include undated loan capital of £8,148m (2008: £13,673m). Further information on the contractual maturity of the Group’ s
assets and liabilities is given in Note 49.
48 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Additional financial disclosure
continued
Note
a Securities lending arrangements are fully collateralised, and are not expected to result in an
outflow of funds from the Group, see Note 34 on page 246 for further details. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 49
Securities
The following table analyses the book value of securities which are carried at fair value.
2009 2008 2007
Amortised Amortised Amortised
Book value cost Book value cost Book value cost 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Investment securities – available for sale
Debt securities:
United Kingdom government 77 74 1,238 1,240 78 81
Other government 10,958 8,389 11,456 11,338 7,383 7,434
Other public bodies and US Agencies 3,456 3,505 14,660 14,834 5,052 5,048
Mortgage and asset backed securities 2,498 2,958 3,510 4,126 1,367 1,429
Bank and building society certificates of deposit 7,697 7,343 10,478 10,535 3,028 3,029
Corporate and other issuers 19,202 18,986 17,489 17,908 21,765 21,803
Equity securities 6,676 6,247 2,142 1,814 1,676 1,418
Investment securities – available for sale 50,564 47,502 60,973 61,795 40,349 40,242
Other securities – held for trading
Debt securities:
United Kingdom government 6,815 n/a 6,955 n/a 3,832 n/a
Other government 54,161 n/a 50,727 n/a 51,104 n/a
Other public bodies and US Agencies 20,517 n/a 21,909 n/a 9,466 n/a
Mortgage and asset backed securities 12,942 n/a 30,748 n/a 27,572 n/a
Bank and building society certificates of deposit 995 n/a 7,518 n/a 17,751 n/a
Corporate and other issuers 21,164 n/a 30,829 n/a 43,053 n/a
Equity securities 19,602 n/a 30,535 n/a 36,307 n/a
Other securities – held for trading 136,196 n/a 179,221 n/a 189,085 n/a
Investment debt securities include government securities held as part of the Group’ s treasury management portfolio for asset and liability , liquidity and
regulatory purposes and are for use on a continuing basis in the activities of the Group. In addition, the Group holds as investments listed and unlisted
corporate securities. 
Bank and building society certificates of deposit are freely negotiable and have original maturities of up to five years, but are typically held for shorter
periods.
In addition to UK government securities shown above, the Group held the following government securities which exceeded 10% of shareholders’
equity in any of the last three years. These securities are held at fair value.
Government securities 2009 2008 2007
Book value Book value Book value
£m £m £m
United States 17,356 17,165 15,156
Japan 7,609 9,092 9,124
Germany 9,698 5,832 5,136
France 2,574 4,091 3,538
Italy 6,297 6,091 5,090
Spain 4,948 3,647 3,674
Maturities and yield of available for sale debt securities
Maturing within Maturing after one but Maturing after five but Maturing after
one year within five years within ten years ten years Total
Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
Government 971 5.3 6,647 2.5 2,147 1.8 1,270 1.2 11,035 2.5
Other public bodies
and US Agencies 14 3.6 148 2.4 3,279 4.1 15 4.8 3,456 4.1
Other issuers 14,727 2.7 12,983 1.4 1,075 3.0 612 3.4 29,397 2.3
T otal book value 15,712 2.9 19,778 1.8 6,501 3.2 1,897 1.9 43,888 2.5
The yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income prevailing at 31st December 2009 by the fair value of
securities held at that date.  Notes
a Average balances are based upon daily averages for most UK banking operations and
monthly averages elsewhere. 
b Loans and advances to banks and customers include all doubtful lendings, including non-
accrual lendings. Interest receivable on such lendings has been included to the extent to
which either cash payments have been received or interest has been accrued in accordance
with the income recognition policy of the Group.
c In addition to interest income and interest expense shown on the income statement on
page 204, interest income and interest expense above includes interest related to principal
transactions and available for sale assets and liabilities.
Average balance sheet
Average balance sheet and net interest income (year ended 31st December)
2009 2008 2007
Average Average Average Average Average Average
balance
a
Interest rate balance
a
Interest rate balance
a
Interest rate
£m £m % £m £m % £m £m %
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
b
:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 41,912 483 1.2 38,913 1,453 3.7 29,431 1,074 3.6
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 35,073 271 0.8 14,379 419 2.9 12,262 779 6.4
Loans and advances to customers
b
:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 264,687 9,405 3.6 249,081 13,714 5.5 205,707 13,027 6.3
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 135,936 8,869 6.5 116,284 9,208 7.9 88,212 6,733 7.6
Lease receivables:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 4,316 174 4.0 4,827 281 5.8 4,822 283 5.9
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 7,406 732 9.9 6,543 752 11.5 5,861 691 11.8
Financial investments:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 46,702 1,525 3.3 35,844 1,654 4.6 37,803 2,039 5.4
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 13,590 485 3.6 10,450 697 6.7 14,750 452 3.1
Reverse repurchase agreements 
and cash collateral on 
securities borrowed:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 163,139 1,770 1.1 207,521 8,768 4.2 211,709 9,644 4.6
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 145,606 665 0.5 128,250 4,450 3.5 109,012 5,454 5.0
Trading portfolio assets:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 96,421 3,262 3.4 107,626 4,948 4.6 120,691 5,926 4.9
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 103,789 3,228 3.1 128,287 5,577 4.3 57,535 3,489 6.1
Financial assets designated at
fair value:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 18,881 822 4.4 20,299 1,325 6.5 19,154 849 4.4
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 13,552 315 2.3 8,690 426 4.9 11,298 713 6.3
T otal average interest earning assets 1,091,010 32,006 2.9 1,076,994 53,672 5.0 928,247 51,153 5.5
Impairment allowances/provisions (8,705) (5,749) (4,435)
Non-interest earning assets 782,378 682,867 392,382
T otal average assets and
interest income 1,864,683 32,006 1.7 1,754,112 53,672 3.1 1,316,194 51,153 3.9
Percentage of total average 
interest earning assets in
offices outside the United Kingdom 41.7% 38.3% 32.2%
T otal average interest earning 
assets related to:
Interest income 
c
32,006 2.9 53,672 5.0 51,153 5.5
Interest expense
c
(20,713) 1.9 (39,820) 3.8 (39,201) 4.6
11,293 1.0 13,852 1.2 11,952 0.9
50 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Additional financial disclosure
continued www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 51
Average balance sheet and net interest income (year ended 31st December)
2009 2008 2007
Average Average Average Average Average Average
balance
a
Interest rate balance
a
Interest rate balance
a
Interest rate
£m £m % £m £m % £m £m %
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Deposits by banks:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 66,394 805 1.2 70,272 2,780 4.0 63,902 2,511 3.9
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 31,091 295 0.9 32,172 956 3.0 27,596 1,225 4.4
Customer accounts: 
demand deposits:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 20,989 374 1.8 24,333 910 3.7 29,110 858 2.9
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 23,774 876 3.7 14,902 572 3.8 13,799 404 2.9
Customer accounts: 
savings deposits:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 71,818 388 0.5 71,062 2,143 3.0 55,064 2,048 3.7
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 8,563 326 3.8 7,033 413 5.9 4,848 128 2.6
Customer accounts: 
other time deposits – retail:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 30,233 647 2.1 32,283 1,523 4.7 30,578 1,601 5.2
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 28,612 1,728 6.0 20,055 1,350 6.7 12,425 724 5.8
Customer accounts:
other time deposits – wholesale:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 54,459 1,140 2.1 60,574 2,362 3.9 52,147 2,482 4.8
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 20,595 988 4.8 31,300 2,094 6.7 24,298 1,661 6.8
Debt securities in issue:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 75,950 2,186 2.9 41,014 1,920 4.7 41,552 2,053 4.9
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 81,077 2,278 2.8 80,768 3,734 4.6 94,271 5,055 5.4
Dated and undated loan capital 
and other subordinated 
liabilities principally:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 26,379 1,889 7.2 22,912 1,435 6.3 12,972 763 5.9
Repurchase agreements and cash 
collateral on securities lent:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 169,824 1,300 0.8 203,967 8,445 4.1 169,272 7,616 4.5
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 215,714 849 0.4 177,883 2,800 1.6 118,050 5,051 4.3
Trading portfolio liabilities:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 55,704 2,193 3.9 56,675 2,657 4.7 47,971 2,277 4.7
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 36,812 999 2.7 62,239 2,087 3.4 29,838 1,435 4.8
Financial liabilities designated at
fair value:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 32,573 1,223 3.8 32,311 1,062 3.3 16,337 1,068 6.5
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 18,484 229 1.2 14,237 577 4.1 9,190 241 2.6
T otal average interest bearing 
liabilities 1,069,045 20,713 1.9 1,055,992 39,820 3.8 853,220 39,201 4.6
Interest free customer deposits:
– in offices in the United Kingdom 43,897 40,439 34,109
– in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 4,816 3,089 3,092
Other non-interest bearing liabilities 696,478 617,910 395,946
Non-controlling and other interests 
and shareholders’ equity 50,447 36,682 29,827
T otal average liabilities, 
shareholders’ equity and 
interest expense 1,864,683 20,713 1.1 1,754,112 39,820 2.3 1,316,194 39,201 3.0
Percentage of total average 
interest bearing non-capital 
liabilities in offices outside the 
United Kingdom 43.5% 41.7% 39.2%
Note
a Average balances are based upon daily averages for most UK banking operations and
monthly averages elsewhere. Changes in net interest income – volume and rate analysis
The following tables allocate changes in net interest income between changes in volume and changes in interest rates for the last two years. Volume and
rate variances have been calculated on the movement in the average balances and the change in the interest rates on average interest earning assets and
average interest bearing liabilities. Where variances have arisen from changes in both volumes and interest rates, these have been allocated proportionately
between the two.
2009/2008 Change due 2008/2007 Change due 2007/2006 Change due 
to increase/(decrease) in: to increase/(decrease) in: to increase/(decrease) in:
Total Total Total
change Volume Rate change Volume Rate change Volume Rate
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest receivable
Loans and advances to banks:
– in offices in the UK (970) 104 (1,074) 379 354 25 427 402 25
– in offices outside the UK (148) 310 (458) (360) 117 (477) 291 (1) 292
(1,118) 414 (1,532) 19 471 (452) 718 401 317
Loans and advances to customers:
– in offices in the UK (4,309) 814 (5,123) 687 2,525 (1,838) 1,780 1,337 443
– in offices outside the UK (339) 1,422 (1,761) 2,475 2,214 261 1,802 728 1,074
(4,648) 2,236 (6,884) 3,162 4,739 (1,577) 3,582 2,065 1,517
Lease receivables:
– in offices in the UK (107) (27) (80) (2) – (2) (17) (26) 9
– in offices outside the UK (20) 92 (112) 61 79 (18) 96 (30) 126
(127) 65 (192) 59 79 (20) 79 (56) 135
Financial investments:
– in offices in the UK (129) 426 (555) (385) (102) (283) 103 (165) 268
– in offices outside the UK (212) 171 (383) 245 (163) 408 (378) 32 (410)
(341) 597 (938) (140) (265) 125 (275) (133) (142)
Reverse repurchase agreements 
and cash collateral on securities 
borrowed:
– in offices in the UK (6,998) (1,564) (5,434) (876) (188) (688) 3,508 1,865 1,643
– in offices outside the UK (3,785) 532 (4,317) (1,004) 855 (1,859) 414 430 (16)
(10,783) (1,032) (9,751) (1,880) 667 (2,547) 3,922 2,295 1,627
Trading portfolio assets:
– in offices in the UK (1,686) (477) (1,209) (978) (616) (362) 1,760 621 1,139
– in offices outside the UK (2,349) (943) (1,406) 2,088 3,303 (1,215) 881 (172) 1,053
(4,035) (1,420) (2,615) 1,110 2,687 (1,577) 2,641 449 2,192
Financial assets designated 
at fair value:
– in offices in the UK (503) (87) (416) 476 53 423 479 534 (55)
– in offices outside the UK (111) 174 (285) (287) (146) (141) 478 357 121
(614) 87 (701) 189 (93) 282 957 891 66
T otal interest receivable:
– in offices in the UK (14,702) (811) (13,891) (699) 2,026 (2,725) 8,040 4,568 3,472
– in offices outside the UK (6,964) 1,758 (8,722) 3,218 6,259 (3,041) 3,584 1,344 2,240
(21,666) 947 (22,613) 2,519 8,285 (5,766) 11,624 5,912 5,712
52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Additional financial disclosure
continued  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 53
Changes in net interest income – volume and rate analysis
2009/2008 Change due 2008/2007 Change due 2007/2006 Change due 
to increase/(decrease) in: to increase/(decrease) in: to increase/(decrease) in:
Total Total Total
change Volume Rate change Volume Rate change Volume Rate
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest payable
Deposits by banks:
– in offices in the UK (1,975) (146) (1,829) 269 252 17 47 66 (19)
– in offices outside the UK (661) (31) (630) (269) 181 (450) 88 190 (102)
(2,636) (177) (2,459) – 433 (433) 135 256 (121)
Customer accounts – demand 
deposits:
– in offices in the UK (536) (111) (425) 52 (155) 207 178 105 73
– in offices outside the UK 304 327 (23) 168 34 134 150 95 55
(232) 216 (448) 220 (121) 341 328 200 128
Customer accounts – savings 
deposits:
– in offices in the UK (1,755) 23 (1,778) 95 527 (432) 357 (81) 438
– in offices outside the UK (87) 77 (164) 285 77 208 54 45 9
(1,842) 100 (1,942) 380 604 (224) 411 (36) 447
Customer accounts – other time 
deposits – retail:
– in offices in the UK (876) (91) (785) (78) 86 (164) 53 (204) 257
– in offices outside the UK 378 529 (151) 626 500 126 242 200 42
(498) 438 (936) 548 586 (38) 295 (4) 299
Customer accounts – other time 
deposits – wholesale:
– in offices in the UK (1,222) (219) (1,003) (120) 367 (487) 688 263 425
– in offices outside the UK (1,106) (605) (501) 433 469 (36) 470 45 425
(2,328) (824) (1,504) 313 836 (523) 1,158 308 850
Debt securities in issue:
– in offices in the UK 266 1,202 (936) (133) (26) (107) 203 (240) 443
– in offices outside the UK (1,456) 14 (1,470) (1,321) (673) (648) 1,369 1,063 306
(1,190) 1,216 (2,406) (1,454) (699) (755) 1,572 823 749
Dated and undated loan capital 
and other subordinated liabilities 
principally in offices in the UK 454 233 221 672 620 52 (14) (41) 27
Repurchase agreements and 
cash collateral on securities lent:
– in offices in the UK (7,145) (1,217) (5,928) 829 1,471 (642) 2,536 1,090 1,446
– in offices outside the UK (1,951) 497 (2,448) (2,251) 1,840 (4,091) 740 1,402 (662)
(9,096) (720) (8,376) (1,422) 3,311 (4,733) 3,276 2,492 784
Trading portfolio liabilities:
– in offices in the UK (464) (45) (419) 380 408 (28) 263 (80) 343
– in offices outside the UK (1,088) (742) (346) 652 1,189 (537) 83 (366) 449
(1,552) (787) (765) 1,032 1,597 (565) 346 (446) 792
Financial liabilities designated
at fair value:
– in offices in the UK 161 8 153 (6) 700 (706) 571 82 489
– in offices outside the UK (348) 137 (485) 336 168 168 29 29 –
(187) 145 (332) 330 868 (538) 600 111 489
T otal interest payable:
– in offices in the UK (13,092) (363) (12,729) 1,960 4,250 (2,290) 4,882 960 3,922
– in offices outside the UK (6,015) 203 (6,218) (1,341) 3785 (5,126) 3,225 2,703 522
(19,107) (160) (18,947) 619 8,035 (7,416) 8,107 3,663 4,444
Movement in net interest income
Increase/(decrease) in interest 
receivable (21,666) 947 (22,613) 2,519 8,285 (5,766) 11,624 5,912 5,712
(Increase)/ decrease in interest 
payable 19,107 160 18,947 (619) (8,035) 7,416 (8,107) (3,663) (4,444)
(2,559) 1,107 (3,666) 1,900 250 1,650 3,517 2,249 1,268 Financial review
Additional financial disclosure
continued 
54 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Net interest margin 2009 2008 2007
% %%
UK Retail Banking 1.40 1.70 1.78
UK Commercial Banking 1.55 1.61 1.74
Barclaycard 9.69 7.58 7.24
GRCB – Western Europe 1.71 1.67 1.40
GRCB – Emerging Markets 4.49 4.14 3.68
GRCB – Absa 2.61 2.68 2.86
Barclays Wealth 1.02 1.04 1.12
GRCB and Wealth 2.11 2.07 2.07
Average balances 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
UK Retail Banking assets 97,830 90,263 78,502
UK Retail Banking liabilities 89,042 85,892 81,848
Barclays Commercial Bank assets 63,273 61,710 53,947
Barclays Commercial Bank liabilities 49,012 47,624 46,367
Barclaycard assets 28,102 23,552 18,976
GRCB – Western Europe assets 51,684 41,719 30,145
GRCB – Western Europe liabilities 17,379 10,610 7,489
GRCB – Emerging Markets assets 8,341 7,016 3,559
GRCB – Emerging Markets liabilities 8,200 7,387 5,115
GRCB – Absa assets 32,483 27,706 25,333
GRCB – Absa liabilities 17,380 13,454 11,511
Barclays Wealth assets 12,293 9,749 7,403
Barclays Wealth liabilities 37,198 37,205 31,151
Total GRCB and Wealth assets 294,006 261,715 217,865
Total GRCB and Wealth liabilities 218,211 202,172 183,481
Business margins 2009 2008 2007
% %%
UK Retail Banking assets 1.32 1.25 1.20
UK Retail Banking liabilities 1.36 2.01 2.15
Barclays Commercial Bank assets 1.60 1.55 1.80
Barclays Commercial Bank liabilities 1.22 1.47 1.49
Barclaycard assets 8.97 6.92 6.51
GRCB – Western Europe assets 1.33 1.19 1.13
GRCB – Western Europe liabilities 0.46 1.29 1.64
GRCB – Emerging Markets assets 5.20 4.89 6.62
GRCB – Emerging Markets liabilities 2.26 2.12 0.75
GRCB – Absa assets 2.68 2.79 2.70
GRCB – Absa liabilities 2.43 3.06 3.21
Barclays Wealth assets 1.01 1.04 1.11
Barclays Wealth liabilities 0.96 0.95 1.03
Total GRCB and Wealth assets 2.36 2.07 2.06
Total GRCB and Wealth liabilities 1.31 1.72 1.80
Analysis of net interest income 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
GRCB and Barclays Wealth net 
interest income pre product 
structural hedge 8,654 8,845 7,772
GRCB and Barclays Wealth net 
interest income from product 
structural hedge 1,364 44 (7)
GRCB and Barclays Wealth share 
of benefit of interest income on 
Group equity 799 712 547
T otal GRCB and Barclays Wealth 
net interest income 10,817 9,601 8,312
Barclays Capital net interest income
a
1,598 1,724 1,179
BGI net interest income
a
43 (38) (8)
Other net interest income (507) 182 127
Group net interest income 11,951 11,469 9,610
Margins and Balances
For commentary on business margins please refer to the Analysis of Results
by Business on pages 58 to 79.
Note
a Including share of the interest income on Group equity . www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 55
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
Critical accounting estimates
The Group’ s accounting policies are set out on pages 193 to 203. Certain of
these policies, as well as estimates made by management, are considered 
to be important to an understanding of the Group’ s financial condition 
since they require management to make difficult, complex or subjective
judgements and estimates, some of which may relate to matters that are
inherently uncertain. The following accounting policies include estimates
which are particularly sensitive in terms of judgements and the extent to
which estimates are used. Other accounting policies involve significant
amounts of judgements and estimates, but the total amounts involved 
are not significant to the financial statements. Management has discussed
the accounting policies and critical accounting estimates with the Board
Audit Committee. 
Fair value of financial instruments 
Some of the Group’ s financial instruments are carried at fair value through
profit or loss, such as those held for trading, designated by management
under the fair value option and non-cash flow hedging derivatives. 
Other non-derivative financial assets may be designated as available 
for sale. Available for sale financial investments are initially recognised at fair
value and are subsequently held at fair value. Gains and losses arising from
changes in fair value of such assets are included as a separate component of
equity . Financial instruments entered into as trading transactions, together
with any associated hedging, are measured at fair value and the resultant
profits and losses are included in net trading income, along with interest and
dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to
trading activities. Assets and liabilities resulting from gains and losses on
financial instruments held for trading are reported gross in trading portfolio
assets and liabilities or derivative financial instruments, reduced by the
effects of netting agreements where there is an intention to settle net 
with counterparties. 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the
instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing
parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Where a valuation model is
used to determine fair value, it makes maximum use of market inputs. The
classification of these instruments is based on the lowest level input that is
significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety .
Financial instruments with a fair value based on quoted market prices
(Level 1) include valuations which are determined by unadjusted quoted
prices for identical instruments in active markets where the quoted price
is readily available, and the price represents actual and regularly occurring
market transactions on an arm’ s length basis.
Financial instruments with a fair value based on observable inputs
(Level 2), other than quoted market prices as described for Level 1, but 
which are observable for the instrument, either directly or indirectly .
Financial instruments with a fair value based on significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3), include valuations which incorporate
significant inputs for the instrument that are not based on observable
market data (unobservable inputs). Unobservable inputs are those not
readily available in an active market due to market illiquidity or complexity 
of the product. These inputs are generally determined based on observable
inputs of a similar nature, historic observations on the level of the input or
analytical techniques.
An analysis of financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation
hierarchy , particulars of the valuation techniques used and a sensitivity
analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs is included in Note 50.
This note also includes a discussion of the more judgemental aspects of
valuation in the period, including: credit valuation adjustments on monoline
exposures, commercial real estate loans, and private equity investments.
Allowances for loan impairment and other credit risk provisions 
Allowances for loan impairment represent management’ s estimate of the
losses incurred in the loan portfolios as at the balance sheet date. Changes
to the allowances for loan impairment and changes to the provisions for
undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided are
reported in the consolidated income statement as part of the impairment
charge. Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments and similar
facilities if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in
recognition of an asset at an amount less than the amount advanced. 
Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large
numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics
where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical techniques
are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio basis, based on
historical recovery rates and assumed emergence periods. These statistical
analyses use as primary inputs the extent to which accounts in the portfolio are in arrears and historical information on the eventual losses encountered
from such delinquent portfolios. There are many such models in use, each
tailored to a product, line of business or customer category . Judgement and
knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the
models are developed or revised. The impairment allowance reflected in the
financial statements for these portfolios is therefore considered to be
reasonable and supportable. The impairment charge reflected in the income
statement for these portfolios is £3,917m (2008: £2,333m) and amounts 
to 53% (2008: 47%) of the total impairment charge on loans and advances
in 2009.
For larger accounts, impairment allowances are calculated on an
individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a bearing on 
the expected future cash flows are taken into account, for example, the
business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, 
the Group’ s position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer
information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out process. The
level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the
discounted expected future cash flows (discounted at the loan’ s original
effective interest rate), and its carrying amount. Subjective judgements are
made in the calculation of future cash flows. Furthermore, judgements
change with time as new information becomes available or as work-out
strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the impairment allowance
as individual decisions are taken. Changes in these estimates would result in
a change in the allowances and have a direct impact on the impairment
charge. The impairment charge reflected in the financial statements in
relation to larger accounts is £3,441m (2008: £2,580m) and amounts to
47% (2008: 53%) of the total impairment charge on loans and advances.
Further information on impairment allowances is set out in Note 7 on
page 214.
Goodwill 
Management have to consider at least annually whether the current
carrying value of goodwill is impaired. The first step of the process requires
the identification of independent cash generating units and the allocation of
goodwill to these units. This allocation is based on the areas of the business
expected to benefit from the synergies derived from the acquisition. The
allocation is reviewed following business reorganisation. The carrying value
of the unit, including the allocated goodwill, is compared to its fair value to
determine whether any impairment exists. If the fair value of a unit is less
than its carrying value, goodwill will be impaired. Detailed calculations may
need to be carried out taking into consideration changes in the market in
56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Additional financial disclosure
continued
which a business operates (e.g. competitive activity , regulatory change). In
the absence of readily available market price data this calculation is based
upon discounting expected pre-tax cash flows at a risk adjusted interest 
rate appropriate to the operating unit, the determination of both of which
requires the exercise of judgement. The estimation of pre-tax cash flows 
is sensitive to the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and 
to assumptions regarding the long-term sustainable cash flows. While
forecasts are compared with actual performance and external economic
data, expected cash flows naturally reflect management’ s view of future
performance. The most significant amounts of goodwill relate to UK Retail
Banking and GRCB – Absa, where goodwill impairment testing performed in
2009 indicated that this goodwill was not impaired. An analysis of goodwill
by cluster, together with key assumptions underlying the impairment
testing, is included in Note 21 on page 225. 
Intangible assets
Intangible assets that derive their value from contractual customer
relationships or that can be separated and sold and have a finite useful life
are amortised over their estimated useful life. Determining the estimated
useful life of these finite life intangible assets requires an analysis of
circumstances, and judgement by the Group’ s management. At each
balance sheet date, or more frequently when events or changes in
circumstances dictate, intangible assets are assessed for indications of
impairment. If indications are present, these assets are subject to an
impairment review. The impairment review comprises a comparison of the
carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount: the higher of the
asset’ s or the cash-generating unit’ s net selling price and its value in use. 
Net selling price is calculated by reference to the amount at which the 
asset could be disposed of in a binding sale agreement in an arm’ s length
transaction evidenced by an active market or recent transactions for similar
assets. Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash
flows obtainable as a result of the asset’ s continued use, including those
resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a
pre-tax basis. The most significant amounts of intangible assets relate to 
the GRCB – Absa and Lehman Brothers North American businesses.
Retirement benefit obligations 
The Group provides pension plans for employees in most parts of the world.
Arrangements for staff retirement benefits vary from country to country and
are made in accordance with local regulations and customs. For defined
contribution schemes, the pension cost recognised in the profit and loss www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 57
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
account represents the contributions payable to the scheme. For defined
benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the scheme’ s obligations
using the projected unit credit method and the fair valuation of each of 
the scheme’ s assets are performed annually in accordance with the
requirements of IAS 19. 
The actuarial valuation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, 
the key ones being interest rates, mortality , investment returns and inflation.
Mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality
tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the Group’ s own experience.
The returns on fixed interest investments are set to market yields at the
valuation date (less an allowance for risk) to ensure consistency with the
asset valuation. The returns on UK and overseas equities are based on the
long-term outlook for global equities at the calculation date having regard 
to current market yields and dividend growth expectations. The inflation
assumption reflects long-term expectations of both earnings and retail 
price inflation. 
The difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, adjusted for
any historic unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service cost, is
recognised as a liability in the balance sheet. An asset arising, for example, as
a result of past over-funding or the performance of the plan investments, is
recognised to the extent that it does not exceed the present value of future
contribution holidays or refunds of contributions. T o the extent that any
unrecognised gains or losses at the start of the measurement year in relation
to any individual defined benefit scheme exceed 10% of the greater of the
fair value of the scheme assets and the defined benefit obligation for that
scheme, a proportion of the excess is recognised in the income statement. 
The Group’ s IAS 19 pension deficit across all schemes as at 
31st December 2009 was £3,946m (Note 30) (2008: £1,287m). There 
are net recognised liabilities of £698m (2008: £1,292m) and unrecognised
actuarial losses of £3,248m (Note 30) (2008: £5m gains). The net
recognised liabilities comprised retirement benefit liabilities of £769m
(2008: £1,357m) and assets of £71m (2008: £65m). 
The Group’ s IAS 19 pension deficit in respect of the main UK scheme 
as at 31st December 2009 was £3,534m (2008: £858m). The most
significant reasons for this change were the decrease in AA corporate bond
yields which resulted in a lower discount rate of 5.61% (31st December
2008: 6.75%) and an increase in the long-term inflation assumption 
to 3.76% (31st December 2008: 3.16%). The impact of the change in
assumptions was partially offset by a one-off curtailment credit resulting
from the closure of the UK final salary pension schemes to existing
members, better than expected asset performance, and contributions 
paid in excess of the pension expense.
Further information on retirement benefit obligations, including
assumptions, is set out in Note 30 to the accounts on page 236. 
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset,
where the contractual rights to that asset have expired. Derecognition is also
appropriate where the rights to further cash flows from the asset have been
transferred to a third party and, with them, either:
(i) substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset; or
(ii) significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell
or pledge the asset.
Where significant risks and rewards have been transferred, but the
transferee does not have the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset,
the Group continues to account for the asset to the extent of its continuing
involvement (‘continuing involvement accounting’).
T o assess the extent to which risks and rewards have been transferred, 
it is often necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. Such an analysis will
compare the Group’ s exposure to variability in asset cash flows before the
transfer with its retained exposure after the transfer.
A cash flow analysis of this nature typically involves significant
judgement. In particular, it is necessary to estimate the asset’ s expected
future cash flows as well as potential variability around this expectation. 
The method of estimating expected future cash flows depends on the
nature of the asset, with market and market-implied data used to the
greatest extent possible. The potential variability around this expectation 
is typically determined by stressing underlying parameters to create
reasonable alternative upside and downside scenarios. Probabilities are 
then assigned to each scenario. Stressed parameters may include default
rates, loss severity or prepayment rates.
Where neither derecognition nor continuing involvement accounting 
is appropriate, the Group continues to recognise the asset in its entirety 
and recognises any consideration received as a financial liability .
Taxation
The tax charge in the accounts for amounts due to fiscal authorities in the
various territories in which the Group operates includes estimates based 
on judgement of the application of law and practice to quantify any liability
arising after taking into account external advice where appropriate. 58 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
Business performance – Global Retail and Commercial Banking
UK Retail Banking profit before tax decreased 55% to £612m as economic
conditions remained challenging. Income was down 11% reflecting the
impact of deposit margin compression net of hedges, partially offset by
good growth in Home Finance. T otal loans and advances to customers
increased £4.7bn to £99.1bn. Gross new mortgage lending was £14.2bn
during 2009 and net new mortgage lending was £5.7bn. The average loan
to value ratio of the mortgage book remained conservative at 43%.
Impairment charges increased 55% due to the deteriorating economic
environment. Operating expenses continued to be tightly controlled and
decreased 3% reflecting a one-off credit from the closure of the UK final
salary pension scheme offset by a year on year increase in pension costs 
and the non-recurrence of gains from the sale of property .
Barclays Commercial Bank profit before tax decreased 41% to £749m.
Income was broadly flat on 2008 with good growth in net fees and
commissions offset by lower income from principal transactions. Net interest
income was broadly flat as margin compression on the deposit book was
offset by higher lending and deposit volumes. New term lending extended 
to UK customers during 2009 was £14bn. Operating expenses were tightly
controlled and fell 3% driven by a one-off credit from the closure of the UK
final salary pension scheme partially offset by an increase in pensions and
share-based payment costs and the non-recurrence of gains from the sale
of property . Impairment charges increased to £974m reflecting the impact
of the weak business environment with rising default rates and falling asset
values across all business segments. 
Barclaycard profit before tax decreased 4% to £761m. Income growth
of 26% reflected strong growth across the businesses driven by increased
lending and improved margins. Average customer assets increased 19% to
£28.1bn. Impairment charges increased 64% due to the deteriorating global
economic environment, although the rate of growth in the second half of 
the year was lower than in the first half. Impairment grew across both the
international and UK businesses. Cost growth of 5% was largely driven by
appreciation of the average value of the US Dollar and the Euro against
Sterling and growth in the card portfolios including acquisitions made 
in 2008.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Western Europe profit before
tax fell 48% to £130m. Results included Barclays Russia, which incurred 
a loss of £67m and reflected a gain of £157m on the sale of Barclays life
insurance and pensions business in Iberia. Income grew in all countries,
improving 18% as the expanded network continued to mature with
customer deposits increasing £7.8bn to £23.4bn. Costs increased 16%
reflecting the expansion of the Portuguese and Italian networks, the
investment in Barclays Russia, restructuring charges of £24m and reduced
gains from the sale of property . Impairment charges increased £370m to
£667m, largely driven by losses in Spain in commercial property ,
construction and SME portfolios. However, delinquency trends improved
throughout the second half of 2009 in both retail and commercial portfolios.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Emerging Markets loss before
tax of £254m compared to a profit of £141m in 2008. Income increased 5%
with significant growth across Africa and the UAE, partially offset by lower
Analysis of results by business
Head Office
UK Barclays GRCB – GRCB – Barclays Functions
Retail Commercial Western Emerging
GRCB –
Barclays Global Barclays and Other
Banking Bank Barclaycard Europe Markets Absa Capital Investors
a
Wealth Operations
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 2,624 1,741 2,723 1,182 743 1,300 1,598 43 504 (507)
Net fee and commission income 1,225 926 1,271 438 232 943 3,001 1,757 802 (418)
Principal transactions – (26) 22 123 68 123 7,021 98 20 (325)
Net premiums from insurance 
contracts 198 – 44 544 – 294 5 – – 92
Other income 6 112282 60 –57 1,186
Total income 4,053 2,753 4,062 2,295 1,045 2,720 11,625 1,903 1,333 28
Net claims and benefits incurred 
on insurance contracts (68) – (20) (572) – (171) ––––
Total income, net of 
insurance claims 3,985 2,753 4,042 1,723 1,045 2,549 11,625 1,903 1,333 28
Impairment charges and other 
credit provisions (936) (974) (1,798) (667) (471) (567) (2,591) – (51) (16)
Net income 3,049 1,779 2,244 1,056 574 1,982 9,034 1,903 1,282 12
Operating expenses (2,440) (1,030) (1,494) (1,113) (852) (1,469) (6,592) (1,154) (1,138) (570)
Share of post-tax results of 
associates and joint ventures 3 – 8 4 – (4) 22 – – 1
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures – – 3 157 24 (3) – (1) 1 7
Profit on disposal of 
discontinued operations ––––––– 6,331 – –
Gain on acquisitions ––– 26 ––––––
Profit before tax 612 749 761 130 (254) 506 2,464 7,079 145 (550)
As at 31st December 2009
Total assets 105,228 75,547 30,220 64,185 11,874 45,824 1,019,120 5,406 15,095 6,430
Total liabilities 102,934 68,108 5,543 48,049 9,836 25,769 951,192 416 41,648 66,848
Note
a Continuing and discontinued operations including profit on disposal. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 59
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
income in India. Impairment charges increased £306m to £471m with
significant increases in India and the UAE, reflecting the impact of the
economic recession across the business with continued pressure on
liquidity , rising default rates and lower asset values. Operating expense
growth of 24% reflected continued investment in Indonesia and Pakistan
and investment in infrastructure across other markets.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Absa profit before tax
decreased 8% to £506m. Income growth of 16% was driven by solid
balance sheet growth, the appreciation in the average value of the Rand
against Sterling and higher fees and commissions. Operating expenses
increased at a lower rate of 13% which led to an improvement in the
cost:income ratio to 58% (2008: 59%). Impairment charges rose £220m 
to £567m as a result of higher delinquency levels in the retail portfolios
reflecting high consumer indebtedness.
.
Business performance – Investment Banking 
and Investment Management 
Barclays Capital profit before tax increased 89% to £2,464m as a result of
very strong performances in the UK, Europe and the US, partially offset by 
a charge of £1,820m relating to own credit (2008: £1,663m gain). T op-line
income increased 81% to £17.9bn reflecting excellent results across the
client franchise and a resilient fourth quarter with top-line income of £3.6bn.
Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) was up £5.6bn to £13.0bn
following the expansion of the business and increased client flows. T op-line
income in Equities and Prime Services increased 147% and Investment
Banking income more than doubled. T otal credit market exposures were
reduced by £14.1bn to £27.6bn. In addition £5.1bn of credit market assets
(and £2.4bn of other assets) were sold to Protium Finance LP . Operating
expenses were 75% higher than 2008 given the substantial increase in
the overall scale of the business. The cost:income ratio improved to 57%
(2008: 72%). Compensation expenses as a proportion of income reduced
38%, down from 44% in 2008. T otal assets reduced 37% driven by
initiatives to reduce derivative balances. 
On 1st December 2009 Barclays completed the sale of Barclays Global
Investors to BlackRock, Inc. Included in the consideration were 37.567 million
new BlackRock shares giving Barclays an economic interest of 19.9% of the
enlarged BlackRock group. The profit on disposal before tax was £6,331m.
Profit before tax, excluding the profit on disposal, increased 26% to £748m
(2008: £595m) following a recovery on liquidity support charges and an
18% appreciation in the average value of the US Dollar against Sterling. 
Barclays Wealth profit before tax reduced 78% to £145m principally 
as a result of the impact of the sale of the closed life business in 2008 and
the cost of the integration of Barclays Wealth Americas during 2009. Income
was in line with 2008. Excluding the impact of these transactions there was
solid growth in income due to growth in the client franchise and the product
offering. Operating expenses grew by 22%, reflecting the integration of the
US business, partially offset by the disposal of the closed life business. T otal
client assets increased by 4% (£6bn) to £151bn. 60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
UK Retail Banking 
UK Retail Banking comprises Personal Customers, Home Finance, Local
Business, Consumer Lending and Barclays Financial Planning. We have
one of the largest branch networks in the UK with around 1,700
branches and an extensive network of cash machines.
What we do
We are transforming Barclays to be the best bank in the UK by designing
innovative, simple and transparent propositions, streamlining operating
platforms and further leveraging Barclays Group capabilities.
Our cluster of businesses aims to build broader and deeper relationships
with customers. Personal Customers and Home Finance provide a wide
range of products and services to retail customers, including current
accounts, savings and investment products, mortgages branded Woolwich
and general insurance. Barclays Financial Planning provides banking,
investment products and advice to affluent customers.
Local Business provides banking services to small businesses. UK Retail
Banking is also a gateway to more specialised services from other parts of
Barclays such as Barclays Stockbrokers.
Our business serves 15 million UK customers.
Performance
2009/08
In the continued challenging economic environment, UK Retail Banking
profit before tax decreased 55% (£757m) to £612m (2008: £1,369m),
impacted by low interest rates resulting in margin compression on the
deposit book and increased impairment charges which together more 
than offset well controlled costs and an improved assets margin.
The number of Savings Accounts increased 10% to 13.2 million
(31st December 2008: 12.0 million) and Mortgage Accounts increased
18,000 to 834,000 (31st December 2008: 816,000). Local Business
customer numbers increased 26,000 to 686,000 (31st December 2008:
660,000) with gross new lending of £1,047m. T otal loans and advances to
customers increased £4.7bn to £99.1bn (31st December 2008: £94.4bn).
Income decreased 11% (£497m) to £3,985m (2008: £4,482m)
reflecting the impact of margin compression, which more than offset good
income growth in Home Finance. 
Net interest income decreased 12% (£372m) to £2,624m (2008:
£2,996m) driven by margin compression of £755m on liabilities after taking
into account gains on product hedges implemented to protect income on
current accounts and managed rate deposits. This was partially offset by
increases in asset driven net interest income. T otal average customer
deposit balances increased 4% to £89.0bn (2008: £85.9bn), reflecting 
good growth in Personal Customer Current Account balances. The average
liabilities margin declined to 1.36% (2008: 2.01%) reflecting reductions 
in UK base rates.
Average mortgage balances grew 10%, reflecting strongly positive 
net lending. Mortgage balances were £87.9bn at the end of the period 
(31st December 2008: £82.3bn), a market share of 7% (2008: 7%). 
Gross advances reduced to £14.2bn (2008: £22.9bn) reflecting a continued
conservative approach to lending, with redemptions of £8.5bn (2008:
£10.4bn). Net new mortgage lending was £5.7bn (2008: £12.5bn). The
average loan to value ratio of the mortgage book (including buy-to-let) on 
a current valuation basis was 43% (2008: 40%). The average loan to value
ratio of new mortgage lending was 48% (2008: 47%) and the assets margin
increased to 1.32% (2008: 1.25%) reflecting increased returns from
mortgages and consumer loans.
Net fee and commission income decreased 6% (£74m) to £1,225m
(2008: £1,299m) reflecting changing customer usage together with lower
mortgage application and redemption fees. Overall sales productivity
resulted in fee income growth in investments. 
T otal impairment charges represented 0.93% (2008: 0.63%) of total
gross loans and advances to customers and banks. Impairment charges
increased 55% (£334m) to £936m (2008: £602m), reflecting lower
expectations for recoveries in line with the current economic environment.
Impairment charges within Consumer Lending increased 56% to £573m
(2008: £368m) with impairment charges increasing 75% to £183m (2008:
£105m) in Personal Customer Current Accounts. Mortgage impairment
charges remained low at £26m (2008: £24m). 
Operating expenses remained well controlled and decreased 3%
(£79m) to £2,440m (2008: £2,519m). This reflected the receipt of a one-off
credit of £175m resulting from the closure of the UK final salary pension
scheme to existing members, offset by a year on year increase in pension
costs of £115m and the non-recurrence of gains of £75m from the sale of
property. 
92.5
89.6
87.1
7.4
6.9
6.0
07
08
Customer deposits 
£bn
09
Market share of mortgage balances
%
07
08
09
Performance indicators www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 61
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
Key points
– 11.2m Personal customers with UK current accounts
– 13.2m Personal customers with UK savings accounts
– L TV of mortgage book of 43% and L TV of new mortgage
lending of 48%
– 686,000 Local Business customers
2008/07
UK Retail Banking profit before tax increased 7% (£94m) to £1,369m 
(2007: £1,275m) through solid income growth and continued good control
of impairment and costs. The launch of new products and propositions
supported a significant increase in customer accounts, with Current
Accounts increasing 4% (0.4m) to 11.7m (2007: 11.3m), Savings Accounts
increasing 8% (0.9m) to 12.0m (2007: 11.1m) and Mortgage Accounts
increasing 8% (62,000) to 816,000 (2007: 754,000).
Income grew 4% (£185m) to £4,482m (2007: £4,297m) reflecting
strong growth in Home Finance and solid growth in Consumer Lending and
Local Business, partially offset by reduced income from Personal Customer
Savings Accounts due to the impact of the reductions in the UK base rates in
the second half of 2008. 
Net interest income increased 5% (£138m) to £2,996m (2007:
£2,858m) driven by strong growth in loans and advances. T otal average
customer deposit balances increased 5% to £85.9bn (2007: £81.8bn),
reflecting solid growth in Personal Customer and Local Business balances.
The average liabilities margin declined to 2.01% (2007: 2.15%) reflecting
the reductions in UK base rates in the second half of 2008.
Mortgage balances grew 18%, driven by increased share of new lending
and higher levels of balance retention. Mortgage balances were £82.3bn at
the end of the period (31st December 2007: £69.8bn), a market share of
7% (2007: 6%). Gross advances were stable at £22.9bn, with redemptions
of £10.4bn (2007: £15.0bn). Net new lending was £12.5bn (2007: £8.0bn),
a market share
a
of 36% (2007: 8%). The average loan to value ratio of the
mortgage book (including buy-to-let) on a current valuation basis was 40%
(2007: 34%). The average loan to value ratio of new mortgage lending was
47% (2007: 49%). The assets margin increased to 1.25% (2007: 1.20%)
reflecting increased returns from mortgages.
Net fee and commission income increased 10% (£116m) to £1,299m
(2007: £1,183m) reflecting £116m settlements on overdraft fees in 2007.
Excluding this, net fees and commissions were stable.
Impairment charges increased 8% (£43m) to £602m (2007: £559m),
reflecting growth in customer assets of 15% and the impact of the current
economic environment. Mortgage impairment charges were £24m 
(2007: release of £3m). Impairment charges within Consumer Lending
increased 3%. 
Operating expenses increased 2% (£49m) to £2,519m (2007:
£2,470m) reflecting reduced gains from the sale of property of £75m 
(2007: £193m). Continued strong and active management of expense 
lines, including back-office consolidation and process efficiencies, funded
increased investment in product development and distribution channels. 
The cost:income ratio improved one percentage point to 56% 
(2007: 57%).
£3 , 985
m
£ 612
m
profit before tax total income net of
insurance claims
UK Retail Banking 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income 2,624 2,996 2,858
Net fee and commission income 1,225 1,299 1,183
Net premiums from insurance contracts 198 205 252
Other income 6 17 47
T otal income 4,053 4,517 4,340
Net claims and benefits on insurance contracts (68) (35) (43)
T otal income net of insurance claims 3,985 4,482 4,297
Impairment charges (936) (602) (559)
Net income 3,049 3,880 3,738
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (2,400) (2,499) (2,461)
Amortisation of intangible assets (40) (20) (9)
Operating expenses (2,440) (2,519) (2,470)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 3 87
Profit before tax 612 1,369 1,275
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers £99.1bn £94.4bn £82.0bn
Customer accounts £92.5bn £89.6bn £87.1bn
T otal assets £105.2bn £101.4bn £88.5bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital 12% 27% 28%
Cost:income ratio 61% 56% 57%
Cost:net income ratio 80% 65% 66%
Other financial measures 
Economic profit (£64m) £633m £617m
Risk weighted assets
b
£32.2bn £30.5bn £31.5bn
Notes
a Excludes Housing Associations.
b Risk weighted assets for 2009 and 2008 are calculated under Basel II. 2007 is calculated
under Basel I. 62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
Barclays Commercial Bank 
Barclays Commercial Bank is one of the UK’s leading providers of
banking solutions to business customers and clients with an annual
turnover of more than £1m. 
What we do
Barclays Commercial Bank provides banking services to customers via a
network of relationship, regional, industry-sector and product speacialists
across the UK.
Working closely with our clients to understand their needs, we 
deliver financing, risk management, trade and cash management solutions
constructed from a comprehensive suite of products, expertise and services.
This includes specialist asset financing and leasing facilities.
Performance
2009/08
Barclays Commercial Bank profit before tax decreased 41% (£517m) 
to £749m (2008: £1,266m), primarily driven by significantly higher
impairment charges. Income was flat, with strong performance from 
net fees and commissions offset by lower principal transactions. 
Income totalled £2,753m (2008: £2,745m). Net interest income fell 1%
(£16m) to £1,741m (2008: £1,757m) with the benefit of increased average
lending balances and higher deposit volumes offset by margin compression
in the deposit book of £220m. Average lending grew 3% (£1.6bn) to
£63.3bn (2008: £61.7bn) reflecting our continuing commitment to lend 
to viable businesses. The asset margin increased 5 basis points to 1.60%
(2008: 1.55%). Average customer deposits grew 3% (£1.4bn) to £49.0bn
(2008: £47.6bn) benefiting from ongoing product initiatives. Deposit
margin fell 25 basis points to 1.22% (2008: 1.47%) reflecting the fall in 
UK base rate.
Non-interest income comprised 37% of total income (2008: 36%). 
Net fees and commissions income increased 8% (£65m) to £926m (2008:
£861m), driven by strong debt fees, trade guarantees and other fee income. 
Principal transactions income decreased £48m to a loss of £26m (2008:
gain of £22m) as a result of investment writedowns and fewer opportunities
for equity realisation within the current market environment.
Other income grew 7% (£7m) to £112m (2008: £105m) reflecting
increased income from the repurchase of securitised debt issued of £85m
(2008: £24m), partially offset by lower rental income from operating leases
of £21m (2008: £29m). 2008 income included a £39m gain from the
restructuring of Barclays interest in a third party finance operation.
Impairment charges rose to £974m (2008: £414m), reflecting the
impact of the economic recession across the business with continued
pressure on corporate liquidity , rising default rates and lower asset values.
1.7
1.8
1.7
1.58
0.60
0.45
07
08
Interest income:
non-interest income
£bn
09
Impairment as % 
of loans and advances 
to customers and banks
07
08
09
1.0
1.0
0.8
2.1x
1.8x
1.8x
– Interest income
– Non-interest 
   income
Performance indicators www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 63
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
Impairment as a percentage of period end gross loans and advances 
to customers and banks increased to 1.58% (2008: 0.60%).
Operating expenses fell 3% to £1,030m (2008: £1,063m), reflecting
tightly managed discretionary costs and a £100m one-off credit for the
closure of the UK final salary pensions scheme partially offset by an
incremental increase in pension costs of £69m and the non-recurrence 
of property credits. 
The number of customers fell 6% primarily as a result of reductions in
exposures to high risk sectors within Barclays Asset and Sales Finance.
2008/07
Barclays Commercial Bank profit before tax decreased 7% (£91m) 
to £1,266m (2007: £1,357m) reflecting a resilient performance in
challenging market conditions in 2008. The impact of growth in net fee and
commission income and continued strong growth in customer lending was
offset by increased impairment charges and higher operating expenses.
Income increased 7% (£181m) to £2,745m (2007: £2,564m). 
Net interest income improved 1% (£10m) to £1,757m (2007:
£1,747m). There was strong growth in average customer assets,
particularly term loans, which increased 14% to £61.7bn (2007: £53.9bn)
reflecting the continued commitment to lend to viable businesses. The
assets margin decreased 25 basis points to 1.55% (2007: 1.80%) due, in
part, to a continued focus on lower risk term lending. Average customer
accounts grew 3% to £47.6bn (2007: £46.4bn), and the deposit margin
declined slightly to 1.47% (2007: 1.49%) partly reflecting the reductions 
in UK base rates in the second half of 2008.
Non-interest income increased to 36% of total income (2007: 32%)
partly reflecting continued focus on cross sales and efficient balance sheet
utilisation. Net fee and commission income increased 15% (£111m) to
£861m (2007: £750m) due to increased income from foreign exchange,
derivative sales and debt fee income.
Income from principal transactions fell to £22m (2007: £56m) due to
lower equity realisations.
Other income of £105m (2007: £11m) included a £39m gain arising
from the restructuring of Barclays interest in a third party finance operation.
This gain was offset by a broadly similar tax charge. Other income also
included £29m (2007: £7m) rental income from operating leases.
Impairment charges increased 42% (£122m) to £414m (2007:
£292m) primarily reflecting higher impairment losses in Larger Business,
particularly in the final quarter of 2008 as the UK corporate credit
environment deteriorated. Impairment as a percentage of period-end loans
and advances to customers and banks increased to 0.60% (2007: 0.45%). 
Operating expenses increased 14% (£134m) to £1,063m (2007: £929m)
reflecting lower gains on the sale of property of £10m (2007: £40m),
investment in a new payments capability (2008: £69m, 2007: £42m), 
growth in the operating lease business (2008: £31m, 2007: £7m) and
investment in risk and operations infrastructure, sales force capability 
and product specialists.
Barclays Commercial Bank 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income 1,741 1,757 1,747
Net fee and commission income 926 861 750
Net trading income 25 39
Net investment income (51) 19 47
Principal transactions (26) 22 56
Other income 112 105 11
T otal income 2,753 2,745 2,564
Impairment charges and other credit provisions (974) (414) (292)
Net income 1,779 2,331 2,272
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (1,009) (1,048) (924)
Amortisation of intangible assets (21) (15) (5)
Operating expenses (1,030) (1,063) (929)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures – (2) –
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures – –14
Profit before tax 749 1,266 1,357
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers £59.6bn £67.5bn £63.7bn
Loans and advances to customers including those designated at fair value £72.7bn £80.5bn £70.7bn
Customer accounts £62.7bn £60.6bn £60.8bn
T otal assets £75.5bn £84.0bn £74.6bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital 16% 26% 30%
Cost:income ratio 37% 39% 36%
Cost:net income ratio 58% 46% 41%
Other financial measures 
Economic profit £90m £544m £635m
Risk weighted assets £60.3bn £63.1bn £57.0bn
Key points
– 113,500 Customers 
– 9,100 Colleagues
£2, 753
m
£7 49
m
profit before tax total income net of
insurance claims 64 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
Barclaycard
Barclaycard is a multi-brand international payment services provider for
consumer and business customers including credit cards and consumer
lending. Our credit card was the first to be launched in the UK in 1966
and is now one of the leading credit card businesses in Europe, with a
fast growing business in the United States and South Africa.
What we do
In the UK our consumer payment services include Barclaycard branded 
credit cards, partnership cards with leading brands and secured lending.
Barclaycard’ s international presence continues to grow very strongly ,
with international consumer customers now exceeding the number in the
UK. We currently operate in Germany , the United States and South Africa. In
Scandinavia, we operate through Entercard, a joint venture with Swedbank.
Our UK and international payment businesses provide payment
acceptance services for 87,000 retailers and merchants, both for face to face
transactions and over the internet and provides market-leading acceptance
of contactless cards. The business also issues credit and charge cards to
corporate customers and the UK Government, and provides sales financing
at retailers and auto dealers. Barclaycard is Europe’ s number one issuer of
Visa Commercial Cards with over 145,000 public and private sector
corporate customers.
Performance
2009/08
Barclaycard profit before tax decreased 4% (£28m) to £761m (2008:
£789m). Strong income growth across the portfolio driven by increased
lending, improved margins and foreign exchange gains, was offset by higher
impairment charges, driven by the deterioration in the global economy . 
International businesses’ profit before tax decreased 59% to £107m
(2008: £261m) driven by the US business. Strong income growth driven 
by higher average extended credit balances was more than offset by
impairment growth, especially in the US and South African businesses, and
increased operating expenses. In the UK our businesses benefited from an
improvement in margins and growth in average extended balances leading
to income increasing 18% to £2,494m (2008: £2,111m). Income growth
was partially offset by the growth in impairment as worsening economic
conditions impacted delinquencies. 
Income increased 26% (£823m) to £4,042m (2008: £3,219m)
reflecting strong growth across the portfolio, especially in the international
businesses through higher extended credit balances, lower funding rates
and the appreciation of the average values of the US Dollar and the Euro
against Sterling. 
Net interest income increased 52% (£937m) to £2,723m (2008:
£1,786m) driven by strong growth in international average extended credit
card balances, up 52% to £7.9bn (2008: £5.2bn), and lower funding rates 
as margins improved to 8.97% (2008: 6.92%).
Net fee and commission income decreased 2% (£28m) to £1,271m
(2008: £1,299m) through lower volumes in FirstPlus due to the decision
taken to stop writing new business in 2008 and lower volumes in the UK
card portfolios partially offset by growth in the international businesses.
Principal transactions of £22m (2008: £82m) included a £20m gain
from the sale of MasterCard shares (2008: £16m). Investment income in
2008 included a £64m gain from the Visa IPO.
Other income in 2008 included an £18m gain on the sale of a portfolio
in the US.
Impairment charges increased £701m (64%) to £1,798m (2008:
£1,097m). The rate of growth in the second half of the year was lower than
that in the first half. Impairment charges in the international businesses
increased £444m, driven by higher delinquencies due to deteriorating
economic conditions, growth in average receivables and the appreciation 
of the average values of the US Dollar and the Euro against Sterling. UK
portfolio charges were higher as a result of rising delinquencies due to the
economic deterioration, especially in the loan portfolios, and the inclusion 
of Goldfish in UK Cards.
Operating expenses increased 5% (£72m) to £1,494m (2008:
£1,422m), due to the appreciation in the average value of the US Dollar 
and the Euro against Sterling and growth in the portfolios including the
acquisitions made in the UK, US and South Africa in 2008.
The purchase of Goldfish resulted in a gain on acquisition of
£92m in 2008. 
10.8
11.6
7.7
10.4
11.7
10.1
07
08
Number of Barclaycard
International customers 
m
09
Number of UK customers 
m
07
08
09
Performance indicators 
a
Note
a The number of customers at 31st December 2009 is, after a reduction of 1.5 million, due
to the closure of dormant accounts. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 65
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
2008/07
Barclaycard profit before tax increased 31% (£186m) to £789m 
(2007: £603m), driven by strong international income growth and lower UK
impairment charges. 2008 profit included £40m from the acquisition of, and
contribution from, Goldfish, Discover’ s UK credit card business, acquired on
31st March 2008. The scale of the UK and international businesses
increased substantially with total customer numbers up 31% to 23.3m. 
Income increased 27% (£689m) to £3,219m (2007: £2,530m),
reflecting strong growth in Barclaycard International and £156m from the
inclusion of Goldfish, partially offset by a decline in FirstPlus following its
closure to new business.
Net interest income increased 30% (£412m) to £1,786m (2007:
£1,374m), driven by 58% growth in international average extended credit
card balances to £5.2bn. The margin increased to 6.92% (2007: 6.51%),
due to a change in the product mix with an increased weighting to card
lending, following the decision to stop writing new business in FirstPlus. 
Net fee and commission income increased 14% (£156m) to £1,299m
(2007: £1,143m), driven by growth in Barclaycard International. 
Income from principal transactions increased £71m to £82m (2007:
£11m), reflecting a £64m gain from the Visa IPO and a £16m gain from the
sale of shares in MasterCard.
Other income increased £44m to £19m (2007: £25m loss), reflecting a
gain from a portfolio sale in the United States. 2007 results reflected a £27m
loss on disposal of part of the Monument card portfolio.
Impairment charges increased 33% (£270m) to £1,097m (2007:
£827m), reflecting £252m growth in charges in the international businesses
and £68m from the inclusion of Goldfish. These factors were partially offset
by £50m lower impairment in the other UK businesses with reduced flows
into delinquency and lower levels of arrears. 
Operating expenses increased 30% (£329m) to £1,422m (2007:
£1,093m), reflecting continued international growth and increased
marketing investment. Operating expenses reflected Goldfish expenses 
of £140m, including restructuring costs of £64m.
The acquisition of Goldfish resulted in a gain on acquisition of £92m. 
Barclaycard International maintained its strong growth momentum,
delivering a 71% (£108m) increase in profit before tax to £260m (2007:
£152m). Barclaycard US profit before tax was US$249m which exceeded
delivery of the financial plan of US$150m set out at the time of acquisition.
Strong balance sheet growth in Barclaycard US included US$1.9bn of credit
card receivables acquired from FIA Card Services in August 2008, furthering
the existing partnership agreement with US Airways. The acquisition of a
majority stake in Woolworths Financial Services in October 2008, added 
1.6 million customers to the existing Absa credit card business in South
Africa. The Entercard joint venture with Swedbank continued to build
presence in Norway , Sweden and Denmark.
Barclaycard 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Income statement information 
Net interest income 2,723 1,786 1,374
Net fee and commission income 1,271 1,299 1,143
Net trading income (1) 2–
Net investment income 23 80 11
Principal transactions 22 82 11
Net premiums from insurance contracts 44 44 40
Other income 2 19 (25)
T otal income 4,062 3,230 2,543
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts (20) (11) (13)
T otal income net of insurance claims 4,042 3,219 2,530
Impairment charges and other credit provisions (1,798) (1,097) (827)
Net income 2,244 2,122 1,703
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (1,412) (1,361) (1,057)
Amortisation of intangible assets (82) (61) (36)
Operating expenses (1,494) (1,422) (1,093)
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 8 (3) (7)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 3 ––
Gain on acquisition – 92 –
Profit before tax 761 789 603
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers £26.5bn £27.4bn £19.7bn
T otal assets £30.2bn £30.9bn £22.1bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital 15% 23% 20%
Cost:income ratio 37% 44% 43%
Cost:net income ratio 67% 67% 64%
Other financial measures 
Economic profit £45m £335m £213m
Risk weighted assets £30.6bn £27.3bn £20.2bn
Key points
– 1 0.4m Barclaycard UK customers
– £1 0.8bn UK consumer cards – av erage outstanding balances
– £8.5bn UK credit cards – average extended credit balances
– 1 0.8m Barclaycard international customers
£4 , 04 2
m
£76 1
m
profit before tax total income net of
insurance claims 66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
Western Europe
GRCB – Western Europe comprises our retail and commercial banking
operations, as well as our Barclaycard businesses, in Spain, Portugal,
France, Italy and Russia.
What we do
GRCB – Western Europe serves approximately 2.8m retail and commercial
banking customers in France, Italy , Portugal, Spain and Russia through a
variety of distribution channels including 1,128 branches, 190 sales centres
and 1,481 A TMs. 
GRCB – Western Europe provides a variety of products and services
including retail mortgages, current and deposit accounts, commercial
lending, unsecured lending, credit cards, investments and insurance
products, serving the needs of Barclays retail, mass affluent and 
corporate customers. 
Performance
2009/08
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Western Europe profit before tax 
fell 48% (£120m) to £130m (2008: £250m) against the backdrop of a very
challenging macroeconomic environment across all key markets, particularly
Spain. The results included a gain of £157m on the sale of Barclays Vida y
Pensiones Compañía de Seguros, Barclays Iberian life insurance and
pensions business, a restructuring charge of £24m largely concentrated in
Spain and an operating loss before tax of £67m (2008: loss before tax of
£7m) related to Barclays Russia driven by increased impairment due to the
economic environment and increased expenses incurred in positioning the
business for future growth. Excluding Russia, all businesses traded profitably
although Spain’ s net profit fell significantly due to high impairment charges,
particularly in the commercial property portfolio. Profit before tax was
favourably impacted by the 13% appreciation in the average value of the
Euro against Sterling. 
Income increased across all countries, improving 18% (£268m) to
£1,723m (2008: £1,455m) driven by the appreciation of the Euro and the
significant expansion in the distribution network in 2007 and 2008. The
number of distribution points increased by 137 to 1,318 (31st December
2008: 1,181) reflecting further selected organic growth and development 
of the franchise.
Net interest income increased 35% (£307m) to £1,182m (2008:
£875m). The increase was principally driven by strong growth in customer
deposits of 50% to £23.4bn (2008: £15.6bn), an improvement in the
customer assets margin to 1.33% (2008: 1.19%) and an increase in
treasury interest income. This was partially offset by competitive pressures
on liability margin compression.
Net fee and commission income increased 13% (£49m) to £438m
(2008: £389m), generated from asset management and insurance 
product lines.
Principal transactions fell 20% (£31m) to £123m (2008: £154m),
mainly due to the non-recurrence of the gains from both the Visa IPO 
(2008: £65m) and the sale of shares in MasterCard (2008: £17m), partially
offset by profit on the sale of Government backed bonds.
Net premiums from insurance contracts increased £192m to £544m
(2008: £352m) reflecting growth in the life assurance business. Net claims
and benefits incurred increased correspondingly by £207m. 
Impairment charges increased £370m to £667m (2008: £297m),
principally due to higher impairment in Spain on the commercial property ,
construction and SME portfolios and, to a lesser extent, on the retail
portfolio. The impairment charge for Spain increased 107% (£235m) to
£455m (2008: £220m) of which £270m related to the corporate and SME
portfolios. 
Operating expenses increased 16% (£153m) to £1,113m (2008:
£960m) due to the continued expansion of the Italian and Portuguese
networks, investment in Barclays Russia, restructuring charges of £24m and
reduced gains from the sale of property of £25m (2008: £55m). Underlying
costs were tightly controlled. 
2.8
2.5
1.8
1,318
1,181
798
07
08
Number of customers 
m
09
Number of distribution points
(branches and sales centres)
07
08
09
Performance indicators www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 67
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
In September 2009, Barclays established a long-term life insurance 
joint venture in Spain, Portugal and Italy with CNP Assurances SA (CNP). 
As part of this transaction Barclays sold a 50 per cent stake in Barclays Vida y
Pensiones Compañía de Seguros to CNP . The transaction gave rise to a gain
of £157m. Barclays share of the results of the joint venture with CNP are
reported within share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures.
Barclays acquired the Citigroup cards business in Portugal in December
2009. This resulted in the acquisition of approximately 400,000 customers
and loans and advances to customers of £550m. The transaction generated
a gain on acquisition of £26m.
2008/07
GRCB – Western Europe profit before tax grew 28% (£54m) to £250m
(2007: £196m), despite challenging market conditions in Spain in 2008 and
accelerated investment in the expansion of the franchise. Distribution points
increased 383 to 1,181 (2007: 798), including 149 in Italy . Strong income
growth including gains of £82m from the Visa IPO and the sale of shares in
MasterCard was partially offset by increased impairment and higher
operating costs. Profit before tax was favourably impacted by the 16%
appreciation in the average value of the Euro against Sterling.
Income increased 55% (£518m) to £1,455m (2007: £937m), reflecting
growth in both net interest income and net fee and commission income.
Net interest income increased 66% (£348m) to £875m (2007: £527m),
driven by a 66% increase in customer liabilities to £15.6bn (2007: £9.4bn)
and a 54% increase in customer assets to £53.9bn (2007: £35.0bn).
Net fee and commission income increased 21% (£67m) to £389m
(2007: £322m). Increased fees in retail and in the life insurance businesses
were offset by lower market-related investment revenue.
Principal transactions grew £48m to £154m (2007: £106m) including
gains from the Visa IPO (£65m) and the sale of shares in MasterCard
(£17m) which enabled GRCB – Western Europe to invest in the expansion 
of the business.
Impairment charges increased £221m to £297m (2007: £76m). 
This increase was principally due to higher charges in Spanish commercial
property (£82m) and deterioration of the Spanish credit card portfolio
(£66m) as a consequence of the rapid slowdown in the Spanish economy . 
Operating expenses increased 43% (£287m) to £960m (2007:
£673m), reflecting the rapid expansion of the retail distribution network 
and the strengthening of the Premier segment. Operating expenses also
included £55m (2007: £22m) gains from the sale of property .
Gain on acquisition of £52m (2007: £nil) arose from the purchase 
of the Italian residential mortgage business of Macquarie Bank Limited 
in November 2008. 
GRCB – Western Europe 2009 2008
c
2007
c
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income 1,182 875 527
Net fee and commission income 438 389 322
Net trading income – (7) 13
Net investment income 123 161 93
Principal transactions 123 154 106
Net premiums from insurance contracts 544 352 145
Other income 8 50 7
T otal income 2,295 1,820 1,107
Net claims and benefits incurred under insurance contracts (572) (365) (170)
T otal income net of insurance claims 1,723 1,455 937
Impairment charges (667) (297) (76)
Net income 1,056 1,158 861
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (1,075) (941) (665)
Amortisation of intangible assets (38) (19) (8)
Operating expenses (1,113) (960) (673)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 4 ––
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 157 –8
Gain on acquisition 26 52 –
Profit before tax 130 250 196
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers £52.7bn £53.9bn £35.0bn
Customer accounts £23.4bn £15.6bn £9.4bn
T otal assets £64.2bn £65.5bn £43.7bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital
a
4% 18% 11%
Cost:income ratio
a
65% 66% 72%
Cost:net income ratio
a
105% 83% 78%
Other financial measures
Economic profit
a, b
(£234m) £155m £16m
Risk weighted assets £32.4bn £37.0bn £25.0bn
Key points
– 2.8m Customers
– 1,318 Distribution points
£1, 7 2 3
m
£1 30
m
profit before tax total income net of
insurance claims
Notes
a Defined on page 338 to 342.
b 2008 includes £139m release of a deferred tax liability .
c Figures have been restated to include Barclays Russia, which was transferred from 
GRCB – Emerging Markets to GRCB – Western Europe during 2009. 68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
Emerging Markets
GRCB – Emerging Markets comprises our retail and commercial banking
operations, as well as our Barclaycard businesses, in 14 countries across
Africa, the Middle East and South East Asia.
What we do
GRCB – Emerging Markets serves retail and commercial banking customers
in Botswana, Egypt, Ghana, India, Kenya, Mauritius, Pakistan, Seychelles,
T anzania, Uganda, the UAE, Zambia, Indonesia and Zimbabwe. 
Through a network of more than 683 distribution points and 1,023
A TMs, we provide 3.7m customers and clients with a full range of products
and services. This includes current accounts, savings, investments,
mortgages and secured and unsecured lending.
Performance
2009/08
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Emerging Markets made a loss
before tax of £254m in 2009 versus a profit before tax of £141m in 2008.
Good income growth across Emerging Markets was offset by significantly
increased impairment in India and UAE and continued investment across
new and existing markets. Profit before tax in the established markets in
Africa and the Indian Ocean decreased to £109m (2008: £182m) primarily
due to the allocation of gains from the Visa IPO and sale of shares in
MasterCard during 2008.
Income increased 5% to £1,045m (2008: £994m) driven by strong
growth in UAE, Africa and the Indian Ocean, partially offset by lower income
in India.
Net interest income increased 24% (£146m) to £743m (2008: £597m),
driven by retail and commercial balance sheet growth with average
customer assets up 19% to £8.3bn (2008: £7.0bn) and customer deposits
up 11% to £8.2bn (2008: £7.4bn). The assets margin increased 31 basis
points to 5.20% (2008: 4.89%) driven by a change in the product mix. The
liabilities margin increased 14 basis points to 2.26% (2008: 2.12%) driven 
by a change in product mix and higher returns from funding assets. 
Net fee and commission income increased 7% (£15m) to £232m
(2008: £217m) primarily driven by growth in retail fee income.
Principal transactions decreased £111m to £68m (2008: £179m). 
2008 included a gain of £82m from the sale of shares in MasterCard and
Visa. Excluding this gain, principal transactions decreased £29m driven by
lower fees from foreign exchange income transactions. 
Impairment charges increased to £471m (2008: £165m) including 
an increase of £255m across India and UAE due to the deterioration in the
credit environment in 2009 reflecting the impact of the economic recession
3.7
3.8
2.0
683
800
550
07
08
Number of customers 
m
09
Number of distribution points
(branches and sales centres)
07
08
09
Performance indicators www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 69
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
across the business with continued pressure on liquidity , rising default rates
and lower asset values.
Operating expenses increased 24% (£164m) to £852m (2008: £688m)
reflecting continued investment in Indonesia and Pakistan and investment 
in infrastructure across other markets. 
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures of 
£24m represented the sale of a 7% stake in the GRCB – Emerging Markets
Botswana business. The residual holding of Barclays in Barclays Bank of
Botswana Limited following the sale is 68%.
2008/07
GRCB – Emerging Markets profit before tax increased 41% (£41m) to
£141m (2007: £100m). Very strong income growth, including £82m from
the Visa IPO and the sale of shares in MasterCard, absorbed the increased
investment across existing and new markets and higher impairment
charges. The number of distribution points increased 250 to 800 
(2007: 550). New market entries in 2008 comprised the launch of a new
business in Pakistan and the acquisition of Bank Akita in Indonesia which
was completed in 2009.
Income increased 86% (£461m) to £994m (2007: £533m), reflecting
growth in lending, deposit taking and fee-driven transactional revenues. 
Net interest income increased 87% (£278m) to £597m (2007: £319m),
loans and advances to customers increased 90% to £9.7bn (2007: £5.1bn).
The assets margin decreased 173 basis points to 4.89% (2007: 6.62%),
reflecting higher funding costs, partially offset by improvement in the
product mix. Customer accounts increased 50% to £9.3bn (2007: £6.2bn).
The deposit margin improved 137 basis points to 2.12% (2007: 0.75%),
driven by a change in the product mix and a higher return from funding 
the assets.
Net fee and commission income increased 55% (£77m) to £217m
(2007: £140m), primarily driven by very strong growth in commercial
banking and treasury fee income.
Principal transactions increased £107m to £179m (2007: £72m),
reflecting higher foreign exchange income, a gain of £82m relating to 
the Visa IPO and the sale of shares in MasterCard.
Impairment charges increased £126m to £165m (2007: £39m),
reflecting higher assets and delinquencies, particularly in India and 
increased wholesale impairment in Africa.
Operating expenses increased 74% (£293m) to £688m (2007:
£395m), reflecting continued investment in new markets and expansion 
of the business in existing markets, with investment in infrastructure and 
the roll-out of global platforms.
GRCB – Emerging Markets 2009 2008
a
2007
a
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income 743 597 319
Net fee and commission income 232 217 140
Net trading income 61 88 56
Net investment income 7 91 16
Principal transactions 68 179 72
Other income 2 12
T otal income 1,045 994 533
Impairment charges (471) (165) (39)
Net income 574 829 494
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (846) (685) (391)
Amortisation of intangible assets (6) (3) (4)
Operating expenses (852) (688) (395)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures – –1
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 24 ––
Profit before tax (254) 141 100
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers £7.3bn £9.7bn £5.1bn
Customer accounts £8.5bn £9.3bn £6.2bn
T otal assets £11.9bn £13.9bn £9.2bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital (18%) 10% 15%
Cost:income ratio 82% 69% 74%
Cost:net income ratio 148% 83% 80%
Other financial measures 
Economic (loss)/profit (£379m) (£2m) £26m
Risk weighted assets £12.4bn £14.6bn £10.5bn
Key points
– 683 Distribution points
– 3.7m Customers
£1, 04 5
m
£254
m
loss before tax total income net of
insurance claims
Note
a Figures have been restated to exclude Barclays Russia, which was transferred from 
GRCB – Emerging Markets to GRCB – Western Europe during 2009. 70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
Absa
GRCB – Absa comprises three operating divisions: Retail Banking,
Commercial Banking and a Bancassurance division. The Absa Group’s
other businesses are Absa Capital, Absa Card and Absa Wealth, which
are included in Barclays Capital, Barclaycard and Barclays Wealth
respectively. 
What we do
GRCB – Absa forms part of Absa Group Limited, one of South Africa’ s 
largest financial services groups, listed on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange Limited. GRCB – Absa offers a complete range of banking
products and services, including current accounts, savings products,
bancassurance, mortgages, instalment finance and wealth management. 
It also offers customised business solutions for commercial and large
corporate customers.
Absa’ s business is conducted primarily in South Africa. In addition to
this, the Group has equity holdings in banks in Mozambique and T anzania.
Absa serves more than 11 million customers through a range of
physical channels that include 1,062 distribution points and 8,560 A TMs, 
as well as electronic channels such as telephone and online banking.
Performance
2009/08
Impact of Absa Group Limited on Barclays results 
Absa Group Limited profit before tax of R9,842m (2008: R15,305m), a
decrease of 36%, is translated in Barclays results at an average exchange
rate of R13.14/£ (2008: R15.17/£), a 15% appreciation in the average 
value of the Rand against Sterling. Consolidation adjustments reflected 
the amortisation of intangible assets of £51m (2008: £50m) and internal
funding and other adjustments of £115m (2008: £174m). The resulting
profit before tax of £583m (2008: £785m) is represented within Global
Retail and Commercial Banking – Absa £506m (2008: £552m), Barclays
Capital £16m loss (2008: £175m profit), Barclaycard £95m (2008: £58m)
and Barclays Wealth £2m loss (2008: £nil).
Absa Group Limited’ s total assets were R717,740m (31st December
2008: R774,157m), a decline of 7%. This is translated into Barclays results 
at a period end exchange rate of R11.97/£ (2008: R13.74/£).
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Absa
Profit before tax decreased 8% (£46m) to £506m (2008: £552m) owing to
challenging market conditions. Modest Rand income growth and tight cost
control were offset by increased impairment.
Income increased 16% (£351m) to £2,549m (2008: £2,198m)
predominantly reflecting the impact of exchange rate movements.
Net interest income improved 18% (£196m) to £1,300m (2008:
£1,104m) reflecting the appreciation in the average value of the Rand
against Sterling and modest balance sheet growth. Average customer
assets increased 17% to £32.5bn (2008: £27.7bn) driven by appreciation of
the Rand against Sterling and modest growth in loans and advances. Retail
and commercial mortgages remained relatively flat in 2009 while instalment
finance showed a slight decline with the run-off outweighing new sales. The
assets margin decreased to 2.68% (2008: 2.79%) as a result of the higher
cost of wholesale funding and significant reductions in interest recognised
on delinquent accounts. Average customer deposits increased 29% to
£17.4bn (2008: £13.5bn), primarily driven by the appreciation of the Rand
and the increase in the number of customers. Retail and commercial
deposits increased 3.9% and 4.6% respectively . The liabilities margin was
down 63 basis points to 2.43% (2008: 3.06%) reflecting stronger growth 
in lower margin retail deposits, pricing pressure from competitors and the
impact of margin compression due to the decrease in interest rates.
Net fee and commission increased 24% (£181m) to £943m (2008:
£762m), reflecting pricing increases, volume growth and the impact of
exchange rate movements.
Principal transactions increased £12m to £123m (2008: £111m)
reflecting the impact of exchange rate movements and gains of £17m from
the sale of shares in MasterCard, slightly offset by lower gains on economic
hedges.
Net premiums from insurance contracts increased 26% (£60m) to
£294m (2008: £234m) reflecting volume growth in short-term insurance
contracts and the impact of exchange rate movements.
Other income decreased £53m to £60m (2008: £113m) reflecting 
the non-recurrence of the gain of £46m recorded on the Visa IPO in 2008.
Impairment charges increased £220m to £567m (2008: £347m) due 
to high delinquency levels in the retail portfolios as a result of continued
consumer indebtedness, despite the decline in interest and inflation rates
during the first half of the year. There was a slight improvement in
impairment ratios in the second half of 2009.
Operating expenses increased 13% (£164m) to £1,469m (2008:
£1,305m) reflecting the impact of exchange rate movements. Costs 
were tightly controlled in Rand.
11.5
10.5
9.8
1,062
1,177
1,001
07
08
Number of customers 
m
09
Number of distribution points
(branches and sales centres)
07
08
09
Performance indicators www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 71
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
2008/07
Impact of Absa Group Limited on Barclays results
Absa Group Limited profit before tax of R15,305m (2007: R14,077m),
which increased 9%, is translated into Barclays results at an average
exchange rate of R15.17/£ (2007: R14.11/£), a 7% depreciation in the
average value of the Rand against Sterling. Consolidation adjustments
reflected the amortisation of intangible assets of £50m (2007: £55m) and
internal funding and other adjustments of £174m (2007: £121m). The
resulting profit before tax of £785m (2007: £822m) is represented within
GRCB – Absa £552m (2007: £597m), Barclays Capital £175m (2007: £155m)
and Barclaycard £58m (2007: £70m).
Absa Group Limited’ s total assets were R774,157m (31st December
2007: R641,014m), a growth of 21%. This is translated into Barclays results
at a period end exchange rate of R13.74/£ (2007: R13.64/£).
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Absa
GRCB – Absa profit before tax decreased 8% (£45m) to £552m (2007:
£597m), owing to challenging market conditions and the 7% depreciation 
in the average value of the Rand against Sterling. Profit before tax included a
gain of £46m relating to the Visa IPO. Very strong Rand income growth was
partially offset by increased impairment and investment in the expansion of
the franchise by 176 distribution points to 1,177 (2007: 1,001).
T otal income increased 10% (£211m) to £2,324m (2007: £2,113m). 
Net interest income improved 5% (£49m) to £1,104m (2007:
£1,055m) reflecting strong balance sheet growth. Average customer assets
increased 9% to £27.7bn (2007: £25.3bn), primarily driven by retail and
commercial mortgages and commercial cheque accounts. The assets
margin increased to 2.79% (2007: 2.70%) as a result of a focus on pricing
for risk and a change in the composition of the book, partially offset by the
higher cost of wholesale funding. Average customer liabilities increased
17% to £13.5bn (2007: £11.5bn), primarily driven by retail savings, with
margins down 15 basis points to 3.06% (2007: 3.21%) reflecting the
emphasis on liquidity and strong growth in lower margin retail deposits.
Net fee and commission income increased 11% (£78m) to £762m
(2007: £684m), underpinned by retail transaction volume growth. 
Principal transactions increased £41m to £111m (2007: £70m)
reflecting gains on economic hedges relating to the commercial property
finance and liquid asset portfolios.
Other income increased £36m to £113m (2007: £77m), reflecting 
a gain of £46m from the Visa IPO.
Impairment charges increased £201m to £347m (2007: £146m) as 
a result of rising delinquency levels in the retail portfolios, which have been
impacted by rising interest and inflation rates and increasing consumer
indebtedness.
Operating expenses increased 3% (£38m) to £1,305m (2007:
£1,267m). The cost:income ratio improved from 63% to 59%.
.
GRCB – Absa 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income 1,300 1,104 1,055
Net fee and commission income 943 762 684
Net trading income/(expense) (5) 6–
Net investment income 128 105 70
Principal transactions 123 111 70
Net premiums from insurance contracts 294 234 227
Other income 60 113 77
T otal income 2,720 2,324 2,113
Net claims and benefits incurred under insurance contracts (171) (126) (114)
T otal income net of insurance claims 2,549 2,198 1,999
Impairment charges (567) (347) (146)
Net income 1,982 1,851 1,853
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (1,418) (1,255) (1,212)
Amortisation of intangible assets (51) (50) (55)
Operating expenses (1,469) (1,305) (1,267)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures (4) 56
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (3) 15
Profit before tax 506 552 597
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers £36.4bn £32.7bn £29.9bn
Customer accounts £19.7bn £17.0bn £13.0bn
T otal assets £45.8bn £40.4bn £36.4bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital 11% 20% 20%
Cost:income ratio 58% 59% 63%
Cost:net income ratio 74% 71% 68%
Other financial measures 
Economic profit (£37m) £70m £98m
Risk weighted assets £21.4bn £18.8bn £17.8bn
Key points
– 100,000 Corporate customers
– 11.4m Retail customers
– 8,560 A TMs
– 1,062 Distribution points
£2 , 54 9
m
£506
m
profit before tax total income net of
insurance claims 72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Investment Banking and Investment Management
Barclays Capital
Barclays Capital is a leading global investment bank providing 
large corporate, government and institutional clients with a full
spectrum of solutions to their strategic advisory, financing and 
risk management needs.
What we do
Barclays Capital is a global investment bank, which offers clients the full
range of services covering strategic advisory and M&A; equity and fixed
income capital raising and corporate lending; and risk management across
foreign exchange, interest rates, equities and commodities.
Activities are organised into three principal areas: Global Markets, which
includes commodities, credit products, equities, foreign exchange, interest
rate products; Investment Banking, which includes corporate advisory,
Mergers and Acquisitions, equity and fixed-income capital raising and
corporate lending; and Private Equity and Principal Investments. Barclays
Capital includes Absa Capital, the investment banking business of Absa.
Barclays Capital works closely with all other parts of the Group to
leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities.
Performance
2009/08
Barclays Capital profit before tax increased 89% to £2,464m (2008:
£1,302m). The substantial increase in income and profit reflected very
strong performances in the UK and Europe, and a transformation in the
scale and service offering in the US through the integration of the Lehman
Brothers North American businesses acquired in September 2008. Profit
before tax was struck after credit market writedowns of £6,086m (2008:
£8,053m), including £4,417m credit market losses (2008: £6,290m) and
£1,669m of impairment (2008: £1,763m). The loss on own credit was
£1,820m (2008: £1,663m gain).
Income of £11,625m was up 122% (2008: £5,231m), reflecting
excellent growth across the client franchise. T op-line income increased 81%
to £17,862m (2008: £9,858m). Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities
increased 76% and drove the strong increase in trading income following
the expansion of the business and the associated increase in client flows.
Equities and Prime Services increased 147% driven by the acquisition of 
the Lehman Brothers North American businesses with particularly strong
performances in cash equities and equity derivatives.
Investment Banking, which comprises advisory businesses and equity
and debt underwriting, more than doubled to £2,195m (2008: £1,053m)
driven by origination and advisory activity . The cash equity business, along
with Investment Banking, drove a significant rise in fee and commission
income.
Losses in Principal Investments of £143m (2008: income of £299m)
contributed to the overall net investment loss of £164m (2008: income 
of £559m).
Impairment charges of £2,591m (2008: £2,423m) included credit
market impairment of £1,669m (2008: £1,763m) as discussed on 
page 109. Non credit market related impairment of £922m (2008: £660m)
principally related to charges in the portfolio management, global loans and
principal investment businesses. Impairment charges declined significantly
in the second half of 2009.
Operating expenses increased 75% to £6,592m (2008: £3,774m),
reflecting the inclusion of the acquired Lehman business. Compensation
costs represented 38% of income, a reduction of 6 percentage points on
the prior year.
2008/07
In an exceptionally challenging mark et environment in 2008, Barclays Capital
profit before tax decreased 44% (£1,033m) to £1,302m (2007: £2,335m).
Profit before tax included a gain on the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North
American businesses of £2,262m. Absa Capital profit before tax grew 13%
to £175m (2007: £155m).
Net income included gross losses of £8,053m (2007: £2,999m) due
to continuing dislocation in the credit mark ets. These losses were partially
offset by income and hedges of £1,433m (2007: £706m), and gains of
£1,663m (2007: £658m) from the general widening of credit spreads on
structured notes issued by Barclays Capital. The gross losses, comprised
£6,290m (2007: £2,217m) against income and £1,763m (2007: £782m)
in impairment charges.
The integration of the Lehman Brothers North American businesses was
completed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the acquired businesses made 
a positive contribution in the period following completion, with good results 
in equities, fixed income and advisory . There was a gain on acquisition of
£2,262m. Not included in this gain is expenditure relating to integration of 
the acquired business.
232
168
116
07
08
09
Number of clients generating
more than £10m income
Performance indicators Analysis of Total Income Y ear ended 31st December
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Fixed Income, Currency 
and Commodities 12,964 7,353 5,722
Equities and Prime Services 2,846 1,153 1,631
Investment Banking 2,195 1,053 921
Principal Investments (143) 299 404
Top-line income 17,862 9,858 8,678
Credit market losses in income (4,417) (6,290) (2,217)
Own credit (1,820) 1,663 658
Total Income 11,625 5,231 7,119 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 73
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
Income was down 27% at £5,231m (2007: £7,119m) driven by the
impact of the mark et dislocation. Underlying income, which excludes the 
gross losses, related income and hedges, and gains on the widening of credit
spreads was 6% above the prior year and included strong contributions from
interest rates, currency products, emerging mark ets, prime services and
commodities. There was very strong underlying growth in the US driven by
fixed income, prime services and the acquired businesses. In other regions
income fell driven by the challenging environment. 
Net trading income decreased 60% (£2,233m) to £1,506m (2007:
£3,739m) reflecting losses from the credit market dislocation and weaker
performance in credit products and equities. This was partially offset by
significant growth in interest rates, foreign exchange, emerging markets and
prime services. Average DVaR at 95% increased by 64% to £53.4m driven by
higher credit spread and interest rate risk.
Net investment income decreased 41% (£394m) to £559m reflecting
the market conditions. Net interest income increased 46% (£545m) to
£1,724m (2007: £1,179m), driven by strong results in global loans and
money markets. Net fee and commission income from advisory and
origination activities increased 16% (£194m) to £1,429m. The corporate
lending portfolio, including leveraged finance, increased 46% to £76.6bn
(31st December 2007: £52.3bn) driven by the decline in the value of
Sterling relative to other currencies as well as draw downs on existing loan
facilities and the extension of new loans at current terms to financial and
manufacturing institutions.
Impairment charges and other credit provisions of £2,423m (2007:
£846m) included £1,763m (2007: £782m) due to the credit mark et
dislocation. Other impairment charges of £660m (2007: £64m) principally
related to private equity , prime services and the loan book. 
Operating expenses fell 5% (£199m) to £3,774m (2007: £3,973m) 
due to lower performance related pay , partially offset by operating costs 
of the acquired businesses. The cost:income ratio increased to 72%
(2007: 56%) and the compensation cost:income ratio increased to
44% (2007: 42%). Amortisation of intangible assets increased £38m 
to £92m (2007: £54m). 
T otal headcount increased 6,900 to 23,100 (31st December 2007:
16,200). Prior to the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American
businesses, headcount during 2008 was materially unchanged except 
for hiring associated with the annual global graduate programme. 
The acquisition initially added 10,000 to the headcount but there 
were reductions in the fourth quarter of 2008 as the US businesses 
were integrated.
Barclays Capital 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income 1,598 1,724 1,179
Net fee and commission income 3,001 1,429 1,235
Net trading income 7,185 1,506 3,739
Net investment (loss)/income (164) 559 953
Principal transactions 7,021 2,065 4,692
Other income 5 13 13
T otal income 11,625 5,231 7,119
Impairment charges and other credit provisions (2,591) (2,423) (846)
Net income 9,034 2,808 6,273
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (6,406) (3,682) (3,919)
Amortisation of intangible assets (186) (92) (54)
Operating expenses (6,592) (3,774) (3,973)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 22 635
Gain on acquisition – 2,262 –
Profit before tax 2,464 1,302 2,335
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to banks and customers at amortised cost £162.6bn £206.8bn £135.6bn
T otal assets £1,019.1bn £1,629.1bn £839.9bn
Assets contributing to adjusted gross leverage £618.2bn £681.0bn £601.8bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital 15% 20% 33%
Cost:income ratio 57% 72% 56%
Cost:net income ratio 73% 134% 63%
Compensation:income ratio 38% 44% 42%
Other financial measures 
Economic profit £195m £825m £1,172m
Risk weighted assets £181.1bn £227.4bn £178.2bn
Average DVaR (95%)
a 
£77.0m £53.4m £32.5m
Average total income per employee (’000) £515 £281 £465
Key points
– 1 st: US Securities Survey
– 2nd: Global Debt, Equity & Equity-related issuance
– 3rd: Foreign Exchange Survey
– 5th: US M&A
£1 1, 6 2 5
m
£2, 464
m
profit before tax total income
Note
a Average DVaR for 2008 and 2007 are calculated with a 98% confidence level. 74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Investment Banking and Investment Management
Barclays Global Investors
Barclays Global Investors (BGI), one of the world’s largest asset
managers and a leading global provider of investment management
products and services, was sold to BlackRock, Inc (BlackRock) on 
1st December 2009. As a result of the transaction we retain a 19.9%
economic interest in the enlarged BlackRock Group. 
Performance
2009/08
Barclays Global Investors profit before tax increased £6,484m to £7,079m
(2008: £595m), including the profit arising from the sale of Barclays Global
Investors to BlackRock. Consideration of £9,501m included 37.567 million 
new BlackRock shares valued at £5,294m as at 1st December 2009.
The profit on disposal before tax was £6,331m after deducting amounts
relating to non-controlling interests, transaction costs and a break fee relating
to the termination of CVC Capital Partners’ proposed purchase of the iShares
business. Further information on the disposal is set out below.
Profit before tax excluding the profit on disposal increased 26% to
£748m (2008: £595m) reflecting a recovery on liquidity support of £25m
during 2009 (2008: charge of £263m) and an 18% appreciation in the
average value of the US Dollar against Sterling. The 2009 results included 
11 months of discontinued operations compared to 12 months for 2008.
T otal income grew 3% (£59m) to £1,903m (2008: £1,844m). 
Net fee and commission income declined 8% (£160m) to £1,757m
(2008: £1,917m) largely reflecting 11 months’ activity in the year. 
Principal transactions increased £141m to a gain of £98m (2008: £43m
loss) driven by sales of assets excluded from the disposal to BlackRock.
Operating expenses decreased 8% (£95m) to £1,154m (2008:
£1,249m), benefiting from a recovery on liquidity support of £24m during
2009 (2008: charge of £263m), partially offset by exchange rate movements. 
The continuing operations of BGI represent residual obligations under the
cash support arrangements and associated liquidity support charges and,
from 1st December 2009, included the Group’ s 19.9% ongoing interest in
BlackRock. This investment is accounted for as an available for sale equity
investment, with no dividends being received during 2009. Profit before tax
on continuing operations for 2009 increased by £368m to £22m (2008:
£346m loss) primarily due to lower liquidity support charges.
T otal assets as at 31st December 2009 reflect shares to the value of
£5,386m held in BlackRock, with assets from continuing operations as at 
31st December 2008 representing residual assets excluded from the disposal
to BlackRock.
Profit on disposal information As at 1st
December 
2009
£m
Consideration including hedging gains
– Cash 4,207
– BlackRock shares 5,294
Total consideration 9,501
Net assets disposed (2,051)
CVC fee (106)
Transaction costs (433)
Amounts relating to non-controlling  interests (580)
Profit on disposal before tax 6,331 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 75
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
2008/07
Barclays Global Investors profit before tax decreased 19% (£139m) 
to £595m (2007: £734m). Profit was impacted by the cost of provision 
of selective support of liquidity products of £263m (2007: £80m) and 
an 8% appreciation in the average value of the US Dollar against Sterling.
Income declined 4% (£82m) to £1,844m (2007: £1,926m).
Net fee and commission income declined 1% (£19m) to £1,917m
(2007: £1,936m). This was primarily attributable to reduced incentive fees
of £49m (2007: £198m), partially offset by increased securities lending
revenue.
Operating expenses increased 5% (£57m) to £1,249m 
(2007: £1,192m). Operating expenses included charges of £263m 
(2007: £80m) related to selective support of liquidity products, partially
offset by a reduction in performance related costs. The cost:income ratio
increased to 68% (2007: 62%).
The loss before tax on continuing operations increased to £346m
(2007: £119m) principally reflecting the liquidity support charge recognised
during the year.
Key points
– Gain on sale £6,331m
£1, 90 3
m
£7 ,0 79
m
profit before tax total income net of
insurance claims
2009 2008 2007
Continuing Discontinued ContinuingDiscontinued Continuing Discontinued 
operations operations Total operations operations Total operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Income statement information 
Net interest income/(expense) 10 33 43 (38) – (38) (20) 12 (8)
Net fee and commission income (2) 1,759 1,757 1 1,916 1,917 (1) 1,937 1,936 
Net trading income/(loss) 20 1 21 (4) (10) (14) – 5 5
Net investment income/(loss) 11 66 77 (29) – (29) (9) – (9)
Principal transactions 31 67 98 (33) (10) (43) (9) 5 (4)
Other income 14 5 (2) 10 8 – 2 2
Total income 40 1,863 1,903 (72) 1,916 1,844 (30) 1,956 1,926
Operating expenses excluding 
amortisation of intangible assets (17) (1,123) (1,140) (274) (960) (1,234) (89) (1,095) (1,184)
Amortisation of intangible assets – (14) (14) – (15) (15) – (8) (8)
Operating expenses (17) (1,137) (1,154) (274) (975) (1,249) (89) (1,103) (1,192)
Profit on disposal of associates
and joint ventures (1) – (1) ––––––
Profit/(loss) before tax and disposal
of discontinued operations 22 726 748 (346) 941 595 (119) 853 734
Profit on disposal of 
discontinued operations – 6,331 6,331 ––––––
Profit/(loss) before tax 22 7,057 7,079 (346) 941 595 (119) 853 734
Balance sheet information
T otal assets £5.4bn – £5.4bn £0.7bn £70.6bn £71.3bn £0.5bn £88.7bn £89.2bn 76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Investment Banking and Investment Management
Barclays Wealth 
Barclays Wealth focuses on private and intermediary clients worldwide.
We are the UK’s leading wealth manager by client assets. We have 7,400
staff and manage total client assets of £151bn. We have 101 offices in 
25 countries across EMEA, Asia and the Americas.
What we do
Barclays Wealth provides international and private banking, fiduciary
services, investment management, and brokerage. 
Barclays Wealth works closely with all other parts of the Group to
leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities, for
example, offering world-class investment solutions with institutional quality
products and services from Barclays Capital and Barclays Commercial Bank.
Performance 
2009/08
Barclays Wealth profit before tax reduced 78% (£526m) to £145m (2008:
£671m). The reduction in profit was principally due to the sale of the closed
life assurance business in 2008 (2008: profit before tax of £104m and profit
on disposal of £326m). Results were also affected by the integration of
Lehman Brothers North American businesses (Barclays Wealth Americas),
which made a loss of £39m.
T otal income net of insurance claims increased 1% (£9m) to £1,333m
(2008: £1,324m). Excluding the impact of the sale of the closed life business
and the integration of Barclays Wealth Americas, income grew 3% as growth
in the client franchise and the product offering offset the impact of adverse
economic conditions.
Net interest income increased 4% (£18m) to £504m (2008: £486m)
reflecting growth in customer lending. Average lending grew 27% to
£12.3bn (2008: £9.7bn). Assets margin reduced to 1.01% from 1.04%.
Average 2009 deposits were in line with the prior year (2008: £37.2bn) with
a stable liabilities margin of 0.96% (2008: 0.95%).
Net fee and commission income increased by 11% (£82m) to £802m
(2008: £720m) driven by Barclays Wealth Americas.
The movements in principal transactions, net premiums from insurance
contracts and net claims and benefits incurred under insurance contracts
were due to the sale of the closed life assurance business in October 2008.
Impairment charges increased 16% (£7m) to £51m (2008: £44m).
This increase reflected the impact of the current economic environment on
client liquidity and collateral values and the substantial increase in the loan
book over the last four years.
Operating expenses increased 22% to £1,138m (2008: £935m)
principally reflecting the impact of the acquisition of Barclays Wealth
Americas partially offset by the impact of the disposal of the closed life
business in 2008.
T otal client assets, comprising customer accounts and client
investments were £151.3bn (31st December 2008: £145.1bn) with
underlying net new asset inflows of £3bn.
151
145
133
169
176
188
07
08
Total client assets
£bn
09
Average net income generated
per member of staff
£000
07
08
09
Performance indicators www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 77
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
2008/07
Barclays Wealth profit before tax grew 119% (£364m) to £671m (2007:
£307m). Profit before gains on disposal increased 12% (£38m) driven 
by solid income growth and tight cost control, offset by an increase in
impairment charges. The closed life assurance business contributed
profit before tax of £104m (2007: £110m) prior to its sale in October
2008, which generated a profit on disposal of £326m.
Income increased 3% (£37m) to £1,324m (2007: £1,287m).
Net interest income increased 13% (£55m) to £486m (2007:
£431m) reflecting strong growth in both customer deposits and 
lending. Average deposits grew 19% to £37.2bn (2007: £31.2bn).
Average lending grew 31% to £9.7bn (2007: £7.4bn). The assets margin
decreased seven basis points to 1.04% (2007: 1.11%) reflecting changes
in the product mix. The liabilities margin reduced by eight basis points 
to 0.95% (2007: 1.03%) driven by changes in the product mix and
compression of margins as interest rates reduced during the second 
half of 2008.
Net fee and commission income decreased 3% (£19m) to £720m
(2007: £739m) driven by falling equity markets partially offset by
increased client assets.
Net investment income, net premiums from insurance contracts 
and net claims and benefits paid on insurance contracts related wholly 
to the closed life assurance business. Their overall net impact on income
increased marginally to £103m (2007: £95m). The decrease in net
investment income, driven by a fall in the value of unit linked contracts
and reduced premium income, were offset by reduced net claims and
benefits as a result of a fall in the value of linked and non-linked liabilities.
Impairment charges increased £37m to £44m (2007: £7m) from a
very low base. This increase reflected both the substantial increase in the
loan book over the three years from 2006 to 2008 and the impact of the
current economic environment on client liquidity and collateral values.
Operating expenses decreased 4% to £935m (2007: £973m) with
significant cost savings including a reduction in performance related
costs partially offset by increased expenditure in upgrading technology
and operating platforms and continued hiring of client-facing staff.
Total client assets, comprising customer deposits and client
investments, increased 10% (£12.6bn) to £145.1bn (2007: £132.5bn)
with underlying net new asset inflows of £3.2bn and the acquisition of
the Lehman Brothers North American businesses offsetting the impact 
of market and foreign exchange movements and the sale of the closed
life assurance book.
Barclays Wealth 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income 504 486 431
Net fee and commission income 802 720 739
Net trading income 7 (11) 3
Net investment income 13 (333) 52
Principal transactions 20 (344) 55
Net premiums from insurance contracts – 136 195
Other income 7 26 19
T otal income 1,333 1,024 1,439
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts – 300 (152)
T otal income net of insurance claims 1,333 1,324 1,287
Impairment charges (51) (44) (7)
Net income 1,282 1,280 1,280
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (1,114) (919) (967)
Amortisation of intangible assets (24) (16) (6)
Operating expenses (1,138) (935) (973)
Profit on disposal of associates and joint ventures 1 326 –
Profit before tax 145 671 307
Balance sheet information
Loans and advances to customers £13.1bn £11.4bn £9.0bn
Customer accounts £38.5bn £42.4bn £34.4bn
T otal assets £15.1bn £13.3bn £18.2bn
Performance ratios
Return on average economic capital 22% 118% 51%
Cost:income ratio 85% 71% 76%
Other financial measures 
Economic profit £49m £553m £233m
Risk weighted assets £11.4bn £10.3bn £8.2bn
Average net income generated per member of staff (’000) £169 £176 £188
Key points
– £151.3bn T otal client assets
– Operating in 25 countries
£1,3 3 3
m
£1 4 5
m
profit before tax total income net of
insurance claims 78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Financial review
Analysis of results by business 
continued
Head Office Functions and Other Operations
Head Office Functions and Other Operations comprises:
– Head office and central support functions
– Businesses in transition
– Inter-segment adjustments
What we do
Head Office Functions and Other Operations comprises the following areas:
Executive Management, Finance, Treasury , Corporate Affairs, Human
Resources, Strategy and Planning, Internal Audit, Legal, Corporate
Secretariat, Property , T ax, Compliance and Risk. Costs incurred wholly on
behalf of the businesses are recharged to them. Businesses in transition
principally relate to certain lending portfolios that are centrally managed
with the objective of maximising recovery from the assets.
Performance
2009/08
Head Office Functions and Other Operations loss before tax reduced 
£308m to £550m (2008: loss of £858m). 
T otal income increased £405m to £28m (2008: loss of £377m).
Group segmental reporting is performed in accordance with Group
accounting policies. This means that inter-segment transactions are
recorded in each segment as if undertaken on an arm’ s length basis.
Adjustments necessary to eliminate inter-segment transactions are
included in Head Office Functions and Other Operations.
Net interest income decreased £689m to a loss of £507m (2008: profit
of £182m) primarily due to an increase in costs in central funding activity
due to the money market dislocation, increased liquidity requirements 
and lower income on shareholders’ funds due to the lower interest rate
environment. This was partially offset by a £170m gain from a
reclassification on consolidation for hedging derivatives with the
corresponding expense being recorded in principal transactions.
Net fees and commission expense decreased £68m to £418m (2008:
£486m) reflecting adjustments to eliminate inter-segmental transactions,
offset by increases in fees for structured capital market activities to £191m
(2008: £141m) and in fees paid to Barclays Capital for debt and equity
raising and risk management advice to £174m (2008: £151m).
Losses associated with principal transactions increased £107m to
£325m (2008: loss of £218m) predominantly due to a £170m increase in
the consolidation reclassification adjustment on hedging derivatives.
Other income increased £1,160m to £1,186m (2008: £26m). During
2009, certain upper Tier 2 perpetual debt was exchanged for new issuances
of lower Tier 2 dated loan stock resulting in a net gain of £1,164m. 
£1,170m of this gain was reflected in other income.
Operating expenses increased £119m to £570m (2008: £451m)
reflecting a UK bank payroll tax charge of £190m (2008: £nil) in respect of
2009 cash compensation and £35m in respect of certain prior years awards
which may fall within the proposed legislation, partially offset by a reduction
of £55m in the costs relating to an internal review of Barclays compliance
with US economic sanctions to £33m (2008: £88m).
2008/07
Head Office Functions and Other Operations loss before tax increased
£430m to £858m (2007: £428m).
T otal income decreased £185m to a loss of £377m (2007: loss of
£192m).
Group segmental reporting is performed in accordance with Group
accounting policies. This means that inter-segment transactions are
recorded in each segment as if undertaken on an arm’ s length basis.
Adjustments necessary to eliminate inter-segment transactions are
included in Head Office Functions and Other Operations. The impact 
of such inter-segment adjustments increased £32m to £265m 
(2007: £233m). These adjustments included internal fees for structured
capital market activities of £141m (2007: £169m) and fees paid to Barclays
Capital for debt and equity raising and risk management advice of £151m
(2007: £65m), both of which reduce net fees and commission income.
Net interest income increased £54m to £182m (2007: £128m)
primarily due to a consolidation adjustment between net interest income
and trading income required to match the booking of certain derivative
hedging transactions between different segments in the Group. This
resulted in a £111m increase in net interest income to £143m (2007: £32m)
with an equal and opposite decrease in principal transactions. This was
partially offset by an increase in costs in central funding activity due to the
money market dislocation, in particular LIBOR resets.
Principal transactions loss increased £135m to £218m (2007: £83m)
reflecting the £111m increase in consolidation reclassification adjustment
on derivative hedging transactions.
Impairment charges increased £27m to £30m (2007: £3m) mainly
reflecting losses on Floating Rate Notes held for hedging purposes.
Operating expenses increased £217m to £451m (2007: £234m). The
main drivers of this increase were: a £101m charge for the Group’ s share of
levies that will be raised by the UK Financial Services Compensation
Scheme; £64m increase in costs relating to an internal review of Barclays
compliance with US economic sanctions; the non-recurrence of a £58m
break fee relating to the ABN Amro transaction; lower rental income and
lower proceeds on property sales. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 79
Performance ce an ma orm rfo Pe P
Head office functions and other operations 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Income statement information
Net interest income (507) 182 128
Net fee and commission income (418) (486) (424)
Net trading (loss)/income (291) (245) (66)
Net investment income/(expense) (34) 27 (17)
Principal transactions (325) (218) (83)
Net premiums from insurance contracts 92 119 152
Other income 1,186 26 35
T otal income 28 (377) (192)
Impairment (charges)/releases (16) (30) (3)
Net income 12 (407) (195)
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (570) (451) (233)
Amortisation of intangible assets – – (1)
Operating expenses (570) (451) (234)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1 ––
Profit on disposal of associates and joint ventures 7 –1
Loss before tax (550) (858) (428)
Balance sheet information
T otal assets £6.4bn £3.1bn £5.7bn
Other financial measures 
Risk weighted assets £0.9bn £0.4bn £1.1bn 80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 82 Risk management
82 Risk factors
87 Barclays risk management strategy
94 Credit risk management
122 Market risk management
127 Capital risk management
130 Liquidity risk management
133 Operational risk management
135 Statistical information
145 Supervision and regulation
147 Directors’ report
151 Corporate governance report
170 Remuneration report
Accountability and audit
Risk management
and governance 82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Risk factors
The following information sets forth the risk factors which the Group
believes could cause its future results to differ materially from expected
results. However , other factors could also adversely affect the Group’s
results and so the factors discussed in this report should not be
considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
The Group’ s approach to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting
risks is formalised in its Principal Risk framework, and definitions of the 13
Principal Risks are given below. A description of the Principal Risk framework
is provided on page 90.
This summary of risk factors also includes a discussion of the impact of
business conditions and the general economy , which are not Principal Risks
but can impact risk factors such as credit and market risk and so influence
the Group’ s results.
Business conditions and general economy
Barclays operates a universal banking business model and its services range
from current accounts for personal customers to inflation-risk hedging for
governments and institutions. The Group also has significant activities in 
a large number of countries. There are, therefore, many ways in which
changes in business conditions and the general economy can adversely
impact Barclays profitability , be they at the level of the Group, the individual
business units or the specific countries in which we operate. 
The Group’ s stress testing framework helps it understand the impact 
of changes in business conditions and the general economy , as well as the
sensitivity of its business goals to such changes and the scope of
management actions to mitigate their impact. 
As the current downturn has shown, higher unemployment in the UK,
US, Spain and South Africa has led to increased arrears in our credit card
portfolios, while falls in GDP have reduced the credit quality of the Group’ s
corporate portfolios. In both cases, there is an increased risk that a higher
proportion of the Group’ s customers and counterparties may be unable to
meet their obligations. In addition, declines in residential and commercial
property prices have reduced the value of collateral and caused mark to
market losses in some of the Group’ s trading portfolios.
The business conditions facing the Group in 2010 are subject to
significant uncertainties, most notably:
– the extent and sustainability of economic recovery and asset prices in
the UK, US, Spain and South Africa as governments consider how and
when to withdraw stimulus packages; 
– the dynamics of unemployment in those markets and the impact on
delinquency and charge-off rates;
– the speed and extent of possible rises in interest rates in the UK, US 
and eurozone;
– the possibility of further falls in residential property prices in the UK,
South Africa and Spain; 
– the potential for single name risk and for idiosyncratic losses in different
sectors and geographies where credit positions are sensitive to
economic downturn; 
– possible additional deterioration in our remaining credit market
exposures, including commercial real estate and leveraged finance;
– the potential impact of deteriorating sovereign credit quality;
– changes in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies, which could
increase risk weighted assets and therefore raise the capital
requirements of the Group; and
– the liquidity and volatility of capital markets and investors’ appetite for
risk, which could lead to a decline in the income that the Group receives
from fees and commissions.
Principal Risk Factors
Retail and Wholesale Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Group’ s
customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual
obligations to the Group. The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly
from wholesale and retail loans and advances. However, credit risk may also
arise where the downgrading of an entity’ s credit rating causes a fall in the
fair value of the Group’ s investment in that entity’ s financial instruments.
In a recessionary environment, such as that recently seen in the United
Kingdom, the United States and other economies, credit risk increases. 
Credit risk may also be manifested as country risk where difficulties 
may arise in the country in which the exposure is domiciled, thus impeding
or reducing the value of the assets, or where the counterparty may be the
country itself.
Another form of credit risk is settlement risk, which is the possibility 
that the Group may pay funds away to a counterparty but fail to receive the
corresponding settlement in return. The Group is exposed to many different
industries and counterparties in the normal course of its business, but its
exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry is particularly
significant. This exposure can arise through trading, lending, deposit-taking,
clearance and settlement and many other activities and relationships. These
counterparties include broker dealers, commercial banks, investment banks,
mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. Many of these www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 83
relationships expose the Group to credit risk in the event of default of a
counterparty and to systemic risk affecting its counterparties. Where the
Group holds collateral against counterparty exposures, it may not be able to
realise it or liquidate it at prices sufficient to cover the full exposures. Many of
the hedging and other risk management strategies utilised by the Group
also involve transactions with financial services counterparties. The failure 
of these counterparties to settle, or the perceived weakness of these
counterparties, may impair the effectiveness of the Group’ s hedging and
other risk management strategies.
The Group’ s credit risk governance structure, management and
measurement methodologies, together with an analysis of exposures to
credit risk is detailed in the ‘Credit risk management’ section on page 94
and Note 47 to the financial statements on page 269.
An analysis of Barclays Capital’ s credit market exposures is detailed on
pages 109 to 118.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the Group’ s earnings or capital, or its ability to
meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level
or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads,
commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates. 
The majority of market risk exposure resides in Barclays Capital. Barclays
is also exposed to market risk through non-traded interest rate risk and the
pension fund. 
The Group’ s future earnings could be affected by depressed asset
valuations resulting from deterioration in market conditions. Financial
markets are sometimes subject to stress conditions where steep falls in
asset values can occur, as demonstrated by events in 2007 and 2008
affecting asset backed CDOs and the US sub-prime residential mortgage
market and which may occur in other asset classes during an economic
downturn. Severe market events are difficult to predict and, if they continue
to occur, could result in the Group incurring additional losses.
From the second half of 2007, the Group recorded material net losses
on certain credit market exposures, including ABS CDO Super Senior
exposures. As market conditions change, the fair value of these exposures
could fall further and result in additional losses or impairment charges,
which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’ s earnings. Such
losses or impairment charges could derive from: a decline in the value of
exposures; a decline in the ability of counterparties, including monoline
insurers, to meet their obligations as they fall due; or the ineffectiveness 
of hedging and other risk management strategies in circumstances of
severe stress.
The Group’ s market risk governance structure, management and
measurement methodologies, together with an analysis of exposures 
to both traded and non-traded market risk is detailed in the ‘Market risk
management’ section on page 122 and Note 48 to the financial statements
on page 283. Further details relating to the Group’ s pension risk is included 
in Note 30 on page 236.
Capital risk
Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital resources to:
– meet minimum regulatory requirements in the UK and in other
jurisdictions such as the United States and South Africa where regulated
activities are undertaken. The Group’s authority to operate as a bank is
dependent upon the maintenance of adequate capital resources;
– support its credit rating. A weaker credit rating would increase the
Group’s cost of funds; and
– support its growth and strategic options.
Regulators assess the Group’ s capital position and target levels of capital
resources on an ongoing basis. T argets may increase in the future, and rules
dictating the measurement of capital may be adversely changed, which
would constrain the Group’ s planned activities and contribute to adverse
impacts on the Group’ s earnings. During periods of market dislocation,
increasing the Group’ s capital resources in order to meet targets may prove
more difficult or costly .
In December 2009 the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued
a consultative document that outlined proposed changes to the definition 
of regulatory capital. These proposals are going through a period of
consultation and are expected to be introduced by the beginning of 2013,
with substantial transitional arrangements. While the proposals may
significantly impact the capital resources and requirements of the Group,
the Group maintains sufficient Balance Sheet flexibility to adapt accordingly .
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations as
they fall due as a result of a sudden, and potentially protracted, increase in
net cash outflows. Such outflows would deplete available cash resources for
client lending, trading activities and investments. In extreme circumstances,
lack of liquidity could result in reductions in balance sheet and sales of
assets, or potentially an inability to fulfil lending commitments. This risk is
inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of
institution-specific and market-wide events.  84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Risk factors
continued
During periods of market dislocation the Group’ s ability to manage
liquidity requirements may be impacted by a reduction in the availability 
of wholesale term funding as well as an increase in the cost of raising
wholesale funds. Asset sales, balance sheet reductions and the increasing
costs of raising funding may have a material effect on the earnings of 
the Group.
In illiquid markets, the Group may decide to hold assets rather than
securitising, syndicating or disposing of them. This could affect the Group’ s
ability to originate new loans or support other customer transactions as
both capital and liquidity are consumed by existing or legacy assets.
The FSA issued its policy document on ‘strengthening liquidity
standards’ on 5th October 2009 detailing the requirements for liquidity
governance to be in place by 1st December 2009, and the quantitative
requirements for liquidity buffers, which will be in place from 1st June 2010,
although with an extended transition period of several years to meet the
expected standards.
In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released a
consultative document ‘International framework for liquidity risk
measurement, standards and monitoring’ in December 2009. This included
two new key liquidity metrics. A liquidity coverage ratio aimed at ensuring
banks have sufficient unencumbered high quality assets to meet cash
outflows in an acute short-term stress and a net stable funding ratio to
promote longer-term structural funding of bank’ s balance sheet and capital
market activities.
The Group’ s liquidity risk management and measurement
methodologies are detailed in the ‘Liquidity Risk Management’ section 
on page 130 and the ‘Liquidity Risk’ note to the financial statements on
page 287.
Operations risk
Operations risk is the risk of losses from inadequate or failed internal
processes and systems, caused by human error or external events.
Operations risk has a broad scope and for that reason, the Group’ s Risk
Control Frameworks are defined at a more granular level within the overall
Operations Principal Risk. These risks are transaction operations, new
product development, premises, external suppliers, payments process and
the management of information, data quality and records. 
Financial crime risk
Financial crime risk is the risk that the Group suffers losses as a result of
internal and external fraud or intentional damage, loss or harm to people,
premises or moveable assets. 
Technology risk
T echnology is a key business enabler and requires an appropriate level of
control to ensure that the most significant technology risks are effectively
managed. Such risks include the non-availability of IT systems, inadequate
design and testing of new and changed IT solutions and inadequate IT
system security . Data privacy issues are covered under Regulatory Risk 
and external supplier issues relating to technology are covered under
Operations Risk.
People risk
People risk arises from failures of the Group to manage its key risks as an
employer, including lack of appropriate people resource, failure to manage
performance and reward, unauthorised or inappropriate employee activity
and failure to comply with employment related requirements.
Regulatory risk
Regulatory risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully with the laws,
regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial services industry .
Non-compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to
reputation, increased prudential requirements, enforced suspension of
operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
In addition, the Group’ s businesses and earnings can be affected by the
fiscal or other policies and other actions of various governmental and
regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union (‘EU’), the
United States, South Africa and elsewhere. All these are subject to change,
particularly in an environment where recent developments in the global
markets have led to an increase in the involvement of various governmental
and regulatory authorities in the financial sector and in the operations of
financial institutions. In particular, governmental and regulatory authorities
in the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere are implementing
measures to increase regulatory control in their respective banking sectors,
including by imposing enhanced capital and liquidity requirements. Any
future regulatory changes may potentially restrict the Group’ s operations,
mandate certain lending activity and impose other compliance costs.
Areas where changes could have an impact include:
– the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and
regulatory authorities;
– general changes in government or regulatory policy that may
significantly influence investor decisions, in particular markets in which
the Group operates;
– general changes in regulatory requirements, for example, prudential
rules relating to the capital adequacy framework and rules designed to
promote financial stability and increase depositor protection;
– changes in competition and pricing environments;
– further developments in the financial reporting environment;
– differentiation amongst financial institutions by governments with
respect to the extension of guarantees to customer deposits and the
terms attaching to those guarantees; and
– implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor
compensation or reimbursement schemes. 
Further details of specific matters that impact the Group are included in the
Supervision and Regulation section on page 145 and Note 36 to the financial
statements on page 248. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 85
Financial reporting risk
Financial reporting risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully 
with the laws, regulations or codes in relation to the disclosure of financial
information. Non-compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands,
damage to reputation, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme
cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate. Further details of the Group’ s
internal controls over financial reporting are included in the Accountability
and Audit Section on page 187.
Legal risk
The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all
countries in which it operates. As a result, the Group is exposed to many
forms of legal risk, which may arise in a number of ways. Primarily:
– the Group’s business may not be conducted in accordance with
applicable laws around the world;
– contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended or
may be enforced against the Group in an adverse way;
– the intellectual property of the Group (such as its trade names) may 
not be adequately protected; and
– the Group may be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the
conduct of its business.
The Group faces risk where legal proceedings are brought against it.
Regardless of whether such claims have merit, the outcome of legal
proceedings is inherently uncertain and could result in financial loss.
Defending legal proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming
and there is no guarantee that all costs incurred will be recovered even if the
Group is successful. Although the Group has processes and controls to
manage legal risks, failure to manage these risks could impact the Group
adversely , both financially and by reputation.
Further details of the Group’ s legal proceedings are included in Note 35
to the financial statements on page 247. 
T axation risk
The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it operates,
including tax laws adopted at an EU level. A number of double taxation
agreements entered between two countries also impact on the taxation of
the Group. T ax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the
interpretation of tax law. It also includes the risk of changes in tax rates and
the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge. It could
also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with required tax
procedures or other aspects of tax law. If, as a result of a particular tax risk
materialising, the tax costs associated with particular transactions are
greater than anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
The Group takes a responsible and transparent approach to the
management and control of its tax affairs and related tax risk, specifically:
– tax risks are assessed as part of the Group’s formal governance
processes and are reviewed by the Executive Committee, Group Finance
Director and the Board Risk Committee; 
– the tax charge is also reviewed by the Board Audit Committee;
– the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of business are fully
considered before proceeding;
– the Group takes appropriate advice from reputable professional firms;
– the Group employs high-quality tax professionals and provides ongoing
technical training;
– the tax professionals understand and work closely with the different
areas of the business;
– the Group uses effective, well-documented and controlled processes to
ensure compliance with tax disclosure and filing obligations; and
– where disputes arise with tax authorities with regard to the
interpretation and application of tax law, the Group is committed to
addressing the matter promptly and resolving the matter with the tax
authority in an open and constructive manner. 86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Risk factors
continued
Other Risk Factors
In addition to the 13 Principal Risks, the Group’ s high-level risk classification
includes four other ‘Level 1’ risks. These risks are in general less amenable to
formal quantification than the Principal Risks in terms of risk measurement
or setting risk appetite. However, they retain the potential to impact the
Group’ s performance. 
Strategic Risk
The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to 
the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identification 
of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to generate
growth in customer business. If these strategic plans are not delivered as
anticipated, the Group’ s earnings could grow more slowly or decline. In
addition, the Group’ s strategy could be impacted by revenue volatility due 
to factors such as macroeconomic conditions, inflexible cost structures,
uncompetitive products or pricing and structural inefficiencies.
Change risk
Change risk arises when the Group needs to make extensive changes to its
operations. The cost of implementation projects may overrun, or they may
fail to achieve their objectives. Examples of situations in which change risk
arises include the integration of acquired businesses, significant business
unit restructuring, changes in target operating models, the roll-out of new
and potentially disruptive technologies, the introduction of a single currency
such as the euro, and Group-wide projects to implement significant new
regulation such as Basel II. 
Corporate sustainability risk
Corporate sustainability risk arises from the failure to identify and manage
the impact of business decisions and activities on the community and the
environment, covering the following themes: customers and clients,
inclusive banking, the environment, diversity and responsible global
citizenship. For more information, see page 22.
Brand management risk
Barclays defines brand risk as the failure to manage the visual identity of
Barclays brands in an effective manner. This is distinct from reputational
impact (damage to the general brand/reputation of Barclays), which is a
potential by-product of financial, strategic or operational risks. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 87
Risk management
Barclays risk management strategy
Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established
strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes. 
At a strategic level, our risk management objectives are:
– To identify the Group’s material risks.
– To formulate the Group’s Risk Appetite and ensure that business profile
and plans are consistent with it.
– To optimise risk/return decisions by taking them as closely as possible 
to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and
challenge structures.
– To ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by
effective risk infrastructure.
– To manage risk profile to ensure that specific financial deliverables
remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions.
– To help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking
across the business.
The Group’ s strategy is to break down risk management into five discrete
processes: direct, assess, control, report, and manage/ challenge. Each of
these processes is broken down further, to establish end to end activities
within the risk management process and the infrastructure needed to
support it (see panel below). 
Assigning responsibilities
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group,
from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the
organisation to each business manager and risk specialist. Barclays
distributes these responsibilities so that risk/return decisions are taken at
the most appropriate level; as close as possible to the business, and subject
to robust and effective review and challenge. The responsibilities for
effective review and challenges reside with senior managers, risk oversight
committees, Barclays Internal Audit, the independent Group Risk function,
the Board Risk Committee and ultimately , the Board.
The Board is responsible for approving Risk Appetite, which is the level
of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives. At
most of the Board’ s scheduled meetings, the Chief Risk Officer presents a
report summarising developments in the risk environment and performance
trends in the key portfolios. The Board is also responsible for the Internal
Control and Assurance Framework. It oversees the management of the
most significant risks through the regular review of risk exposures and
related key controls. Executive Management responsibilities relating to 
this are set via the Group’ s Principal Risks Policy .
The Board Risk Committee (BRC) monitors the Group’ s risk profile
against the agreed appetite. Where actual performance differs from
expectations, the actions being taken by management are reviewed to
ensure that the BRC is comfortable with them. After each meeting, the Chair
of the BRC prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board. Barclays first
established a separate Board Risk Committee in 1999 and all members are
non-executive directors. The Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer
attend each meeting as a matter of course and the Chief Risk Officer has
a dotted reporting line to the Chair. The BRC receives regular and
comprehensive reports on the Group’ s risk profile, the key issues affecting
each business portfolio, risk measurement methodologies and forward risk
trends. The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant
risk topics, which are presented by the Chief Risk Officer or senior risk
managers in the businesses. The Chair of the Committee prepares a
statement each year on its activities (see page 166).
Process Activity
Direct 
Assess 
Control 
Report 
Manage and 
Challenge
– Understand the principal risks to achieving Group strategy.
– Establish Risk Appetite.
– Establish and communicate the risk management framework including 
responsibilities, authorities and key controls.
– Establish the process for identifying and analysing business-level risks.
– Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
– Establish key control processes and practices, including limit structures, 
impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
– Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
– Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
– Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the 
business environment.
– Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
– Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
– Communicate with external parties.
– Review and challenge all aspects of the Group’s risk profile.
– Assess new risk-return opportunities.
– Advise on optimising the Group’s risk profile.
– Review and challenge risk management practices. 88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Barclays risk management strategy
continued
The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues
of significance and a half-yearly review of the adequacy of impairment
allowances, which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, the
business environment, the Group’ s policies and methodologies and the
performance trends of peer banks. The Chair of the Board Audit Committee
also sits on the Board Risk Committee. See page 159 for additional details on
the membership and activities of the Board Audit Committee. 
The Board HR and Remuneration Committee receives advice from the
Board Risk Committee on the management of remuneration risk, including
advice on the setting of performance objectives in the context of incentive
packages.
Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management
experience of the Directors of the Board are given on pages 10 and 11. The
terms of reference for each of the principal Board Committees are available
from the Corporate Governance section at: www.aboutbarclays.com. 
The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the Executive Committee and has
overall day to day accountability for risk management under delegated
authority from the Finance Director. The Finance Director must consult the
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee in respect of the Chief Risk Officer’ s
performance appraisal and compensation as well as all appointments to or
departures from the role.
Governance structure at Group level
Board oversight
Assurance
Risk adjusted performance
Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee
Assurance Reporting and control
Board
Internal Audit
Group Chief Executive
Group Executive Committee
Governance and Control Committee Treasury Committee Group Risk Oversight Committee
Authority controls appetite
Board HR and Remuneration Committee
– Approves overall Group Risk Appetite.
– Monitors and manages risk adjusted 
performance of businesses.
– Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the Group Control Framework.
– Assesses management assurance processes.
– Considers the adequacy and effectiveness
of the Group Control Framework.
– Reviews reports on control issues of 
Group-level significance.
– Review the Group risk profile.
– Approves the Group Control Framework.
– Approves minimum control requirements 
for principal risks.
– Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness  
of the Group Control Framework.
– Monitors compliance with the Framework 
including remediation of significant 
control issues. 
– Reviews reports on control issues of 
Group-level significance.
– Sets policy/controls for liquidity, maturity 
transformation and structural interest 
rate exposure. 
– Monitors the Group’s liquidity and interest 
rate maturity mismatch.
– Monitors usage of regulatory and 
economic capital.
– Oversees the management of the 
Group’s capital plan.
– Monitors risk profile in respect to 
risk appetite.
– Debates and agrees actions on the risk 
profile and risk strategy across the Group.
– Considers issues escalated by Risk Type 
Heads and Business Risk Directors.
Note
The governance structure will not change following the restructure of the Group announced in November 2009.  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 89
The Chief Risk Officer manages the independent Group Risk function
and chairs the Group Risk Oversight Committee, which monitors the
Group’ s risk profile relative to established risk appetite. Reporting to the Chief
Risk Officer, and working in the Group Risk function, are risk-type heads for:
retail credit risk, wholesale credit risk, market risk, operational risk, financial
crime risk and capital analytics. Along with their teams, the risk-type heads
are responsible for establishing a Group-wide framework for risk control
framework and oversight. These risk-type teams liaise with each business 
as part of the monitoring and management processes.
In addition, each business unit has an embedded risk management
function, headed by a business risk director. Business risk directors and their
teams are responsible for assisting business heads in the identification and
management of their business risk profiles and for implementing
appropriate controls. These teams also assist Group Risk in the formulation
of Group policies and their implementation across the businesses. The
business risk directors report jointly to their respective business heads and
to the Chief Risk Officer.
The risk type heads within the central Group Risk function and the
business risk directors within the business units report to the Chief Risk
Officer and are members of the Group Risk Oversight Committee.
Governance structure by risk type
Board
Divisional Chief Executive Officers Group Finance Director
Group Chief Executive Internal Audit
Business Heads Chief Risk Officer
Business Risk Directors Group Risk Heads
Retail 
Credit Risk
Financial 
Crime Risk
Market 
Risk
Wholesale
Credit Risk
Capital
Demand
Operational 
Risk
– Plan and control the taking of credit risk 
based on clear and accurate assessments.
– Support business decision-making and 
proactive identification of new risks.
– Ensure a robust framework for the creation, 
use and monitoring of credit risk models.
– Ensure traded 
market risk resides 
primarily within 
Barclays Capital, 
and minimise 
non-traded 
market risk.
– Understand and 
control market 
risk by robust 
measurement 
and setting of 
position limits.
– Facilitate business 
growth within 
controlled and 
transparent risk 
management 
framework.
– Develop a clear 
profile of financial 
crime risk across 
the Group.
– Share intelligence, 
adopt common 
standards and 
respond promptly 
to emerging issues.
– Drive forward law 
enforcement and 
other government 
initiatives.
– Maintain and 
develop the 
Group’s economic 
capital framework.
– Prepare Risk 
Appetite for the 
Board to approve 
and track.
– Conduct stress 
testing exercises.
– Co-ordinate Group 
Risk input in the 
Group’s medium-
term planning.
– Provide assurance 
on each business’ 
capital demand.
– Capture, understand 
and report the 
operational risks 
being taken by 
the Group.
– On a cost-benefit 
basis, minimise 
the frequency 
and impact of 
operational risk 
events. 90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Barclays risk management strategy
continued
Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk
management and the control environment. Its objective is to provide
reliable, valued and timely assurance to the Board and Executive
Management over the effectiveness of controls, mitigating current and
evolving high risks and in so doing enhancing the controls culture within the
Group. The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves Internal Audit’ s
plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically . 
In addition to the Committees shown in the chart, there is a Brand and
Reputation Committee reviewing emerging issues with potentially
significant reputational impact.
Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the Principal Risks
Policy, which covers the categories of risk in which the Group has its most
significant actual or potential risk exposures.
The Principal Risks Framework:
– creates clear ownership and accountability;
– ensures the Group’s risk exposures are understood and managed in
accordance with agreed risk appetite (for financial risks) and risk
tolerances (for non-financial risks); and
– ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures and the operating
effectiveness of controls.
Each Principal Risk is owned by a senior individual within Barclays, known as
the Principal Risk Owner (PRO) who is required to document, communicate
and maintain a risk control framework which makes clear the mandated
control requirements in managing that Principal Risk, for every business
across the firm.
These control requirements are given further specification, according to
the business unit or risk type, to provide a complete and appropriate system
of internal control.
Business unit and Group centre heads are responsible for obtaining
ongoing assurance that the controls they have put in place to manage the
risks to their business objectives are operating effectively . Six-monthly
reviews support the regulatory requirement for the Group to make a
statement about its system of internal controls (the ‘Turnbull’ statement), 
in the Annual Report and Accounts.
PROs report their assessments of the risk exposure and control
effectiveness to Group-level oversight committees. Their assessments 
form the basis of the reports that go to the Board Risk Committee.
Setting and using Risk Appetite
Risk Appetite is the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its
business objectives.
As part of the yearly planning process, we add up our estimated bad
debts charges and ask ourselves if that potential level of credit loss is
consistent with our strategy , with our business position, and with our
capital. 
The starting point is the total expected credit loss, assuming the base
case economic forecast. T o gain a more rounded understanding of the risk,
the Group estimates credit losses based on the kind of stressed conditions
that can be expected to occur approximately once every seven years
(moderate stress) and once every 25 years (severe stress). These potentially
larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are illustrated in the Risk
Appetite concepts chart below.
Principal Risks Other Level 1 Risks
Retail Credit
Wholesale Credit
Market
Capital
Liquidity
Operations
Financial Crime
Technology
People
Regulatory
Financial Reporting
Legal
Taxation
Strategic
Change
Corporate Sustainability
Brand Management
Extreme Stress
Mean
Loss
Severe Stress
Moderate 
Stress
Economic capital Expected
Loss
Potential size of loss in one year
Probability of loss
Risk Appetite concepts (diagram not to scale) www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 91
Risk Appetite is prepared for the Board, as part of the formal planning
process. The Board requires credible plans that show the Executive is aware
of risk sensitivities and potential downside cases, and is investing capital into
sustainable businesses over an economic cycle. The Chief Risk Officer leads
the discussion at the Executive and Board levels. If the projections entail too
high a level of risk, management will challenge each area to find new ways 
to rebalance the business mix to incur less overall risk. Performance against
Risk Appetite is measured and reported to the Executive and Board regularly
throughout the year.
As well as credit risk, the Risk Appetite framework also considers market
and operational risks.
Barclays uses Risk Appetite to:
– improve management confidence and debate regarding our risk profile;
– give executives greater control and co-ordination of risk-taking across
businesses;
– re-balance the risk profile of the medium-term plan to achieve a superior
risk-return profile; and
– identify unused risk capacity.
There is a second element to Risk Appetite setting in Barclays: the extensive
system of Mandate and Scale limits, which are set by the independent
Group Risk function, formally monitored each month and subject to Board-
level oversight.
The framework operates through limits and triggers, which work in
tandem with clearly defined lending criteria for specific sectors, industries
and products, in order to maintain asset quality .
For example, in the UK mortgage business a series of explicit mandate
and scale limits have kept the average loan to value of the portfolio at
conservative levels, set an upper boundary on the proportion of buy-to-let
customers, and set at ‘zero’ our appetite to offer self-certified mortgages. 
In our commercial property finance portfolios, a comprehensive series
of limits are in place to control exposure within each business and
geographic market. T o ensure that limits are aligned to the underlying risk
characteristics, the Mandate and Scale limits differentiate between types of
exposure. There are, for example, individual limits for property investment
and property development and for senior and subordinated lending. Since
the onset of the global economic downturn, these limits have been reduced
significantly and the frequency of review has been increased.
Barclays uses the Mandate and Scale framework to:
– limit concentration risk;
– keep business activities within Group and individual business mandate;
– ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying
risk and reward; and
– ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
As well as Group-level Mandate and Scale limits, further limits are set by risk
managers within each business unit, covering particular portfolios. T aken as
a whole, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the allocation of
risk capacity across the Barclays Group.  92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Barclays risk management strategy
continued
Modelling risk
Risk taking on any meaningful scale requires quantification. Barclays uses
risk models in an extensive range of decisions, from credit grading, pricing
and approval to portfolio management, risk appetite setting, economic
capital allocation and regulatory capital calculations.
The key inputs into the models used to quantify credit risk are:
– Probability of default (PD).
– Exposure at default (EAD).
– Loss given default (LGD).
These models are used in a range of applications that measure credit risk
across the Group. For example, Barclays can assign an expected loss over
the next 12 months to each customer by multiplying these three factors. 
We calculate probability of default (PD) by assessing the credit quality of
borrowers and other counterparties. For the sake of illustration, suppose a
customer has a 0.5% probability of defaulting over a 12-month period.
The exposure at default (EAD) is our estimate of what the outstanding
balance will be, if the customer does default. Supposing the current balance
is £1,000, our models might predict a rise to £1,200 by then. Should
customers default, some part of the exposure is usually recovered. The part
that is not recovered, together with the economic costs associated with the
recovery process, comprise the loss given default (LGD), which is expressed
as a percentage of EAD. Supposing the LGD in this case is estimated to be
30%, the expected loss for this customer is: 0.5% x £1,200 x 30% or £1.80.
The Group has an extensive range of models in use, covering
estimations of PD, EAD, LGD as well as many other types of risk besides
credit risk. The models are developed and owned by each business unit and
used to measure risk in their portfolios. T o minimise the risk of loss through
model failure, the Group Model Risk Policy (GMRP) was developed. It is
managed by the independent Group Risk function and was reviewed and
expanded during 2009.
The GMRP helps reduce the potential for model failure by setting
Group-wide minimum standards for the model development and
implementation process. The GMRP also sets the Group governance
processes for all models, which allows model performance and risk to be
monitored, and seeks to identify and escalate any potential problems at an
early stage.
T o ensure that the governance process is effective, and that
management time is focused on the more material models, each model is
provided with a materiality rating. The GMRP defines the materiality ranges
for all model types, based on an assessment of the impact to the Group in
the event of a model error. The final level of model sign-off is based on
materiality , with all of a business unit’ s models initially being approved in
business unit committees. The more material models are also approved 
at the Group-level Material Models T echnical Committee, and the most
material models require further approval by the Executive Models
Committee, a sub-committee of Group Executive Committee. 
This process ensures that the most significant models are subject 
to the most rigorous review, and that senior management have a good
understanding of the most material models in the Group. Although the 
final level of model sign-off will vary , depending on model materiality , the
standards required by the GMRP do not change with the materiality level.
The GMRP also sets detailed standards that a model must meet during
development and subsequent use. For new models, documentation must
be sufficiently detailed to allow an expert to understand all aspects of model
development such that they could reproduce the model. It must include a
description of the data used for model development, the methodology used
(and the rationale for choosing such a methodology), a description of any
assumptions made, as well as details of the strengths and weaknesses of
the model. 
All new models are subject to validation and independent review before
they can be signed off for implementation. The model validation exercise
must demonstrate that the model is fit for purpose and provides accurate
estimates. The independent review ensures that the model development
has followed a robust process and that the standards of the GMRP have
been met, as well as ensuring that the model satisfies business and
regulatory requirements. In addition, the most material models are subject
to independent review by Group Risk. Once implemented, all models are
subject to post-implementation review. This confirms that the model has
been implemented correctly and behaves as predicted. 
The GMRP also sets the requirements for ongoing performance
monitoring and the annual review process. Once implemented, all models
within the Group are subject to ongoing performance monitoring to ensure
that any deficiencies are identified early , and that remedial action can be
taken before the decision-making process is affected. As part of this process,
Model Governance
Group Risk Technical Committee
Executive Models Committee Group Risk Oversight Committee
Group Material Models 
Technical Committee
Business Unit Technical Committee www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 93
model owners set performance triggers and define appropriate actions for
their models in the event that a trigger level is breached.
In addition to regular monitoring, models are subject to an annual
validation process to ensure that they will continue to perform as expected,
and that assumptions used in model development are still appropriate. In
line with initial sign-off requirements, annual validations are also formally
reviewed at the appropriate technical committee. 
Within Barclays Capital, where models are used to value positions
within the trading book, the positions are subject to regular independent
price testing which covers all trading positions. Prices are compared with
direct external market data where possible. When this is not possible, more
analytic techniques are used, such as industry consensus pricing services.
These services enable peer banks to compare structured products and
model-input parameters on an anonymous basis. The conclusions and any
exceptions to this exercise are communicated to senior levels of business
management.
Externally developed models are subject to the same governance
standards as internal models, and must be approved for use following the
validation and independent review process. External models are also subject
to the same standards for ongoing monitoring and annual validation
requirements.
Stress testing
A fundamental duty of risk management is to ensure that organisations do
not neglect to prepare for the worst event as they plan for success. Stress
testing helps Barclays to understand how its portfolios would react if
business conditions became significantly more challenging. We generate
specific forward-looking scenarios and analyse how well our profitability
would hold up, whether our levels of capital would be adequate and what
managers could do ahead of time to mitigate the risk.
Stress tests capture a wide range of macroeconomic variables that are
relevant to the current environment, such as:
– GDP;
– unemployment;
– asset prices; and
– interest rates.
The Board Risk Committee agrees the range of scenarios to be tested
and the independent Group Risk function co-ordinates the process, using
bottom-up analysis performed by the businesses. The results of the stress
tests are presented to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk Committee,
the Strategy Board and the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA).
In 2009, the range of stress scenarios included the stress test set out by
the FSA as part of its assessment of the Group’ s resilience to stressed credit
risk, market risk and economic conditions over a five-year period. This stress
scenario took into account a wide range of factors, including: 
– the Group’s revenue generation potential given stressed GDP and
interest rates assumptions;
– the probability of default and possible losses given default within its 
loan book; and
– possible declines in the market value of assets held in the trading books.
Following this work and discussion with the FSA, the Group was able to
confirm that its capital position and resources, after exposure to the stress,
were expected to continue to meet the FSA ’ s capital requirements.
Barclays uses stress testing techniques at Group, portfolio and product
level and across a range of risk types. For example, portfolio management in
the US cards business employs stressed assumptions of unemployment to
determine profitability hurdles for new accounts. And in the UK mortgage
business, affordability thresholds incorporate stressed estimates of 
interest rates. 
In the Investment Banking division, global scenario testing is used to
gauge potential losses that could arise in conditions of extreme market
stress. Stress testing is also conducted on our positions in particular asset
classes, including interest rates, commodities, equities, credit and foreign
exchange.
Further details of the Group’ s stress testing relating to liquidity risk is set
out on page 130. 94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management Risk management
Credit risk management
Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any of the 
Group’s customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their
contractual obligations to the Group.
The granting of credit is one of the Group’ s major sources of income and,
as the most significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources
to controlling it. 
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and
retail loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk arising
from derivative contracts entered into with our clients.
Barclays is also exposed to other credit risks arising from its trading
activities, including debt securities, settlement balances with market
counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse repurchase loans.
In managing credit risk, the Group applies the five-step risk
management process. Credit risk management objectives are:
– T o establish a framework of controls to ensure credit risk-taking is based
on sound credit risk management principles.
– T o identify , assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across
the Group and within each separate business, from the level of individual
facilities up to the total portfolio.
– T o control and plan credit risk-taking in line with external stakeholder
expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations.
– T o monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls.
– T o ensure that risk-reward objectives are met. 
In the review of Barclays credit risk management that follows, we first
explain how the Group meets its credit risk management objectives through
its organisation, structure and governance, measurement, reporting and
system of internal ratings.
We then provide a summary of the Group’ s total assets, including the
asset types which give rise to credit risk and counterparty credit risk, namely:
loans and advances, debt securities and derivatives.
On pages 96 to 107, we set out a detailed analysis of the Group’ s loans
and advances across a number of asset classes and businesses referencing
significant portfolios and including summary measures of asset quality .
We provide disclosures and analyses of the credit risk profiles of these
asset categories, beginning with Barclays Capital’ s credit market exposures
by asset class, covering current exposures, losses during 2009, sales and
paydowns, foreign exchange movements and, where appropriate, details
of collateral held, geographic spread, vintage and credit quality . These are
given on pages 109 to 118.
Finally , additional analysis of debt securities and derivatives is provided
on pages 119 to 121.
Organisation and structure
Barclays has structured the responsibilities of credit risk management so
that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, whilst ensuring
robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure and
strategic plans.
The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable
to the business risk directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the
heads of their businesses and also to the Chief Risk Officer. 
The role of the Group Risk function is to provide Group-wide direction,
oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking. Group Risk sets the Credit Risk
Control Framework, which provides a structure within which credit risk is
managed together with supporting Group Credit Risk Policies. 
Group Credit Risk Policies currently in force include:
– Maximum Exposure Guidelines to limit the exposures to an individual
customer or counterparty;
– Country risk policies to specify Risk Appetite by country and avoid
excessive concentration of credit risk in individual countries;
– Aggregation policy to set out the circumstances in which counterparties
should be grouped together for credit risk purposes;
– Expected loss policies to set out the Group approaches for the calculation
of expected loss, i.e. Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures;
– Repayment plans policy for setting the standards for repayment plans and
restructures within retail portfolios; and
– Impairment and provisioning policies to ensure that measurement of
impairment accurately reflects incurred losses and that clear governance
procedures are in place for the calculation and approval of impairment
allowances.
The largest credit exposures are approved at the Group Credit Committee
which is managed by Group Risk. Group Risk also manages and approves
the Mandate and Scale limits and triggers which mitigate concentration risk
and define appetite in risk sensitive areas of the portfolio such as
commercial property finance (see page 91). 
Group Risk also provides technical support, review and validation of
credit risk measurement models across the Group.
The principal Committees that review credit risk management, approve
overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues are
the Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the
Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee and the Retail Credit Risk
Management Committee. Senior Group and business risk management are
represented on the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the Wholesale Credit
Risk Management Committee and the Retail Credit Risk Management
Committee. 
On a semi-annual basis, the Credit Risk Impairment Committee (CRIC)
obtains assurance on behalf of the Group that all businesses are recognising
impairment in their portfolios accurately , promptly and in accordance with
policy , accounting standards and established governance.
CRIC is chaired by the Credit Risk Director and reviews the movements
to impairment in the businesses, including those already agreed at Credit
Committee, as well as potential credit risk loans, loan loss rates, asset quality
metrics and impairment coverage ratios.
CRIC makes twice-yearly recommendations to the Board Audit
Committee on the adequacy of Group impairment allowances. Impairment
allowances are reviewed relative to the risk in the portfolio, business and
economic trends, current policies and methodologies, and our position
relative to peer banks. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 95
Measurement and internal ratings
The principal objective of credit risk measurement is to produce the most
accurate possible quantitative assessment of the credit risk to which the
Group is exposed, from the level of individual facilities up to the total
portfolio. Integral to this is the calculation of internal ratings, which are used
in numerous aspects of credit risk management and in the calculation of
regulatory and economic capital. The key building blocks of this process are:
– Probability of default (PD).
– Exposure at default (EAD).
– Loss given default (LGD).
T o calculate probability of default (PD), Barclays assesses the credit quality
of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk
rating. Multiple rating methodologies may be used to inform the overall
rating decision on individual large credits, such as internal and external
models, rating agency ratings, and, for wholesale assets, market information
such as credit spreads. For smaller credits, a single source may suffice such
as the result from an internal rating model. Barclays recognises the need for
two different expressions of PD depending on the purpose for which it is
used. For the purposes of calculating regulatory and economic capital, long-
run average through-the-cycle (TTC) PDs are required. However, for the
purposes of pricing, PDs should represent the best estimate of probability of
default given the current position in the credit cycle. Hence, point-in-time
(PIT) PDs are also required.
Each PD model outputs an estimate of default probability that is PIT,
TTC or a hybrid (e.g. a 50:50 blend). Bespoke conversion techniques,
appropriate to the portfolio in question, are then applied to convert the
model output to pure PIT and TTC PD estimates. In deriving the appropriate
conversion, industry and location of the counterparty and an understanding
of the current and long-term credit conditions are considered. Both PIT and
the TTC PD estimates are recorded for each client.
Within Barclays, the calculation of internal ratings differs between
wholesale and retail customers. For wholesale portfolios, the rating system
is constructed to ensure that a client receives the same rating regardless of
the part of the business with which it is dealing. T o achieve this, a model
hierarchy is adopted which requires users to adopt a specific approach to
rating each counterparty depending upon the nature of the business and its
location. A range of methods are utilised for estimating wholesale
counterparty PDs. These include bespoke grading models developed within
the Group (internal models), vendor models such as MKMV Credit Edge
and RiskCalc, and a conversion of external alphabet ratings from either S&P ,
Moody’ s or Fitch. Retail models, especially those used for capital purposes,
are almost exclusively built internally using Barclays data. In many cases
bureau data is used to complement internal data and in rare cases models
developed by the credit bureau themselves are used in conjunction with
internal models. In addition, in some low data/low default environments,
external developments may also be utilised.
A key element of the Barclays wholesale framework is the PD
Masterscale (see below). This scale has been developed to distinguish
meaningful differences in the probability of default risk throughout the risk
range. In contrast to wholesale businesses, retail areas rarely bucket
exposures into generic grades for account management purposes
(although they may be used for reporting purposes). Instead, accounts are
managed at a more granular and bespoke level.
Exposure at default (EAD) represents the expected level of usage of
the credit facility should default occur. At the point of default, the customer
exposure can vary from the current position due to the combined effects
of additional drawings, repayment of principal and interest and fees. EAD
parameters are all derived from internal estimates and are determined from
internal historical behaviour. The lower bound of EAD for regulatory capital
purposes is the current balance at calculation of EAD. For derivative
instruments, exposure in the event of default is the estimated cost of
replacing contracts with a positive value should counterparties fail to
perform their obligations.
Should a customer default, some part of the exposure is usually
recovered. The part that is not recovered, the actual loss, together with the
economic costs associated with the recovery process, comprise the loss
given default (LGD), which is expressed as a percentage of EAD. The Group
estimates an average LGD for each type of exposure using historical
information. The level of LGD depends principally on: the type of collateral
(if any); the seniority or subordination of the exposure; the industry in which
the customer operates (if a business); the length of time taken for the recovery
process and the timing of all associated cash flows; and the jurisdiction
applicable and work-out expenses. The outcome is also dependent on
economic conditions that may determine, for example, the prices that can
be realised for assets, whether a business can readily be refinanced or the
availability of a repayment source for personal customers. For the purposes
of regulatory capital an adjustment is made to the modelled LGD to account
for the increased losses experienced under downturn conditions, giving a
‘downturn LGD’.
Barclays PD Masterscale
Default Probability
Default grade/
TTC Band >=Min Mid <Max
1 0.00% 0.010% 0.02%
2 0.02% 0.025% 0.03%
3 0.03% 0.040% 0.05%
4 0.05% 0.075% 0.10%
5 0.10% 0.125% 0.15%
6 0.15% 0.175% 0.20%
7 0.20% 0.225% 0.25%
8 0.25% 0.275% 0.30%
9 0.30% 0.350% 0.40%
10 0.40% 0.450% 0.50%
11 0.50% 0.550% 0.60%
12 0.60% 0.900% 1.20%
13 1.20% 1.375% 1.55%
14 1.55% 1.850% 2.15%
15 2.15% 2.600% 3.05%
16 3.05% 3.750% 4.45%
17 4.45% 5.400% 6.35%
18 6.35% 7.500% 8.65%
19 8.65% 10.000% 11.35%
20 11.35% 15.000% 18.65%
21 18.65% 30.000% 100.00% 96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Reporting
The Group dedicates considerable resources to gaining a clear and accurate
understanding of credit risk across the business and ensuring that its
balance sheet correctly reflects the value of the assets in accordance with
applicable accounting principles. This process can be summarised in five
broad stages:
– measuring exposures and concentrations;
– monitoring weaknesses in portfolios;
– identifying potential problem loans and credit risk loans (collectively
known as potential credit risk loans or PCRLs);
– raising allowances for impaired loans; and
– writing off assets when the whole or part of a debt is considered
irrecoverable.
Measuring exposures and concentrations
Loans and advances to customers provide the principal source of credit risk
to the Group although Barclays can also be exposed to other forms of credit
risk through, for example, loans to banks, loan commitments and debt
securities.
Barclays risk management policies and processes are designed to
identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk appetite, limits and controls,
and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and
timely data.
One area of particular review is concentration risk. A concentration of
credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar
activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their
ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in
economic and other conditions. 
As a result, Barclays constantly reviews its concentration in a number of
areas including, for example, geography , maturity , industry and investment
grade (see below). 
Diversification is achieved through setting maximum exposure
guidelines to individual counterparties. Excesses are reported to the 
Group Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee. Mandate
and Scale limits are used to limit the stock of current exposures in a loan
portfolio and the flow of new exposures into a loan portfolio. Limits are
typically based on the nature of the lending and the amount of the portfolio
meeting certain standards of underwriting criteria.
— 2008
— 2009
Home loans
0
25,000
50,000
75,000
100,000
125,000
150,000
Financial services
Other personal
Business and other services
Property
Finance lease receivables
Transport
Postal and Communication
Wholesale and retail,
distribution and leisure
Energy and water
Manufacturing
Construction
Agriculture, forestry
and fishing
Government
Fig. 3: Loans and advances to customers by industry 
£m
1 UK
2  Other EU
3 US
4 Africa
5 Rest of World
1
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
5
08 09
Fig. 1: Geographical analysis of loans and advances to customers
£m
— 2008
— 2009
Fig. 4: Exposure to sub-investment grade countries 
% of total cross-border limits
a
Egypt
Turkey
Kenya
Indonesia
Tanzania
Ghana
Pakistan
Zambia
Uganda
Columbia
Angola
Philippines
Venezuela
Mozambique
Argentina
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
1
3
4
5
1 On demand
2 Not more than 
 three months
3 Over three months  
 but not more than 
 one year
4 Over one year but  
 not more than five  
 years
5  Over five years
08 09
1
2
3
4
5
Fig. 2: Maturity analysis of loans and advances to customers
£m
2
Note 
a T otal comprises all limits to cross-border counterparties (non-UK) where limits are
greater than £10m. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 97
Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios
Whilst the basic principles for monitoring weaknesses in wholesale and
retail exposures are broadly similar, they will reflect the differing nature of 
the assets.
As a matter of policy all facilities granted to corporate or wholesale
customers are subject to a review on, at least, an annual basis, even when
they are performing satisfactorily . 
Corporate accounts that are deemed to contain heightened levels of 
risk are recorded on graded early warning lists or watchlists comprising three
categories graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to
the lending, and its probability of default. These are updated monthly and
circulated to the relevant risk control points. Once an account has been
placed on watchlist (WL) or early warning list (EWL), the exposure is carefully
monitored and, where appropriate, exposure reductions are effected.
Should an account become impaired, it will normally have passed
through each of the three categories, which reflect the need for increasing
caution and control. Where an obligor’ s financial health gives grounds for
concern, it is immediately placed into the appropriate category . While all
obligors, regardless of financial health, are subject to a full review of all
facilities on, at least, an annual basis, more frequent interim reviews may 
be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Specialist recovery functions deal with clients in default, collection or
insolvency . Their mandate is to maximise shareholder value via the orderly
and timely recovery of impaired debts. Accounts can stay in Recoveries for
up to two years unless a longer-term strategy has been agreed. 
Within the retail portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous
assets, statistical techniques more readily allow potential weaknesses to be
monitored on a portfolio basis. The approach is consistent with the Group’ s
policy of raising a collective impairment allowance as soon as objective
evidence of impairment is identified.
Retail accounts can be classified according to specified categories of
arrears status (or cycle), which reflects the level of contractual payments
which are overdue on a loan.
The probability of default increases with the number of contractual
payments missed, thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
Once a loan has passed through all six cycles it will enter recovery status,
having been charged off. In most cases, charge-off will result in the account
moving to a legal recovery function or debt sale. This will typically occur after
an account has been treated by a collections function. However, in certain
cases, an account may be charged off directly from a performing (up to
date) status, such as in the case of insolvency or death. 
As a general principle, charge-off marks the point at which it becomes
more economically efficient to treat an account through a recovery function
or debt sale rather than a collections function. Economic efficiency includes
the (discounted) expected amount recovered and operational and legal
costs. Whilst charge-off is considered an irreversible state, in certain cases, it
may be acceptable for mortgage and vehicle finance accounts to move back
from charge-off to performing or delinquent states. This is only considered
acceptable where local legislation requirements are in place, or where it is
deemed that the customer has a renewed willingness to pay and there is a
Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios
Wholesale account status Retail account status
Default (Recovery) Default (Charge-off) (Recovery)
Arrears Status 6+
Performing
Including EWL 1-2, WL 1-3
Performing (Current)
Arrears Status 0
Write Off
Business Support
EWL 3, WL 3.5
Delinquent (Collections)
Arrears Status 1- 6
– Watchlist Committee 
 flags client on the basis 
 of evidence of financial 
 difficulty.
– Customer’s financial 
 difficulty requires a 
 decision on the form 
 of future relationship.
– Business support assists 
 the client to return to in 
 order position.
– Customer misses
 contractual payment
 and moves to
 collections function.
– Customer reaches high
 arrears status and is moved
 to the recovery function 
 where legal action is taken.
– Customer pays total
 overdue payments 
 and returns back 
 to in order position.
– Asset is considered
 irrecoverable and 
 is written off.
– Asset is considered
 irrecoverable and 
 is written off.
Increasing state of delinquency
Increasing state of delinquency 98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
strong chance that they will be able to meet their contractual obligations
in the foreseeable future.
For the majority of products, the standard period for charging off
accounts is 180 days past due of contractual obligation. However, in the
case of customer bankruptcy or insolvency , the associated accounts will
be charged off within 60 days.
Within UKRB Local Business, accounts that are deemed to have a
heightened level of risk, or that exhibit some unsatisfactory features which
could affect viability in the short to medium term, are transferred to a
separate ‘caution’ stream. Accounts on the caution stream are reviewed on
at least a quarterly basis, at which time consideration is given to continuing
with the agreed strategy , returning the customer to a lower risk refer stream,
or instigating recovery/ exit action.
Identifying potential credit risk loans
In line with disclosure requirements from the Securities Exchange
Commission (SEC) in the US, the Group reports potentially and actually
impaired loans as Potential Credit Risk Loans (PCRLs). PCRLs comprise two
categories of loans: Potential Problem Loans (PPLs) and Credit Risk Loans
(CRLs).
PPLs are loans that are currently complying with repayment terms but
where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to continue to
comply with such terms in the near future. If the credit quality of a loan on
an early warning or watch list deteriorates to the highest category
(wholesale) or deteriorates to delinquency cycle 2 (retail), consideration is
given to including it within the PPL category . 
Should further evidence of deterioration be observed, a loan may move
to the CRL category . Events that would trigger the transfer of a loan from the
PPL to the CRL category include a missed payment or a breach of covenant.
CRLs comprise three classes of loans:
– ‘Impaired loans’ comprise loans where individual identified impairment
allowance has been raised and also include loans which are fully
collateralised or where indebtedness has already been written down to the
expected realisable value. The impaired loan category may include loans,
which, while impaired, are still performing.
– The category ‘accruing past due 90 days or more’ comprises loans that
are 90 days or more past due with respect to principal or interest. An
impairment allowance will be raised against these loans if the expected
cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate are less than the
carrying value.
– The category ‘impaired and restructured loans’ comprises loans not
included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor’ s
financial difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that
would not otherwise be considered. Where the concession results in the
expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate being less
than the loan’ s carrying value, an impairment allowance will be raised.
Allowances for impairment and other credit provisions
Barclays establishes, through charges against profit, impairment allowances
and other credit provisions for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised where there is
objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that
have occurred after initial recognition, and where these events have had an
impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or portfolio
of financial assets. Impairment of loans and receivables is measured as the
difference between the carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’ s original effective interest
rate. If the carrying amount is less than the discounted cash flows, then no
further allowance is necessary .
Impairment allowances are measured individually for assets that are
individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises
homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are
available.
In terms of individual assessment, the trigger point for impairment is
formal classification of an account as exhibiting serious financial problems
and where any further deterioration is likely to lead to failure. Two key inputs
to the cash flow calculation are the valuation of all security and collateral,
as well as the timing of all asset realisations, after allowing for all attendant
costs. This method applies mainly in the corporate portfolios.
For collective assessment, the trigger point for impairment is the
missing of a contractual payment. While the impairment allowance is
calculated per individual account, the calculation methodology relies on
the historical experience of pools of similar assets; hence the impairment
allowance is collective. The impairment calculation is based on a roll-rate
approach, where the percentage of assets that move from the initial
delinquency to default are derived from statistical probabilities based on
historical experience. Recovery amounts and contractual interest rates are
calculated using a weighted average for the relevant portfolio. This method
applies mainly to the Group’ s retail portfolios and is consistent with Barclays
policy of raising an allowance as soon as impairment is identified.
Unidentified impairment allowances are also raised to cover losses
which are judged to be incurred but not yet specifically identified in
customer exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore,
have not been specifically reported.
The incurred but not yet reported calculation is based on the asset’ s
probability of moving from the performing portfolio to being specifically
identified as impaired within the given emergence period and then on to
default within a specified period. This is calculated on the present value
of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’ s original
effective interest rate.
The emergence periods vary across businesses and are based on actual
experience and are reviewed on an annual basis. This methodology ensures
that the Group captures the loss incurred at the correct balance sheet date.
These impairment allowances are reviewed and adjusted at least
Fig. 5: Loan loss rate (bps) – longer-term trends
bps
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
00
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
09
08
39
70
91
111
99
89
202
226
177
147 143
174
60
40
24
23
47
56 54
84
98
72
50 52
65
71
95
156
45
107
85 83
92
— FY Annualised LLR
— TTC Average LLR
— 29 Year Average LLR
Cycle 3 (2001–2009) Cycle 2 (1991–2000) Cycle 1 (1981–1990)
Note 
Loan loss rate for the years prior to 2005 does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 99
quarterly by an appropriate charge or release of the stock of impairment
allowances based on statistical analysis and management judgement.
Where appropriate, the accuracy of this analysis is periodically assessed
against actual losses (see Modelling Risk on page 92).
As one of the controls to ensure that adequate impairment allowances
are held, movements in impairment allowances to individual names with
total impairment of more than £10m are presented to the Credit Committee
for agreement.
Monitoring the loan loss rate (LLR) provides Barclays with one way of
measuring the trends in the quality of the loan portfolio at the Group,
business and product levels. At Barclays, the LLR represents the annualised
impairment charges on loans and advances to customers and banks and
other credit provisions as a percentage of the total, period-end loans and
advances to customers and banks, gross of impairment allowances. 
The impairment allowance is the aggregate of the identified and
unidentified impairment balances. Impairment allowance coverage, or the
coverage ratio, is reported at two levels:
– Credit risk loans coverage ratio (Impairment allowances as a percentage 
of CRL balances).
– Potential credit risk loans coverage ratio (Impairment allowances as a
percentage of total CRL & PPL balances).
Appropriate coverage ratios will vary according to the type of product but
can be broadly bracketed under three categories: secured retail home loans;
unsecured and other retail products; and corporate facilities. Analysis and
experience has indicated that, in general, the severity rates for these types of
products are typically within the following ranges:
– Secured retail home loans: 5%-20%.
– Unsecured and other retail products: 65%-75%.
– Corporate facilities: 30%-50%.
CRL coverage ratios would therefore be expected to be at or around these
levels over a defined period of time. In principal, a number of factors may
affect the Group’ s coverage ratios, including: 
– The mix of products within total CRL balances. Coverage ratios will tend to
be lower when there is a high proportion of secured retail and corporate
balances within total CRLs. This is due to the fact that the recovery outlook
on these types of exposures is typically higher than retail unsecured
products with the result that they will have lower impairment
requirements. 
– The stage in the economic cycle. Coverage ratios will tend to be lower in
the earlier stages of deterioration in credit conditions. At this stage, retail
delinquent balances will be predominantly in the early delinquency cycles
and corporate names will have only recently moved to CRL categories. As
such balances attract a lower impairment requirement, the CRL coverage
ratio will be lower. 
– The balance of PPLs to CRLs. The impairment requirements for PPLs are
lower than for CRLs, so the greater the proportion of PPLs, the lower the
PCRL coverage ratio.
– Write-off policies. The speed with which defaulted assets are written off
will affect coverage ratios. The more quickly assets are written off, the
lower the ratios will be, since stock with 100% coverage will tend to roll 
out of PCRL categories more quickly .
Writing-off of assets
After an advance has been identified as impaired and is subject to an
impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is concluded 
that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery . Write-off will occur when,
and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of
subjective judgement. Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted by 
a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other
formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that some or 
the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery . In any event, 
the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least quarterly to ensure that
irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt and orderly 
manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
Such assets are only written off once all the necessary procedures 
have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written
back and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment
charge in the income statement. In 2009 total write-offs of impaired
financial assets increased by £461m to £3,380m (2008: £2,919m).
1,963
2,174
1,587
07
08
09
05
06
2,919
3,380
Fig. 6: Total write-offs of impaired financial assets 
£m 100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Total assets and Barclays Capital credit market assets
Analysis of Total Assets Accounting basis Analysis of total assets Sub analysis
Cost Debt Reverse Credit
T otal Fair based Loans and securities and repurchase Equity market
assets value measure Derivatives advances
a
other bills
b
agreements
c
securities
d
Other assets
e
Assets as at 31.12.09 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and balances 
at central banks 81,483 81,483 81,483
Items in the course 
of collection 
from other banks 1,5931,593 1,593
Treasury and other 
eligible bills 9,9269,926 9,926
Debt securities 116,594116,594 116,594 1,186 
Equity securities 19,602 19,602 19,602
Traded loans 2,962 2,962 2,962
Commodities
f
2,260 2,260 2,260
Trading portfolio 
assets 151,344151,344 2,962126,520 19,6022,2601,186
Financial assets 
designated at 
fair value
Loans and advances 22,39022,390 22,390 6,941
Debt securities 4,0074,007 4,007
Equity securities 6,256 6,256 6,256
Other financial assets
g
8,6588,658 557 7,757 344
Held for 
own account 41,311 41,311 22,947 4,007 7,757 6,256 344 6,941
Held in respect of 
linked liabilities to
customers under 
investment 
contracts
h
1,257 1,257 1,257
Derivative financial 
instruments 416,815416,815 416,815 2,304
Loans and advances 
to banks 41,135 41,135 41,135 
Loans and advances 
to customers 420,224 420,224420,224 15,186
Debt securities 43,88843,888 43,888 535
Equity securities 6,676 6,676 6,676
Treasury and other 
eligible bills 5,919 5,919 5,919 
Available for sale 
financial 
instruments 56,48356,483 49,807 6,676535
Reverse repurchase 
agreements and 
cash collateral on 
securities borrowed 143,431 143,431 143,431
Other assets 23,8531,20722,646 23,8531,200 
Total assets as at 
31.12.09 1,378,929 668,417 710,512 416,815 487,268 180,334 151,188 32,534 110,790 27,352 
T otal assets as at 
31.12.08 2,052,980 1,356,614 696,366 984,802 542,118 224,692 137,637 39,173 124,558 41,208 
Notes
a Further analysis of loans and advances is on pages 96 to 107.
b Further analysis of debt securities and other bills is on page 119.
c Reverse repurchase agreements comprise primarily short-term cash lending with assets pledged by counterparties securing the loan.
d Equity securities comprise primarily equity securities determined by available quoted prices in active markets.
e Further analysis of Barclays Capital credit market exposures is on pages 109 to 118. Undrawn commitments of £257m (2008: £531m) are off-balance sheet and therefore not included in the
table above. This is a change in presentation from 31st December 2008, which reflected certain loan facilities originated post 1st July 2007.
f Commodities primarily consists of physical inventory positions.
g These instruments consist primarily of loans with embedded derivatives and reverse repurchase agreements designated at fair value.
h Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been further analysed as the Group is not exposed to the risks inherent
in these assets. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 101
Loans and advances to customers and banks
T otal loans and advances to customers and banks net of impairment
allowance fell 10% to £487,268m (31st December 2008: £542,118m).
Loans and advances at amortised cost were £461,359m (31st December
2008: £509,522m) and loans and advances at fair value were £25,909m
(31st December 2008: £32,596m).
T otal loans and advances to customers and banks gross of impairment
allowances fell by £43,941m (9%) to £472,155m (31st December 2008:
£516,096m) due to an 18% reduction in the wholesale portfolios,
principally in:
– Barclays Capital, due to a decrease in the cash collateral held against
derivative trades, a reduction in non-UK lending and a decrease in the value
of other currencies relative to Sterling. This was partially offset by increases
in lending due to restructuring of credit market assets and a reclassification
of previously held for trading assets to loans and advances; and 
– Barclays Commercial Bank, due to reduced customer demand.
This was partially offset by a rise in loans and advances to customers across
the majority of retail business units, notably in UK Retail Bank due to growth
in the UK Home Finance portfolio.
Loans and advances held at fair value
Barclays Capital loans and advances held at fair value were £12,835m
(31st December 2008: £19,630m). Included within this balance is £6,941m
relating to credit market exposures, the majority of which are commercial
real estate loans. The balance of £5,894m primarily comprises financial
institutions and manufacturing loans. 
Barclays Commercial Bank loans and advances held at fair value split
between property , business and services and Government sectors, were
£13,074m (31st December 2008: £12,966m). The fair value of these loans
and any movements are matched by offsetting fair value movements on
hedging instruments.
Loans and advances at amortised cost Gross Loans and CRLs % of
loans and Impairment advances net Credit risk gross loans Impairment Loan loss 
advances allowance of impairment loans and advances charge rates
£m £m £m £m % £m basis points
As at 31st December 2009
Wholesale – customers 218,110 4,604 213,506 10,990 5.0 3,430 157
Wholesale – banks 41,196 61 41,135 57 0.1 11 3
Total wholesale 259,306 4,665 254,641 11,047 4.3 3,441 133
Retail – customers 212,849 6,131 206,718 11,341 5.3 3,917 184
Total retail 212,849 6,131 206,718 11,341 5.3 3,917 184
Total 472,155 10,796 461,359 22,388 4.7 7,358 156
As at 31st December 2008
Wholesale – customers 266,750 2,784 263,966 8,144 3.1 2,540 95
Wholesale – banks 47,758 51 47,707 48 0.1 40 8
Total wholesale 314,508 2,835 311,673 8,192 2.6 2,580 82
Retail – customers 201,588 3,739 197,849 7,508 3.7 2,333 116
Total retail 201,588 3,739 197,849 7,508 3.7 2,333 116
Total 516,096 6,574 509,522 15,700 3.0 4,913 95
Loans and advances held at fair value As at As at
a
31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m
Government 5,024 5,143
Financial Institutions 3,543 7,354
Transport 177 218
Postal and Communications 179 37
Business and other services 2,793 2,882
Manufacturing 1,561 238
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 664 1,110
Construction 237 412
Property 11,490 14,944
Energy and Water 241 258
Total 25,909 32,596
Note
a 2008 loans and advances held at fair value have been reanalysed to reflect changes in
classification of assets. Impairment Charges
Impairment charges on loans and advances increased 50% (£2,445m) to
£7,358m (2008: £4,913m). The increase was primarily due to economic
deterioration and portfolio maturation, currency movements and
methodology enhancements, partially offset by a contraction in loan
balances. As a result of this increase in impairment and the fall in loans
and advances, the impairment charges as a percentage of period end
Group total loans and advances (loan loss rate) increased to 156bps
(31st December 2008: 95bps). When measured against constant 2008
year-end loans and advances balances and impairment at average 2008
foreign exchange rates, the loan loss rate for the period was 135bps.
The impairment charge in Global Retail and Commercial Banking
increased by 85% (£2,473m) to £5,395m (2008: £2,922m) as charges rose
in all portfolios, reflecting deteriorating credit conditions across all regions.
The loan loss rate for 2009 was 185bps (2008: 99bps).
In Investment Banking and Investment Management, impairment
was broadly unchanged at £1,949m (2008: £1,980m). The loan loss rate
for 2009 was 109bps (2008: 90bps).
The impairment charge against available for sale assets and reverse
repurchase agreements increased by 41% (£207m) to £713m (2008: £506m),
driven by impairment against credit market exposures. 
102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Impairment Charges by Business Reverse
Loans and Available for repurchase
advances sale assets agreements Total
£m £m £m £m
Y ear Ended 31.12.2009
Global Retail and Commercial Banking 5,395 18 – 5,413
UK Retail Banking 936 – – 936
Barclays Commercial Bank 960 14 – 974
Barclaycard 1,798 – – 1,798
GRCB – Western Europe 663 4 – 667
GRCB – Emerging Markets 471 – – 471
GRCB – Absa 567 – – 567
Investment Banking and Investment Management 1,949 650 43 2,642
Barclays Capital
a
1,898 650 43 2,591
Barclays Wealth 51 – – 51
Head Office Functions and Other Operations 14 2 – 16
Total Impairment charges 7,358 670 43 8,071
Y ear Ended 31.12.2008
Global Retail and Commercial Banking 2,922 – – 2,922
UK Retail Banking 602 – – 602
Barclays Commercial Bank 414 – – 414
Barclaycard 1,097 – – 1,097
GRCB – Western Europe 297 – – 297
GRCB – Emerging Markets 165 – – 165
GRCB – Absa 347 – – 347
Investment Banking and Investment Management 1,980 363 124 2,467
Barclays Capital
a
1,936 363 124 2,423
Barclays Wealth 44 – – 44
Head Office Functions and Other Operations 11 19 – 30
Total Impairment charges 4,913 382 124 5,419
Impairment Charges and Other Credit Provisions Year Y ear
Ended Ended
31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m
Impairment charges on loans and advances 7,330 4,584
Charges in respect of undrawn facilities and guarantees 28 329
Impairment charges on loans and advances 7,358 4,913
Impairment charges on reverse repurchase agreements 43 124
Impairment charges on available for sale assets 670 382
Impairment charges and other credit provisions 8,071 5,419
Note
a Credit market related impairment charges within Barclays Capital comprised £1,205m
(2008: £1,517m) against loans and advances, £464m (2008: £192m) against available for
sale assets and £nil (2008: £54m) against reverse repurchase agreements. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 103
Credit Risk Loans
The Group’ s Credit Risk Loans (CRLs) rose 43% to £22,388m
(31st December 2008: £15,700m) in 2009. Balances were higher across
Retail Home Loans, Retail Unsecured and Other and Corporate and
Wholesale exposures reflecting the deterioration in credit conditions in the
past year across Barclays areas of operations. The most notable increases
were in the international businesses in Global Retail and Commercial
Banking, with GRCB – Western Europe increasing the most as credit
conditions deteriorated in Spain, Italy and Portugal. However, the rate of
increase to the Group numbers has fallen during each quarter of 2009 from
17% in Q1 09 to 5% in Q4 09.
CRLs in Retail Home Loans increased by £1,076m (43%) to £3,604m
(31st December 2008: £2,528m) and in Retail Unsecured and Other
portfolios by £2,757m (55%) to £7,737m (31st December 2008: £4,980m)
as credit conditions deteriorated and arrears balances rose in a number of
regions, notably in: Absa Home Finance and Cards, GRCB – Western Europe,
particularly in Spain and Italy; Barclaycard US cards; and in UK Retail Banking
unsecured lending. CRLs also increased in GRCB – Western Europe following
the purchase of the Citigroup cards portfolio in Portugal in December 2009.
CRLs in the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios rose 35% to £11,047m
(31st December 2008: £8,192m). CRL balances were higher in all
businesses, as economic conditions led to deterioration across default
grades and a rise in impairment in most wholesale portfolios. The largest
increases were in GRCB – Western Europe, Barclays Capital and Barclays
Commercial Bank.
Potential Problem Loans
Balances within the Group’ s Potential Problem Loans (PPLs) category
rose by 37% to £3,368m (31st December 2008: £2,456m). The principal
movements were in the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios, where PPLs
rose £715m to £2,674m (31st December 2008: £1,959m). PPL balances
increased in the retail portfolios to £694m (31st December 2008: £497m)
as balances increased in the Retail Unsecured and Other portfolios. This
was partially offset by a fall in PPL balances in Retail Home Loans.
Potential Credit Risk Loans
As a result of the increases in CRLs and PPLs, Group Potential Credit Risk
Loan (PCRL) balances rose 42% to £25,756m (31st December 2008:
£18,156m). 
PCRL balances rose in Retail Home Loans by 34% to £3,739m
(31st December 2008: £2,795m) and in Retail Unsecured and Other
portfolios by 59% to £8,296m (31st December 2008: £5,210m) as
delinquency rates rose across a number of portfolios, particularly in the UK,
US, Spain and South Africa.
T otal PCRL balances in the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios
increased by 35% to £13,721m (31st December 2008: £10,151m) after a
number of customers migrated into the CRL and PPL categories, reflecting
higher default probabilities in the deteriorating global wholesale
environment.
Impairment Allowances and Coverage Ratios
Impairment allowances increased 64% to £10,796m (31st December 2008:
£6,574m), reflecting increases across the majority of businesses as credit
conditions deteriorated during the year.
Retail impairment allowances rose by 99% in Retail Home Loans to £639m
(31st December 2008: £321m) and by 61% in Retail Unsecured and Other
portfolios to £5,492m (31st December 2008: £3,418m). The CRL coverage
ratio in Retail Home Loans increased to 17.7% (31st December 2008:
12.7%), and the PCRL coverage ratio increased to 17.1% (31st December
2008: 11.5%). The CRL coverage ratio in Retail Unsecured and Others
portfolios increased to 71.0% (31st December 2008: 68.6%). The PCRL
coverage ratio increased to 66.2% (31st December 2008: 65.6%). 
In the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios, impairment allowances
increased 65% to £4,665m (31st December 2008: £2,835m). The CRL
coverage ratio rose to 42.2% (31st December 2008: 34.6%), and the PCRL
coverage ratio rose to 34.0% (31st December 2008: 27.9%). 
The CRL coverage ratios in Retail Home Loans, Retail Unsecured and
Other and Corporate and Wholesale portfolios remain within the ranges
which are the typical severity rates for these types of products. As a result
of the movements across these three portfolios, the Group’ s CRL coverage
ratio increased to 48.2% (31st December 2008: 41.9%), and its PCRL
coverage ratio also increased to 41.9% (31st December 2008: 36.2%). 
Potential Credit Risk Loans and Coverage Ratios CRLs PPLs PCRLs
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Home Loans 3,604 2,528 135 267 3,739 2,795
Unsecured and other 7,737 4,980 559 230 8,296 5,210
Retail 11,341 7,508 694 497 12,035 8,005
Corporate/Wholesale 11,047 8,192 2,674 1,959 13,721 10,151
Group 22,388 15,700 3,368 2,456 25,756 18,156
Impairment allowance CRL coverage PCRL coverage
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m % % % %
Home Loans 639 321 17.7 12.7 17.1 11.5
Unsecured and other 5,492 3,418 71.0 68.6 66.2 65.6
Retail 6,131 3,739 54.1 49.8 50.9 46.7
Corporate/Wholesale 4,665 2,835 42.2 34.6 34.0 27.9
Group 10,796 6,574 48.2 41.9 41.9 36.2 104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Wholesale Credit Risk 
Loans and Advances to customers and banks in the wholesale portfolios
decreased by £55,202m (18%) to £259,306m, primarily as a result of a
£42,972m (21%) fall in Barclays Capital to £165,624m, due to a decrease
in the cash collateral held against derivative trades, a reduction in non-UK
lending and a decrease in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies.
This was partially offset by increases in lending due to restructuring of credit
market assets and a reclassification of previously held for trading assets to
loans and advances. 
The corporate and government lending portfolio declined 30% to
£53,305m (31st December 2008: £76,556m) primarily due to reductions
in non-UK lending, a decrease in the value of other currencies relative to
Sterling and the repayment of leveraged finance loans.
Included within corporate and government lending and other wholesale
lending portfolios are £5,646m (31st December 2008: £7,674m) of loans
backed by retail mortgage collateral classified within financial institutions.
Loans and advances fell in Barclays Commercial Bank by £8,064m
(12%) to £60,840m, due to reduced customer demand. Balances fell in
both GRCB – Western Europe and GRCB – Emerging Markets, which was
due, in part, to the depreciation of various currencies across the regions
against Sterling. The increase of £1,429m (17%) of balances in GRCB –
Absa was due to the appreciation of the Rand against Sterling during 2009.
In Rand terms, balances were stable. 
In the wholesale portfolios, the impairment charge against loans and
advances rose by £861m (33%) to £3,441m (2008: £2,580m) mainly due
to increases in:
– Barclays Commercial Bank, reflecting rising default rates and lower
asset values;
Wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost
Gross Loans and CRLs % of
loans and Impairment advances net Credit risk gross loans Impairment Loan loss 
advances allowance of impairment loans and advances charge rates
£m £m £m £m % £m bps
As at 31.12.09
BCB 60,840 679 60,161 1,837 3.0 960 158
Barclaycard 322 4 318 10 3.1 17 528
GRCB WE 12,690 466 12,224 1,435 11.3 328 258
GRCB EM 5,228 227 5,001 358 6.8 140 268
GRCB Absa 10,077 195 9,882 690 6.8 67 66
Barclays Capital 165,624 3,025 162,599 6,411 3.9 1,898 115
BGI 5– 5––––
Barclays Wealth 3,495 43 3,452 179 5.1 17 49
Head office 1,025 26 999 127 12.4 14 137
Total 259,306 4,665 254,641 11,047 4.3 3,441 133
As at 31.12.08
BCB 68,904 504 68,400 1,181 1.7 414 60
Barclaycard 301 2 299 20 6.6 11 365
GRCB WE 15,750 232 15,518 579 3.7 125 79
GRCB EM 7,233 122 7,111 190 2.6 36 50
GRCB Absa 8,648 140 8,508 304 3.5 19 22
Barclays Capital 208,596 1,796 206,800 5,743 2.8 1,936 93
BGI 834– 834––––
Barclays Wealth 3,282 28 3,254 174 5.3 28 85
Head office 960 11 949 1 0.1 11 115
Total 314,508 2,835 311,673 8,192 2.6 2,580 82
Analysis of wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost net of impairment allowances
Settlement balances 
Corporate Government & cash collateral Other wholesale Total wholesale
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
Wholesale £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
BCB 59,979 67,741 182 659 – – – – 60,161 68,400
Barclaycard 318 299 – – – – – – 318 299
GRCB WE 12,184 15,226 14 32 – – 26 260 12,224 15,518
GRCB EM 4,044 5,074 170 1,709 – – 787 328 5,001 7,111
GRCB Absa 8,695 8,480 263 28 – – 924 – 9,882 8,508
Barclays Capital 49,849 72,796 3,456 3,760 55,672 79,418 53,622 50,826 162,599 206,800
BGI 5 834 – – – – – – 5 834
Barclays Wealth
a
2,818 2,691 162 105 – – 472 458 3,452 3,254
Head office 999 949 – – – – – – 999 949
Total 138,891 174,090 4,247 6,293 55,672 79,418 55,831 51,872 254,641 311,673
Note
a 2008 Barclays Wealth analysis of Wholesale loans and advances has been reanalysed to
reflect changes in the reclassification of assets. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 105
– GRCB – Western Europe, reflecting the economic deterioration in Spain
which has impacted the commercial, construction and SME portfolios in
particular, together with the appreciation of the average value of the Euro
against Sterling; and
– GRCB – Emerging Markets as credit conditions continued to deteriorate
resulting in a small number of higher value single name charges and the
appreciation of the average value of a number of currencies against
Sterling.
Impairment in Barclays Capital of £1,898m (2008: £1,936m) was broadly
in line with 2008, as a fall in the impairment charge against credit market
exposures was partially offset by a rise in the impairment charge against
non-credit market exposures.
The loan loss rate across the Group’ s wholesale portfolios for 2009
was 133bps (2008: 82bps), reflecting the rise in impairment and the 18%
reduction in wholesale loans and advances.
As we enter 2010, the principal uncertainties relating to the
performance of the wholesale portfolios are:
– the extent and sustainability of economic recovery and asset prices in the
UK, US, Spain and South Africa as governments consider how and when
to withdraw stimulus packages;
– the potential for single name risk and for idiosyncratic losses in different
sectors and geographies where credit positions are sensitive to economic
downturn;
– possible additional deterioration in our remaining credit market exposures,
including commercial real estate and leveraged finance; and
– the potential impact of deteriorating sovereign credit quality .
Analysis of Barclays capital wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost
Gross Loans and CRLs % of
loans and Impairment advances net Credit risk gross loans Impairment Loan loss 
advances allowance of impairment loans and advances charge rates
£m £m £m £m % £m basis points
Loans and advances to banks
As at 31.12.09
Cash collateral and settlement balances 15,893 – 15,893 – – – –
Interbank lending 21,722 61 21,661 57 0.3 14 6
Loans and advances to customers
Corporate and Government lending 54,342 1,037 53,305 2,198 4.0 1,115 205
ABS CDO Super Senior 3,541 1,610 1,931 3,541 100.0 714 2,016
Other wholesale lending 30,347 317 30,030 615 2.0 55 18
Cash collateral and settlement balances 39,779 – 39,779 – – – –
Total 165,624 3,025 162,599 6,411 3.9 1,898 115
As at 31.12.08
Cash collateral and settlement balances 19,264 – 19,264 – – – –
Interbank lending 24,086 51 24,035 48 0.2 40 17
Loans and advances to customers
Corporate and Government lending 77,042 486 76,556 1,100 1.4 305 40
ABS CDO Super Senior 4,117 1,013 3,104 4,117 100.0 1,383 3,359
Other wholesale lending 23,933 246 23,687 478 2.0 208 87
Cash collateral and settlement balances 60,154 – 60,154 – – – –
Total 208,596 1,796 206,800 5,743 2.8 1,936 93 106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Retail Credit Risk 
Loans and advances to customers in the retail portfolios increased by
£11,261m (6%) to £212,849m. Balances grew in most businesses with the
largest increase in UK Retail Banking, which increased by £4,981m (5%) to
£101,064m primarily in the UK Home Finance portfolio. There was modest
growth in balances to local businesses but a moderate decline in balances
relating to unsecured loans and overdrafts. GRCB – Western Europe
increased by £2,517m (6%), which primarily reflected growth in Italy and
Portugal following the expansion of the franchise, principally across
mortgages and cards. This growth was partially offset by the appreciation
of the Euro against Sterling. The increase of £2,611m (11%) of balances
in GRCB – Absa was due to the appreciation of the Rand against Sterling
during 2009. In Rand terms, balances fell by 3%. Balances in GRCB –
Emerging Markets were £483m (12%) lower, in part reflecting movements
in Sterling against local currencies.
T otal home loans to retail customers rose by £9,254m (7%) to
£149,099m (31st December 2008: £139,845m). The UK Home Finance
portfolios within UK Retail Banking grew 7% to £87,943m (31st December
2008: £82,303m).
Unsecured retail credit (credit card and unsecured loans) portfolios fell
7% to £37,733m (31st December 2008: £40,437m).
In the retail portfolios, the impairment charge against loans and
advances rose by £1,584m (68%) to £3,917m (2008: £2,333m) as
economic conditions, particularly unemployment, deteriorated across all
regions. Policy and methodology enhancements, currency movements and
portfolio maturation also had an impact. The largest increase was in
Barclaycard, which increased by £695m (64%) to £1,781m, mainly driven
by higher delinquencies and deteriorating economic conditions in the United
Kingdom and the United States as well as portfolio maturation. The increase
of £334m (55%) to £936m in UK Retail Banking was primarily due to lower
recoveries and policy and methodology enhancements. Impairment
charges in GRCB – Western Europe and GRCB – Emerging Markets were
impacted by increased delinquency rates as credit conditions deteriorated
particularly in Spain and India. Impairment increased in GRCB – Absa as a
result of high delinquency levels due to consumer indebtedness and
increased debt counselling balances following the enactment of the 2007
National Credit Act.
The loan loss rate across the Group’ s retail portfolios for 2009 was
184bps (2008: 116bps). 
As we enter 2010, the principal uncertainties relating to the
performance of the Group’ s retail portfolios are:
– the extent and sustainability of economic recovery in the UK, US, Spain
and South Africa as governments consider how and when to withdraw
stimulus packages; 
– the dynamics of unemployment in those markets and the impact on
delinquency and charge-off rates;
Retail loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
Loans & CRLs %
Gross advances of gross
loans & Impairment net of Credit risk loans & Impairment Loan loss 
advances allowance impairment loans advances charge rates
£m £m £m £m % £m bp
As at 31.12.09
UKRB 101,064 1,587 99,477 3,108 3.1 936 93
Barclaycard 29,460 2,670 26,790 3,392 11.5 1,781 605
GRCB WE 41,514 689 40,825 1,411 3.4 335 81
GRCB EM 3,521 474 3,047 551 15.6 331 940
GRCB Absa 27,288 655 26,633 2,573 9.4 500 183
Barclays Wealth 10,002 56 9,946 306 3.1 34 34
Total 212,849 6,131 206,718 11,341 5.3 3,917 184
As at 31.12.08
UKRB 96,083 1,134 94,949 2,403 2.5 602 63
Barclaycard 29,390 1,677 27,713 2,566 8.7 1,086 370
GRCB WE 38,997 306 38,691 798 2.0 172 44
GRCB EM 4,004 187 3,817 175 4.4 129 322
GRCB Absa 24,677 411 24,266 1,518 6.2 328 133
Barclays Wealth 8,437 24 8,413 48 0.6 16 19
Total 201,588 3,739 197,849 7,508 3.7 2,333 116
Home loans Cards and unsecured loans Other retail Total retail
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
UK Retail Banking 87,943 82,303 7,329 8,294 4,205 4,352 99,477 94,949
Barclaycard – – 21,564 23,224 5,226 4,489 26,790 27,713
GRCB – Western Europe 34,592 33,807 3,513 4,423 2,720 461 40,825 38,691
GRCB – Emerging Markets 452 556 2,502 2,872 93 389 3,047 3,817
GRCB – Absa 20,492 18,411 1,003 43 5,138 5,812 26,633 24,266
Barclays Wealth
a 
5,620 4,768 1,822 1,581 2,504 2,064 9,946 8,413
Total 149,099 139,845 37,733 40,437 19,886 17,567 206,718 197,849
Note
a 2008 Barclays Wealth analysis of retail loans and advances to customers has been
reanalysed to reflect changes in the classification of assets. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 107
– the speed and extent of possible rises in interest rates in the UK, US and
eurozone; and 
– the possibility of any further falls in residential property prices in the UK,
South Africa and Spain.
Home Loans
The Group’ s principal home loans portfolios continued largely to be in the UK
Retail Banking Home Finance business (59% of the Group’ s total), GRCB –
Western Europe (23%) primarily Spain and Italy , and South Africa (14%).
The credit quality of the principal home loan portfolios reflected low LTV
lending. Using current valuations, the average LTV of the portfolios as at
31st December 2009 was 43% for UK Home Finance (31st December 2008:
40%), 51% for Spain (31st December 2008: 48%) and 42% for South Africa
(31st December 2008: 41%). The average LTV for new mortgage business
during 2009 at origination was 48% for UK Home Finance (31st December
2008: 47%), 55% for Spain (31st December 2008: 63%) and 53% for
South Africa (31st December 2008: 58%). The percentage of balances with
an LTV of over 85% based on current values was 14% for UK Home Finance
(31st December 2008: 10%), 7% for Spain (31st December 2008: 5%) and
27% for South Africa (31st December 2008: 25%). In the UK, buy-to-let
mortgages comprised 6% of the total stock as at 31st December 2009.
Impairment charges rose across the home loans portfolios, reflecting
the impact of lower house prices as well as some increases in arrears rates.
Three-month arrears as at 31st December 2009 were 1.04% for UK
mortgages (31st December 2008: 0.91%), 0.63% for Spain (31st December
2008: 0.51%), as credit conditions deteriorated and 4.07% for South Africa
(31st December 2008: 2.11%), due to consumer indebtedness and
increased debt counselling balances following the enactment of the 2007
National Credit Act.
Repossessions 
The number of properties in repossession in UK Home Loans remained
very low during 2009. At the end of 2009 there were 196 properties in
repossession, 40 higher than the previous year (31st December 2008: 156).
Credit Cards and Unsecured Loans
The Group’ s largest card and unsecured loan portfolios are in the UK (56% of
Group total). The US cards portfolio accounts for 20% of the total exposure,
where Barclaycard’ s portfolio is largely prime credit quality (FICO score of
660 or more).
Arrears rates in the UK Cards portfolio rose during the year to 1.79%
(31st December 2008: 1.57%), reflecting the impact of the economic
downturn. Repayment Plan balances grew to support government initiatives
to supply relief to customers experiencing financial difficulty . As a
percentage of the portfolio, three-month arrears rates rose during 2009 to
2.74% for UK Loans (31st December 2008: 2.28%) and 3.31% for US Cards
(31st December 2008: 2.32%).
a
Home Loans – Distribution of Balances by Loan to Value (Current Valuations)
a
UK Spain
b
South Africa
c
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
% % % % % %
<= 75% 74.5 78.3 83.2 86.7 57.8 60.5
> 75% and <= 80% 6.3 6.1 5.6 4.8 7.1 7.5
> 80% and <= 85% 5.4 5.5 4.4 3.7 7.7 7.2
> 85% and <= 90% 4.6 4.5 3.2 1.6 7.6 7.6
> 90% and <= 95% 3.4 2.5 1.7 1.3 7.8 6.7
> 95% 5.8 3.1 1.9 1.9 12.0 10.5
Mark to market LTV % 43 40 51 48 42 41
Average LTV on new mortgages 48 47 55 63 53 58
Number of Repossessions in UK Home Finance As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08
Residential and buy-to-let mortgage portfolios 196 156
Notes
a Based on the following portfolios: UK: UKRB Residential Mortgages and Buy to Let portfolios;
Spain: GRCB – Western Europe Spanish retail home finance portfolio; and South Africa:
GRCB – Absa retail home finance portfolio.
b Spain mark to market methodology as per Bank of Spain requirements.
c South Africa mark to market methodology will be revised in 2010 to incorporate additional
granularity.
Home Loans – 3 Month Arrears
d
As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08
% %
UK 1.04 0.91
Spain 0.63 0.51
South Africa 4.07 2.11
Unsecured Lending 3 Month Arrears
e
As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08
% %
UK Cards
f
1.79 1.57
UK Loans
g
2.74 2.28
US Cards
h
3.31 2.32
d Defined as total 90 day + delinquent balances as a percentage of outstandings.
e Defined as total 90 day + delinquent balances as a percentage of outstandings. 
Includes accounts on repayment plans but excludes the balances in the legal book.
f UK Cards includes Branded Cards and Goldfish.
g UK Loans based on Barclayloans and Personal Loans from Barclaycard.
h Excludes Business Card; December 2009 includes US Airways. 108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Expected loss
Basel II, introduced in 2008, includes, for those aspects of an entity’ s
exposures that are on an Internal Ratings Based (IRB) approach, a statistical
measure of credit losses known as Expected Loss (EL). EL is an estimate of
the average loss amount from:
– defaulted and past due items at the reported date (i.e. incurred losses); and
– modelled default events over a 12-month forward period for performing
exposures.
On the performing portfolios, EL is calculated as the product of Probability
of Default (PD), Exposure at Default (EAD) and Loss Given Default (LGD).
– EL is assessed against both the performing and non-performing parts
of the Group’ s portfolios.
– EL considers average credit conditions, generally uses a ‘through-the-
cycle’ PD and incorporates an adjustment to LGD which represents
economic conditions in a downturn.
The aspect of an entity’ s exposures that are not on an IRB approach will
continue to be measured on the standardised approach, against which
Basel II does not assess EL. For this purpose, the regulatory impairment
allowance on IRB and standardised portfolios gives an indication of credit
losses on the standardised book.
EL is reflected in the calculation of capital supply , such that, for IRB
portfolios, 50% of the excess of EL over total impairment allowances and
valuation adjustments is deducted from each of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.
If total impairment allowances and valuation adjustments exceed EL, then
this excess can be added to Tier 2 capital. As at 31st December 2009, EL
exceeded total impairment allowances and valuation adjustments by £50m
(2008: £317m).
There are several differences in the calculation of the regulatory
impairment allowance and EL, with these measures representing different
views of losses and, as such, they are not directly comparable. These
differences include the fact that regulatory impairment allowance reflects
defaulted and past due items at the reporting date (i.e. incurred losses),
whereas EL includes both the best estimate of losses in the non-performing
portfolio and the expected losses over the coming 12 months in the
performing portfolio. EL for the performing portfolio is also based on
Exposure at Default (EAD) and downturn LGD. For these reasons, EL will
generally exceed regulatory impairment allowance. As noted above, this
excess is deducted from capital.
In addition, whilst the regulatory impairment allowance is based on
the impairment allowance for loans and advances, there are differences
between these amounts in two main respects. Firstly , the regulatory
impairment allowance includes valuation adjustments on available for sale
exposures and exposures designated at fair value. Secondly , it excludes
impairment held against securitisation exposures. 
The principal drivers of the increase in EL during the year ended
31st December 2009 are as follows:
– UK Retail Banking EL increased £445m due to a deteriorating economic
environment coupled with methodology enhancements.
– Barclays Commercial Bank EL decreased by £43m, driven by the change
in treatment of defaulted assets partially offset by an increase in the
non-performing book.
– Barclaycard EL increase of £351m was driven by the combination of an
additional roll-out of IRB during the period and increased levels of retained
non-performing assets during the recovery period.
– GRCB – Western Europe EL increased to £243m following the migration
of Spanish card portfolio and Italian and Portuguese mortgage portfolios
onto the IRB approach.
– GRCB – Absa EL increased by £466m, mostly due to exchange rate
movements, higher delinquency levels and a deterioration in credit quality
of the performing book.
– Barclays Capital EL increase of £910m was primarily driven by defaulted
counterparties and an increase in IRB coverage, partially offset by a
reduction in exposures due to foreign exchange movements.
Further exposures will be moved onto the IRB approach during 2010.
Additional information with respect to Expected Loss will be provided
as part of our Pillar 3 disclosures, available at the end of March 2010.
Total EL on IRB portfolios As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m
UK Retail Banking 1,703 1,258
Barclays Commercial Bank 776 819
Barclaycard 1,261 910
GRCB – Western Europe 243 –
GRCB – Emerging Markets
a
– –
GRCB – Absa 1,158 692
Barclays Capital 2,467 1,557
Barclays Wealth 23 –
Head Office Functions & Other Operations 11 1
Total EL on IRB portfolios 7,642 5,237
Total regulatory impairment allowance on IRB portfolios 7,592 4,672
Total regulatory impairment allowance on standardised portfolios 4,693 2,560
Note
a Not currently on the IRB approach. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 109
Barclays Capital credit market exposures
Barclays Capital’ s credit market exposures as at 31st December 2009 primarily
relate to commercial real estate and leveraged finance. These include
positions subject to fair value movements in the income statement and
positions that are classified as loans and advances and as available for sale.
The balances at and gross writedowns to 31st December 2009 are set
out below:
During the year ended 31st December 2009, these positions have been
reduced by £14,130m to £27,609m (31st December 2008: £41,739m),
including net sales and paydowns of £6,590m, gross writedowns of £6,086m
and a decrease of £4,226m due to currency and other movements. In
addition, on 16th September 2009, £5,087m credit market assets and
£2,367m other assets were sold to Protium Finance LP , funded by a
£7,669m loan extended by Barclays. The loan balance at 31st December
2009 of £7,859m includes accrued interest. 
In the year ended 31st December 2009, gross writedowns comprised
£4,417m (2008: £6,290m) of fair value losses through income and
£1,669m (2008: £1,763m) of impairment charges. Gross writedowns
included £2,082m (2008: £5,584m) against US residential mortgage
positions, £3,007m (2008: £1,488m) against commercial mortgage
positions, and £997m (2008: £981m) against other credit market positions.
Barclays Capital credit market exposures
a
As at 31st December Y ear ended 31.12.09
Fair value Impairment Gross
2009 2008 2009 2008 losses charge losses
Notes $m $m £m £m £m £m £m
US Residential Mortgages
ABS CDO Super Senior A1 3,127 4,526 1,931 3,104 – 714 714
Other US sub-prime & Alt-A A2 2,254 11,269 1,392 7,729 531 555 1,086
Monoline wrapped US RMBS A3 9 2,389 6 1,639 282 – 282
Commercial Mortgages
Commercial real estate loans and properties B1 12,525 16,882 7,734 11,578 2,466 – 2,466
Commercial mortgage-backed securities B1 762 1,072 471 735 44 – 44
Monoline wrapped CMBS B2 49 2,703 30 1,854 497 – 497
Other Credit Market
Leveraged Finance
b
C1 8,919 13,193 5,507 9,048 – 396 396
SIVs, SIV-Lites and CDPCs C2 896 1,622 553 1,113 69 4 73
Monoline wrapped CLO and other C3 3,443 7,202 2,126 4,939 528 – 528
Total exposures 31,984 60,858 19,750 41,739
Total gross writedowns 4,417 1,669 6,086
Loan to Protium D 12,727 – 7,859 –
Notes
a As the majority of positions are denominated in US Dollars, the positions above are shown in
both US Dollars and Sterling. 
b Includes undrawn commitments of £257m (2008: £531m). 110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Analysis of Barclays Capital credit market assets by asset class
Financial
assets
Trading designated at Available
portfolio fair value – Derivative Loans and for sale Total Total
assets – debt loans and financial advances to – debt Other as at as at 
securities advances instruments customers securities assets 31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
ABS CDO Super Senior 1,931 1,931 3,104
Other US sub-prime 3 52 244 24 209 532 3,441
Alt-A 323 211 326 860 4,288
RMBS monoline wrapped US RMBS 6 6 1,639
Commercial real estate loans 6,534 6,534 11,578
Commercial real estate properties 1,200 1,200 –
Commercial mortgage backed securities 860 (389) 471 735
Monoline wrapped CMBS 30 30 1,854
Leveraged finance
a
5,250 5,250 8,517
SIVs and SIV-lites 355 53 122 530 963
CDPCs 23 23 150
Monoline wrapped CLO and other 2,126 2,126 4,939
Loan to Protium 7,859 7,859 –
Total 1,186 6,941 2,304 15,186 535 1,200 27,352 41,208
Note
a Further analysis of Barclays Capital credit market exposures is on pages 109 and 110.
Undrawn commitments of £257m (2008: £531m) are off-balance sheet and therefore not
included in the table above. This is a change in presentation from 31st December 2008,
which reflected certain loan facilities originated post 1st July 2007. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 111
A. US Residential Mortgages
A1. ABS CDO Super Senior 
As at As at As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
Total Total Marks
a 
Marks
a
£m £m % %
2005 and earlier 1,048 1,226 77 90
2006 422 471 7 37
2007 and 2008 22 25 34 69
Sub-prime 1,492 1,722 57 75
2005 and earlier 761 891 43 77
2006 230 269 59 75
2007 and 2008 55 62 14 37
Alt-A 1,046 1,222 45 74
Prime 421 520 83 100
RMBS CDO 351 402 6 –
Sub-prime second lien 110 127 – –
Total US RMBS 3,420 3,993 49 68
CMBS 37 44 89 100
Non-RMBS CDO 400 453 35 56
CLOs 32 35 100 100
Other ABS 37 51 100 100
Total Other ABS 506 583 48 66
Total notional collateral 3,926 4,576
Subordination (385) (459)
Gross exposure pre-impairment 3,541 4,117
Impairment allowances (1,610) (1,013)
Total 1,931 3,104 49 68
ABS CDO Super Senior positions at 31st December 2009 comprised five high grade liquidity facilities which were fully drawn and classified within loans
and receivables (31st December 2008: five facilities). 
During the year, ABS CDO Super Senior positions reduced by £1,173m to £1,931m (31st December 2008: £3,104m). Positions are stated after
writedowns and charges of £714m incurred in 2009 (2008: £1,461m). There was a decline of £290m resulting from depreciation in the value of the
US Dollar against Sterling and amortisation of £169m in the year. 
Note
a Marks above reflect the gross positions after impairment and subordination. 112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
A2. Other US Sub-Prime and Alt-A
Other US Sub-prime As at As at Marks at Marks at
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m % % 
Whole loans – 1,565 – 72
Sub-prime securities (net of hedges) 212 929 38 25
Other positions with underlying sub-prime collateral:
– Derivatives 244 643 96 87
– Loans 76 195 22 70
– Real Estate – 109 – 46
Total Other US Sub-Prime 532 3,441
Alt-A 
Whole Loans – 776 – 67
Alt-A Securities 649 3,112 40 16
Residuals – 2 – 6
Derivative positions with underlying Alt-A collateral 211 398 99 100
Total 860 4,288
Total Other US Sub-Prime and Alt-A 1,392 7,729
The majority of Other US sub-prime and Alt-A positions are measured at fair value through profit and loss. The balance reduced by £6,337m to £1,392m
(31st December 2008: £7,729m), driven by the Protium sale of £2,319m, other net sales, paydowns and other movements of £2,398m and gross losses
of £1,086m. Depreciation of the US Dollar against Sterling resulted in a decline of £534m.
Counterparty derivative positions relating to vehicles which hold sub-prime collateral was £455m (31st December 2008: £1,041m). These positions
largely comprise the most senior obligation of the vehicles. 
A3. US Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Wrapped by Monoline Insurers
The table below shows RMBS assets where Barclays Capital held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2009. These are measured at fair
value through profit or loss.
By rating of the monoline Fair Value Credit
of Underlying Fair Value Valuation Net
Notional Asset Exposure Adjustment Exposure
£m £m £m £m £m
As at 31.12.09
Non-investment grade 56 6 50 (44) 6
Total 56 6 50 (44) 6
As at 31.12.08
A/BBB 2,567 492 2,075 (473) 1,602
Non-investment grade 74 8 66 (29) 37
Total 2,641 500 2,141 (502) 1,639 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 113
A3. US Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Wrapped by Monoline Insurers continued
The balance reduced by £1,633m to £6m (31st December 2008: £1,639m), reflecting the Protium sale of £1,164m, a credit valuation adjustment of
£282m, and currency and other movements of £187m. 
Barclays would review claims in the event of default of the underlying assets. There have been no claims under the monoline insurance contracts as
none of the underlying assets defaulted in the year.
The notional value of the assets split by the rating of the underlying asset is shown below.
By rating of underlying asset As at 31.12.09 As at 31.12.08
Non- Non-
investment investment
A/BBB Grade Total AAA/AA A/BBB Grade Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2005 and earlier ––– 143 – – 143
2006 ––– – – 1,240 1,240
2007 and 2008 ––– – – 510 510
High Grade – – – 143 – 1,750 1,893
Mezzanine – 2005 and earlier –5656 31 330 338 699
CDO
2
– 2005 and earlier ––– – – 49 49
US RMBS – 56 56 174 330 2,137 2,641
B. Commercial Mortgages
B1. Commercial Real Estate and Mortgage-Backed Securities
Commercial mortgages held at fair value include commercial real estate loans of £6,534m (31st December 2008: £11,578m), commercial real estate
properties of £1,200m (31st December 2008: £nil), and commercial mortgage-backed securities of £471m (31st December 2008: £735m).
Commercial Real Estate Loans and Properties
In the year ended 31st December 2009, the commercial real estate loans and properties balance reduced by £3,844m to £7,734m (31st December 2008:
£11,578m). There were gross losses of £2,466m, of which £1,541m related to the US, £843m to UK and Europe, and £82m to Asia. There were gross sales
and paydowns of £661m comprising £345m in the UK and Europe, £307m in the US, and £9m in Asia, and currency and other movements of £717m.
The commercial real estate loan balances comprised 51% UK and Europe, 44% US and 5% Asia.
One large transaction comprises 25% of the total US commercial real estate loan balance. The remaining 75% of the US balance comprises 64
transactions. The remaining weighted average number of years to initial maturity of the US portfolio is 1.2 years (31st December 2008: 1.4 years).
The UK and Europe portfolio is well diversified with 56 transactions at 31st December 2009. In Europe protection is provided by loan covenants
and periodic LTV retests, which cover 83% of the portfolio. 50% of the German balance relates to one transaction secured on residential assets. 
Commercial Real Estate Loans by Region As at As at Marks at Marks at
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m % %
US 2,852 6,329 62 88
Germany 1,959 2,467 84 95
Sweden 201 265 81 96
France 189 270 70 94
Switzerland 141 176 85 97
Spain 72 106 56 92
Other Europe 370 677 57 90
UK 429 831 61 89
Asia 321 457 77 97
Total 6,534 11,578 114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
B1. Commercial Real Estate and Mortgage-Backed Securities continued
Commercial Real Estate Loans by Industry As at 31.12.09 As at 31.12.08
Other
US Germany Europe UK Asia Total Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Residential 1,132 1,053 – 152 102 2,439 3,582
Office 372 251 557 79 79 1,338 3,656
Hotels 614 – 223 8 1 846 1,633
Retail 54 507 73 30 73 737 957
Industrial 383 105 103 20 11 622 887
Leisure – – – 140 – 140 233
Land 128 – – – – 128 232
Mixed/Others 169 43 17 – 55 284 398
Total 2,852 1,959 973 429 321 6,534 11,578
Commercial Real Estate Properties by Industry As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m
Residential 56 –
Office 927 –
Hotels 126 –
Industrial 25 –
Leisure 33 –
Land 31 –
Mixed/Others 2 –
Total 1,200 –
Included within the commercial real estate properties balance are properties held by Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC (Crescent) with a carrying value
of £1,001m. On 19th November 2009, Barclays Capital assumed ownership of Crescent following the completion of a debt restructuring transaction. 
Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities As at As at Marks at
a
Marks at
a
31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m % % 
Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities (Net of Hedges) 471 735 20 21
Note
a Marks are based on gross collateral. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 115
B2. CMBS Wrapped by Monoline Insurers
The table below shows commercial mortgage backed security assets where Barclays Capital held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2009.
These are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
By rating of the monoline Fair value Credit
of underlying Fair value valuation Net
Notional asset exposure adjustment exposure
£m £m £m £m £m
As at 31.12.09
AAA/AA 54 21 33 (3) 30
Non-investment grade 383 160 223 (223) –
Total 437 181 256 (226) 30
As at 31.12.08
AAA/AA 69 27 42 (4) 38
A/BBB 3,258 1,301 1,957 (320) 1,637
Non-investment grade 425 181 244 (65) 179
Total 3,752 1,509 2,243 (389) 1,854
The balance reduced by £1,824m to £30m (31st December 2008: £1,854m), reflecting the Protium sale of £1,208m, a credit valuation adjustment of
£497m, and currency and other movements of £119m.
Claims would become due in the event of default of the underlying assets. There have been no claims under the monoline insurance contracts as none
of the underlying assets defaulted in the year.
The notional value of the assets split by the current rating of the underlying asset is shown below.
By rating of the underlying asset As at 31.12.09 As at 31.12.08
AAA/AA A/BBB Total AAA/AA Total
£m £m £m £m £m
2005 and earlier ––– 437 437
2006 54 – 54 613 613
2007 and 2008 – 383 383 2,702 2,702
CMBS 54 383 437 3,752 3,752 116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
C. Other Credit Market
C1. Leveraged Finance 
Leveraged Finance Loans by Region As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m
UK 4,530 4,519
Europe 1,051 1,291
Asia 165 140
US 35 3,213
Total lending and commitments 5,781 9,163
Impairment (274) (115)
Net lending and commitments at period end
a
5,507 9,048
Leveraged finance loans are classified within loans and advances and are stated at amortised cost less impairment. The table above includes certain loan
facilities originated prior to 1st July 2007, the start of the dislocation in the credit market
b
. 
At 31st December 2009, net lending and commitments reduced £3,541m to £5,507m (31st December 2008: £9,048m), following a repayment of
£3,056m at par in January 2009, impairment of £396m, and other movements of £89m. 
The overall credit performance of the assets remained satisfactory with the majority of the portfolio performing to plan or in line with original stress
tolerances. There were a small number of deteriorating positions on which higher impairment was charged.
C2. SIVs, SIV-Lites and CDPCs
SIV and SIV-lite positions comprise liquidity facilities and derivatives. At 31st December 2009 SIVs and SIV-Lites positions reduced by £433m to £530m
(31st December 2008: £963m) with a reduced number of counterparties. There were £72m of gross writedowns in the year.
Credit Derivative Product Companies (CDPCs) positions at 31st December 2009 reduced by £127m to £23m (31st December 2008: £150m). 
C3. CLO and Other Assets Wrapped by Monoline Insurers
The table below shows Collateralised Loan Obligations (CLOs) and other assets where we held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2009.
By rating of the monoline Fair value Credit
of underlying Fair value valuation Net
Notional asset exposure adjustment exposure
£m £m £m £m £m
As at 31.12.09
AAA/AA 7,336 5,731 1,605 (91) 1,514
A/BBB –––––
Non-investment grade:
– Fair value through profit and loss 1,052 824 228 (175) 53
– Loans and receivables 9,116 7,994 1,122 (563) 559
Total 17,504 14,549 2,955 (829) 2,126
As at 31.12.08
AAA/AA 8,281 5,854 2,427 (55) 2,372
A/BBB 6,446 4,808 1,638 (204) 1,434
Non-investment grade 6,148 4,441 1,707 (574) 1,133
Total 20,875 15,103 5,772 (833) 4,939
The balance reduced by £2,813m to £2,126m (31st December 2008: £4,939m), reflecting increases in the fair value of the underlying assets of £1,321m,
credit valuation adjustments of £528m, the Protium sale of £396m, and currency and other movements of £568m.
Claims would become due in the event of default of the underlying assets. There have been no claims under the monoline insurance contracts as none
of the underlying assets defaulted in the year.
On 25th November 2009, £8,027m of the CLO assets wrapped by non-investment grade rated monolines were reclassified to loans and receivables
(as discussed in Note 51). At 31st December 2009, the fair value of the transferred assets was £7,994m and the net exposure to monoline insurers was
£559m. The remaining non-investment grade exposure continues to be measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Notes
a Includes undrawn commitments of £257m (2008: £531m).
b This is a change of presentation from 31st December 2008, which reflected certain loan
facilities originated post 1st July 2007. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 117
The notional value of the assets split by the current rating of the underlying asset is shown below.
By rating of underlying asset As at 31.12.09 As at 31.12.08
Non-
investment
AAA/AA A/BBB grade AAA/AA A/BBB
Fair Loans and Fair Loans and fair Fair Fair
value receivables value receivables value Total value value Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2005 and earlier 1,518 2,209 294 815 – 4,836 6,037 – 6,037
2006 1,972 2,952 – 458 – 5,382 5,894 – 5,894
2007 and 2008 2,452 2,199 548 483 – 5,682 6,295 – 6,295
CLOs 5,942 7,360 842 1,756 – 15,900 18,226 – 18,226
2005 and earlier – – 55 – 55 110 862 – 862
2006 118 – 90 – 125 333 535 – 535
2007 and 2008 441 – – – 720 1,161 785 467 1,252
Other 559 – 145 – 900 1,604 2,182 467 2,649
Total 6,501 7,360 987 1,756 900 17,504 20,408 467 20,875
D. Protium
On 16th September 2009, Barclays Capital sold assets of £7,454m, including £5,087m in credit market assets, to Protium Finance LP (Protium), a newly
established fund. The impact of the sale on each class of credit market asset is detailed in each relevant category in sections A to C.
As part of the transaction, Barclays extended a £7,669m 10-year loan to Protium, which will be repaid during the term from cash generated by the fund.
The principal terms of the loan are as follows:
– The loan has a final maturity of ten years, with a rate of return fixed at USD LIBOR plus 2.75%.
– Protium is obliged to pay principal and interest equal to the amount of available cash generated by the fund after payment of fund expenses and certain
payments to the fund’ s partners.
– The loan is secured by a charge over the assets of Protium.
The loan is classified as loans and receivables. The difference between the size of the loan and assets sold relates to cash and US Treasuries held by Protium.
The increase in the loan balance between 16th September 2009 and 31st December 2009 reflects accrued interest which was received from Protium in
January 2010.
The fair value of assets sold to Protium is set out below. The balances at 31st December 2009 include cash realised from subsequent sales and paydowns.
Protium assets As at As at As at As at As at As at
31.12.09 16.09.09 30.06.09 31.12.09 16.09.09 30.06.09
$m $m $m £m £m £m
US Residential Mortgages
Other US sub-prime whole loans and real estate 1,038 1,124 1,256 641 682 764
Other US sub-prime securities 578 513 508 357 311 309
T otal other US sub-prime 1,616 1,637 1,764 998 993 1,073
Alt-A 2,112 2,185 2,342 1,304 1,326 1,424
Monoline wrapped US RMBS 1,447 1,919 2,081 893 1,164 1,266
Commercial Mortgages
Monoline wrapped CMBS 1,378 1,991 2,450 851 1,208 1,490
Other Credit market
Monoline wrapped CLO and other 475 652 752 294 396 457
Credit market related exposure 7,028 8,384 9,389 4,340 5,087 5,710
Fair value of underlying assets wrapped by monoline insurers 4,095 3,592 2,728 2,529 2,179 1,659
Other assets 1,230 309 285 759 188 173
Total 12,353 12,285 12,402 7,628 7,454 7,542
Loan to Protium 12,727 12,641 – 7,859 7,669 – 118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
DBRS Inc. (DBRS), a nationally recognised statistical rating organisation, was engaged to provide a private, point-in-time rating reflecting the specific terms
and conditions of the Protium loan as a whole. In addition point-in-time ratings with respect to gross cumulative cash flows due to Barclays under the loan
to Protium, considered in sequential instalments, were also sought (Tranched Ratings). 
On the transaction date, the loan fair value was assessed as equal to its notional amount. Subsequently , the obtained ratings were incorporated into an
updated transaction date valuation. This valuation discounted the cash flows at appropriate discount rates determined by Barclays based on the Tranched
Ratings. The calculation produced a value of £7,651m ($12,611m). The difference to the original valuation was £18m ($30m), which has been recorded as
a loss on sale in the period. The Tranched Ratings and loan valuation are summarised in the table below:
Tranched Rating Cash Weighted Spread to Net present
flows average life LIBOR value
£m (years) (bps) £m
AAA 2,092 3.8 52 2,015
AA+ 1,464 4.3 80 1,385
AA/AA- 354 4.3 108/128 330
A 642 2.6 169 606
BBB/BBB- 1,098 4.7 260/355 955
BB+/BB 1,021 2.1 451/546 915
B/B-/CCC 1,886 3.4 700/785/870 1,445
Total 8,557 282 7,651
The loan valuation was performed by Barclays and, of the information disclosed above, only the Tranched Ratings were provided by DBRS. The Tranched
Ratings are as of 15th September 2009 and are based on a scenario in which the portfolio of assets sold to Protium is static, with no subsequent sales or
additional purchases.
A single rating of CCC (low), being the Tranched Rating for the lowest rated cash flows, has been assigned to the loan as a whole by DBRS. This rating
addresses the ultimate payment of cumulative principal and interest under the terms and conditions of the Protium loan and it being advanced as a single
loan, as opposed to being structurally tranched. The single rating of CCC (low) is also as of 15th September 2009 and is based on a scenario in which the
portfolio of assets sold to Protium is static, with no subsequent sales or additional purchases.
The loan to Protium was assessed for impairment by the Group as at 31st December 2009 in line with its impairment policy . This analysis found that 
there was no impairment as at 31st December 2009. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 119
Debt securities and other bills
The following table presents an analysis of the credit quality of debt and similar securities, other than loans held within the Group. Securities rated as
investment grade amounted to 91.8% of the portfolio (2008: 91.6%). 
Treasury
and other Debt
eligible bills securities Total
£m £m £m %
As at 31.12.09
AAA to BBB- (investment grade) 13,950 151,621 165,571 91.8
BB+ to B 1,895 10,297 12,192 6.8
B- or lower – 2,571 2,571 1.4
Total 15,845 164,489 180,334 100.0
Of which issued by: 
– governments and other public bodies 15,845 72,238 88,083 48.8
– US agency – 23,924 23,924 13.3
– mortgage and asset-backed securities – 17,826 17,826 9.9
– corporate and other issuers – 41,641 41,641 23.1
– bank and building society certificates of deposit – 8,860 8,860 4.9
Total 15,845 164,489 180,334 100.0
Of which classified as: 
– trading portfolio assets 9,926 116,594 126,520 70.2
– financial instruments designated at fair value – 4,007 4,007 2.2
– available for sale securities 5,919 43,888 49,807 27.6
Total 15,845 164,489 180,334 100.0
As at 31.12.08 
AAA to BBB- (investment grade) 7,314 198,493 205,807 91.6
BB+ to B 1,233 15,309 16,542 7.4
B- or lower – 2,343 2,343 1.0
Total 8,547 216,145 224,692 100.0
Of which issued by: 
– governments and other public bodies 8,547 73,881 82,428 36.7
– US agency – 34,180 34,180 15.2
– mortgage and asset-backed securities – 34,844 34,844 15.5
– corporate and other issuers – 55,244 55,244 24.6
– bank and building society certificates of deposit – 17,996 17,996 8.0
Total 8,547 216,145 224,692 100.0
Of which classified as: 
– trading portfolio assets 4,544 148,686 153,230 68.2
– financial instruments designated at fair value – 8,628 8,628 3.8
– available for sale securities 4,003 58,831 62,834 28.0
Total 8,547 216,145 224,692 100.0 120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Credit risk management
continued
Derivatives
The use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk management
products are an integral part of the Group’ s trading activities. These
instruments are also used to manage the Group’ s own exposure to
fluctuations in interest, exchange rates and commodity and equity prices
as part of its asset and liability management activities. 
Barclays Capital manages the trading derivatives book as part of the
market risk book. This includes foreign exchange, interest rate, equity ,
commodity and credit derivatives. The policies regarding market risk
management are outlined in the market risk management section on
pages 122 to 126.
Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one
or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the contract.
They include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, options and
combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the Group’ s net
interest income, net trading income, net fee and commission income and
derivative assets and liabilities. Notional amounts of the contracts are not
recorded on the balance sheet.
The Group participates both in exchange traded and over the counter
derivatives markets.
Exchange traded derivatives
The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or cleared on
an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide margin daily with cash or
other security at the exchange, to which the holders look for ultimate
settlement.
Over the counter traded derivatives
The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded over
the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange. 
These instruments range from commoditised transactions in derivative
markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the requirements
of the Group’ s customers. In many cases, industry standard documentation
is used, most commonly in the form of a master agreement, with individual
transaction confirmations. The existence of a signed master agreement is
intended to give the Group protection in situations where a counterparty
is in default.
Foreign exchange derivatives
The Group’ s principal exchange rate related contracts are forward foreign
exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options. Forward foreign
exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell a specified quantity of
foreign currency , usually on a specified future date at an agreed rate. 
A currency swap generally involves the exchange, or notional exchange, 
of equivalent amounts of two currencies and a commitment to exchange
interest periodically until the principal amounts are re-exchanged on a
future date.
Currency options provide the buyer with the right, but not the obligation,
either to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a currency at a specified exchange
rate on or before a future date. As compensation for assuming the option risk,
the option writer generally receives a premium at the start of the option period.
Interest rate derivatives
The Group’ s principal interest rate related contracts are interest rate swaps,
forward rate agreements, basis swaps, caps, floors and swaptions. Included
in this product category are transactions that include combinations of these
features.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange
fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of periodic payments based
upon a notional principal amount and the interest rates defined in the
contract. Certain agreements combine interest rate and foreign currency
swap transactions, which may or may not include the exchange of principal
amounts. A basis swap is a form of interest rate swap, in which both parties
exchange interest payments based on floating rates, where the floating rates
are based upon different underlying reference indices. In a forward rate
agreement, two parties agree a future settlement of the difference between
an agreed rate and a future interest rate, applied to a notional principal
amount. The settlement, which generally occurs at the start of the contract
period, is the discounted present value of the payment that would otherwise
be made at the end of that period.
Credit derivatives
The Group’ s principal credit derivative-related contracts include credit
default swaps and total return swaps. A credit derivative is an arrangement
whereby the credit risk of an asset (the reference asset) is transferred from
the buyer to the seller of protection. 
A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives
premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make
payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event. Credit events
normally include bankruptcy , payment default on a reference asset or assets,
or downgrades by a rating agency .
A total return swap is an instrument whereby the seller of protection
receives the full return of the asset, including both the income and change in
the capital value of the asset. The buyer in return receives a predetermined
amount.
Equity derivatives
The Group’ s principal equity-related contracts are equity and stock index
swaps and options (including warrants, which are equity options listed 
on an exchange). An equity swap is an agreement between two parties 
to exchange periodic payments, based upon a notional principal amount,
with one side paying fixed or floating interest and the other side paying
based on the actual return of the stock or stock index. An equity option
provides the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to purchase
or sell a specified stock, basket of stocks or stock index at a specified price
or level on or before a specified date. The Group also enters into fund-linked
derivatives, being swaps and options whose underlyings include mutual
funds, hedge funds, indices and multi-asset portfolios.
Commodity derivatives
The Group’ s principal commodity-related derivative contracts are swaps,
options, forwards and futures. The main commodities transacted are base
metals, precious metals, oil and oil-related products, power and natural gas. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 121
The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative assets together with the value of those assets subject to enforceable counterparty netting
arrangements for which the Group holds offsetting liabilities and eligible collateral.
Derivative assets GrossCounterparty Net 
assets netting exposure
£m £m £m
As at 31.12.09
Foreign exchange 51,775 45,391 6,384
Interest rate 261,211 213,446 47,765
Credit derivatives 56,295 48,774 7,521
Equity and stock index 17,784 13,330 4,454
Commodity derivatives 29,750 21,687 8,063
416,815 342,628 74,187
Total collateral held 31,471
Net exposure less collateral 42,716
As at 31.12.08
Foreign exchange 107,730 91,572 16,158
Interest rate 615,321 558,985 56,336
Credit derivatives 184,072 155,599 28,473
Equity and stock index 28,684 20,110 8,574
Commodity derivatives 48,995 35,903 13,092
984,802 862,169 122,633
Total collateral held 54,905
Net exposure less collateral 67,728
Gross derivative assets of £417bn (2008: £985bn) cannot be netted down under IFRS. Derivative assets would be £374bn (2008: £917bn) lower than
reported under IFRS if counterparty or collateral netting were allowed.
Exposure relating to derivatives, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock borrowing and loan transactions is calculated using
internal, FSA approved models. These are used as the basis to assess both regulatory capital and capital appetite and are managed on a daily basis. 
The methodology encompasses all relevant factors to enable the current value to be calculated and the future value to be estimated, for example: 
current market rates, market volatility and legal documentation (including collateral rights). 122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Market risk management
Market Risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to
meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the
level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit
spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
The majority of market risk exposure resides in Barclays Capital.
Barclays is also exposed to market risk through non-traded interest rate
risk and the pension fund.
Barclays market risk objectives are to:
– Understand and control market risk by robust measurement and the
setting of limits.
– Facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk
management framework.
– Ensure traded market risk resides primarily in Barclays Capital.
– Minimise non-traded market risk.
Organisation and structure
The Board approves market risk appetite for trading and non-trading
activities. The Market Risk Director is responsible for the Market Risk Control
Framework and, under delegated authority from the Chief Risk Officer, sets
a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures
against agreed limits. This daily report is sent to the Chief Risk Officer, the
Market Risk Director, the Group Finance Director and the appropriate
Business Risk Directors.
The head of each business, assisted by the business risk management
team, is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities. Each
business is responsible for the identification, measurement, management,
control and reporting of market risk as outlined in the Barclays Market Risk
Control Framework. Oversight and support is provided to the business by the
Market Risk Director, assisted by the Group Market Risk team. The Market
Risk Committee reviews, approves, and makes recommendations concerning
the market risk profile across Barclays including risk appetite, limits and
utilisation. The Committee meets monthly and is chaired by the Market Risk
Director. Attendees include the Chief Risk Officer, respective business risk
managers and senior managers from Group Market Risk.
In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for
implementing the Market Risk Control Framework. Day to day responsibility
for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital,
supported by the Market Risk Management team that operates
independently of the trading areas. Oversight is provided by Group
Market Risk. 
Daily market risk reports are produced for Barclays Capital as a whole
as well as for the main business areas. These are sent to Group Market Risk
for review and inclusion in the daily market risk report. The risks covered
include interest rate, credit spread, commodity , equity and foreign exchange.
A more detailed trading market risk presentation is produced fortnightly
and discussed at the Barclays Capital T raded Positions Risk Review meeting.
The attendees at this meeting include senior trading and risk managers from
Barclays Capital and Group Market Risk.
In each of the six main Global Retail and Commercial Banking businesses
(UK Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank, Barclaycard, Western Europe,
Emerging Markets and Absa), Group T reasury and W ealth, there is a dedicated
market risk department. The head of each department is responsible for
implementing the Market Risk Control Framework, with oversight provided
by Group Market Risk. A combination of daily and monthly risk reports are
sent to Group Market Risk for review and inclusion in the daily market risk
report. A risk summary is also presented at Market Risk Committee and the
respective Asset and Liability Committees. 
The chart below gives an overview of the business control structure.
Overview of the business control structure 
Market Risk Director
Non-traded
– Banking book interest rate risk
– Foreign exchange risk
Traded
Risk type
and reviewed 
by the Group 
Market Risk 
Team and… 
…managed by
– Pension risk – Investment 
risk
– Asset 
management 
risk
Barclays 
Capital
Pension Fund
Trustees and 
Barclays Central
Functions
Barclays 
Wealth
Global Retail 
and 
Commercial 
Banking
Barclays Wealth 
Global Retail 
and 
Commercial 
Banking – Absa
Group 
Treasury
– Traded Positions 
Risk Review 
Meeting
– Asset and Liability 
Committees
– New Product 
Process team
– Supervisory visits 
from business
centre team
– Investment 
Committee
– Pension 
Management 
Group
– Pension Executive 
Board
– Barclays Wealth 
Asset and 
Liability
Committee
– Absa Market Risk 
Committee
– Treasury 
Committee  
– Treasury Hedge 
Committee www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 123
Traded market risk 
Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital. This
includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients
or with the market. For maximum efficiency , client and market activities
are managed together. In Barclays Capital, trading risk is measured for the
trading book, as defined for regulatory purposes, and certain banking books.
Risk Measurement and Control
The measurement techniques used to measure and control traded market
risk include Daily Value at Risk (DVaR), Expected Shortfall, average of the
three worst hypothetical losses from the DVaR simulation (3W), Global
Asset Class stress testing and Global Scenario stress testing. 
DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market
movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one
business day . Barclays Capital uses the historical simulation methodology
with a two-year unweighted historical period at the 95% confidence level.
The historical simulation methodology can be split into three parts:
– Calculate hypothetical daily profit or loss for each position over the most
recent two years, using observed daily market moves.
– Sum all hypothetical profits or losses for day one across all positions, giving
one total profit or loss. Repeat for all other days in the two-year history .
– DVaR is the 95th percentile selected from the two-year history of daily
hypothetical total profit or loss.
Market volatility decreased from the extreme levels observed in the second
half of 2008, but remained above pre-crisis 2007 levels. As a consequence of
the unweighted DVaR historical simulation methodology , the extreme 2008
volatility will continue to impact DVaR until late 2010.
The DVaR model has been approved by the FSA to calculate regulatory
capital for the trading book. The approval covers general market risk in
interest rate, foreign exchange, commodities and equity products, and
issuer specific risk for the majority of single name and portfolio traded credit
products. Internally , as noted before, DVaR is calculated for the trading book
and certain banking books.
When reviewing DVaR estimates, a number of considerations should
be taken into account. These are:
– Historical simulation uses the recent past to generate possible future
market moves but the past may not be a good indicator of the future.
– The one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of
positions that cannot be closed out or hedged within one day .
– Intra-day risk is not captured.
– DVaR does not indicate the potential loss beyond the 95th percentile.
DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool and
consequently the model is regularly assessed. The main approach employed
is the technique known as back-testing which counts the number of days
when a loss (as defined by the FSA) exceeds the corresponding DVaR
estimate, measured at the 99% confidence level.
The FSA categorises a DVaR model as green, amber or red. A green
model is consistent with a good working DVaR model and is achieved for
models that have four or less back-testing exceptions in a 12-month period.
For Barclays Capital’ s trading book, green model status was maintained for
2009 and 2008.
Expected Shortfall is the average of all hypothetical losses from the
historical simulation beyond DVaR. T o improve the control framework, formal
monitoring of 3W (average of the three worst observations from the DVaR
historical simulation) was started in the first half of 2009. 124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Market risk management
continued
Stress testing provides an indication of the potential size of losses that
could arise in extreme conditions. Global Asset Class stress testing has been
designed to cover major asset classes including interest rate, credit spread,
commodity , equity and foreign exchange rates. They are based on past stress
moves in respective asset class prices and rates. Global Scenario stress
testing is based on hypothetical events which could lead to extreme yet
plausible stress type moves, under which profitability is seriously challenged.
Market Risk is controlled through the use of limits where appropriate on
the above risk measures. Limits are set at the total Barclays Capital level, risk
factor level e.g. interest rate risk, and business line level e.g. Emerging
Markets. Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity
limits are also in place. 
Risk exposures are monitored by Barclays Capital’ s risk managers with
oversight provided by Group Market Risk. The total DVaR limit is approved by
the Board. Risk Factor DVaR limits and Global Asset Class stress testing limits
are approved by Market Risk Committee.
Analysis of traded market risk exposures
Barclays Capital’ s market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR,
increased by 45% to £77m (2008: £53m). The rise was mainly due to
volatility considerations, increased interest rate and credit spread exposure,
and the Lehman Brothers North American businesses acquisition. Volatility
impacted average DVaR because 2008’ s extreme volatility impacted DVaR
throughout 2009 but only impacted 2008 DVaR in the last four months of
2008. More commentary is given under the total DVaR graph below.
Expected Shortfall and 3W averaged £121m and £209m respectively
representing increases of £51m (73%) and £93m (80%) compared to 2008. 
As we enter 2010, the principal uncertainties which may impact
Barclays market risk relate to volatility in interest rates, commodities, credit
spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates. While these markets
exhibit improved liquidity and reduced volatility following Central Bank
support, price instability and higher volatility may still arise as government
policy seeks to target future economic growth while controlling inflation risk.
Analysis of trading revenue
The histogram below shows the distribution of daily trading revenue for
Barclays Capital in 2009 and 2008. 
Trading revenue reflects top-line income
g
, excluding income from Private
Equity and Principal Investments.
The average daily revenue in 2009 was £71m, 87% more than recorded
for 2008 (£38m). There were 247 positive days, 5 negative days and one flat
day (2008: 206 positive, 47 negative, one flat).
47
71
58
50
48
16
30
3
17
2
25
42
13
31
16
38
— 2008   
— 2009 
Barclays Capital daily trading revenue 2009 and 2008 (£m) 
Number of days
<–20
0 to <20
20 to <40
40 to <60
60 to <80
80 to <100
100+
–20 to < 0
c
Total DVaR 2008 and 2009 
£m
08
09
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
b
a
d
f
e
Notes
a Barclays acquires Lehman Brothers North American businesses during a period of
extreme market volatility . The Lehman positions are subsequently reduced.
b DVaR increases significantly due to the extreme market volatility impacting the DVaR
calculation. Several financial institutions fail and there is a material deterioration in the
global economic outlook.
c T otal DVaR peaked at £119m in March 2009.
d Before trending down mainly due to a decrease in credit spread exposure and interest rate
exposure, reaching £58m in August 2009.
e DVaR subsequently increased as markets began to recover and new positions were added
to facilitate client trades.
f DVaR decreased towards year end driven by a reduction in exposure and an increase in
diversification. T otal DV aR as at 31st December 2009 was £55m (31st December 2008: £87m).
g Defined on page 342.
The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, 
Expected Shortfall and 3W were calculated as below: Y ear ended 31st December 2009 Y ear ended 31st December 2008
Average High Low Average High Low
DVaR (95%) £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate risk 44 83 23 29 48 15
Credit Spread risk 58 102 35 31 72 15
Commodity risk 14 20 11 18 25 13
Equity risk 13 27 5 921 5
Foreign exchange risk 815 3 613 2
Diversification effect (60) (40)
T otal DVaR 77 119 50 53 95 36
Expected Shortfall 121 188 88 70 146 41
3W 209 301 148 116 282 61 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 125
Non-traded interest rate risk
Non-traded interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale
(non-traded) banking products and services, and resides mainly in Global
Retail and Commercial Banking, and Group Treasury .
Barclays objective is to minimise non-traded risk. This is achieved by
transferring interest rate risk from the business to a local treasury or Group
Treasury , which in turn hedges the net exposure with the external market.
Limits exist to ensure no material risk is retained within any business or
product area. Trading activity is not permitted outside Barclays Capital. 
Risk measurement and control
The risk in each business is measured and controlled using both an income
metric (Annual Earnings at Risk) and a present value metric (Daily Value at
Risk or stress testing). In addition, scenario stress analysis is carried out by
the business and reviewed by senior management and business-level asset
and liability committees, when required. 
Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) measures the sensitivity of net interest
income (NII) over the next 12 months. It is calculated as the difference
between the estimated income using the current yield curve and the lowest
estimated income following a 100 basis points increase or decrease in
interest rates, subject to a minimum interest rate of 0%. Balances are
adjusted for an assumed behavioural profiles. This includes the treatment
of non-maturity deposits.
Daily Value at Risk and stress testing is calculated using a Barclays
Capital consistent approach. Both these metrics are calculated by each
respective business area with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
Risk exposures are monitored by respective business risk managers
with oversight provided by Group Market Risk. The main business limits are
approved by Market Risk Committee. Book limits such as foreign exchange
and interest rate sensitivity limits are also in place where appropriate.
T o further improve the market risk control framework, Group Market
Risk initiated an ongoing programme of conformance visits to non-traded
Treasury operations. These visits review both the current market risk profile
and potential market risk developments, as well as verifying conformance
with Barclays policies and standards as detailed in the Market Risk Control
Framework. 
Analysis of Net Interest Income sensitivity
The table below shows the pre-tax net interest income sensitivity for the
non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st December
2009 and 31st December 2008. The sensitivity has been measured using
AEaR methodology as described above. The benchmark interest rate for
each currency is set as at 31st December 2009. The figures include the
effect of hedging instruments but exclude exposures held or issued by
Barclays Capital as these are measured and managed using DVaR.
Non-traded interest rate risk, as measured by AEaR, was £369m as at
31st December 2009, an increase of £112m compared to 31st December
2008. The increase mainly reflects the reduced spread generated on retail
and commercial banking liabilities in the lower interest rate environment.
If the interest rate hedges had not been in place then the AEaR for 2009
would have been £704m (2008: £670m).
DVaR is also used to control market risk in Global Retail and Commercial
Banking – Western Europe and in Group Treasury . The indicative average
2009 DVaRs for 2009 are £1.4m (2008: £1.3m) for Western Europe and
£1.0m (2008: £0.6m) for Group Treasury .
Other market risks
Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past
and current employees. The ability of the Pension Fund to meet the
projected pension payments is maintained through investments and regular
bank contributions. Pension risk arises because the estimated market value
of the pension fund assets might decline; or their investment returns might
reduce; or the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase. In
these circumstances, Barclays could be required or might choose to make
extra contributions to the pension fund. 
During 2009 a risk reducing programme was conducted. This entailed
increasing the holding of index-linked gilts to better match the liabilities and
reducing the net exposure to equities. Financial details of the pension fund
are in Note 30.
Investment risk is the risk of financial volatility arising from changes in
the market value of investments, principally occurring in Barclays insurance
companies. A change in the fair value of these investments may give rise to
a liability which may have to be funded by the Group. It is Barclays policy to
hedge such exposures in line with a defined risk appetite.
Barclays policy is for foreign exchange traded risk to be concentrated
and managed in Barclays Capital. Some transactional foreign exchange risk
exposure arises outside Barclays Capital to support and facilitate client
activity . This is minimised in accordance with modest risk limits and was
not material as at 31st December 2009. Other non-Barclays capital foreign
exchange exposure is covered in Note 48.
Asset management structural risk arises where the fee and commission
income earned by asset management products and businesses is affected
by a change in market levels, primarily through the link between income and
the value of assets under management. It is Barclays policy that businesses
monitor and report this risk against a defined risk appetite and regularly
assess potential hedging strategies.
Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by currency
31st December 2009 31st December 2008
+100 basis -100 basis +100 basis -100 basis
points points points points
£m £m £m £m
GBP 30 (360) 3 (273)
USD (43) 14 (25) 7
EUR (34) – (34) 30
ZAR 29 (27) 13 (13)
Others (1) 4 – (8)
Total (19) (369) (43) (257)
As percentage of total 
net interest income (0.16%) (3.10%) (0.37%) (2.24%) 126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Market risk management
continued
Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange
traded commodity contracts
The Group provides a fully integrated service to clients for base metals,
precious metals, oil, power, natural gas, coal, freight, emission credits,
structured products and other related commodities. This service offering
continues to expand, as market conditions allow, through the addition of
new products and markets.
The Group offers both over the counter (OTC) and exchange-traded
derivatives, including swaps, options, forwards and futures and enters into
physically settled contracts in base metals, power and gas, oil and related
products. Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported
under the Trading Portfolio in Note 12 on page 217.
Fair value measurement
The fair values of physical and derivative positions are primarily determined
through a combination of recognised market observable prices, exchange
prices, and established inter-commodity relationships. Further information
on fair value measurement of financial instruments can be found in Note 50
on page 293.
Credit risk
Credit risk exposures are actively managed by the Group. Refer to Note 47 
on page 269 for more information on the Group’ s approach to credit risk
management and the credit quality of derivative assets.
Fair value of the commodity derivative contracts
The tables below analyse the overall fair value of the OTC commodity
derivative contracts by movement over time and contractual maturity . As at
31st December 2009 the fair value of the commodity derivative contracts
reflects a gross positive fair value of £27,134m (2008: £44,881m) and a
gross negative value of £26,227m (2008: £45,817m).
Movement in fair value 
2009 2008
of commodity derivative positions £m £m
Fair value of contracts outstanding 
at the beginning of the period (936) 812
Contracts realised or otherwise 
settled during the period 1,521 241
Fair value of new contracts entered 
into during the period (181) (1,245)
Other changes in fair values 503 (744)
Fair value of contracts outstanding 
at the end of the period 907 (936)
Maturity analysis of commodity 
2009 2008
derivative fair value £m £m
Not more than one year (75) (2,022)
Over one year but not more than five years 620 999
Over five years 362 87
Total 907 (936) www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 127
Risk management
Capital risk management
Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital 
resources to:
– Meet minimum regulatory requirements in the UK and in other
jurisdictions such as the United States and South Africa where
regulated activities are undertaken. The Group’s authority to 
operate as a bank is dependent upon the maintenance of 
adequate capital resources.
– Support its credit rating. A weaker credit rating would increase the
Group’s cost of funds.
– Support its growth and strategic options.
Or g anisa tion    and structur e
Barclays operates a centralised capital management model, considering
both regulatory and economic capital. The Group’ s capital management
objectives are to:
–  maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory
capital requirements set by the FSA and the US Federal Reserve Bank’ s
requirements that a financial holding company be ‘well capitalised’;
–  maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Group’ s risk appetite
and economic capital requirements;
–  support the Group’ s credit rating;
–  ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital
requirements; and
–  allocate capital to support the Group’ s strategic objectives including
optimising returns on economic and regulatory capital.
Treasury Committee manages compliance with the Group’ s capital
management objectives. The Committee reviews actual and forecast 
capital demand and resources on a monthly basis. The processes in place
for delivering the Group’ s capital management objectives are:
– establishment of internal targets for capital demand and ratios;
– managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange movement;
– ensuring local entity regulatory capital adequacy;
– allocating capital in the Group’ s strategic medium-term plan; and
– economic Capital management.
In addition to the processes above, the Group Risk Oversight Committee
and the Board Risk Committee annually review and set risk appetite (see
page 268) and analyse the impacts of stress scenarios on the Group capital
forecast (see page 93) in order to understand and manage the Group’ s
projected capital adequacy .
Internal targets
T o support its capital management objectives, the Group sets internal
targets for its key capital ratios. Internal targets are reviewed regularly by
Treasury Committee to take account of:
– changes in forecast demand for capital caused by accessing new business
opportunities, including mergers and acquisitions;
– flexibility in debt capital issuance and securitisation plans;
– the possible impact of stress scenarios including:
– changes in forecast demand for capital from unanticipated drawdown
of committed facilities or as a result of deterioration in the credit quality
of the Group’ s assets;
– changes in forecast profits and other capital resources; and
– changes to capital resources and forecast demand due to foreign
exchange rate movements.
Managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements
The Group has capital resources and risk weighted assets denominated
in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes
in the sterling equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital
resources and risk weighted assets. As a result, the Group’ s regulatory
capital ratios are sensitive to foreign currency movements.
The Group’ s capital ratio hedge strategy is to minimise the volatility of
the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate movements. T o achieve
this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of foreign currency Core Tier 1 ,
Tier 1 and T otal Capital resources to foreign currency RWAs the same as
the Group’ s capital ratios.
The Group’ s foreign currency capital resources include investments in
subsidiaries and branches, intangible assets, non-controlling interest,
deductions from capital and debt capital instruments.
The Group’ s investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches
create Core Tier 1 capital resources denominated in foreign currencies.
Changes in the sterling value of the investments due to foreign currency
movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in a
movement in Core Tier 1 capital. 
T o create foreign currency Tier 1 and T otal Capital resources additional
to the Core Tier 1 capital resources, the Group issues, where possible, debt
capital in non-sterling currencies. This is primarily achieved by the issuance
of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC, but can also be achieved by
subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies.
In some circumstances, investments in foreign currency subsidiaries
and branches are hedged. In these circumstances, foreign currency capital
resources are not created. Hedging decisions take into account the impact
on capital ratios, the strategic nature of the investment, the cost of hedging,
the availability of a suitable foreign exchange market and prevailing foreign
exchange rates. Depending on the value of foreign currency net investments,
it is not always possible to maintain the ratio of Core Tier 1 capital to RWAs
consistent with the Group’ s Core Tier 1 ratio in all currencies, leaving some
capital ratio sensitivity to foreign currency movements.
The investment of proceeds from the issuance of equity accounted
foreign currency preference shares also contributes to foreign currency
capital resources. If a preference share issuance is redeemed, the cumulative
movement from the date of issuance in the currency translation reserve will
be offset by an equal and opposite movement in reserves reflecting the
revaluation of the preference shares to prevailing foreign exchange rates.
Issuance of a replacement Tier 1 instrument in the same currency will
maintain the hedge of the Tier 1 ratio.
Local entity regulatory capital adequacy
The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those Group entities
that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual jurisdictions
meet their minimum capital requirements. Local management manages
compliance with entities minimum regulatory capital requirements by
reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees with oversight by The
Treasury Committee, as required.
Injections of capital resources into Group entities are centrally controlled
by The Treasury Committee, under authorities delegated from the Group
Executive Committee. The Group’ s policy is for surplus capital held in Group
entities to be repatriated to Barclays Bank PLC in the form of dividends
and/ or capital repatriation, subject to local regulatory requirements,
exchange controls and tax implications. 
Other than as indicated above, the Group is not aware of any material
impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources or repayment of
intra-group liabilities when due.  128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Capital risk management
continued
Notes
a Calculated using an adjusted average over the year and rounded to the nearest £50m for
presentation purposes. Economic capital demand excludes the economic capital calculated
for pension risk.
b Average goodwill relates to purchased goodwill and intangible assets from business
acquisitions. 
c T otal period end economic capital requirement as at 31st December 2009 stood at
£40,750m (31st December 2008: £39,200m). 
Allocating capital in the Group’s strategic medium-term plan
Capital adequacy and returns on regulatory and economic capital form 
a key part of the Group’ s annual strategic medium-term planning process.
Amongst other strategic objectives, the Group seeks to optimise returns on
economic and regulatory capital through the planning process. T o achieve
this, executive management consider returns on risk weighted assets and
economic capital when setting limits for business capital demand. Executive
management will also review the forecast capital ratios to ensure internal
targets continue to be met over the medium-term plan. 
The Treasury Committee reviews the limits on capital demand on
a monthly basis taking into account actual performance.
Economic capital
Economic capital is an internal measure of the minimum equity and
preference capital required for the Group to maintain its credit rating based
upon its risk profile.
Barclays assesses capital requirements by measuring the Group’ s risk
profile using both internally and externally developed models. The Group
assigns economic capital primarily within the following risk categories:
credit risk, market risk, operational risk, private equity and pension risk.
The Group regularly reviews its economic capital methodology and
benchmarks outputs to external reference points. The framework uses
default probabilities during average credit conditions, rather than those
prevailing at the balance sheet date, thus seeking to remove cyclicality from
the economic capital calculation. The economic capital framework takes
into consideration time horizon, correlation of risks and risk concentrations. 
Economic capital is allocated on a consistent basis across all of Barclays
businesses and risk activities. A single cost of equity is applied to calculate
the cost of risk.
The total average economic capital required by the Group is compared
with the supply of economic capital to evaluate economic capital utilisation.
The supply of economic capital is based on the available shareholders’
equity adjusted for certain items (e.g. retirement benefit liability , cash flow
hedging reserve) and including preference shares.
Economic capital forms the basis of the Group’ s submission for the
Basel II Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP).
Economic Capital Demand
a
UK Retail Banking economic capital allocation decreased £200m to £3,750m
(2008: £3,950m) mainly reflecting a revised measurement of economic
capital for business risk. In addition, small reductions were seen in the
economic capital allocation for overdrafts and local businesses that were
offset by growth in mortgages and consumer lending. 
Barclays Commercial Bank economic capital allocation decreased £50m
to £3,450m (2008: £3,500m) driven primarily by a reduction in exposure
offset by an increase in non-performing loans due to economic conditions.
Barclaycard economic capital allocation increased £650m to £3,350m
(2008: £2,700m), reflecting asset growth and appreciation of US Dollar
against Sterling in 2008 and modest asset growth in 2009.
GRCB – Western Europe economic capital allocation increased £600m
to £2,500m (2008: £1,900m), due to deteriorating wholesale credit
conditions, acquisition activity , additional fixed assets as a result of branch
expansion and exchange rate movements.
GRCB – Emerging Markets economic capital allocation increased
£100m to £1,200m (2008: £1,100m). This reflects asset growth in 2008
versus a relatively slower contraction in 2009. 
GRCB – Absa economic capital allocation increased £100m to £1,200m
(2008: £1,100m), driven primarily by exchange rate movements offset by a
reduction in exposure.
Barclays Capital average economic capital allocation increased £2,500m
to £10,750m (2008: £8,250m). This primarily reflects deterioration in credit
quality that resulted in growth in the economic capital allocation towards
the end of 2008 and a further modest increase in 2009.
Barclays Global Investors investment economic capital allocation of
£1,000m (2008: £400m) includes BGI assets up to disposal on 1st December
2009, and BGI related exposures post-disposal, mainly the BlackRock, Inc
equity investment. 
Barclays Wealth economic capital allocation increased £50m to £550m
(2008: £500m), reflecting growth in loans and advances and increased
measure of economic capital for other risk types. 
Average economic capital Average year Average year 
ended ended
31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m
UK Retail Banking 3,750 3,950
Barclays Commercial Bank 3,450 3,500
Barclaycard 3,350 2,700
GRCB – Western Europe 2,500 1,900
GRCB – Emerging Markets 1,200 1,100
GRCB – Absa 1,200 1,100
Barclays Capital 10,750 8,250
Barclays Global Investors 1,000 400
Barclays Wealth 550 500
Head Office Functions and Other Operations 100 50
Economic capital requirement 
(excluding goodwill) 27,850 23,450
Average historic goodwill and 
intangible assets
b
11,000 9,450
Total economic capital requirement
c
38,850 32,900 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 129
Notes 
a Averages for the period will not correspond to period-end balances disclosed on the balance
sheet. Numbers are rounded to the nearest £50m for presentational purposes only .
b Average goodwill relates to purchased goodwill and intangible assets from business
acquisitions.
c Available funds for economic capital as at 31st December 2009 stood at £40,650m
(2008:£39,200m).
Average economic capital allocation by risk type 
£m
d
8,350
1 0,000
7,750
7,250
1,900
2,000
3,700
2,350
1,000
1,700
2,700
2,600
Wholesale credit 
risk (incl CRLs)
 f
Retail credit risk
Operational risk
Market risk
Fixed asset risk
Other risks
 g
— 2008
— 2009
The average supply of capital to support the economic capital framework
a
2009 2008
£m £m
Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests less goodwill
b
28,000 17,650
Retirement benefits liability 800 1,050
Cash flow hedging reserve (300) 100
Available for sale reserve 600 400
Cumulative gains on own credit (1,150) (1,250)
Preference shares 5,850 5,500
Available funds for economic capital excluding goodwill 33,800 23,450
Average historic goodwill and intangible assets
b
11,000 9,450
Available funds for economic capital including goodwill
c
44,800 32,900
Average economic capital allocation by business 
£m
 d
3,950
3,750
3,450
3,500
2,700
3,350
2,500
1,900
1,100
1,200
1,200
1,100
8,250
10,750
1,000
400
500
550
100
50
UK Retail
Banking
Barclays
Commercial
Bank
Barclaycard
GRCB –
Western Europe
GRCB –
Emerging Markets
GRCB –
Absa
Barclays Capital
Barclays
Global Investors
Barclays Wealth
 Head Office
 functions and
 other oper ations 
e
— 2008
— 2009
d Average EC charts exclude the EC calculated for pension risk (average pension risk for 2009
is £2,500m compared with £650m in 2008).
e Includes Transition Businesses and capital for central function risks.
f Includes credit risk loans.
g Includes investments in associates, private equity risk, insurance risk, residual value and
business risk. Also includes BGI related exposures post-disposal, mainly the BlackRock equity . 130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Liquidity risk management
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations
when they fall due as a result of a sudden, and potentially protracted,
increase in net cash outflows. Such outflows would deplete available
cash resources for client lending, trading activities, investments and
deposits. In extreme circumstances lack of liquidity could result in
reductions in balance sheet and sales of assets, or potentially an inability
to fulfil lending commitments. The risk that it will be unable to do so is
inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of
institution-specific and market-wide events. 
Organisation and structure
Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance and control process
that covers all of the Group’ s liquidity risk management activities. Businesses
assist Barclays Treasury in policy formation and limit setting by providing
relevant and expert input for their local markets and customers.
Execution of the Group’ s liquidity risk management strategy is carried
out at country level within agreed policies, controls and limits, with the
Country Treasurer providing reports directly to Barclays Treasury to evidence
conformance with the agreed risk profile. Liquidity risk is a standing agenda
item at Country and Cluster Asset and Liability Committees and on a
consolidated basis is reported to the Group’ s Treasury Committee.
The objective of the Group’ s liquidity risk management strategy is to
ensure that the funding profile of individual businesses and the Group as a
whole is appropriate to underlying market conditions and the profile of our
business in each given country . Liquidity risk limits and controls are flexed to
achieve that profile and are based on regular qualitative and quantitative
assessments of conditions under both normal and stressed conditions.
Businesses are only allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets
where they can demonstrate that their market is sufficiently deep and liquid
and then only relative to the size and complexity of their business.
Liquidity limits reflect both local regulatory requirements as well as the
behavioural characteristics of their balance sheets. Breaches of limits are
reported to Treasury Committee together with details of the requirements
to return to compliance.
Liquidity risk framework
Barclays has a comprehensive Liquidity Risk Management Framework (the
Liquidity Framework) for managing the Group’ s liquidity risk. The objective
of the Liquidity Framework is for the Group to have sufficient liquidity to
continue to operate for at least the minimum period specified by the FSA in
the event that the wholesale funding markets are neither open to Barclays
nor to the market as a whole. Many of the stress tests currently applied
under the Liquidity Framework will also be applied under the FSA ’ s new
regime, although the precise calibration may differ in Barclays final Individual
Liquidity Guidance to be set by the FSA. The Framework considers a range
of possible wholesale and retail factors leading to loss of financing including: 
– maturing of wholesale liabilities;
– loss of secured financing and widened haircuts on remaining book;
– retail and commercial outflows from savings and deposit accounts;
– drawdown of loans and commitments;
– potential impact of a two-notch ratings downgrade; and
– withdrawal of initial margin amounts by counterparties.
These stressed scenarios are used to assess the appropriate level for the
Group’ s liquidity pool, which comprises unencumbered assets and cash.
Barclays regularly uses these assets to access secured funding markets,
thereby testing the liquidity assumptions underlying pool composition. The
Group does not presume the availability of central bank facilities to monetise
the liquidity pool in any of the stress scenarios under the Liquidity
Framework. 
Liquidity Pool
The Group liquidity pool as at 31st December 2009 was £127bn gross 
(31st December 2008: £43bn) and comprised cash and unencumbered
assets.
The cost of maintaining the liquidity pool is a function of the source of
funding for the buffer and the reinvestment spread. The cost of funding the
liquidity pool is estimated to have been approximately £650m for 2009.
Composition of the Group liquidity pool Cash and Government
deposits Government and Other
with central guaranteed supranational available
banks bonds bonds liquidity Total
£bn £bn £bn £bn £bn
As at 31st December 2009
a
81 3 31 12 127
As at 31st December 2008
a
30 – 2 11 43
Note
a Previously disclosed as Barclays Capital only . www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 131
Term Financing
Raising term funding is important in meeting the risk appetite of the Barclays
Liquidity Framework. Barclays has continued to increase the term of issued
liabilities during 2009 by issuing:
– £15bn equivalent of public senior term funding;
– £1.8bn equivalent of public covered bonds; and
– £21bn equivalent of structured notes.
The Group has £4bn of publicly issued debt and £11bn of structured notes
maturing in 2010.
Intraday liquidity
The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is
recognised by the Group as a critical process: any failure to meet specific
intraday commitments would have significant consequences, such as a
visible market disruption.
The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has access
to sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have to clearing
and settlement systems. Major currency payment flows and payment
system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that at
all times there is sufficient collateral to make payments. In practice, the
Group maintains a significant buffer of surplus intraday liquidity to ensure
that payments are made on a timely basis. The Group actively engages in
payment system development to help ensure that new payment systems
are robust.
Day to day funding
Day to day funding is managed through limits on wholesale borrowings,
secured borrowings and funding mismatches. These ensure that on any day
and over any period there is a limited amount of refinancing requirement.
These requirements include replenishment of funds as they mature or are
borrowed by customers.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors term
mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as the level and type of
undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the
impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and
guarantees.
Diversification of liquidity sources
Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification
by currency , geography , provider, product and term. In addition, to avoid
reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the
distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully
managed. Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and
the maintenance of depositors’ confidence. Such confidence is based on a
number of factors including the Group’ s reputation and relationship with
those clients, the strength of earnings and the Group’ s financial position.
Funding Structure
Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth and Head Office
Functions are structured to be self-funded through customer deposits and
Barclays equity and other long-term capital. The Barclays Capital and Absa
businesses are funded through the wholesale secured and unsecured
funding markets.
The ratio of customer loans to customer deposits and long-term
funding has improved to 81% at 31st December 2009, from 93% at
31st December 2008.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth 
and Head Office Functions
An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail
deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa; mainly current accounts and savings
accounts. Although contractually current accounts are repayable on demand
and savings accounts at short notice, the Group’ s broad base of customers –
numerically and by depositor type – helps to protect against unexpected
fluctuations. Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Group’ s
operations and liquidity needs.
Wholesale depositor split by counterparty type – Barclays Capital Other Other
central financial
Banks Corporates Governments banks institutions Total
%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 36 15 2 16 31 100
As at 31st December 2008 32 15 11 9 33 100
Wholesale depositor split by geography – Barclays Capital Rest of
US UK Other EU Japan Africa World Total
%%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 9 25 23 3 16 24 100
As at 31st December 2008 13 22 16 9 17 23 100
GRCB, Barclays Wealth and Head Office
a
Behavioural maturity profile of assets and liabilities Cash inflow/(outflow)
Over Over Over Over
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years
Not but not but not but not but not
Funding more than more than more than more than more than Over
surplus 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years
£bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn
As at 31st December 2009 94.5 (10.2) 17.8 21.2 7.8 1.8 (132.9)
Note
a Prior year figures have not been provided as these measures have not previously been
reported on a comparable basis. 132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Liquidity risk management
continued
Group policy is to ensure that the assets of the retail, wealth and
corporate bank, together with Head Office functions, on a global basis, 
do not exceed customer deposits and subordinated funding so that these
businesses place no reliance on wholesale markets. The exception to this
policy is Absa, which has a large portion of wholesale funding due to the
structure of the South African financial sector.
In order to assess liquidity risk, the balance sheet is modelled to reflect
behavioural experience in both assets and liabilities and is managed to
maintain a cash surplus. The maturity profile, excluding Absa, resulting 
from this behavioural modelling is set out above. This shows that there is a
funding surplus of £94.5bn, and that there are expected outflows of £10.2bn
within one year from asset repayments being less than liability attrition. For
subsequent years the expected repayments on assets are larger than the 
roll off of liabilities resulting in cash inflows. Maturities of net liabilities are,
therefore, behaviourally expected to occur after five years.
Barclays Capital
Barclays Capital manages its liquidity to be primarily funded through
wholesale sources, managing access to liquidity to ensure that potential
cash outflows in a stressed environment are covered.
73% of the inventory is funded on a secured basis (31st December
2008: 50%). Additionally , much of the short-term funding is invested in
highly liquid assets and central bank cash and therefore contributes towards
the Group liquidity pool.
Barclays Capital undertakes secured funding in the repo markets based
on liquidity characteristics. Limits are in place for each security asset class
reflecting liquidity in the cash and financing markets for these assets. The
percentage of secured funding using each asset class as collateral is set 
out below. 
Unsecured wholesale funding for the Group (excluding Absa) is
managed by Barclays Capital within specific term limits. Excluding short-
term deposits that are included within the Group’ s liquidity pool, the term 
of unsecured liabilities has been extended, with average life improving 
from at least 14 months
a
at 31st December 2008 to at least 26 months 
at 31st December 2009.
The extension of the term of the wholesale financing has meant that, 
as at 31st December 2009, 81% of net wholesale funding had remaining
maturity of greater than one year and, as at the same date, there was no 
net wholesale unsecured re-financing required within six months.
Regulatory Changes in 2009
The FSA issued its policy document on ‘strengthening liquidity standards’
on 5th October detailing the requirements for liquidity governance to be in
place by 1st December 2009, and the quantitative requirements for liquidity
buffers, which will be in place from 1st June 2010, although with an
extended transition period of several years to meet the expected standards.
This is the most comprehensive liquidity regime imposed by any
regulator globally , requiring increased quantitative reporting from June 2010
and additional evidential reporting to demonstrate adherence to new
qualitative requirements. In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision released a consultative document ‘International framework for
liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring’ in December 2009.
This included two new key liquidity metrics. A liquidity coverage ratio aimed
at ensuring banks have sufficient unencumbered high quality assets to meet
cash outflows in an acute short-term stress and a Net Stable Funding Ratio
to promote longer-term structural funding of the Bank’ s balance sheet and
capital market activities.
Secured funding by asset class Government Agency MBS ABS Corporate Equity Other
%%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 59776 1083
As at 31st December 2008 49 9 11 9 15 4 3
Contractual maturity of unsecured liabilities
b
Not more Not more Not more Not more Not more
(Net of assets available from the Group Liquidity pool)
than than than than than Over
1 month 2 months 3 months 6 months 1 year 1 year
%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 – – – – 19 81
Notes
a The 31st December 2008 average unsecured liability term has been restated to at least
14 months to reflect refinements in the underlying calculation.
b Prior years’ figures have not been provided as these measures have not previously been
reported on a comparable basis. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 133
Risk management
Operational risk management
Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from
human factors, external events, and inadequate or failed internal
processes and systems. Operational risks are inherent in the Group’s
operations and are typical of any large enterprise. Major sources of
operational risk include: operational process reliability, IT security,
outsourcing of operations, dependence on key suppliers, implementation
of strategic change, integration of acquisitions, fraud, human error,
customer service quality, regulatory compliance, recruitment, training
and retention of staff, and social and environmental impacts. Barclays
is committed to the advanced measurement and management of
operational risks. In particular , it has implemented improved management
and measurement approaches for operational risk to strengthen control,
improve customer service and minimise operating losses. Barclays was
granted a Waiver to operate an Advanced Measurement Approach
(AMA) under Basel II, which commenced in January 2008.
The Group’s operational risk management framework aims to:
– Understand and report the operational risks being taken by the Group.
– Capture and report operational errors made.
– Understand and minimise the frequency and impact, on a cost benefit
basis, of operational risk events.
– Manage residual exposures using insurance.
Organisation and structure
Barclays works to benchmark our internal operation risk practices with peer
banks and to drive the development of advanced operational risk techniques
across the industry . It is not cost effective to attempt to eliminate all
operational risks and in any event it would not be possible to do so. Events
of small significance are expected to occur and are accepted as part of the
normal course of business; events of material significance are rare and
the Group seeks to reduce the risk from these in accordance with its agreed
Risk Appetite.
Barclays has a Group Operational Risk Framework, which is consistent
with and part of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
Minimum control requirements have been established for all key areas of
identified risk by ‘Principal Risk’ owners (see page 82). The risk categories
relevant to operational risks are Financial Crime, Financial Reporting,
T axation, Legal, Operations, People, Regulatory and T echnology . In addition,
the following risk categories are used for business risk: Brand Management,
Corporate Responsibility , Strategic and Major Change. Responsibility for
implementing and overseeing these policies is positioned with Group
Principal Risk Owners. The prime responsibility for the management of
operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the
business and functional units where the risk arises. Front line risk managers
are widely distributed throughout the Group in business units. They service
and support these areas, assisting line managers in managing these risks.
Business Risk Directors in each business are responsible for overseeing
the implementation of and compliance with Group policies. Governance
and Control Committees in each business monitor control effectiveness.
The Group Governance and Control Committee receives reports from the
committees in the businesses and considers Group-significant control
issues and their remediation. In the Group Centre, each Principal Risk is
owned by a senior individual who liaises with Principal Risk owners within
the businesses. In addition, the Operational Risk Director oversees the
range of operational risks across the Group in accordance with the Group
Operational Risk Framework. Business units are required to report on both
a regular and an event-driven basis. The reports include a profile of the
material risks to their business objectives, control issues of Group-level
significance, and operational risk events. Specific reports are prepared on
a regular basis for the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the Board Risk
Committee and the Board Audit Committee. The Internal Audit function
provides further assurance for operational risk control across the
organisation and reports to the Board and senior management.
Measurement and capital modelling
Barclays applies a consistent approach to the identification and assessment
of key risks and controls across all business units. Managers in the
businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, evaluate
control effectiveness and monitor performance. Business management
determines whether particular risks are effectively managed within business
Risk Appetite and otherwise takes remedial action. The risk assessment
process is consistent with the principles in the integrated framework
published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).
A standard process is used Group-wide for the recognition, capture,
assessment, analysis and reporting of risk events. This process is used to
help identify where process and control requirements are needed to reduce
the recurrence of risk events. Risk events are captured in a central database
and reported monthly to the Group Operational Risk Executive Committee.
Barclays also uses a database of external public risk events and is a
member of the Operational Risk Data Exchange (ORX), an association of
international banks that share anonymised loss data information to assist
in risk identification, assessment and modelling. 134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Operational risk management
continued
By combining internal data, including internal loss experience, risk and
control assessments, key indicators and audit findings, with external loss
data and expert management judgement, Barclays is able to generate
Key Risk Scenarios (KRSs), which identify the most significant operational
risks across the Group. The KRSs are validated at business unit and at Group
level to ensure that they appropriately reflect the level of operational risk.
These are the main input to our capital model. Distributions of the potential
frequency and severity of operational risk losses are calculated and
aggregated to provide a distribution of potential losses over a year for
Barclays as a whole. The aggregation process takes into account potential
correlations between risk events. The regulatory capital requirement is
determined to a soundness standard of 99.9% confidence. Operational risk
capital is allocated, on a risk sensitive basis, to business units, providing an
incentive to manage these risks within appetite levels.
Operational risk events
A high proportion of Barclays operational risk events have a low financial cost
associated with them and a very small proportion of operational risk events
have a material impact. In 2009, 73.3% of reported operational losses had
a value of £50,000 or less (2008: 72.8%) but accounted for 3.4% of the
overall impact (2008: 7.8%). In contrast, 4% of the operational risk events
had a value of £1m or greater (2008: 2%) but accounted for 87% of the
overall impact (2008: 66%).
The Group monitors trends in operational losses by size, business unit
and internal risk categories (including Principal Risk). For comparative
purposes, the analysis below presents Barclays operational risk events by
Basel II category . In 2009, the highest frequency of events occurred in
Execution, Delivery and Process Management (45.3%) and External Fraud
(35.8%). These two areas also accounted for the majority of losses by value,
with Execution, Delivery and Process Management comprising 50.5% of
total operational risk losses and External Fraud making up a further 38.1%.
The growth in impact of external fraud year on year was caused by stressed
market conditions which have brought to light fraudulent activity by a
number of clients.
3.0
0.5
8.5
3.3
0.8
0.7
0.0
0.1
79.0
50.5
38.1
9.2
4.7
1.7
Business
 disruptions and
 system failures
Clients, products
 and business
 practices
Damage to 
physical assets
Employment 
practices and
workplace safety
Execution, delivery
and process
management
External fraud
Internal fraud
— % of 08 loss
events (value)
— % of 09 loss
events (value)
Fig. 2: Operational risk events by category 
% of total by value
Fig. 1: Operational risk events by risk category
% of total risk events by count
3.0
4.5
1.6
1.9
3.2
3.0
0.2
0.3
42.7
45.3
35.8
42.4
6.6
9.5
Business
disruptions and
 system failures
Clients, products
 and business
 practices
Damage to
physical assets
Employment 
practices and
workplace safety
Execution, delivery
and process
management
External fraud
Internal fraud
— % of 08 loss 
events (count)
— % of 09 loss 
events (count) www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 135
Risk management
Statistical information  
Statistical and other risk information
This section of the report contains supplementary information that is more detailed or contains longer histories than the data presented in the discussion.
For commentary on this information, please refer to the preceding text (pages 94 to 121).
Credit risk management
T able 1: Maturity analysis of loans and advances to banks
Over three Over six Over one Over three Over five
months months year years years 
Not more but not but not but not but not but not
than three more than more than more than more than more than Over 
On demand months six months one year three years five years ten years ten years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31st December 2009
United Kingdom 403 3,234 64 625 405 – – 398 5,129
Other European Union 1,262 10,803 44 394 184 8 2 – 12,697
United States 1,257 10,926 77 619 157 – 38 63 13,137
Africa 565 465 221 98 974 6 41 18 2,388
Rest of the World 1,275 5,111 88 98 708 530 17 18 7,845
4,762 30,539 494 1,834 2,428 544 98 497 41,196
At 31st December 2008
United Kingdom 127 6,474 193 163 232 – – 343 7,532 
Other European Union 1,210 10,458 54 415 407 50 5 1 12,600 
United States 1,310 11,215 7 676 324 – – 84 13,616 
Africa 584 595 51 1 51 861 8 38 2,189 
Rest of the World 1,652 6,957 201 666 884 943 39 479 11,821
Loans and advances to banks 4,883 35,699 506 1,921 1,898 1,854 52 945 47,758 
T able 2: Interest rate sensitivity of loans and advances 2009 2008
Fixed Variable Fixed Variable 
rate rate Total rate rate Total
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m £m
Banks 15,898 25,298 41,196 12,101 35,657 47,758
Customers 94,470 336,489 430,959 98,404 369,934 468,338 136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Statistical information  
continued
T able 3: Loans and advances to customers by industry
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Financial services 95,839 114,069 71,160 45,954 43,102
Agriculture, forestry and fishing 4,321 3,281 3,319 3,997 3,785
Manufacturing 18,855 26,374 16,974 15,451 13,779
Construction 6,303 8,239 5,423 4,056 5,020
Property 23,468 22,155 17,018 16,528 16,325
Government 4,801 5,301 2,036 2,426 1,718
Energy and water 10,735 14,101 8,632 6,810 6,891
Wholesale and retail, distribution and leisure 19,746 20,208 18,216 15,490 17,760
Transport 7,284 8,612 6,258 5,586 5,960
Postal and communication 3,427 7,268 5,404 2,180 1,313
Business and other services 30,277 37,373 30,363 26,999 22,529
Home loans 149,738 140,166 106,751 92,477 85,206
Other personal 44,971 48,305 46,423 37,535 39,866
Finance lease receivables 11,194 12,886 11,190 10,142 9,088
Loans and advances to customers 430,959 468,338 349,167 285,631 272,342
T able 4: Loans and advances to customers in the UK
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Financial services 21,975 26,091 21,131 14,011 11,958
Agriculture, forestry and fishing 2,192 2,245 2,220 2,307 2,409
Manufacturing 8,549 11,340 9,388 9,047 8,469
Construction 3,544 4,278 3,542 2,761 3,090
Property 13,514 12,091 10,203 10,010 10,547
Government 496 20 201 6 6
Energy and water 2,447 3,040 2,203 2,360 2,701
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 12,792 14,421 13,800 12,951 12,747
Transport 2,784 3,467 3,185 2,745 2,797
Postal and communication 1,098 1,491 1,416 899 455
Business and other services 16,577 19,589 20,485 19,260 15,397
Home loans 90,903 85,672 69,874 62,621 57,382
Other personal 27,687 28,362 28,691 27,617 30,598
Finance lease receivables 3,021 3,911 4,008 3,923 5,203
Loans and advances to customers in the UK 207,579 216,018 190,347 170,518 163,759
Loans and advances included in the above table for the year 2008 have been reanalysed between Home loans and Other personal to reflect changes in
classification of assets.
The industry classifications in T ables 3-7 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity . This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major
corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though the Parent’ s predominant business may be in a different industry .  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 137
T able 5: Loans and advances to customers in other European Union countries 
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Financial services 14,475 14,218 7,585 5,629 3,982
Agriculture, forestry and fishing 187 216 141 786 155
Manufacturing 5,754 8,700 4,175 3,147 2,254
Construction 1,610 1,786 1,159 639 803
Property 4,224 4,814 2,510 2,162 3,299
Government 575 1,089 – 6 –
Energy and water 3,882 5,313 2,425 2,050 1,490
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 2,428 2,653 1,719 776 952
Transport 1,905 2,603 1,933 1,465 1,695
Postal and communication 649 962 662 580 432
Business and other services 4,878 5,490 3,801 2,343 3,594
Home loans 35,752 34,451 21,405 18,202 16,114
Other personal 7,403 6,440 6,615 4,086 2,283
Finance lease receivables 2,636 3,328 2,403 1,559 1,870
Loans and advances to customers in other European Union countries 86,358 92,063 56,533 43,430 38,923
T able 6: Loans and advances to customers in the United States 
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Financial services 46,132 56,006 29,342 17,516 16,229
Agriculture, forestry and fishing 1 –221
Manufacturing 797 2,171 818 519 937
Construction 7 21 18 13 32
Property 428 549 568 1,714 329
Government 303 336 221 153 300
Energy and water 2,336 3,085 1,279 1,078 1,261
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 720 1,165 846 403 794
Transport 383 415 137 128 148
Postal and communication 355 3,343 2,446 36 236
Business and other services 1,721 2,279 1,053 1,432 885
Home loans 19 28 10 349 2
Other personal 7,410 7,691 3,256 2,022 1,443
Finance lease receivables 318 298 304 312 328
Loans and advances to customers in the United States 60,930 77,387 40,300 25,677 22,925
T able 7: Loans and advances to customers in Africa 
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Financial services 3,600 1,956 3,472 2,821 4,350
Agriculture, forestry and fishing 1,936 817 956 889 1,193
Manufacturing 1,419 1,082 1,351 1,747 1,501
Construction 903 2,053 637 591 1,068
Property 4,154 3,485 2,433 1,987 1,673
Government 1,449 1,741 967 785 625
Energy and water 158 118 356 156 193
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 1,789 1,012 1,326 1,050 2,774
Transport 368 739 116 354 394
Postal and communication 715 293 231 241 27
Business and other services 4,319 4,699 1,285 2,631 1,258
Home loans 22,057 19,036 15,393 11,223 11,630
Other personal 964 3,069 6,287 2,976 4,955
Finance lease receivables 5,018 5,130 4,357 4,240 1,580
Loans and advances to customers in Africa 48,849 45,230 39,167 31,691 33,221 138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Statistical information  
continued
T able 8: Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances 27,042 37,421 22,702 14,207 13,407
Finance lease receivables 201 219 118 108 107
Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World 27,243 37,640 22,820 14,315 13,514
T able 9: Maturity analysis of loans and advances to customers
Over three Over six Over one Over three Over five
months months year years years 
Not more but not but not but not but not but not
than three more than more than more than more than more than Over 
On demand months six months one year three years five years ten years ten years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31st December 2009
United Kingdom
Corporate lending 21,369 14,941 1,568 2,856 13,057 10,071 9,759 14,626 88,247
Other lending to customers 
in the United Kingdom 5,862 3,802 2,092 3,809 15,201 10,404 23,302 54,860 119,332
T otal United Kingdom 27,231 18,743 3,660 6,665 28,258 20,475 33,061 69,486 207,579
Other European Union 4,094 16,113 1,976 3,278 11,088 9,247 10,137 30,425 86,358
United States 4,887 25,296 2,265 3,637 4,876 1,251 11,485 7,233 60,930
Africa 11,248 2,457 1,052 1,322 4,307 3,091 6,162 19,210 48,849
Rest of the World 1,967 6,616 1,189 3,758 4,367 4,485 3,154 1,707 27,243
Total 49,427 69,225 10,142 18,660 52,896 38,549 63,999 128,061 430,959
At 31st December 2008
United Kingdom
Corporate lending 24,790 14,715 1,574 3,259 10,585 12,372 10,495 15,876 93,666 
Other lending to customers 
in the United Kingdom 4,560 6,264 2,495 4,477 16,604 10,541 21,913 55,498 122,352 
Total United Kingdom 29,350 20,979 4,069 7,736 27,189 22,913 32,408 71,374 216,018 
Other European Union 5,254 17,618 2,707 5,681 11,808 10,272 10,138 28,585 92,063 
United States 6,298 39,754 2,737 5,413 8,767 3,447 4,238 6,733 77,387 
Africa 8,428 2,247 1,143 1,852 4,560 4,557 5,674 16,769 45,230 
Rest of the World 3,832 8,150 2,167 1,545 9,267 4,008 5,666 3,005 37,640 
Total 53,162 88,748 12,823 22,227 61,591 45,197 58,124 126,466 468,338 
T able 10: Foreign outstandings in currencies other than the local currency Commercial
of the borrower for countries where this exceeds 1% of total Group assets
Banks industrial
and other Governments and other
financial and official private
As % of T otal institutions institutions sectors
assets £m £m £m £m
At 31st December 2009
United States 1.2 16,907 4,622 – 12,285
At 31st December 2008
United States 3.1 63,614 16,724 2 46,888
Cayman Islands 1.2 23,765 271 – 23,494
At 31st December 2007
United States 2.1 26,249 7,151 6 19,092
At 31st December 2009, 2008 and 2007, there were no countries where Barclays had cross-currency loans to borrowers between 0.75% and 1% of total
Group assets.  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 139
T able 11: Off-balance sheet and other credit exposures as at 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Off-balance sheet exposures
Contingent liabilities 52,774 66,310 45,774
Commitments 207,275 260,816 192,639
On-balance sheet exposures
Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637 193,691
Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 41,311 54,542 56,629
Derivative financial instruments 416,815 984,802 248,088
Available for sale financial investments 56,483 64,976 43,072
T able 12: Notional principal amounts of credit derivatives as at 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Credit derivatives held or issued for trading purposes 
a
2,016,796 4,129,244 2,472,249
T able 13: Credit risk loans summary
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Impaired loans 16,240 12,264 8,574 4,444 4,550
Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal 
or interest 5,317 2,953 794 598 609
Impaired and restructured loans 831 483 273 46 51
Credit risk loans 22,388 15,700 9,641 5,088 5,210
T able 14: Credit risk loans
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Impaired loans:
United Kingdom 4,519 3,793 3,605 3,340 2,965
Other European Union 4,004 1,713 472 410 345
United States 4,612 4,397 3,703 129 230
Africa 2,170 1,996 757 535 831
Rest of the World 935 365 37 30 179
Total 16,240 12,264 8,574 4,444 4,550
Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal 
or interest:
United Kingdom 2,312 1,656 676 516 539
Other European Union 951 562 79 58 53
United States 232 433 10 3 –
Africa 1,739 172 29 21 17
Rest of the World 83 130 – – –
Total 5,317 2,953 794 598 609
Impaired and restructured loans:
United Kingdom 582 367 179 – 5
Other European Union 41 29 14 10 7
United States 180 82 38 22 16
Africa 22 –421423
Rest of the World 6 5–––
Total 831 483 273 46 51
Total credit risk loans:
United Kingdom 7,413 5,816 4,460 3,856 3,509
Other European Union 4,996 2,304 565 478 405
United States 5,024 4,912 3,751 154 246
Africa 3,931 2,168 828 570 871
Rest of the World 1,024 500 37 30 179
Credit risk loans 22,388 15,700 9,641 5,088 5,210
Note
a Includes credit derivatives held as economic hedges which are not designated as hedges 
for accounting purposes. 140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Statistical information  
continued
T able 15: Potential problem loans
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 858 883 419 465 640
Other European Union 790 963 59 32 26
United States 553 431 964 21 12
Africa 488 140 355 240 248
Rest of the World 679 39 – 3 3
Potential problem loans 3,368 2,456 1,797 761 929
T able 16: Interest foregone on credit risk loans 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Interest income that would have been recognised under the original contractual terms
United Kingdom 392 244 340
Rest of the World 736 235 91
Total 1,128 479 431
Interest income of approximately £413m (2008: £195m, 2007: £48m) from such loans was included in profit, of which £137m (2008: £72m, 2007: £26m)
related to domestic lending and the remainder related to foreign lending.
In addition, a further £185m (2008: £135m, 2007: £113m) was recognised arising from impaired loans. Following impairment, interest income is
recognised using the original effective rate of interest which was used to discount the expected future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the
impairment loss. £52m (2008: £42m, 2007: £93m) of this related to domestic impaired loans and the remainder related to foreign impaired loans.
T able 17: Analysis of impairment/provision charges
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 31st December £m £m £m £m £m
Impairment charge/net specific provisions charge
United Kingdom 2,744 1,817 1,593 1,880 1,382
Other European Union 1,408 587 123 92 75
United States 1,525 1,519 374 12 76
Africa 814 454 214 143 37
Rest of the World 839 207 2 (53) 4
Impairment on loans and advances 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574
Impairment on available for sale assets 670 382 13 86 4
Impairment on reverse repurchase agreements 43 124 – – –
Impairment charge 8,043 5,090 2,319 2,160 1,578
Other credit provisions charge/(release) 28 329 476 (6) (7)
Impairment/provision charges 8,071 5,419 2,795 2,154 1,571
T able 18: Impairment/provisions charges ratios (‘Loan loss ratios’) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
% %%% %
Impairment/provisions charges as a percentage of average loans and advances 
for the year:
Impairment charge 1.64 1.01 0.64 0.66 0.58
Total 1.64 1.01 0.64 0.66 0.58
Amounts written off (net of recoveries) 0.72 0.61 0.49 0.61 0.50 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 141
Note
a Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions.
T able 19: Analysis of allowance for impairment/provision for bad and doubtful debts 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Impairment allowance/specific provisions
United Kingdom 4,083 2,947 2,526 2,477 2,266
Other European Union 2,014 963 344 311 284
United States 2,518 1,561 356 100 130
Africa 1,349 857 514 417 647
Rest of the World 832 246 32 30 123
Allowance for impairment provision balances 10,796 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450
Average loans and advances for the year 447,569 453,413 357,853 313,614 271,421
T able 20: Allowance for impairment/provision balance ratios 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
% %%% %
Allowance for impairment/provision balance at end of year as a percentage 
of loans and advances at end of year:
Impairment balance 2.29 1.27 0.97 1.05 1.14
Total 2.29 1.27 0.97 1.05 1.14
T able 21: Movements in allowance for impairment/provisions charge 
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
for bad and doubtful debts
a
£m £m £m £m £m
Allowance for impairment/provision balance at beginning of year 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450 2,637
Acquisitions and disposals 434 307 (73) (23) 555
Unwind of discount (185) (135) (113) (98) (76)
Exchange and other adjustments (127) 791 53 (153) 125
Amounts written off (3,380) (2,919) (1,963) (2,174) (1,587)
Recoveries 150 174 227 259 222
Impairment/provision charged against profit 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574
Allowance for impairment/provision balance at end of year 10,796 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450
T able 22: Amounts written off 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom (1,569) (1,514) (1,530) (1,746) (1,302)
Other European Union (453) (162) (143) (74) (56)
United States (669) (1,044) (145) (46) (143)
Africa (438) (187) (145) (264) (81)
Rest of the World (251) (12) – (44 ) (5)
Amounts written off (3,380) (2,919) (1,963) (2,174) (1,587) 142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Statistical information  
continued
Note
a Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets, reverse repurchase agreements
or other credit risk provisions. 
T able 23: Recoveries 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 48 131 154 178 160
Other European Union 12 4321813
United States 6 1 7 22 15
Africa 80 36 34 33 16
Rest of the World 4 2– 8 18
Recoveries 150 174 227 259 222
T able 24: Impairment allowances/provision charged against profit
a
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
New and increased impairment allowance/ specific provision charge:
United Kingdom 3,123 2,160 1,960 2,253 1,763
Other European Union 1,625 659 192 182 113
United States 1,535 1,529 431 60 105
Africa 932 526 268 209 109
Rest of the World 896 242 20 18 39
8,111 5,116 2,871 2,722 2,129
Reversals of impairment allowance/ specific provision charge:
United Kingdom (331) (212) (213) (195) (221)
Other European Union (205) (68) (37) (72) (25)
United States (4) (9) (50) (26) (14)
Africa (38) (36) (20) (33) (56)
Rest of the World (53) (33) (18) (63) (17)
(631) (358) (338) (389) (333)
Recoveries (150) (174) (227) (259) (222)
Net charge to profit 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574
T able 25: Total impairment/specific provision charges 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
for bad and doubtful debts by industry
£m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom:
Financial services 485 76 32 64 22
Agriculture, forestry and fishing 2 4– 5 9
Manufacturing 112 118 72 1 120
Construction 54 15 14 17 14
Property 113 80 36 15 18
Energy and water – 1 1 (7) 1
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 314 59 118 88 39
Transport 13 3 3 19 (27)
Postal and communication 17 –1515 3
Business and other services 175 234 81 133 45
Home loans 33 28 1 4 (7)
Other personal 1,376 1,178 1,187 1,526 1,142
Finance lease receivables 50 21 33 – 3
2,744 1,817 1,593 1,880 1,382
Overseas 4,586 2,767 713 194 192
Impairment/specific provision charges 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574
The category ‘Other personal’ includes credit cards, personal loans, second liens and personal overdrafts.
The industry classifications in T ables 25, 26 and 27 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity . This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a
major corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though the Parent’ s predominant business may be in a different industry .  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 143
T able 26: Allowance for impairment/specific provision for bad and doubtful debts by industry
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
United Kingdom:
Financial services 493 4.6 81 1.2 103 2.7 67 2.0 26 0.8
Agriculture, forestry
and fishing –– 1 0.0 5 0.1 17 0.5 12 0.3
Manufacturing 142 1.3 185 2.8 65 1.7 85 2.5 181 5.2
Construction 41 0.4 18 0.3 16 0.4 16 0.5 13 0.4
Property 90 0.8 114 1.7 54 1.4 26 0.8 24 0.7
Energy and water –– 1 0.0 1 – – – 18 0.5
Wholesale and 
retail distribution 
and leisure 182 1.7 43 0.7 102 2.7 81 2.4 99 2.9
Transport –0.0 – 0.0 11 0.3 24 0.7 32 0.9
Postal and 
communication 27 0.3 33 0.5 25 0.7 12 0.4 2 0.1
Business and 
other services 218 2.0 236 3.6 158 4.2 186 5.6 102 3.0
Home loans 63 0.6 46 0.7 15 0.4 10 0.3 50 1.4
Other personal 2,762 25.5 2,160 32.9 1,915 50.8 1,953 58.6 1,696 49.2
Finance lease 
receivables 65 0.6 29 0.4 56 1.5 – – 11 0.3
4,083 37.8 2,947 44.8 2,526 67.0 2,477 74.3 2,266 65.7
Overseas 6,713 62.2 3,627 55.2 1,246 33.0 858 25.7 1,184 34.3
Total 10,796 100 6,574 100.0 3,772 100.0 3,335 100.0 3,450 100.0
T able 27: Analysis of amounts written off and recovered by industry
Amounts written off for the year Recoveries of amounts previously written off
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom:
Financial services 72 88 6 13 2 3 41 –1
Agriculture, forestry 
and fishing 2 6583 – –21 –
Manufacturing 162 53 83 73 47 4 8 7 21 11
Construction 34 19 23 17 15 3 2321
Property 141 27 16 23 4 3 2 1061
Energy and water 2 1– 1 22 4 –– 2–
Wholesale and 
retail distribution 
and leisure 182 137 109 120 85 8 7121425
Transport 14 10 13 11 29 11110
Postal and 
communication 23 335 15 – ––––
Business and 
other services 197 153 83 124 83 5 10 22 17 14
Home loans 16 41 –2 – 1174
Other personal 705 960 1,164 1,351 992 13 88 96 107 92
Finance lease 
receivables 19 53 24 – 3 4 8–– 1
1,569 1,514 1,530 1,746 1,302 48 131 154 178 160
Overseas 1,811 1,405 433 428 285 102 43 73 81 62
Total 3,380 2,919 1,963 2,174 1,587 150 174 227 259 222 144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Statistical information  
continued
T able 28: Total impairment allowance/(provision) coverage of credit risk loans 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
% %%% %
United Kingdom 55.1 50.7 56.6 64.2 64.6
Other European Union 40.3 41.8 60.9 65.1 70.1
United States 50.1 31.8 9.5 64.9 52.8
Africa 34.3 39.5 62.1 73.2 74.3
Rest of the World 81.3 49.2 86.5 100.0 68.7
Total coverage of credit risk loans 48.2 41.9 39.1 65.6 66.2
T able 29: Total impairment allowance/(provision) coverage 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
of potential credit risk lending (CRLs and PPLs)
% %%% %
United Kingdom 49.4 44.0 51.8 57.3 54.6
Other European Union 34.8 29.5 55.1 61.0 65.9
United States 45.1 29.2 7.6 57.1 50.4
Africa 30.5 37.1 43.4 51.5 57.8
Rest of the World 48.9 45.5 86.5 91.0 67.6
Total coverage of potential credit risk lending 41.9 36.2 33.0 57.0 56.2 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 145
Risk management
Supervision and regulation  
The Group’ s operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and
associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations that
are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial services
business, constrain business operations and affect financial returns.
These include reserve and reporting requirements and conduct of business
regulations. These requirements are imposed by the relevant central banks
and regulatory authorities that supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in
which it operates. The requirements reflect global standards developed
by , among others, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the
International Organisation of Securities Commissions. They also reflect
requirements derived from EU directives.
In the UK, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) is the independent
body responsible for the regulation and supervision of deposit taking, life
insurance, home mortgages, general insurance and investment business.
Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA under the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 to carry on a range of regulated activities within
the UK and is subject to consolidated supervision by the FSA. In its role as
supervisor, the FSA seeks to maintain the safety and soundness of financial
institutions with the aim of strengthening, but not guaranteeing, the
protection of customers and the financial system. The FSA ’ s continuing
supervision of financial institutions is conducted through a variety of
regulatory tools, including the collection of information from statistical and
prudential returns, reports obtained from skilled persons, visits to firms and
regular meetings with management to discuss issues such as performance,
risk management and strategy .
The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to supervision. The starting
point for supervision of all financial institutions is a systematic analysis of the
risk profile for each authorised firm. The FSA has adopted a homogeneous
risk, processes and resourcing model in its approach to its supervisory
responsibilities (known as the ARROW model) and the results of the risk
assessment are used by the FSA to develop a risk mitigation programme for
a firm. The FSA also promulgates requirements that banks and other financial
institutions are required to meet on matters such as capital adequacy , limits
on large exposures to individual entities and groups of closely connected
entities, liquidity and rules of business conduct. 
The Banking Act 2009 (the Banking Act) provides a permanent regime
to allow the FSA, the UK Treasury and the Bank of England to resolve failing
banks in the UK. Under the Banking Act, these authorities are given powers,
including (a) the power to issue share transfer orders pursuant to which
all or some of the securities issued by a bank may be transferred to a
commercial purchaser or Bank of England entity and (b) the power to transfer
all or some of the property , rights and liabilities of the UK bank to a purchaser
or Bank of England entity . A share transfer order can extend to a wide range
of securities including shares and bonds issued by a UK bank (including
Barclays Bank PLC) or its holding company (Barclays PLC) and warrants
for such shares and bonds. The Banking Act powers apply regardless of any
contractual restrictions and compensation may be payable in the context
of both share transfer orders and property appropriation. 
The Banking Act also gives the Bank of England the power to override,
vary or impose contractual obligations between a UK bank or its holding
company and its former group undertakings for reasonable consideration, in
order to enable any transferee or successor bank of the UK bank to operate
effectively . There is also power for the Treasury to amend the law (excluding
provisions made by or under the Banking Act) for the purpose of enabling it
to use the regime powers effectively , potentially with retrospective effect. In
addition, the Banking Act gives the Bank of England statutory responsibility
for financial stability in the UK and for the oversight of payment systems. 
Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK
are subject to a single financial services compensation scheme (the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme – FSCS) where an authorised firm is unable
or is likely to be unable to meet claims made against it because of its
financial circumstances. Most deposits made with branches of Barclays
Bank PLC within the European Economic Area (EEA) which are denominated
in Sterling or other EEA currencies (including the Euro) are covered by the
FSCS. Most claims made in respect of investment business will also be
protected claims if the business was carried on from the UK or from a branch
of the bank or investment firm in another EEA member state. The FSCS is
funded by levies on authorised UK firms such as Barclays Bank PLC. In the
event that the FSCS raises funds, raises those funds more frequently or
significantly increases the levies to be paid by firms, the associated costs to
the Group may have a material impact on the Group’ s results and financial
condition. Further details can be found in the ‘Competition and Regulatory
Matters’ note to the financial statements on page 248.
Outside the UK, the Group has operations (and main regulators) located
in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany , Spain, Switzerland,
Portugal and Italy (local central banks and other regulatory authorities); Asia
Pacific (various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority , the Financial Services Agency of Japan, the Australian Securities
and Investments Commission, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the
China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Reserve Bank of India); Africa
and the Middle East (various regulatory authorities including the South
African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board and the regulatory
authorities of the United Arab Emirates) and the United States of America
(including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)).
In Europe, the UK regulatory agenda is considerably shaped and
influenced by the directives emanating from the EU. These form part of the
European Single Market programme, an important feature of which is the
framework for the regulation of authorised firms. This framework is designed
to enable a credit institution or investment firm authorised in one EU member
state to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment
of branches or by the provision of services on a cross-border basis in other
member states without the need for local authorisation. Barclays operations
in Europe are authorised and regulated by a combination of both home
(the FSA) and host regulators. 
Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, are
supervised and regulated by the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) and
the Financial Services Board (FSB). SARB oversees the banking industry and
follows a risk-based approach to supervision whilst the FSB oversees the
non-banking financial services industry and focuses on enhancing consumer
protection and regulating market conduct.
In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays US
banking subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory structure
involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including the International
Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended
(BHC Act), the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991, the
Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 and the USA P A TRIOT Act of
2001. Such laws impose restrictions on the activities of Barclays, including
its US banking subsidiaries and the Bank’ s US branches, as well as prudential
restrictions, such as limits on extensions of credit by the Bank’ s US branches
and the US banking subsidiaries to affiliates. The Bank’ s New Y ork and
Florida branches are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and
regulation by the FRB and the New Y ork and Florida banking supervisors.
Barclays Bank PLC also operates a federal agency in California that is licensed
by and subject to regulation and examination by the OCC. Barclays Bank
Delaware, a Delaware-chartered commercial bank, is subject to supervision
and regulation by the Delaware banking supervisor and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Only the deposits of Barclays Bank Delaware
are insured by the FDIC.
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Group US Inc. are bank
holding companies registered with the FRB. Each has elected to be treated
as a financial holding company under the BHC Act. Financial holding
companies may engage in a broader range of financial and related activities
than are permitted to registered bank holding companies that do not
maintain financial holding company status, including underwriting and
dealing in all types of securities. T o maintain the financial holding company
status of each of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Group US
Inc., Barclays Bank PLC is required to meet or exceed certain capital ratios
and to be deemed to be ‘well managed’. Barclays Bank Delaware must
also meet certain capital requirements, be deemed to be ‘well managed’
and must have at least a ‘satisfactory’ rating under the Community
Reinvestment Act of 1977. 146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Risk management
Supervision and regulation  
continued
Barclays US securities broker/ dealer, investment advisory and
Investment banking operations are subject to ongoing supervision and
regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)
and other government agencies and self-regulatory organisations as part
of a comprehensive scheme of regulation of all aspects of the securities
business under the US federal and state securities laws. Barclays subsidiaries
in the US are also subject to regulation by applicable federal and state
regulators of their activities in the mortgage servicing business.
Regulatory Developments
In the wake of the financial crisis there will be regulatory change that will
have a substantial impact on all financial institutions, including the Group.
The full extent of this impact and its timing is not yet fully clear, with reform
programmes being developed at global, EU and national level. A programme
to reform the global regulatory framework was agreed by G20 Heads of
Government in April 2009, building on an agreement that had been reached
by the G20 in November 2008. The EU is following a similar programme
of reform following the May 2008 ‘roadmap’ and implementing G20
requirements. There is a substantial degree of commonality to these
programmes covering issues of capital and liquidity regulation, risk
management and accounting standards. 
The Financial Stability Board (FSB) has been designated by the G20
as the body responsible for co-ordinating the delivery of the reform
programme. It has initiated work developing guidelines for the supervision
of systemically significant institutions. It is required to present its proposals
to the November 2010 meeting of G20 Heads of Government. The FSB is
also working on approaches to the resolution of systemically significant
institutions that will include the preparation of Recovery and Resolution
Plans, sometimes called ‘living wills’. Further detail is awaited from the FSB,
although the FSA has initiated a pilot project with a group of large UK banks.
In execution of the mandate given by the G20 and the FSB, the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision has agreed on increased capital
requirements for trading book activities to be introduced from the end
of 2010. In December 2009, the Basel Committee issued proposals for
consultation on enhanced capital and liquidity requirements. These
proposals would refine the definition of regulatory capital to have a greater
focus on core equity , would enhance capital requirements in respect of
counterparty risk, introduce measures to make capital requirements less
procyclical, establish a leverage ratio and require banks to hold greater
buffers of high quality liquid instruments. The Basel Committee will conduct
a quantitative impact study on its proposals in the course of the first half of
2010, with a view to finalising its requirements by the end of the year and
with the aim of commencing the transition to the new capital and liquidity
regime from the end of 2012.
The Basel Committee’ s trading book proposals are being implemented
in the EU by amendment to the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD).
The CRD has also been amended to tighten the definition of hybrid capital
and the operation of the large exposures regime in relation to interbank
transactions. The EU has indicated that it will further amend the CRD to
implement revised global standards on capital adequacy and on liquidity
that are being consulted on by the Basel Committee. The EU will also
conduct a Europe-focused quantitative impact study . In addition, other
amendments are being made to the EU framework of directives, including
to the Directive and to the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes. Further
amendments to EU regulatory requirements are likely as the EU develops
its response to the financial crisis, including the structure of the regulatory
system in Europe as proposed in the report of a high-level Commission
group published in February 2009. Among other things, it is proposed by
the end of 2010 to create a European Banking Authority charged with the
development of a single rulebook for banks in the EU. National authorities
will remain responsible for the supervision of financial institutions.
In the UK, the Treasury issued a White Paper ‘Reforming Financial
Markets’ in July 2009 that foreshadowed the introduction of a Financial
Services Bill in November. The Financial Services Bill will, among other
things, create a Council for Financial Stability to co-ordinate the activities of
the UK tripartite authorities (HM Treasury , the FSA and the Bank of England)
to deal with issues related to financial stability and systemic risk. It will also
place a duty on the FSA to make rules requiring financial institutions to
create and maintain Recovery and Resolution plans, require the FSA to make
general rules about remuneration policies of regulated firms, give the FSA a
wider authority to prohibit short selling and permit collective court actions
as a means by which redress can be sought in cases where there has been a
mass failure of practice that has affected significant numbers of consumers.
The Financial Services Bill is currently going through the Parliamentary
process and its likely final shape remains uncertain. In response to the
introduction of the Financial Services Bill, the Conservative Party indicated in
July 2009 that, were it to have a majority following the General Election that
must take place by early June 2010, it would transfer responsibility for
prudential supervision to the Bank of England and create a Consumer
Protection Agency to focus on issues of business conduct.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer commissioned two major reviews
of the regulation of banks that reported in 2009. Lord Turner, the Chairman
of the FSA was requested to undertake a review of banking regulation, while
Sir David Walker was asked to review the corporate governance of financial
institutions.The Turner Review, published in March 2009, sets out a
comprehensive approach to reform the regulation of banks, and for higher
standards of capital, liquidity and risk management. It also sets out a
more intensive and intrusive approach to supervision. This was already in
development as part of the FSA ’ s Supervisory Enhancement Programme that
has seen an increase in the resources devoted to supervision, the intensity of
supervision and the penalties that may be applied in any enforcement action.
Pending international agreement, the FSA has unilaterally set minimum
capital requirements that are very substantially increased from pre-crisis levels.
Similarly , the FSA is introducing a regulatory liquidity regime in advance
of international agreement on the Basel proposals. The Walker Review,
published in November 2009, sets out proposals for reforms to the corporate
governance of financial institutions. The Financial Services Bill referred to
above will give the FSA enabling powers to implement some of these.
In the United States, as elsewhere, recent market disruptions and
economic conditions have led to numerous proposals for changes to and
significant increases in the regulation of the financial services industry .
These proposals include: possible limitations on the activities of banking
institutions such as prohibitions on engaging in proprietary trading
operations that are not related to serving customers; proposals that would
subject large and systemically important banks and financial institutions to
enhanced regulatory requirements; and financial market and trading
reforms such as the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 2009,
which was passed by the US House of Representatives in December 2009
and which would, if enacted, among other things, increase regulation
of over-the-counter derivatives by imposing clearing and execution
requirements on swap dealers and major swap market participants.
However, these and other proposals are still under consideration and there
is uncertainty as to whether and in what forms such proposals ultimately
may be enacted or adopted and therefore what impact they will have on the
Group and its businesses in the United States. The Obama Administration
has also proposed the levying of a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee (FCRF).
The Administration has said that the FCRF will apply to the US subsidiaries
of a foreign bank or financial company if the consolidated assets of the
US subsidiaries exceed £50bn. As legislation implementing the FCRF has not
yet been proposed, the impact of the FCRF on the Group cannot yet be
determined.
The credit card-related activities of the Group in the US will be
significantly affected by the Credit Card Accountability , Responsibility and
Disclosure Act of 2009 (Credit CARD Act) which was passed by Congress.
The Credit CARD Act will have the effect of restricting many credit card
pricing and marketing practices. Among the numerous provisions, which
come into effect at various times through August 2010, are those that
prohibit increasing rates on existing balances and over limit fees in most
instances, restrict increasing fees and rates prospectively , restrict what
penalty fees can be assessed, regulate how payments are to be allocated
to different balances and how the billing process is to work, and revises all
communications to cardholders. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 147
Directors’ report
The issued ordinary share capital was increased by 3,040 million
ordinary shares during 2009. In addition to those issued as a result of the
exercise of options under the Sharesave and Executive Share Option
Schemes during the year, the following share issues took place:
– During the period 7th January to 30th June 2009, 2,642 million ordinary
shares were issued following the conversion of Mandatorily Convertible
Notes. 
– On 28th October 2009, 379 million ordinary shares were issued following
the exercise of warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares.
At 31st December 2009, the issued ordinary share capital totalled
11,411,577,230 shares. Ordinary shares represent 100% of the total issued
share capital as at 31st December 2009. Since 31st December 2009
628.3 million ordinary shares have been issued, of which 626.8 million were
issued on exercise of Warrants on 17th February 2010. As at 5th March
2010, issued ordinary share capital was 12,039,880,284.
The Company’ s Articles of Association, a summary of which can be
found in the Shareholder Information section on pages 328 to 335, contain
the following details, which are incorporated into this report by reference:
– The structure of the Company’ s capital, including the rights and
obligations attaching to each class of shares.
– Restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company , including
limitations on the holding of securities and requirements to obtain
approvals for a transfer of securities. 
– Restrictions on voting rights.
– The powers of the Directors, including in relation to issuing or buying back
shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. It will be proposed at
the 2010 AGM that the Directors be granted new authorities to allot and
buy-back shares under the Companies Act 2006.
– Rules that the Company has about the appointment and removal of
Directors or amendments to the Company’ s Articles of Association.
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) operate in connection with certain of
the Group’ s Employee Share Plans (Plans). The trustees of the EBTs may
exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their fiduciary
duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing
documents. The trustees of the EBTs have informed the Company that their
normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares
held in trust. The trustees of the Sharepurchase EBT may vote in respect
of Barclays shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT, but only at the discretion
of the participants. The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares
held in the Sharepurchase EBT.
Mandatorily Convertible Notes
On 27th November 2008, Barclays Bank PLC issued £4,050m of 9.75%
Mandatorily Convertible Notes (MCNs) maturing on 30th September 2009
to: Qatar Holding LLC; Challenger Universal Limited and entities
representing the beneficial interests of HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al
Nahyan, a member of the Royal Family of Abu Dhabi; existing institutional
shareholders; and other institutional investors. If not converted at the
holders’ option beforehand, these instruments mandatorily converted
to ordinary shares of Barclays PLC on 30th June 2009. The conversion price
was £1.53276 and, after taking into account MCNs that were converted
on or before 31st December 2008, resulted in the issue of 2,642 million
new ordinary shares. 
Business Review
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the
business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December
2009 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group
(known as a ‘Business Review’). The purpose of the Business Review is
to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed their
duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (duty to promote the
success of the Company). The information that fulfils the requirements
of the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the
Annual Report:
Pages
– Key performance indicators 26-29
– Financial Review 30-80
– Sustainability 22-23
– Risk factors 82-86
which are incorporated into this report by reference.
Profit Attributable
The profit attributable to equity shareholders of Barclays PLC for the year
amounted to £9,393m, compared with £4,382m in 2008.
Dividends
The final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2009 of 1.5p per
ordinary share of 25p each has been agreed by the Directors. The final
dividend was announced on 16th February 2010 for payment on 
19th March 2010 in respect of the ordinary shares registered at the close 
of business on 26th February 2010. With the interim dividend of 1.0p per
ordinary share that was paid on 11th December 2009, the total distribution
for 2009 is 2.5p (2008: 11.5p) per ordinary share. The interim and final
dividend for 2009 amounted to £289m (2008: £906m).
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays PLC ordinary
shares by participating in the Barclays Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP).
The DRIP is available to all shareholders, including members of Barclays
Sharestore, provided that they do not live in, and are not subject to the
jurisdiction of, any country where their participation in the DRIP would
require Barclays or The Plan Administrator to Barclays DRIP to take action
to comply with local government or regulatory procedures or any similar
formalities. Any shareholder wishing to obtain details and a form to join the
DRIP should write to: The Plan Administrator to Barclays DRIP , Aspect House,
Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6DA, United Kingdom, or, by telephoning
0871 384 2055 (calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute using
a BT landline. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary) from the UK or
+44 121 415 7004 from overseas. 
Share Capital
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the creation of
Sterling, Dollar, Euro and Y en preference shares (preference shares) in order
to provide the Group with more flexibility in managing its capital resources.
As at 5th March 2010 (the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report)
no preference shares have been issued. 
The Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares of 25p each
during 2009 (2008: 36,150,000 at a total cost of £171,923,243).
As at 5th March 2010, the Company had an unexpired authority to
repurchase ordinary shares up to a maximum of 837,620,130 ordinary
shares. The authorised ordinary share capital was increased by 7,000 million
ordinary shares at the Annual General Meeting held on 23rd April 2009.  148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Directors’ report
continued
Retirement and Re-election of Directors
In accordance with its Articles of Association, one-third (rounded down) of
the Directors of Barclays PLC are required to retire by rotation at each Annual
General Meeting (AGM), together with Directors appointed by the Board
since the last AGM. The retiring Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
In addition, the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code),
recommends that every Director should seek re-election by shareholders
at least every three years.
All members of the Board exceptionally offered themselves for re-
election at the Barclays Annual General Meeting held in April 2009. Going
forward, the Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chairmen of each
principal Board Committee will stand for re-election on an annual basis.
One-third of the remaining Directors (excluding Directors appointed since
the last AGM) will retire by rotation annually . The Directors offering
themselves for re-election in such a manner at the 2010 AGM are Marcus
Agius, David Booth, Sir Richard Broadbent and Sir Michael Rake. The
Directors retiring by rotation at the 2010 AGM and offering themselves for
re-election are Sir Andrew Likierman and Chris Lucas. In addition, Reuben
Jeffery , who was appointed as a Director since the last AGM, will be offering
himself for re-election at the 2010 AGM.
Directors’ Interests
Directors’ interests in the shares of the Group on 31st December 2009 are
shown on page 178. 
Directors’ Emoluments
Information on emoluments of Directors of Barclays PLC, in accordance
with the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom
Listing Authority , is given in the Remuneration report on pages 170 to186
and in Note 42 to the accounts.
Directors’ Indemnities
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract and
retain the services of the most able and experienced Directors by offering
competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of indemnities on
terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions. Qualifying third
party indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act
2006) were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended
31st December 2009 for the benefit of the then Directors and, at the date
of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain
losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in connection
with their duties, powers or office.
Activities and likely Future Developments
The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail
banking, credit cards, corporate and investment banking and wealth
management. The Group operates through branches, offices and
subsidiaries in the UK and overseas. An indication of likely future
developments is set out in the Group Chief Executive’ s Review on 
pages14to19.
Community Involvement
Barclays has an extensive community programme covering many countries
around the world. The Group provides funding and support to over 7,000
charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from small, local charities, like
Passage (UK), to international organisations like Unicef. We also have a very
successful employee programme which in 2009 saw more than 58,000
employees and pensioners worldwide taking part in Barclays-supported
volunteering, giving and fundraising activities. Further information on
Notes
a The percentages of voting rights detailed above have been calculated without including
the new shares to be issued when the warrants are exercised. This results in the percentage
figures being artificially high.
b The number of Barclays shares includes 8,003,236 contracts for difference to which voting
rights are attached.
c The number of Barclays shares includes 192,860,970 T otal Return Swap shares to which
voting rights are attached.
Warrants
On 31st October 2008, Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a
simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays Bank
PLC, warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary shares at a
price of £1.97775 to Qatar Holding LLC and HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed
Al Nahyan. The warrants may be exercised at any time up to close of
business on 31st October 2013.
If there is a change of control of Barclays PLC following a takeover bid,
Barclays PLC must (so far as legally possible) use all reasonable endeavours
to cause the corporation which then controls Barclays PLC to execute a
deed poll providing that the holders of the warrants shall have the right
(during the period in which the warrants are exercisable) to exercise the
warrants into the class and amount of shares and other securities and
property receivable upon such a takeover by the holders of the number
of ordinary shares as would have been issued on exercise of the warrants
had such warrants been exercised immediately prior to the completion
of such takeover.
The warrants contain provisions for the adjustment of the gross
number of ordinary shares in the event of the occurrence of certain dilutive
events including, amongst others, extraordinary dividends, bonus issues,
alterations to the nominal value of ordinary shares and rights issues.
As at 5th March 2010, a total of 1,006.1 million ordinary shares have
been issued on exercise of warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares.
Substantial Shareholdings
Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of
other shareholders. As at 5th March 2010, the Company had been notified
under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the
following holdings of voting rights in its shares:
% of total % of total
voting rights voting rights 
Number of attaching attaching 
Barclays to issued Number of to issued 
Holder Shares share capital warrants share capital
a
BlackRock, Inc.
b
805,969,166 7.06 – –
Qatar Holding LLC 813,964,552 6.76 379,218,809 3.15
Nexus Capital 
Investing Ltd 626,835,443 5.49 131,602,175 1.15
Legal & General 
Group Plc 483,625,057 4.01 – –
Appleby Trust 
(Jersey) Limited
c
353,373,992 3.10 – –
Board Membership
The membership of the Boards of Directors of Barclays PLC and Barclays
Bank PLC is identical and biographical details of the Board members are set
out on pages 10 and 11. Simon Fraser and Reuben Jeffery were appointed as
non-executive Directors with effect from 10th March 2009 and 16th July
2009 respectively . The following Directors left the Board during 2009:
– Professor Dame Sandra Dawson on 23rd April 2009.
– Sir Nigel Rudd on 23rd April 2009.
– Patience Wheatcroft on 16th June 2009.
– Stephen Russell on 31st October 2009.
– Frits Seegers on 3rd November 2009. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 149
our community involvement is given on pages 22-23 and 29. The total
commitment for 2009 was £54.9m (2008: £52.2m). The Group committed
£27.4m in support of the community in the UK (2008: £27.7m) and £27.5m
was committed in international support (2008: £24.5m). The UK
commitment includes £19.3m of charitable donations (2008: £19.6m).
Political Donations
The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK or the rest
of the EU nor did it make any political donations to political parties or other
political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur
any political expenditure during the year. Absa Group Limited, in which the
Group acquired a majority stake in 2005, made donations totalling
£213,982 in 2009 (2008: £186,589) in accordance with its policy of making
political donations to the major South African political parties as part of their
Democracy Support Programme. Donations are made to parties with more
than three seats in the National Parliament as confirmed by the Independent
Electoral Commission. Support for the deepening of democracy in South
Africa remains paramount for the government. The Group made no other
political donations in 2009. 
At the AGM in 2009, shareholders gave a limited authority for Barclays
PLC and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political
expenditure, within an agreed limit, as a precautionary measure in light
of the wide definitions in the Companies Act 2006. This was similar to an
authority given by shareholders in 2008. This authority , which has not
been used, expires at the conclusion of the AGM held this year, or, if earlier,
30th June 2010. The risk of inadvertently breaching the Companies Act
2006 remains and the Directors consider it prudent to seek a similar
authority from shareholders. A resolution to authorise Barclays PLC and
its subsidiaries to make EU political donations and incur EU political
expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of £125,000 is therefore
being proposed at the Barclays PLC 2010 AGM.
Employee Involvement
Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success
of the Group. Staff are encouraged to participate in share option and share
purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in Barclays shares.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety
of ways, including the corporate news magazines, intranets, briefings and
mobile phone SMS messaging. These communications help achieve a
common awareness among employees of the financial and economic
factors affecting the performance of Barclays. Barclays is also committed
to providing employees with opportunities to share their views and provide
feedback on issues that are important to them. Annual Employee Opinion
Surveys are undertaken across the Group with results being reported to
the Board and Board HR and Remuneration Committee, all employees
and to our European Works Council, Africa Forum, Unite (Amicus section),
our recognised union in the UK and other recognised unions worldwide.
Roadshows and employee forums also take place. In addition, Barclays
undertakes regular and formal consultations with our recognised trade
unions and work councils internationally .
Diversity and Inclusion
The diversity agenda at Barclays seeks to include customers, colleagues and
suppliers. Our objective is to recruit and retain the best people, regardless of
(but not limited to) race, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability .
We strive to ensure our workforce reflects the communities in which we
operate and the international nature of the organisation. We recognise that
diversity is a key part of responsible business strategy in support of our
increasingly global business. In the UK, Barclays is committed to providing
additional support to employees with disabilities and making it easier for
them to inform us of their specific requirements, including the introduction
of a dedicated intranet site and disability helpline. Through our UK Reasonable
Adjustments Scheme, appropriate assistance can be given, including both
physical workplace adjustments, and relevant training and access to trained
mentors is also provided for disabled employees. A wide range of
recruitment initiatives have been taken to increase the number of people
with disabilities working in Barclays.
Health and Safety
We are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our
employees and to providing and maintaining safe working conditions.
Barclays regards legislative compliance as a minimum and, where
appropriate, we seek to implement higher standards. Barclays also
recognises its responsibilities towards all persons on its premises, such as
contractors, visitors and members of the public, and ensures, so far as is
reasonably practicable, that they are not exposed to significant risks to their
health and safety . Barclays regularly reviews its Statement of Health and
Safety Commitment, issued with the authority of the Board and which
applies to all business areas in which Barclays has operational control. 
In this statement Barclays commits to:
– demonstrate personal leadership that is consistent with this commitment;
– provide the appropriate resources to fulfil this commitment;
– carry out risk assessments and take appropriate actions to mitigate the
risks identified;
– consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety;
– ensure that appropriate information, instruction, training and supervision
are provided;
– appoint competent persons to provide specialist advice; and
– review Barclays Health and Safety Group Process and the Statement of
Commitment, at regular intervals.
Barclays monitors its health and safety performance using a variety of
measurements on a monthly basis and the Board HR and Remuneration
Committee receives annual reports on health and safety performance from
the Group Human Resource Director. In 2009, a Health and Safety Steering
Committee was established to ensure decisions are taken relating to the
Health and Safety Global Standard and to oversee the operation of a
coordinated Health and Safety control framework. The Committee meets on
a quarterly basis and produces a quarterly report for the HR Risk Committee.
As part of its Partnership Agreement with Unite (Amicus section), Barclays
currently funds full time Health and Safety Representatives.
Creditors’ Payment Policy 
Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance of paying
invoices, especially those of small businesses, in a timely manner. Barclays
policy follows the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills’ Prompt
Payment Code, copies of which can be obtained from the Prompt Payment
Code website at www.promptpaymentcode.org.uk. Part 5 of Schedule 7
of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) Regulations 2008 requires disclosure of trade creditor payment
days. Disclosure is required by the Company , rather than the Group. The
Group’ s principal trading subsidiary in the UK is Barclays Bank PLC, the
accounts for which are prepared in accordance with IFRS.  150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
The components for the trade creditor calculation are not easily
identified. However, by identifying as closely as possible the components
that would be required if item E.4 (trade creditors) in format I of Schedule 1
of these Regulations applied, the trade creditor payment days for Barclays
Bank PLC for 2009 were 27 days (2008: 24 days). This is an arithmetical
calculation and does not necessarily reflect our practice, which is described
above, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
Essential Business Contracts
There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other
arrangements that are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Contracts of Significance
Under the terms of a stock purchase agreement dated 16th June 2009
which was entered into by and among Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC and
BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock), Barclays agreed to sell BGI to BlackRock. The
sale completed on 1st December 2009 following the receipt of all necessary
shareholder and regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other closing
conditions. The consideration at completion was US$15.2bn (£9.5bn),
including 37.567 million new BlackRock shares, giving Barclays an economic
interest of 19.9% of the enlarged BlackRock group. Barclays has provided
BlackRock with customary warranties and indemnities in connection with
the sale. Barclays Bank will also continue to provide support in respect of
certain BGI cash funds until December 2013 and indemnities in respect 
of certain of BGI’ s fully collateralised securities lending activities until 
30th November 2012.
Research and development
In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and
services in each of its business units.
Financial Instruments
The Group’ s financial risk management objectives and policies, including
the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which
hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to market risk, credit risk
and liquidity risk are set out on pages 122 to 132 under the headings,
‘Barclays risk management strategy’, ‘Credit risk management’, ‘Market risk
management’, ‘Liquidity risk management’ and ‘Derivatives’ and in Note 14
and Notes 47 to 49 to the accounts.
Events after the Balance Sheet Date
On 1st January 2010, the Group acquired 100% ownership of Standard Life
Bank Plc for a consideration of £227m in cash. The assets acquired include
a savings book of approximately £5.8bn, and a mortgage book with
outstanding balances of approximately £7.5bn.
As announced on 3rd November 2009, the Group has made changes
to its business structure, which will be reflected in the Group’ s external
financial reporting for periods commencing 1st January 2010. The segmental
information presented in this Annual Report represents the business
segments and other operations used for management and reporting
purposes during the year ended 31st December 2009.
On 17th February 2010, 626.8 million of the 758.4 million warrants
held by PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited (a subsidiary of Nexus Capital Investing
Limited) were exercised for an aggregate exercise price of approximately
£1,240m. As a result 626.8 million new ordinary shares were issued
representing a 5.2% ownership in the Group’ s enlarged share capital.
The Auditors
The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external
auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring
the Group’ s use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance of
audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors. More details on this can be
found on page 162 and Note 9 to the accounts. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
have been the Company’ s auditors for many years. Having reviewed the
independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee
has not considered it necessary to date to require them to tender for the
audit work. The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners
responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years. The current
lead audit partner, who has now been in place for five years, will be replaced
for the 2010 year-end. There are no contractual obligations restricting the
Company’ s choice of external auditor. The Committee has recommended
to the Board that the existing auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , be
reappointed. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have signified their willingness
to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors
and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at
the 2010 AGM. So far as each of the Directors are aware, there is no relevant
audit information of which the Company’ s auditors are unaware. Each of the
Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in
order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’ s auditors are aware of that information. For these
purposes, ‘relevant audit information’ means information needed by the
Company’ s auditors in connection with preparing their report.
The Annual General Meeting
The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at the Royal Festival Hall on Friday
30th April 2010. The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document
sent to shareholders with this report. A summary of the resolutions being
proposed at the 2010 AGM is set out below.
Ordinary Resolutions
– T o receive the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports and the audited accounts
for the year ended 31st December 2009.
– T o approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31st December 2009.
– T o re-elect the following Directors:
Reuben Jeffery III
Marcus Agius
David Booth
Sir Richard Broadbent
Sir Michael Rake
Sir Andrew Likierman
Chris Lucas
– T o reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the Company .
– T o authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
– T o authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make political donations
and incur political expenditure.
– T o renew the authority given to Directors to allot securities.
– T o approve and adopt the rules of the Barclays Group SA YE Share
Option Scheme.
Special Resolutions
– T o renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities for cash
other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell treasury shares.
– T o renew the Company’ s authority to purchase its own shares.
– T o permit General Meetings to continue to be called on 14 clear days’ notice.
– T o adopt new Articles of Association. 
This is only a summary of the business to be transacted at the meetings
and you should refer to the Notice of Meeting for full details.
By order of the Board
Lawrence Dickinson
Company Secretary
9th March 2010
Directors’ report
continued www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 151
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
Group Chairman’s Introduction
Barclays performed strongly in 2009, despite it being another challenging
year for the financial services industry . Once again, a number of difficult
decisions had to be taken as the Board sought to act in the best interests
of shareholders. 
Review of 2009
The year started with confidence in the banking sector as a whole at an
extremely low ebb. The market was unsure as to the strength of banks’
balance sheets and the extent of further losses from both credit market
exposures and the global economic downturn. In Barclays case, the share
price was extremely weak during January and the Board took its first key
decision in deciding to issue an open letter from the Group Chief Executive
and myself on 26th January 2009 to address the principal causes for
concern. We felt that it was important to make this announcement, in what
were exceptional circumstances, to reassure our stakeholders that we were
well funded and profitable. 
In March 2009, we announced that the Board did not believe it was in
the interests of investors, depositors or clients to participate in HM Treasury’ s
Asset Protection Scheme. This decision was taken after careful consideration
of the economics of participation and detailed stress testing of our capital
position and resources, the results of which were confirmed by the FSA. 
In March 2009, we explored the potential sale of our iShares business
with a number of interested parties and announced, in April 2009, the sale
of that business to a limited partnership established by CVC Capital Partners
Group. Following a superior offer from BlackRock, Inc. for the sale of the
whole of the Barclays Global Investors business (BGI), the Board concluded
that it would be in the best interests of Barclays and for the benefit of
shareholders to accept that offer. The resolution for the sale of BGI was put
to shareholders at a General Meeting on 6th August 2009 and 99.9% of
votes cast were in favour of the transaction.
During the second half of 2009, the Board took the decision to
restructure the Group’ s credit market exposures. We announced in
September 2009 that we were restructuring a significant tranche of such
exposures in order to secure more stable risk-adjusted returns for
shareholders over time. And, while we did not pay a final dividend for 2008,
we were able to resume dividend payments in the second half of 2009 and 
it is our intention to pay quarterly dividends going forward.
It was essential to keep the Board fully informed during the discussions
on all these matters and the Directors were updated regularly at Board
meetings and through ad hoc circulation of information. A significant
number of additional Board and Board Committee meetings were held,
often at short notice, to discuss and take those decisions – a total of 
27 Board meetings were held during the year and each of our Board
Committees held additional meetings. It was also important to keep our
shareholders informed and, in addition to regulatory announcements,
meetings were held with our institutional shareholders and other investor
groups to discuss the financial crisis and how we have responded. Briefings
on these meetings were reported to the Board to ensure that all Directors
were aware of any concerns raised by our shareholders.
Corporate Governance in Barclays
As Chairman, a key part of my role is to ensure that the composition of the
Board is appropriate; that appropriate behaviours are demonstrated in the
Boardroom and that there is an environment in which challenge is expected
and achieved. In April, we reviewed the lessons learnt from the financial
crisis and considered any enhancements that could be made. Governance
processes were reviewed and a number of changes were made. These
included revisions to the Board Risk Committee T erms of Reference to
make explicit its role in reviewing risks following the Group’ s entry into new
businesses or geographies. The changes also set out the Committee’ s role
in reviewing the specific risk adjustments to be applied to performance
objectives. The frequency of risk, capital and liquidity reporting to the Board,
Board Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee has been increased and
additional time has been allocated to strategy discussions. 
Barclays has emerged from the crisis in a relatively strong position
compared to many of our peers. The underlying profits of the Group were
strong in 2009 and good progress was made on key measures of financial
strength, such as capital and liquidity . However, we remain conscious of
the significant reduction in shareholder value suffered by our shareholders.
Whilst we have made changes to some of our Corporate Governance
processes and practices, we believe that these were fundamentally sound.
The review of Corporate Governance in the banking sector by Sir David
Walker (the Walker Review), to which we contributed, made a number of
recommendations for improvements in governance in the banking sector.
Many of the practices put forward in the Walker Review recommendations
are in line with practices we already have in place, but where we can
enhance processes and practices, we are doing so. 
However, the real key to effective Corporate Governance is to ensure
that behaviours around the Board table are appropriate. It is an essential
part of my role to ensure that firstly , appropriate and timely information is
available to the Board in a readily understandable format, and secondly ,
that there is an environment in the Boardroom which promotes and
supports constructive and effective challenge. This requires the right Board
composition and I believe Barclays has been well served by both its executive
and non-executive Directors in this respect. Our Directors understand
the importance of appropriate Board behaviour, which is set out in our
‘Charter of Expectations’ at www.barclays.com/corporategovernance. 
The Charter of Expectations is given to all new Directors and reviewed on an
annual basis to ensure it sets out the expectations of each Director in their
role on the Board, including expected competencies, behaviours and time
commitment.
Board size and composition
During 2009, we made a conscious effort to reduce the size of the Board
from its peak of 17 and, although this number will fluctuate as we seek
to ensure the Board has the right level of skills and experience, we will aim
to keep it between 12 to 15 Directors. Going forward, it is our intention to
maintain a majority of independent non-executive Directors, with
approximately 50% of those non-executive Directors, including the Group
Chairman and the Chairmen of the principal Board Committees, having
banking or financial experience. We do believe, however, that to be fully
effective, the Board should have a balance of Directors with both banking
or financial experience and broader experience.
We have carefully considered, in the light of both the Walker Review and
the Review of the Combined Code, whether all Directors should stand for
re-election each year. I do believe it is important that the Chairman should
stand for re-election annually and, having discussed the issue at both the
Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board,
we decided that the Deputy Chairman and Committee Chairmen should
also stand for annual re-election.
The report that follows sets out how we have complied with the UK
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) and also gives further
details of any enhancements made during the year and in particular, in
response to the recommendations of the Walker Review.
Marcus Agius
Group Chairman
9th March 2010 152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
Statements of Compliance
UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance
As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we comply with the UK
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code). For the year ended
31st December 2009, we have complied with the relevant provisions set out
in section 1 of the Code and applied the principles of the Code as described
in this report.
NYSE Corporate Governance Rules 
Barclays has American Depositary Receipts listed on the New Y ork Stock
Exchange (NYSE), and is also subject to the NYSE’ s Corporate Governance
rules (NYSE Rules). We are exempt from most of the NYSE Rules, which
domestic US companies must follow, because we are a non-US company
listed on the NYSE. However, we are required to provide an Annual Written
Affirmation to the NYSE of our compliance with the applicable NYSE Rules
and must also disclose any significant differences between our corporate
governance practices and those followed by domestic US companies listed
on the NYSE. As our main listing is on the London Stock Exchange, we follow
the UK’ s Combined Code. Key differences between the Code and NYSE Rules
are set out later in this Report.
Role and constitution of Board
Corporate governance framework
Good corporate governance practices are not just a matter for the Board but
are at the heart of everything that we do within the Group. The Group
operates within a comprehensive governance framework, which is outlined
in the diagram below and set out in the report that follows. The Group’ s risk
management framework is described in the Risk Management section on
pages87to93.
The Board
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for creating and delivering
sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Group’ s
businesses. Each Director must act in a way that he or she considers
promotes the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of
shareholders. The Board also ensures that management achieves an
appropriate balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering
short-term objectives.
Board meetings
The Board has eight Board meetings scheduled each year. Strategy is
reviewed regularly at these meetings with updates at each meeting from at
least one business unit on the execution of their agreed strategy . One Board
meeting each year, scheduled over a day and a half, considers and approves
the Group’ s future strategy . A different approach was taken to strategy
formulation in 2009 following feedback received as part of the 2008 Board
Effectiveness Review. During the summer of 2009, the non-executive
Directors took part in interviews with the Head of Strategy and Company
Secretary to discuss strategic areas of focus. These areas of focus were
debated by the Board in September with discussions of various themes
facilitated by non-executive Directors. Management then developed
strategy proposals, which were fully debated by the whole Board in November .
In addition to the eight scheduled meetings in 2009, there were 13
additional Board meetings held to consider and approve the iShares and BGI
transactions and the restructuring of our credit market exposures. A further
six Board meetings were held during the year on other issues, including
share price performance. The additional Board meetings, which were often
called at short notice, had attendance of 88%. Any Director who was unable
to attend a meeting was briefed separately on the discussions at the meeting
Corporate governance framework
Board
(Group Chairman, three executive Directors,
nine non-executive Directors)
Board HR and
Remuneration Committee
Board Corporate Governance
and Nominations Committee
Group Chief Executive Board Risk Committee
Board Audit Committee
Executive Committee
Management committees
(including Disclosure Committee, Group 
Governance and Control Committee, 
Group Operating Committee, Group 
Risk Oversight Committee, Group Brand  
and Reputation Committee) www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 153
and their views were sought and considered. There were also 12 meetings
of the Board Finance Committee, to which the Board delegated authority
to review and approve certain aspects of the iShares, BGI and credit market
exposure transactions. The Board Finance Committee, whose purpose is
to authorise certain transactions to which the Group is party , subject to the
relevant authority being delegated to the Committee by the Board (as set
out in the Board Finance Committee’ s T erms of Reference), comprises the
Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and at least two independent
non-executive Directors. Board Finance Committee attendance was 100%. 
Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged at least one
year in advance and all Directors are expected to attend each meeting.
All Directors are provided with the meeting papers and relevant information
in advance of each meeting and, if a Director is unable to attend a meeting
because of exceptional circumstances, he or she will still receive the
supporting papers and will usually discuss any matters they wish to raise
with the Chairman of the meeting. This ensures that their views are given
due consideration. The attendance at Board meetings held in 2009 is set
out on page 155. In 2009, all Directors committed an appropriate amount
of time to fulfil their duties and responsibilities on the Board. Any instances
of non-attendance at Board meetings are generally related to prior business
or personal commitments or illness. The additional meetings in 2009 were
often arranged at short notice or rearranged as market conditions changed
and it was not always possible for all Directors to attend these meetings
particularly because of time zone differences.
Non-executive Director Board briefings
The Group Chairman usually meets with the non-executive Directors ahead
of each scheduled Board meeting to brief them on the business of the
meeting. These meetings are held without any executive Directors or senior
management present. The non-executive Directors use these meetings as
an opportunity to advise the Group Chairman if they have any specific
questions they would like to raise about the business of the meeting. The
Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary are always
available for the Directors to discuss any issues concerning Board meetings
or other matters.
Role of the Board
UK company law requires Directors to act in a way they consider, in good
faith, would promote the success of the Company for the benefit of
shareholders as a whole. In doing so, the Directors must have regard
(amongst other matters) to:
– the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term;
– the interests of Barclays employees;
– the need to foster Barclays business relationships with suppliers,
customers and others;
– the impact of Barclays operations on the community and the environment;
– the desirability of Barclays maintaining a reputation for high standards of
business conduct; and 
– the need to act fairly as between shareholders of Barclays.
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the
Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities. The Board determines
the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to deliver long-term value,
providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate framework of
rewards, incentives and controls. The Board is collectively responsible for
the success of the Group: the executive Directors are directly responsible
for running the business operations and the non-executive Directors are
responsible for bringing independent judgment and scrutiny to decisions
taken by the Board. The non-executive Directors must satisfy themselves on
the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems
of risk management are robust. Following presentation by executive
management and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the
Board, clear decisions on the policy or strategy are adopted, and the
executive management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
The role and responsibilities of the Barclays Board are set out in ‘Corporate
Governance in Barclays’, which is available on our website at
www.barclays.com/corporategovernance. 
Role of the Group Chairman
The role of the Group Chairman is to lead and manage the Board to ensure
it discharges its legal and regulatory responsibilities fully and effectively .
The time commitment of the Group Chairman is set out in our Charter of
Expectations and is in line with the Walker Review recommendation that a
Chairman commits two-thirds of his/her time to the role. The Group Chairman
must also ensure the Board is effective in delivering all its objectives, and so
sets the Board agenda and allocates sufficient time for the Board to engage
in meaningful discussions on strategic issues. He facilitates and encourages
challenge from all Directors where decisions are needed on matters of risk
and strategy . The Group Chairman also ensures that the Directors are kept
well-informed, particularly the non-executive Directors, so that Board
discussions are effective and there is good communication between the
executive and non-executive Directors. The Group Chairman, Group Chief
Executive and the Company Secretary work together to ensure that the
Directors receive relevant information for them to discharge their duties
and that such information is accurate, timely and clear. The communication
of information applies to all scheduled Board meetings, but is particularly
important in exceptional circumstances where the Board needs to respond
to changing market conditions. We provide all our Directors with secure
access to electronic copies of meeting papers and other key documents via
a dedicated Directors’ intranet. The documents available include past and
current Board and Committee papers, reports, minutes, press coverage,
analyst reports and material from briefing sessions.
Role of the Chief Executive
The roles of the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
The role of the Group Chief Executive is to manage the day-to-day
running of the Group. The Board has delegated this responsibility to the
Group Chief Executive and he then leads the executive Directors and
Executive Committee in making and executing operational decisions.
The Group Chief Executive is also responsible for recommending strategy
to the Board.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary and his team provide dedicated support to the
Board. Their services are available to all Directors, particularly the non-
executive Directors who may need additional support to ensure they receive
timely and accurate information to fulfil their duties. Directors may also take
independent professional advice on request at the Company’ s expense.
Effective internal control
One of the Board’ s key responsibilities is to ensure that management
maintains a system of internal control that provides assurance of effective
and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law
and regulation. The Board considers the materiality of financial and other
risks to the Group’ s business and reputation, ensures that appropriate
controls are in place and considers the relative costs and benefits of
implementing specific controls.
The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule of matters
reserved for the Board’ s decision. These matters are significant to the Group
as a whole because of their strategic, financial or reputational implications.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board is reviewed and updated
regularly to ensure it remains appropriate and a summary of these matters is
set out on page 154. 
Board Activities in 2009
At each meeting in 2009, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance
Director reported to the Board and one or two of the main businesses or
functions also presented an update on the implementation of their agreed
strategy . Scheduled Board meetings also received reports from each of the
principal Board Committees and reports from the Company Secretary on
relevant corporate governance matters, including updates on the Walker
Review and the Review of the Combined Code and the potential implications
for the Group. The Board also received reports on the new regulatory
frameworks in respect of compensation, particularly in respect of the FSA
Remuneration Code and the proposals of the Financial Stability Board. 154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
The Board allocated its time at scheduled Board meetings during
2009 to the following:
Strategy
– discussion of and approval of Group Strategy , including risk strategy and
remuneration strategy;
– reports from the Group Chief Executive on key strategic issues and
progress, matters considered by the Executive Committee and competitor
activity . The reports also included progress on Group-wide key objectives,
a half yearly review of TSR performance and an update on talent
management;
– reports from the following businesses on progress against strategy:
Western Europe, Barclays Global Investors, Barclays Wealth, Barclays
Commercial Bank, Barclays Capital (including an update on the integration
of the Lehman Brothers North American business), Barclaycard, UK Retail
Bank and Absa; 
– reports on the following key issues: Brand and Marketing, Corporate
Sustainability , Franchise Health (including customer and employee
satisfaction measures); and 
– presentations on shareholder sentiment (including institutional
perceptions) and reputation.
Finance (including capital and liquidity)
– reports from the Group Finance Director on the financial position of
the Group, which included capital management and liquidity updates
throughout the year;
– regular reports from the Chairman of the Board Audit Committee on
matters discussed at that Committee;
– approval of the full year and half-year results for the Group;
– reports on peer group comparison of results following the release
of preliminary and half-year results;
– approval of the dividend policy;
– approval of the Group’ s cost of equity and capital plan for 2010; and
– approval of the medium-term plan (including the financial framework)
and short-term plan.
Risk
– regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer on risk management and
impairment and from the Group General Counsel on legal risk issues;
– regular reports from the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee on
matters discussed at that Committee; and
– approval of Risk Appetite and Liquidity Risk Appetite for the Group for 2010.
Summary of Matters Reserved for the Board
– Approval of the Group’ s strategy , Medium-T erm and Short-T erm Plans 
– Approval of Risk Appetite and Liquidity Risk Appetite
– Monitoring delivery of the strategy and performance against plan
– Changes relating to capital structure or status as a PLC
– Approval of annual Capital Plan
– Approval of interim and final financial statements, dividends and any
significant change in accounting policies or practices
– Authorisation for Directors’ conflicts or possible conflicts of interest
– Appointment (or removal) of Company Secretary and Chief Risk Officer
– Any share dividend alternative
– Remuneration of auditors and recommendations for appointment or
removal of auditors
– Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and significant press releases 
– Principal regulatory filings with stock exchanges 
– Board appointments and removals 
– Role profiles of key positions on the Board
– T erms of reference and membership of Board Committees 
– Major acquisitions, mergers or disposals 
– Major capital investments and projects
– Approval of the framework for determining the policy and specific
remuneration of Executive Directors 
– Approval of Chairman and non-executive Director remuneration
– Major changes in employee share schemes
– Approval of allotment of shares
– Approval of Board and Board Committees performance
evaluation process
– Determination of independence of non-executive Directors 
– Approval of Corporate Governance framework
– Approval of division of responsibilities between the Chairman and
Group Chief Executive
– Rules and procedures for dealing in Barclays securities
Go online
The role and responsibilities of the Barclays
Board are set out in ‘Corporate Governance in
Barclays’ , which is available on our website at
www.barclays.com/corporategovernance
1
2
3
4
  2009 2008
  % %
1 Strategy Formulation and 
Implementation Monitoring 22  16
2 Finance (including capital 
and liquidity) 25  27
3 Governance and Risk
(including regulatory issues) 13  6
4 Corporate Finance   33 13
5 Capital Management 
a
   – 33
6 Other 
(including compensation) 7  5
5
6
Fig. 1: Board allocation of time
Note
a Capital management was reported separately for 2008. It is included within Finance
(including capital and liquidity) for 2009. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 155
Corporate Finance
– consideration and approval of the proposed iShares sale and subsequent
sale of Barclays Global Investors; and 
– consideration and approval of the restructuring of our credit market
exposures.
Corporate Governance
– reports on governance issues and updates on the changes in company
law, including approval of non-executive Director appointments, updates
on the Walker Review consultation and the Financial Reporting Council’ s
Review of the Combined Code; 
– a report on the effectiveness of the Board following the effectiveness
review;
– approval of the non-executive Directors’ fees following a benchmarking
comparison against our peer group; and 
– reports from each of the Board Committees.
Compensation
– reports on remuneration strategy;
– reports on regulatory frameworks, including FSA Remuneration Code and
the proposals from the Financial Stability Board;
– regular reports from the Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration
Committee on matters discussed at that Committee; and
– consideration of the proposals for the closure of the UK Retirement Fund.
Regulatory issues
– a review of the FSA ’ s stress-test results; 
– regular reports from the Group Chief Executive on contact with regulators
worldwide and in particular discussions with the tripartite authorities in
the UK;
– consideration of the Government’ s Asset Protection Scheme; and
– updates on the global and UK economic and regulatory environment.
Figure 1 on page 154 illustrates how the Board spent its time at scheduled
Board meetings in 2009.
Board size, composition and qualification
Board size and composition
There are currently 13 Directors on the Board, comprised of the Group
Chairman, three executive Directors and nine non-executive Directors.
The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board
and, in particular, the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations
Committee, to ensure there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills and
experience. The Board aims to appoint non-executive Directors who have
the skills and experience needed for a comprehensive understanding of
the Group’ s activities and the risk associated with them. This is particularly
important for Barclays as a financial services business and it is our intention
that 50% of our non-executive Directors, including the Group Chairman
and the Chairmen of the principal Board Committees, should have banking
or financial experience. However, a broader range of skills and experience is
Board and Committee Attendance
Board
Corporate
Board HR & Governance
Board Remuner- & Nomin- Board 
Scheduled Additional Audit ation ations Risk
Independent Board Board
a          
Committee Committee Committee Committee AGM
Number of meetings held 8 19 11 14451
Group Chairman
Marcus Agius OA 8 19 – 14 4 – 1
Executive Directors
John Varley (Group Chief Executive) ED 8 19 – – – – 1
Bob Diamond ED 8 17 – – – – 1
Chris Lucas ED 8 19 – – – – 1
Frits Seegers (to 3rd November) ED 6 19 – – – – 1
Non-executive Directors
David Booth I 8 16––– 5 1
Sir Richard Broadbent 
(Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director) I 8 18 – 14451
Leigh Clifford I 8 7 – 11 – – 1
Fulvio Conti I 8 15 10 – – – 1
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson (to 23rd April) I 3 11 5 – -– – 1
Simon Fraser (from 10th March)
b
I7 1557 – – –
Reuben Jeffery III (from 16th July) I 4 2 – – – – –
Sir Andrew Likierman I 8 17 11 – – 5 1
Sir Michael Rake I 8 17 11 – 2 3 1
Sir Nigel Rudd (Deputy Chairman to 23rd April) I 3 11 – – 1 – 1
Stephen Russell (to 31st October) I 6 12 7 – 2 3 1
Sir John Sunderland I 8 17 – 14 4 – 1
Patience Wheatcroft (to 16th June) I 3 14 – – – – 1
Key
OA Independent on appointment. ED Executive Director. I Independent non-executive Director.
Notes
a In the case of Leigh Clifford, who is based in Australia, the time difference meant that he
was not always able to participate in additional Board meetings called at short notice, but
he was fully briefed on the discussions by the Group Chairman or the Company Secretary .
b Simon Fraser was appointed as a member of the Board Audit Committee and Board HR
and Remuneration Committee with effect from 1st May 2009. 156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
The Board considers non-executive Director independence on an annual
basis, as part of each Director’ s performance evaluation. The Board
Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board
reviewed the independence of each non-executive Director in early 2010
and concluded that each of them continues to demonstrate these essential
behaviours.
Board qualification
The Board benefits from the diverse range of skills, knowledge and
experience that the non-executive and executive Directors have acquired
as Directors of other companies or as business leaders in government or
in academia. The Board also values the experience that our international
Directors bring and aims to have diverse geographical experience on the
Board, as illustrated by Figure 4. The effectiveness of the Board depends on
ensuring the right balance of Directors with banking or financial experience
and broader commercial experience.
External appointments
We recognise that there are significant advantages to individuals and to
the Board as a whole of Barclays executive Directors serving on the Boards
of other companies. In line with the Code recommendation, executive
Directors may join the Board of one other listed company and all such
appointments must be approved by the Board. Executive Directors must
ensure that their external appointments do not involve excessive
commitment or conflict of interest and their time commitment to Barclays
must take precedence over any external appointment (other than those
they undertake in connection with their duties at Barclays). Executive
essential for the Board to be fully effective. Figure 2 demonstrates the
diverse range of skills and experience on the Board.
We have a strong independent element on the Board and more than
half the Directors are independent non-executive Directors, which is in
line with the recommendations of the Code. The balance of the Board is
illustrated by Figure 3.
Independence of non-executive Directors
The Code sets out the circumstances that may be relevant to the Board
in determining whether each non-executive Director is independent.
In addition to these circumstances, Barclays ‘Charter of Expectations’ sets
out specific criteria that the Board considers are essential behaviours in
order to assess the independence of non-executive Directors. These criteria
are as follows:
– provides objective challenge to management;
– is prepared to challenge others’ assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints as
necessary for the good of the organisation;
– questions intelligently , debates constructively , challenges rigorously and
decides dispassionately;
– is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order
to support the ultimate good of the organisation; and
– has a good understanding of the organisation’ s business and affairs to
enable them to properly evaluate the information and responses provided
by management.
1
2
3
4
1 Financial services 4
2 Accountancy/financial background 3
3 Retail/marketing 1
4 Government experience 3
5 Business School 1
6 Corporate Finance 2
7  International (Europe) 1
8 International (US) 2
9 International (Rest of World) 2
5
6
7
8
9
Fig 2: Industry/background experience
a
1
2
3
  2009
1 Chairman 1
2 Executive Directors 3
3 Independent non-executive 
Directors 9
Fig 3: Balance of non-executive and executive Directors
Note
a Individual directors may fall into one or more categories.
1
2
3
  2009
1 UK 5
2 Continental Europe 1
3 US 2
4 Other 1
4
Fig 4: Geographical mix (main experience) 
of non-executive Directors www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 157
Directors may retain fees paid in connection with an external appointment
and details of any fees received by executive Directors may be found in the
Remuneration Report on page 170.
Conflicts of Interest
Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before taking
up any position with another company that conflicts, or may possibly
conflict, with the Barclays interests. Barclays Articles of Association contain
provisions to allow the Directors to authorise situations of potential conflicts
of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
All Directors must report any changes in their circumstances to the Board
and the Board reserves the right to terminate the appointment of a non-
executive Director if there are any material changes in their circumstances
that may conflict with their commitments as a Barclays Director or that may
impact on their independence. All existing external appointments for each
Director have been authorised by the Board and each authorisation is set out
in a Conflicts Register. The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations
Committee is responsible for conducting an annual review of the Conflicts
Register and confirming to the Board that, where relevant, conflicts are dealt
with appropriately , and that the process for dealing with them is operating
effectively . The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee
reviewed the Conflicts Register in early 2010 and concluded that conflicts
had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation
is operating effectively .
Role of the Board and Board Corporate Governance and 
Nominations Committee
In addition to reviewing the size and composition of the Board, the Board
Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is also responsible
for reviewing the balance on the Board and its principal Committees and
recommending the appointment of any new Directors to the Board. It is
essential that the Board is refreshed regularly to maintain the appropriate
skills and experience and the Committee also considers length of tenure
of each non-executive Director, which is set out in Figure 5. The biographies
of the current Directors, which set out the details of their skills and
experience, are on pages 10 and 11.
The Charter of Expectations, which forms part of ‘Corporate
Governance in Barclays’ sets out detailed role profiles for each of the Board
positions, including the Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior
Independent Director and both non-executive and executive Directors.
Before appointing a new Director, the Board Corporate Governance and
Nominations Committee will consider the responsibilities general to all
Directors and, in addition, the specific responsibilities required for each role.
Non-executive Directors have a responsibility to constructively challenge
1
2
3
  2009
1 0-3 years 4
2 3-6 years 4
3 6-9 years  1
Fig 5: Length of tenure of non-executive Directors
and develop proposals on strategy and assess the performance of
management in implementing the Group’ s strategy . As Deputy Chairman
and Senior Independent Director, Sir Richard Broadbent has further
responsibilities, which are set out in our Charter of Expectations, including
conducting the performance review of the Group Chairman and meeting
institutional investors. 
Sir Richard Broadbent met privately during the year with the other non-
executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive to discuss feedback he
received on the Group Chairman’ s performance. These results were shared
with the Group Chairman. During 2008 and in the first few months of 2009
leading up to the Annual General Meeting (AGM), Sir Richard conducted
a series of meetings and consultations with institutional shareholders
to discuss the capital raisings. Sir Richard also met with institutional
shareholders to discuss Barclays remuneration strategy and the external
reviews into this area.
Time Commitment
The Charter of Expectations sets out the time commitment expected from
each Director , with specific requirements for the Chairman, Deputy Chairman,
Senior Independent Director and non-executive Directors. Additional time
commitment expectations are set out for the Board Committee Chairmen
and members. The expected time commitment, which is agreed with each
individual, will not be less than a minimum of 20 days per annum.  Certain
non-executive Directors, including the Deputy Chairman, Committee
Chairmen and Committee members, are expected to commit additional
time, with the average time commitment for the non-executive Directors
as a whole being in the range of 30-36 days per year. Sir Richard Broadbent,
as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, is expected to
commit to at least one day per week in carrying out his Barclays duties,
but in practice spends significantly more time on Barclays business.
Committee Chairmen are expected to commit between 3 and 10 days per
year in addition to between 6 and 8 days per year for Committee members.
The time commitment of each non-executive Director is decided on an
individual basis, with six of the non-executive Directors committing over
30 days per year. T aking into account both Board and Board Committee
requirements, the balance commit at least 28 days per year. 
Re-election of Directors
In line with the recommendations of the Code, all Directors usually seek
re-election every three years and any Directors that were appointed during
the year seek re-election at the next AGM. For the 2010 AGM the Group
Chairman, Marcus Agius, will offer himself for re-election as recommended
by the Walker Review. In addition, the Deputy Chairman, Sir Richard
Broadbent, the Chairmen of each principal Board Committee, David Booth, 158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
and Sir Michael Rake will also offer themselves for re-election. The Directors
retiring by rotation, as required by our Articles, and offering themselves for
re-election are Sir Andrew Likierman and Chris Lucas. Reuben Jeffery , who
was appointed on 16th July 2009, is also offering himself for re-election. 
Induction, business awareness and development
Each new Director receives an induction presentation, an information pack
and a personalised induction programme. The induction presentation
explains their responsibilities as a Director of a global, listed financial services
company and sets out an overview of the Group and its businesses. The
information pack gives details of the disclosures that Directors are required
to make to comply with various laws and regulations. The personal
induction programme, which is discussed with each new Director, is tailored
to their needs so that they can gain a better understanding of the Group and
its businesses. The induction programme typically involves two stages of
meetings. The first involves sessions with each of the executive Directors,
members of the Executive Committee and the heads of the main Group
functions. These sessions include opportunities for the new Director to visit
operational sites and meet with senior management and employees. The
second stage includes additional sessions with the executive Directors and
senior managers from each of the Group’ s main business units to provide
the new Director with in-depth information to develop a comprehensive
understanding of those businesses. The sessions focus on the challenges,
opportunities and risks that are faced by each business unit. Simon Fraser
and Reuben Jeffery undertook their Board induction programmes during
2009. Additional induction programmes are put together for non-executive
Directors who are joining any of the principal Board Committees and may
include meetings with external advisers and the Group’ s statutory auditor,
where appropriate or relevant.
T o ensure the Directors continue to further their understanding of the
issues facing the Group we provide a comprehensive programme of
business awareness training sessions and briefings on external technical
matters. In early 2009, non-executive Directors were sent a questionnaire
to seek their views on topics of interest, including business specific areas
and technical issues. As a result, three in-depth briefing sessions on Basel II,
Capital Management and Derivatives were arranged during 2009.
Attendees were sent pre-reading material for these sessions and interactive
discussions were encouraged. Positive feedback was received from the non-
executive Directors who attended these sessions and further sessions are
planned for 2010. 
During 2009, in response to the 2008 Board Effectiveness Review, a
questionnaire was sent to non-executive Directors requesting feedback
about the level of interaction with senior management below Board level.
Following that feedback, and in addition to the regular presentations made
to each Board meeting by senior managers, we aim to hold regular lunches
for the non-executive Directors and senior management after Board
meetings to encourage greater informal interaction between non-executive
Directors and senior management.
External matters 
Directors are regularly briefed on market opinion and receive copies of
analyst research and press commentary . Further briefing material on market
conditions was sent to Directors during 2009 and Directors continue to
receive relevant publications to keep them up to date with changing market
opinion, including a weekly commentary on the Barclays share price and
analyst comment. Directors are invited to attend results presentations to
meet with analysts and investors to enhance their awareness of market
sentiment. 
Functioning of the Board and evaluation of performance
Functioning of the Board
For the Board to function effectively , the non-executive Directors must
contribute to Board discussions and challenge and test the proposals
on strategy that are put forward by the executive Directors. The Board
promotes an environment whereby challenge from the non-executive
Directors is welcomed and encouraged, combined with full support for
and empowerment of the executive Directors in implementing decisions.
The Board Committees
Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to Board Committees
to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent
oversight of internal control and risk management. The four principal Board
Committees (the Board Audit Committee, the Board Corporate Governance
and Nominations Committee, the Board HR and Remuneration Committee
and the Board Risk Committee) play an essential role in supporting the
Board in fulfilling its responsibilities and ensuring that the highest standards
of corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group. Each Board
Committee reports to the Board following each of its meetings and the
minutes of each Board Committee meeting are circulated to the Board.
This report sets out how the Board and its Committees work within the
governance framework and corporate governance guidelines.
Go online
The Charter of Expectations, including role
profiles for key Board positions, is available
from www.aboutbarclays.com
Current membership of the Board Committees
Board Corporate
Board Governance & Board HR &
Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Risk
Committee Committee Committee Committee
Marcus Agius – C M –
David Booth – M – C
Sir Richard Broadbent – M C M
Leigh Clifford – – M –
Fulvio Conti M–––
Simon Fraser M – M –
Reuben Jeffery III – – – M
Sir Andrew Likierman M – – M
Sir Michael Rake C M – M
Sir John Sunderland – M M –
Key
C Chairman
M Member www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 159
Terms of reference 
Board Audit  
Committee
Reviews accounting policies 
and the contents of financial 
reports. Monitors disclosure 
controls and procedures 
and the internal control 
environment. Considers the 
adequacy and scope of the 
external and internal audit. 
Oversees the relationship 
with our external auditors.
Board Corporate Governance 
and Nominations  Committee
Reviews composition of Board. 
Recommends appointment 
of new Directors. 
Considers succession plans 
for Group Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive positions. 
Monitors corporate governance 
issues. Oversees the annual 
Board performance review.
Board HR and 
Remuneration  Committee
Sets the policy for executive 
Directors’ and senior 
executives’ remuneration. 
Approves individual 
remuneration awards. 
Agrees changes to senior 
executive incentive plans. 
Governs employee share 
schemes. Looks at strategic 
HR issues.
Board Risk  
Committee
Recommends total level of risk 
we are prepared to take 
(risk appetite) to the Board. 
Monitors risk appetite. 
Reviews limits for individual 
types of risk. Monitors the 
risk profile. Obtains assurance 
that principal risks have been 
properly identified and are 
being appropriately managed.
All members of the principal Board Committees are independent non-
executive Directors, although the Group Chairman is a member of the Board
HR and Remuneration Committee, as permitted by the Code for a Chairman
who was independent on appointment. The Group Chairman is also
Chairman of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
Each Committee’ s terms of reference set out the specific matters for
which delegated authority has been given by the Board. These terms of
reference are reviewed annually and are available on our website at:
www.barclays.com/corporategovernance. A summary of the terms of
reference is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Committee
Sir Michael Rake (Chairman from 31st March 2009)
Fulvio Conti
Simon Fraser (from 1st May 2009)
Sir Andrew Likierman
Stephen Russell (to 31st October 2009) (Chairman to 31st March 2009)
Secretary
Lawrence Dickinson
In addition to the members of the Committee, there are a number of regular
attendees at each meeting. The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance
Director, Barclays Internal Audit Director, Chief Risk Officer, Group General
Counsel and the lead external audit partner normally attend all scheduled
Board Audit Committee meetings. The Board Audit Committee members
usually meet before each meeting, without any executive Directors or senior
management present, to raise any questions and discuss issues with the
Chairman of the meeting. They also meet with the external auditors and the
Barclays Internal Audit Director, without management present, at the end of
most Committee meetings.
Sir Andrew Likierman continues to fulfil his role as the ‘financial expert’
as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, as a result of his
accountancy background and his career with HM Treasury , has ‘recent and
relevant financial experience’ as recommended by the Code. Sir Michael Rake
succeeded Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Committee in March 2009. 160 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
Board Audit Committee Chairman’s Statement
I took over from Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee
at the end of March. I would like to thank Stephen for his hard work and
diligence as Chairman of the Committee and for the support provided to
me during the handover period.
Since becoming Chairman, I have focused the work of the
Committee on the following key areas:
– Capital;
– Liquidity;
– Impairment;
– Credit Market Exposures and Mark to Market valuations; and
– Key Control Issues.
In terms of capital and liquidity , the Committee receives quarterly reports
setting out current and forecast capital ratios, the size of the buffer above
minimum capital requirements and the potential impact on capital ratios
of stress scenarios. The liquidity section of the report reviews the Group’ s
liquidity risk profile, including movements in retail and commercial
deposits, the wholesale funding maturity profile and the potential impact
on the Group’ s liquidity position of stress scenarios. The Committee’ s
regular review of these reports is one of the key processes enabling it to
recommend to the Board, on a bi-annual basis, the going concern
statement in the published annual and interim financial statements.
The Committee receives regular reports on current and forecast
impairment. The report reviews trends in both retail and wholesale credit
risk, in each case by business unit. The report also reviews the level of
potential credit risk loans and the level of impairment held against them.
A specific report on impairment methodology was commissioned by the
Committee to ensure that it was satisfied with the methodologies in use
across the Group. The impairment charge included in the interim and
preliminary results announcements is specifically reviewed to ensure that
the Committee is satisfied that the charge is appropriate. In arriving at this
decision, a variety of factors are considered including:
– actual performance versus forecast;
– underlying portfolio trends;
– the business environment;
– compliance with Group impairment policy;
– any adjustments to impairment model outputs;
– Barclays position relative to peer banks; and
– input from the Group’ s external auditor.
The Committee continues to review closely the fair value of the Barclays
Capital credit market exposures (including asset backed securities,
commercial property exposure and leveraged credit positions) and the
form and content of disclosures of these exposures. The review of the
credit market exposure valuations includes a review of marks by key asset
categories, movements in exposures (including sales/paydowns) and a
review of underlying collateral by vintage and rating. The Committee
receives at both the half-year and year-end and before each Interim
Management Statement, a specific presentation from Barclays Capital’ s
Chief Operating Officer and discusses the valuations with the Group
Finance Director, the Chief Risk Officer and, importantly , the Group’ s
external auditors. Confirmation is sought from independent Group control
functions such as Risk and Finance, and the external auditors, that the
individual marks are appropriate. The Committee continues to be reassured
that there were no significant variations between the prices at which
assets were sold and the underlying marks.
A specific focus was the sale of US$12.3bn of credit market assets to
Protium Finance LP in September. I discussed the accounting treatment
relating to the asset sale with both the Group Finance Director and the
Group’ s external auditor to ensure I was satisfied that it was appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed the reclassification of certain financial assets
originally classified as held for trading, and now considered as loans and
receivables, again to ensure the accounting treatment was appropriate.
The Committee receives a quarterly report on Control Issues of Group
Level Significance. This report identifies control weaknesses which could
have a significant financial or non-financial impact. The Committee satisfies
itself that the remediation programmes are appropriate and, in particular,
sufficiently timely . It also monitors the ongoing remediation programme
through to satisfactory resolution. The Committee also reviews the key
risks and controls in each of the Group’ s major business units, focusing in
particular on those areas where the Group’ s business is expanding or is
deemed to be higher risk. It also undertakes more in-depth reviews of
specific areas which it believes warrant close attention, including in 2009:
– Know Y our Customer and Anti-Money Laundering Controls;
– Sanctions Compliance;
– the use of direct sales agents, particularly in the Emerging Markets
business; and
– the Lehman Brothers North American business integration programme.
In addition to the five areas of focus outlined above, the Committee has
been anxious to ensure that the downward pressure on costs in the current
environment does not weaken the control environment. W e have particularly
monitored staffing levels in Internal Audit to ensure that it has the necessary
resources to fulfil the agreed Audit Plan.
The Committee reviews the performance of the internal and external
auditors annually . During 2009, a comprehensive external assessment
of Internal Audit was undertaken. The review compared their practices to
relevant standards, including those published by the Institute of Internal
Auditors as well as regulatory standards and expectations in various
jurisdictions and included peer group benchmarking. The review
concluded that the Internal Audit function complies with the Institute of
Internal Auditors’ Standards, is fit for purpose and provides independent
assurance on which the Board may rely , with many examples of leading
practice. Where suggestions for improvement were made, the Committee
will monitor progress.
Feedback on the performance of the external auditors was again
sought from key stakeholders in the Group via questionnaires with the
results being presented to, and discussed by , the Committee. The Committee
is fully satisfied with the performance of the Group’ s external auditor and
has recommended to the Board and to shareholders that the Group’ s
external auditor should be re-appointed as the Group’ s auditors at the
AGM on 30th April 2010. We are satisfied that the Group’ s external auditor
provides effective, independent challenge to management, which has
been crucial in the current difficult environment, and has provided valued
support to the Committee in the advice given and the clarity of their
briefings and reports. 
As Chairman of the Committee, I have liaised as appropriate with the
Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee, particularly to
draw attention to any specific aspects of the Group’ s results which I feel
he ought to be aware of when determining appropriate levels of
compensation. I have also liaised with the Chairman of the Board Risk
Committee to ensure our agendas are co-ordinated where necessary and
to avoid any overlap/underlap in coverage. I am also a member of the
Board Risk Committee, which helps to ensure close co-ordination between
the two committees.
I also have a programme of visiting key businesses overseas, including
attending meetings of local governance and control committees and the
audit committees of key subsidiaries. During the year, I visited New Y ork,
Dubai and Johannesburg.
The Committee can confirm that it received sufficient, reliable and
timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Sir Michael Rake
Chairman of the Board Audit Committee
9th March 2010
Go online
The Board Audit Committee terms of reference 
are available from the corporate governance 
section of our website at:
www.barclays.com/corporategovernance www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 161
1
2
3
4
5
6
  2009 2008
  % %
1 Control Issues 8 9
2 Financial Results 45 36
3 Internal Audit Matters 13 11
4 External Audit Matters 5 9
5 Business Control 
Environment 21 28
6 Other (including governance 
and Compliance) 8 7
Fig. 6: Board Audit Committee allocation of time
Board Audit Committee Activities in 2009
The Committee met 11 times in 2009 and Figure 6 illustrates how the
Committee allocated its time at those meetings. The items covered under
each heading in Figure 6 are as follows:
Control Issues
– reviewed internal control and risk management systems;
– considered the effectiveness of the Group’ s internal controls over
financial reporting;
– reviewed impairment methodologies; and
– considered the Fraud Risk Control Framework.
Financial Results
– reviewed the full year results, including market understanding and
perception of those results;
– reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts, half-year Results and Interim
Management Statements; and
– reviewed the Group’ s accounting policies and the valuation of derivatives
and credit market exposures.
Internal Audit Matters
– received reports from the internal auditors;
– monitored the performance of the Internal Audit function and received
an external assessment review of the Internal Audit function; and
– reviewed the Global Internal Audit Plan.
External Audit Matters
– reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the Group statutory
auditor;
– approved the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement letter 
of the Group statutory auditor; 
– approved the global audit plan for 2009;
– considered the provision of non-audit services by the Group statutory
auditor – more details can be found in the box on page 162; and
– received reports from the external auditors.
Business Control Environment
– received reports on Group Control Environment Key Trend Data and on the
control environments in each of the following businesses or functions: UK
Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank, Barclays Wealth (Americas),
Barclays Capital (including an update on the integration of the Lehman
Brothers North American business), Barclaycard, Emerging Markets,
Barclays Wealth, Western Europe, GRCB – T echnology and Absa.
Governance and Compliance
– considered the information it would require during the coming year to
enable it to discharge its responsibilities given the significant changes in
financial markets and economic conditions and the impact on the areas of
focus for the Committee;
– received reports on matters discussed at the Board Risk Committee, which
included information on mark to market valuations, impairment, capital
and liquidity; 
– received regular reports on ‘Raising Concerns’, including whistleblowing; 
– received updates on Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance;
– received updates on ‘Know Y our Customer’, Anti-Money Laundering and
Sanctions Compliance audits;
– reviewed the effectiveness of subsidiary audit committees;
– reviewed the recommendations from the Walker Review; and
– reviewed its T erms of Reference to satisfy itself that they enable the
Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
Other
– received updates on business continuity management; and
– reviewed the regulatory issues. 162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
1
2
3
4
5
  2009 2008
  % %
1 Corporate Governance 
Matters 31 52
2 Board and Committee 
Composition 20 38
3 Successing Planning
a
 29 –
4 Board Effectiveness 13 7
5 Other 7 3
Fig. 7: Board Corporate Governance and 
Nominations Committee allocation of time
Non-Audit Services Policy
The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place
safeguards to auditor objectivity and independence. It has therefore
established a policy on the provision of services by the Group’ s statutory
Auditor. The Policy describes the circumstances in which the Auditor may
be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the Group. The Committee
oversees compliance with the Policy and considers and approves
requests to use the Auditor for non-audit work. Allowable services are
pre-approved up to £100,000 or £25,000 in the case of certain taxation
services. Any assignment where the expected fee is above the relevant
threshold requires specific approval from the Committee or a member of
the Committee. The Company Secretary and his team deal with day to
day administration of the Policy , facilitating requests for approval by the
Committee. The Committee receives a report at each meeting on the
non-audit services provided by the Auditor and the Policy is reviewed by
the Committee annually . Details of the services that are prohibited and
allowed are set out below.
Services that are prohibited include:
– bookkeeping;
– design and implementation of financial information systems;
– appraisal or valuation services;
– actuarial services;
– internal audit outsourcing;
– management and Human Resource functions;
– broker or dealer, investment advisor or investment banking services;
and
– legal, expert and tax services involving advocacy .
Allowable services that the Committee will consider for approval include:
– statutory and regulatory audit services and regulatory non-audit
services;
– other attest and assurance services;
– accountancy advice and training;
– risk management and controls advice;
– transaction support;
– taxation services;
– business support and recoveries; and
– translation services.
Note
a Included in ‘Board and Committee Composition’ for 2008.
Go online
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations
Committee terms of reference are available from 
the corporate governance section of our website at:
www.barclays.com/corporategovernance
Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee
Marcus Agius (Chairman)
David Booth (from 1st January 2010)
Sir Richard Broadbent
Sir Michael Rake
Stephen Russell (to 31st October 2009)
Sir John Sunderland
Secretary
Lawrence Dickinson
The meetings are also attended by the Group Chief Executive.
Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee 
Activities in 2009
The Committee met four times in 2009 and Figure 7 illustrates how the
Committee allocated its time at those meetings. During 2009, the Committee:
– regularly reviewed Board and Board Committee composition to ensure the
right mix of skills and experience are present; 
– monitored the progress of the action plan arising from the 2008 Board
Effectiveness Review and oversaw the conduct of the 2009 Board
Effectiveness Review including reviewing the process for the Board,
Committee and individual Review Director evaluations for 2009; 
– reviewed the corporate governance disclosures for the 2008 Annual
Report and considered the proposed disclosures for 2009;
– reviewed issues raised at corporate governance meetings held with
institutional investors and investor bodies in the lead up to the AGM;
– recommended the appointment of the new non-executive Directors to the
Board and changes to Committee membership; 
– reviewed succession plans for the Executive Committee and the position
of Group Chief Executive; and
– reviewed its T erms of Reference to satisfy itself that they enable the
Committee to fulfil its responsibilities. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 163
12
3
4
5
6
  2009 2008
  % %
1 HR Matters (including 
pensions, excluding talent) 3 6
2 Talent Management 1 3
3 Incentive Reward 42 58
4 Remuneration (other, 
including compensation 
philosophy) 35 30
5 Regulation 7 –
6 Other 12 3
Fig. 8: Board HR and Remuneration Committee allocation of time
During 2009, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its
principal Committees at each of its meetings. Following those deliberations,
the Committee recommended to the Board that Simon Fraser and Reuben
Jeffery , who were both identified with the assistance of external search
consultants, be appointed as non-executive Directors in March and July
2009 respectively . The Committee also recommended to the Board the
following changes to Committee membership:
– Sir Michael Rake succeeded Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Board
Audit Committee on 31st March 2009 and was appointed as a member
of the Board Risk Committee and Board Corporate Governance and
Nominations Committee with effect from 1st May 2009;
– Simon Fraser was appointed as a member of the Board Audit Committee
and Board HR and Remuneration Committee with effect from 1st May
2009;
– Patience Wheatcroft was appointed as a member of the Board Risk
Committee with effect from 1st May 2009;
– David Booth succeeded Sir Richard Broadbent as Chairman of the Board
Risk Committee and was appointed as a member of the Board Corporate
Governance and Nominations Committee with effect from 1st January
2010; and
– Reuben Jeffery was appointed as a member of the Board Risk Committee
with effect from 1st January 2010.
The Committee oversees the Board Effectiveness Review and approves the
Action Plan for the year ahead. Further details of the review and our
evaluation statement are set out on page 165.
Board Risk Committee
Information on the role and activities of the Board Risk Committee and the
Committee Chairman’ s Statement can be found on pages 166 to 168 of this
report under ‘Governance of Risk’.
Board HR and Remuneration Committee
Sir Richard Broadbent (Chairman) 
Marcus Agius
Leigh Clifford
Simon Fraser (from 1st May 2009)
Sir John Sunderland
Secretary
Secretary: Patrick Gonsalves
Additional information on the role and activities of the Committee can be
found in the Remuneration Report on pages 170 to 186. The Committee’ s
terms of reference have been updated to reflect the changes to its role and
the recent developments in Corporate Governance and regulation.
Board HR and Remuneration Committee Activities in 2009
The Committee met 14 times in 2009 and Figure 8 illustrates how the
Committee allocated its time at those meetings. During 2009 the
Committee:
– continued its review of the Group’ s remuneration policies and practices to
ensure that they remained appropriate and effective;
– reviewed Executive and Executive Committee compensation; 
– reviewed various Pensions and Health and Safety matters;
– monitored the implementation of the talent agenda;
– considered incentive funding for each main business area for 2010;
– considered the alignment of risk and compensation;
– reviewed current and future, Group and business level long-term incentive
arrangements;
– obtained market data on remuneration levels in specified markets; and
– reviewed regulatory developements in respect of compensation.
The Committee received valuable support and advice from its independent
advisers, T owers Perrin MGMC (now T owers Watson), who attended four
meetings in 2009. 164 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
Management Committees
Executive Committee
John Varley , Group Chief Executive (Chairman)
Bob Diamond, Group President and Chief Executive, Corporate and
Investment Banking and Wealth Management
Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director
Jerry del Missier, co-Chief Executive, Corporate and Investment Banking
Mark Harding, Group General Counsel
Antony Jenkins, Chief Executive, Global Retail Banking
T om Kalaris, Chief Executive, Barclays Wealth
Robert Le Blanc, Chief Risk Officer
Maria Ramos, Chief Executive, Absa
Rich Ricci, co-Chief Executive, Corporate and Investment Banking
Cathy Turner, Group Human Resources Director
The Board delegates the responsibility for the day to day management of
the Company to the Group Chief Executive and he is responsible for ensuring
that the business is operating effectively . The Group Chief Executive chairs
the Executive Committee, which supports him in this role. The Executive
Committee is supported by a number of management committees,
including the Disclosure Committee, the Group Governance and Control
Committee, the Group Operating Committee, the Group Risk Oversight
Committee and the Group Brand and Reputation Committee. The Executive
Committee meets every fortnight to discuss strategy development and
policies to recommend to the Board.
Disclosure Committee
Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director, is Chairman of the Disclosure
Committee and the members of the Committee are the Company Secretary ,
Group General Counsel, Director Investor Relations, Chief Risk Officer,
Barclays Corporate Affairs Director, Group Financial Controller and Barclays
Treasurer. The Committee:
– considers and reviews the preliminary and half-year results, Annual
Report/ Annual Report on Form 20-F and the Annual Review;
– considers Interim Management Statements released to the Stock
Exchange; and
– considers the content, accuracy and tone of any other announcement that
is proposed to be made in accordance with the FSA ’ s Disclosure and
Transparency Rules.
The Committee reports to the Executive Committee and also reports 
to the Board Audit Committee, documenting its conclusions about the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the disclosure controls and
procedures. This, together with a joint report on internal controls from
Barclays Internal Audit Director and the Chairman of the Group Governance
and Control Committee, provides assurance to the Board Audit Committee
as required by the Turnbull Review of Internal Controls and as recommended
by the Code.
Evaluation of Board Performance
The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board
and its Committees is conducted annually and the Walker Review further
recommended that the process is externally facilitated at least every second
or third year. We have undertaken externally facilitated performance
evaluations annually since 2004 and an action plan has been agreed each
year to progress any identified improvements. The evaluation in 2008 was
independently facilitated by Egon Zehnder International and the following
actions were agreed for 2009:
– continued focus on the Board’ s calendar of business to ensure that non-
critical items are removed or kept to a minimum, thereby ensuring that
sufficient time can be allocated to items fundamental to the success of
the Group;
– refinements to the Board’ s calendar of business, including additional time
to be spent on items such as compensation strategy and succession
planning;
– review of the overall size of the Board; 
– refinements to the process for evaluating the performance of individual
Directors; and
– additional reporting on capital and liquidity .
Further details of these actions are set out under Board Activities in 2009
on page 153, and Board Corporate Governance and Nominations
Committee Activities in 2009 on page 162. The Action Plan for 2009 was
completed. The evaluation statement for 2009 is set out on page 165.
Go online
The Board HR and Remuneration Committee terms
of reference are available from the corporate
governance section of our website at:
www.barclays.com/corporategovernance www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 165
Evaluation Statement
In light of changes in Board composition and the significant events of
2009, we reviewed our Board evaluation process before starting the
review for 2009. This included considering whether or not to use an
external facilitator and reviewing and interviewing a number of alternative
external facilitators. 
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee
decided to use an external facilitator again in 2009. It felt that in order
to get the maximum benefit from an evaluation exercise, interviews with
Directors must be conducted as these tend to be far more informative
than questionnaires alone. The Committee also felt that it was
appropriate to conduct such an external review given the question-marks
that have been raised over corporate governance in the sector and
following publication of the Walker Review. 
The 2009 evaluation was again independently facilitated by Egon
Zehnder International. The Committee felt that their proposal for a
refreshed approach to evaluation, including an increased emphasis on
Board relationships and a broader remit with input being sought from key
executives below Board level, was the most appropriate process. The
Board confirms that it does not believe there is a conflict of interest in the
business relationship with Egon Zehnder International as executive
search consultants and Board evaluation facilitators, particularly as the
Group has relationships with other search firms. 
The evaluation process is rigorous and took the form of
questionnaires, which were shortened this year to focus on the elements
that need to be monitored. These questionnaires were completed by
Director and other key executives, who then had individual interviews
with Egon Zehnder. The individual meetings with Egon Zehnder focused
on overall Board composition, a review of key decisions taken by the
Board, the quality of information flows, the quality of debate, the
effectiveness of the Board Committees and Board dynamics, particularly
with a view to assessing whether the interaction of the Board creates a
whole that is greater than the sum of its parts. The process underpinning
key decisions taken by the Board during the year was also reviewed. In
addition, the evaluation exercise seeks Directors’ views on the appropriate
size and composition of the Board, including identifying any gaps in skills
and experience around the Board table. The evaluation covered the
following areas:
– Group performance;
– Strategy and performance objectives, including non-executive
Director involvement;
– Reporting to shareholders and stakeholders;
– Structure, people and succession planning;
– Decision-making processes, including the culture for effective challenge;
– Information flows and presentations;
– Board structure and composition, including non-executive experience
and knowledge;
– Board roles and responsibilities;
– Board and management relationships;
– Board Meetings; and
– Board Committees.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board in February 2010.
The results focused on key themes rather than on direct feedback from
the questionnaires.
The themes that will form the basis of the action plan for 2010 include:
– Board size and diversity;
– holding additional Board meetings overseas, particularly given the
increased size of our operations in the US;
– increasing the visibility of senior executives below Board and Group
Executive Committee level; and
– improving the format of strategy presentations to the Board.
I held private meetings with the non-executive Directors in early
2010 so that individual and general results could be discussed. Bespoke
development plans are then agreed with each non-executive Director in
relation to their own performance. 
As Chairman, I had regular meetings with shareholders and kept
the Board fully informed of their views. Details of communications with
shareholders are set out on page 168 in the section on Relations with
Shareholders.
Marcus Agius
Group Chairman
9th March 2010 166 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
Board Risk Committee Chairman’s Statement
How the Committee goes about its business.
It has been an essential feature of the operation of the Committee that
the information flowing to the Committee is congruent with the
information flow to Executive Committee. In the case of the Group Risk
Profile Report (see below), the report is identical.
The Committee plans its forward programme and undertakes a
number of key tasks throughout the course of the year in order to ensure
it is satisfied with the way risk is being managed. A key role is to review
in detail at the end of every year the proposed Risk Appetite for the
forthcoming year, before recommending it to the Board. 
The Committee monitors risk performance throughout the year to
assess whether such performance is in line with expectations when the
budget was set, adjusted for any differences in the performance of the
economy . Where actual performance differs from expectations, the
actions being taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the
Committee is comfortable with them.
The Committee also reviews sectoral limits in both the wholesale
and retail sectors and in market risk. The purpose of these limits, known
internally as Mandate and Scale limits, is to ensure that concentrations
in the risk profile do not result in unacceptable levels of losses.
The Committee, in conjunction with the risk function, also seeks
to identify potential future areas of risk in order to undertake detailed
analysis and review. A good example of this would be the Committee’ s
review of the US mortgage business, which was requested at the end of
2006. The Committee will also, as part of its calendar of business, review
experience of past risk events and seek to identify any lessons learnt in
order to ensure they are embedded into business practices. It also seeks
to compare Barclays risk stance with those of others to understand the
relative risk being taken.
The Committee also monitors the Group’ s capital and liquidity
position throughout the year to ensure they are within the agreed Risk
Appetite parameters.
Finally , the Committee regularly reviews how risk is measured within
the business in order to ensure it is satisfied with the risk measurement
systems in place.
Context
Barclays has long recognised the importance of ensuring that the Board
and its Committees devote sufficient attention to risk, particularly as it is
only by taking appropriate levels of risk that Banks can make a profit. A
Board level Risk Committee has been in existence since 1999 and a key role
of the Committee is to analyse, understand and monitor the key risks taken
by the business to generate profit and create shareholder value. The
Committee focuses on risks taken deliberately and overtly , such as credit,
market, capital and liquidity risk, rather than the risks of simply doing
business, such as operational risk. The Committee, in analysing and
monitoring risk, is acting on behalf of the Board and it was an essential part
of my role as Chairman to ensure that the Committee alerts the Board to
issues of concern. 
The Committee itself is comprised solely of independent non-
executive directors. However, the Group Finance Director and Chief Risk
Officer attend each meeting as a matter of course and the Chief Risk
Officer has a dotted reporting line to me as Chairman of the Committee.
I have regular meetings with Robert Le Blanc, the Chief Risk Officer, who
also has the right (and indeed responsibility) to elevate issues to me where
he considers it necessary . I am also consulted by the Group Finance
Director in respect of the performance appraisal and compensation of the
Chief Risk Officer. His compensation is approved by the Board HR and
Remuneration Committee and appointment to or departures from the role
are a matter reserved to the Board. 
The Committee is conscious, when undertaking its duties, that banks
are in the business of taking risk. The aim of the risk function within
Barclays and the Board Risk Committee itself is therefore not to minimise
risk but to optimise it. This requires us to ensure that risks being taken are:
– properly identified and understood, both in their own right and relative to
their interactions with other risks we are taking;
– appropriate, relative to the scale and type of our business;
– affordable, particularly in relation to the capital base of the company;
– properly controlled and managed; and
– earning an appropriate return, i.e. , one commensurate with the
risk taken.
Governance of Risk
Board Risk Committee
David Booth (Chairman from 1st January 2010)
Sir Richard Broadbent (Chairman to 31st December 2009)
Reuben Jeffery III (from 1st January 2010)
Sir Andrew Likierman
Sir Michael Rake
Stephen Russell (to 31st October 2009)
Patience Wheatcroft (1st May-16th June 2009)
Secretary
Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson
In addition to the Members of the Committee, all meetings are usually
attended by the Group Finance Director and Chief Risk Officer. Barclays
Internal Audit Director, Group General Counsel and Barclays external auditor,
as well as other senior executives, also attend meetings of the Board Risk
Committee, where appropriate.
Go online
The Board Risk Committee terms of reference 
are available from the corporate governance 
section of our website at:
www.barclays.com/corporategovernance www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 167
Board Risk Committee Chairman’s Statement continued
sector limits. Risk models in use in the business must also include more
subjectivity and bespoke analysis when rating complex financial structures.
Action is underway in all these areas.
Mandate and Scale Limits
The Committee reviewed the sectoral limits in place in both the Wholesale
and Retail Credit Risk Sectors. These limits include commercial property
caps (by geography), leveraged finance limits, high yield underwriting
caps, limits to loans to lower grade names or credit scores and stress
limits by different types of market risk (e.g. interest rate, foreign
exchange, commodity).
Governance
The Committee spent time discussing both the Turner Review and the
draft and final Walker Review and, in particular, how the recommendations
should be reflected in the Committee’ s terms of reference and way of
working. Some minor changes have been made as a result.
Relationship with other Committees
The Committee must work closely with both the Board Audit Committee
and the Board HR and Remuneration Committee. In respect of the Board
Audit Committee, a schedule has been agreed setting out the key roles
of each committee in areas such as capital and liquidity to ensure there is
clarity of responsibility . The Committee discussed papers from the risk
function on the assessment of business performance on a risk-adjusted
basis and the proposals for risk metrics to be used in the 2010
compensation cycle, in both cases prior to submission to the Board HR
and Remuneration Committee as an input into compensation decisions.
In conclusion, the Committee seeks to ensure that it achieves a
balance each year between:
– comparative analysis – reviewing our risk stance compared to that
of our competitors in defined areas;
– retrospective analysis – we undertake a retrospective review at least
once a year of a selected area of risk;
– trend analysis – we look once a year at underlying risk trends; and
– technical analysis – we review at least once a year one technical area
related to the measurement and management of risk.
The quality of papers is vital to the work of the Committee, with papers
typically including:
– quantified analysis, including both absolute and relative data; 
– information on returns; and
– financial parameters, such as performance against budget and capital
utilisation.
The Committee provides a full written report to the Board after every
meeting, which I introduce and answer questions about.
At the beginning of 2010, I handed over the Chairmanship of the
Committee to David Booth after four stimulating and challenging years.
Sir Richard Broadbent
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee
9th March 2010
Activities in 2009
During 2009, the Committee undertook the following activities:
Reviewed a full Group Risk Profile Report quarterly . 
The Group Risk Profile Report incorporates: 
– an economic overview; 
– an update on impairment charges and loan loss rates;
– risk appetite utilisation; and
– sections on retail and wholesale credit risk (by business unit), market risk
and operational risk.
Capital and Liquidity
The Committee monitored movement in economic and regulatory capital
demand and supply and the level of losses that could be experienced before
minimum regulatory capital ratios are breached. The Committee also
reviewed and recommended to the Board the liquidity risk appetite of the
Group to ensure that sufficient liquidity is held to cover both market-wide
and Barclays specific stress scenarios.
Key risk issues
Each year, the Committee ensures it has a forward programme of issues
to analyse in detail. During 2009, the Committee analysed the risk profiles
and controls in the following businesses:
– the Commodities business in Barclays Capital;
– the Emerging Markets business in GRCB; and
– the US equities business.
The Committee also received regular reports on the Group’ s exposures to
the asset backed securities (ABS) and leveraged credit market exposures
and how these were being managed down.
Stress T esting
The Committee reviewed and approved the scenarios to be used in the
annual stress testing and reviewed the results of the tests themselves
to ensure that the Group would remain adequately capitalised and liquid
even under severe stress.
Risk Appetite
Risk appetite is set by agreeing the level of credit risk impairment the Group
is prepared to accept in the base case economic forecast for the following
year, together with impairment levels that would be incurred in economic
scenarios that represent 1:7 and 1:25 events. A Daily Value at Risk limit and
stress losses for market risk in 1:7 and 1:25 scenarios is also agreed,
together with total loss limits from operational risk. 
The financial results of the Group are budgeted in the base case and
forecast in the stress scenarios to ensure that they do not breach a series
of parameters agreed by the Committee. These parameters include pre-tax
profit, return on equity , loan loss rates, capital ratios, leverage ratios, dividend
and credit rating. A key focus, given current conditions, was to ensure that
the capital ratio parameters (in respect of Tier 1 and Core Tier 1) were met
at all times. 
Follow up on risk issues
The Committee requested and received a report from the business on the
lessons learnt from the sub-prime crisis. The losses in sub-prime arose from 
a systemic market collapse which was not foreseen by our risk processes, the
rating agencies or the broader market. Subsequent events have highlighted
areas for improvement in certain of our processes, particularly around the
need to improve the aggregation of risk positions across all businesses and to
include the potential for discontinuous moves in key parameters when setting 168 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Corporate governance report
continued
Board Risk Committee (continued)
The Committee met five times in 2009 and Figure 9 shows how the
Committee allocated its time at those meetings. The items covered under
each heading in Figure 9 are as follows:
Risk Profile/Risk Appetite 
– Reviewed the Group Risk Profile Report (including updates on the Group’ s
capital position);
– reviewed updates on liquidity risk; 
– reviewed in greater detail the process around setting annual Risk Appetite
to establish the effectiveness of the process in responding to significant
changes in economic and market conditions;
– reviewed the Risk Appetite for the Group for 2010 and made
recommendations to the Board; and 
– received regular Future Risk Trends reports, which set out the internal and
external indicators that are showing signs of strain and a report on future
risk issues.
Key Risk Issues
– reviewed risk trends in tax risk management; 
– received regular reports on ABS and leveraged credit market exposures;
and
– reviewed the Group’ s stress testing proposals and outcomes.
Internal Control/Risk Policies
– reviewed the internal control and assurance framework;
– examined the risk control framework, and approved Group policies
including the trading book policy , large exposures policy , liquidity policy ,
retail and wholesale credit impairment policies and the Group’ s principal
risks policy;
– reviewed risk measurement methodologies; and
– received updates on the programme of actions being taken Group-wide
to mitigate risk in view of deteriorating economic conditions in our major
markets, such as the UK, US, South Africa and Spain.
Regulatory Frameworks
– reviewed the liquidity risk framework and underlying assumptions;
Other
– revised its T erms of Reference, including its role in reviewing risks following
the Group’ s entry into new businesses or geographies; its role in reviewing
capital ratios, liquidity risk and its input into remuneration decisions; the
increased frequency of risk, capital and liquidity reporting and the setting
up of an external advisers panel for the Committee; and
– reviewed its T erms of Reference to satisfy itself that they enable the
Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
More information on risk management and the internal control framework
can be found in the Risk management report on pages 82 to 146.
Relations with Shareholders
Communicating with shareholders is a key priority for the Board and was
particularly important during the continuing financial crisis in 2009. In the
normal course of events, the Board aims to keep shareholders up to date and
informed about how Barclays is performing and its strategy . During 2009,
there was significant additional communication around the sudden fall in
the share price in January 2009, the proposed sale of the iShares business
and the subsequent sale of BGI, for which we held a General Meeting in
August 2009.
Institutional shareholders
Engagement with our institutional shareholders is essential to ensure a
greater understanding of and confidence in the medium and longer-term
strategy of Barclays and in the Board’ s ability to oversee its implementation.
The Group Chairman and Senior Independent Director are responsible
for ensuring the Board is accessible to major shareholders and that channels
for communication are open. They are also responsible for ensuring that the
Board is aware of any concerns raised by major shareholders and that their
views are taken on board. The Group Chairman, Senior Independent
Director, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director regularly meet
with our investors and the executive Directors and senior executives hold
group and one to one meetings with major investors. The Group Chairman,
Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary also conduct a series
of meetings with the corporate governance representatives of our major
institutional shareholders ahead of each AGM. The Investor Relations team
organise roadshows, seminars, conferences, presentations and other
activities that enable the Directors to engage with investors and some of
these are highlighted below:
– over 100 meetings with US institutions following the acquisition of the
Lehman Brothers North American businesses;
– over 200 one-to-one meetings with investors (the Group Chairman and
Executive Committee members);
– over 40 group meetings with investors; and
– nine presentations at conferences.
In addition, the Investor Relations team also met nearly 150 investors in
one to one and group meetings.
1
2
3
4
  2009 2008
  % %
1 Risk Profile/Risk Appetite
(including capital 
management) 39 55
2 Key Risk Issues (including 
ABS and Leveraged 
Credit Markets) 28 35
3 Internal Control/Risk Policies 4 4
4 Regulatory Frameworks 9 5
5 Other (including remuneration
and governance issues) 20 1
5
Fig. 9: Board Risk Committee allocation of time www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 169
Private shareholders
Communication with our private shareholders has also been important
during 2009. Personalised information was sent to shareholders for the
AGM in April and the General Meeting in August, which included the Notice
of Meeting, proxy form, Circular and a question and answer booklet about
the proposed sale of BGI. Further documents were available on the Group’ s
website and sent to shareholders on request.
We recommenced paying a dividend in December 2009 and will pay
the final dividend for 2009 in March 2010.
The change in law that allows us to communicate electronically with
shareholders has enabled us to use less paper , which benefits the environment
and lowers distribution costs for the Group. All shareholder documents are
available electronically as soon as they are published but shareholders can
still receive communications in paper format if they wish. This year we will
post the Notice of Meeting and proxy forms to all shareholders.
We encourage shareholders to hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore,
where shares are held electronically in a cost-effective and secure
environment. Shareholders can use our e-view service to receive their
shareholder documents electronically and they can also use this service to
get immediate access to information relating to their personal shareholding
and dividend history . E-view participants can also change their details and
dividend mandates online and receive dividend tax vouchers electronically .
Annual General Meeting/General Meeting 
The 2009 AGM was held on 23rd April 2009 at the Queen Elizabeth II
Conference Centre in London. In accordance with best practice, all resolutions
were considered on a poll and the results were made available on our website
the same day . 53.1% of the shares in issue were voted and all resolutions
were approved. All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and are
available to answer shareholder questions. All Directors attended the 2009
AGM, with the exception of Simon Fraser, who was appointed to the Board
on 10th March 2009 and had a prior commitment on the day of the AGM. 
A general meeting (GM) was held on 6th August 2009, at the Brewery ,
London, where shareholders were asked to approve a resolution in connection
with the proposed sale of the BGI business and ancillary arrangements.
61.6% of the shares in issue were voted on a poll and the resolution was
approved. The results of the poll were made available on our website on the
same day . The Group Chairman, all of the Executive Directors and two non-
executive Directors, including the Deputy Chairman, attended the GM.
The 2010 AGM will be held on Friday 30th April 2010 at the Royal
Festival Hall in London. The Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this Annual
Report as a separate document. The resolutions will be considered on a poll
and the results will be available on our website on 30th April 2010.
Statement on US Corporate Governance Standards
The statement required by NYSE is set out below.
Director independence
NYSE Rules require the majority of the Board to be independent. The
Code requires at least half of the Board (excluding the Chairman) to be
independent. The NYSE Rules contain detailed tests for determining
whether a Director is independent, whereas the Code requires the Board
to determine whether each Director is independent in character and
judgement and sets out criteria that may be relevant to that determination.
We follow the Code’ s recommendations as well as developing best practices
among other UK public companies. The independence of our non-executive
Directors is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis and it takes into
account the guidance in the Code and the criteria we have established for
determining independence, which are described on page 156.
Board Committees
We have a Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and
a Board HR and Remuneration (rather than Compensation) Committee,
both of which are broadly similar in purpose and constitution to the
Committees required by the NYSE Rules and whose terms of reference
comply with the Code’ s requirements. As the Group Chairman was
independent on appointment, the Code permits him to chair the Board
Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and be a member
of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee. Except for these
appointments, both Committees are composed solely of non-executive
Directors, whom the Board has determined to be independent. We follow
the Code recommendation that a majority of the Nominations Committee
should be independent non-executive Directors, whereas the NYSE Rules
state that the Committee must be composed entirely of independent
Directors. We comply with the NYSE Rules regarding the obligation to have
a Board Audit Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of
the US Securities Exchange Act, including the requirements relating to the
independence of Committee members. In April 2009, we made an Annual
Written Affirmation of our compliance with these requirements to the NYSE.
The Code also requires us to have a Board Audit Committee comprised
solely of independent non-executive Directors. However, we follow the
Code recommendations, rather than the NYSE Rules regarding the
responsibilities of the Board Audit Committee, although both are broadly
comparable. We also have a Board Risk Committee, comprised of
independent non-executive Directors, which considers and discusses
policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.
Corporate Governance Guidelines
The NYSE Rules require domestic US companies to adopt and disclose
corporate governance guidelines. There is no equivalent recommendation in
the Code but the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee
has developed corporate governance guidelines, ‘Corporate Governance in
Barclays’, which have been approved and adopted by the Board.
Code of Ethics
The NYSE Rules require that domestic US companies adopt and disclose a
code of business conduct and ethics for Directors, officers and employees.
Rather than a single consolidated code as envisaged in the NYSE Rules, we
have a number of ‘values based’ business conduct and ethics policies, which
apply to all employees. In addition, we have adopted a Code of Ethics for the
Chief Executive and senior financial officers as required by the US Securities
and Exchange Commission.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans
The NYSE listing standards require that shareholders must be given the
opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions
to those plans. We comply with UK requirements, which are similar to the
NYSE standards. However , the Board does not explicitly take into consideration
the NYSE’ s detailed definition of what are considered ‘material revisions’. 170 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
Statement from the Chairman of the Board HR and 
Remuneration Committee
Context
The Committee’ s goal is to balance the needs of sustaining a competitive
business capable of creating future value for shareholders with the
crystallisation of current returns to build capital to finance business growth
and to pay dividends to shareholders.
This is never an easy balance to strike and trading conditions of the last
two years, exceptional levels of political and social interest in remuneration,
new fiscal measures and new regulatory requirements that differed in their
interpretation in different jurisdictions all complicated our task this year. This
has also been a year of significant business growth in investment banking
which has materially increased the scope of matters requiring our attention.
During 2009, we have been reviewing our remuneration practices to
ensure that they remain appropriate and effective. The context of the review
was to ensure that the important principle of pay for performance that
underpins our business continues to be implemented in a way that is
consistent with and supportive of:
– appropriate management of risk
– delivering returns to shareholders
– strengthening the balance sheet to support current business activities
such as lending to our customers, and future business growth
– protecting the business franchise by maintaining our competitiveness in
the labour market.
We have drawn directional conclusions from our work to date which will
underpin our decisions about structure and quantum of compensation
looking forward. These are:
– a significantly greater proportion of incentives will be longer term and
more will be deferred in order to contend with greater risk adjustment,
industry cyclicality and market volatility
– the use of equity for employee remuneration remains central to ensuring
alignment of shareholder and employee interests
– there will be greater emphasis on the detailed consideration of risk
associated with individual performance
– there is a role for greater exercise of discretion to avoid the perverse results
that can arise particularly from long-term schemes being tied to over-
precise performance projections. Discretion should be exercised within the
context of a robust framework of performance and risk data, and be
associated with appropriate levels of accountability .
How the Committee goes about its business
A critical element of our approach is a robust governance framework.
The Committee approves forward-looking frameworks based on financial
metrics to ensure leadership and planning of remuneration in each of the
key businesses. These frameworks incorporate metrics consistent with
delivering the businesses’ business plans; and are assessed against market
benchmarks to inform its decision making when approving aggregate
remuneration proposals from management as well as the remuneration
proposals of any employee above a specified threshold or falling within the
scope of the FSA ’ s Remuneration Code.
T o reflect the Group’ s stated goal of focus on returns over growth, the
return we generate on risk-weighted assets was added in 2009 to the key
metrics of financial performance used in these frameworks. Our metrics
include compensation as a percentage of pre-compensation PBT and of net
revenues. We also monitor absolute compensation per employee.
The Committee’ s decision making is also informed by input from the
Group Finance Director and, more recently , the Chief Risk Officer directly to
ensure that the level of risk within the business and the quality of underlying
profits have been considered. The Committee has also considered the
impact on profits from a number of factors including use of Central Bank and
government schemes, higher liquidity requirements and the shape of the
yield curve.
The Committee also reviews the structure as well as the quantum 
of compensation, with particular attention on levels of deferral, the mix 
of annual and long-term incentives and the proportion of equity relative 
to cash.
In reaching its final decisions, the Committee uses its discretion,
informed by an assessment of performance and risk within the context 
of a strong, risk-adjusted culture, and underpinned by robust governance
processes. Market benchmarking is an important but not the only input 
in supporting the Committee’ s objective to pay the minimum amount
consistent with maintaining competitiveness and long-term shareholder
value creation.
Subsequent to each year, we look back and review the extent to 
which our decisions met our objectives and seek to learn lessons for 
the coming year.
The Committee retains independent advisers to support it in its work.
2009
The performance of Barclays during 2009 is described in detail in the Group
Chief Executive’ s business review. Barclays delivered profit before tax of
£11.6bn, 92% up on 2008. The underlying profits of the Group were also
very strong, increasing 243% to £5,634m from £1,643m. In addition,
excellent progress was made in the following areas:
– Core Tier 1 ratio increased from 5.6% for 2008 to 10.0% for 2009
– the balance sheet reduced by 33%
– adjusted gross leverage decreased to 20x compared to 28x in 2008 and
the Group liquidity pool increased to £127bn compared to £43bn in 2008
– gross new lending to UK households and businesses totalled £35bn
during 2009
– the payment of dividends resumed with a final dividend of 1.5p per share,
giving total declared dividends for 2009 of 2.5p per share.
Our decisions on discretionary pay in 2009 properly reflect this performance.
The increase in incentive compensation in the investment banking business
was materially less than the increase in total income (with the ratio of total
compensation to total income falling from 44% in 2008 to 38% in 2009);
and the cost to net income ratio was brought down even more sharply . www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 171
In addition, there was a significant increase in the use of deferral, equity
and long-term awards, particularly to senior executives. Around 5,000
employees will have a proportion of their remuneration delivered as long-
term awards. All discretionary remuneration for members of the Group
Executive Committee and all members of Barclays Capital Executive
Committee will be delivered over a three-year period and subject to
clawback.
Long-term awards take the form of equity or cash, paid over three years.
73% of the long-term awards from the 2009 pay review are in the form of
equity . Two new plans have been introduced for the purpose of making
long-term awards below the executive Director level, the Share Value Plan
and Cash Value Plan. These are described in further detail in the following
report.
We are compliant with the FSA Remuneration Code and the Financial
Stability Board Implementation Standards endorsed by the G20 and have
applied these to the decisions of the 2009 pay review. The overall quantum
of remuneration is also consistent with the FSA ’ s minimum capital
requirements. A direct and intended consequence of our 2009 pay decisions
has been the further strengthening of our Core Tier 1 capital ratio.
The compensation pool has been managed in such a way that the UK
Bank Payroll T ax cost broadly equates to a reduction in the size of the pool,
with the reduction being borne by senior executives. The cost to the Group
of the UK Bank Payroll T ax in respect of 2009 cash compensation is £190m,
and £35m is being provided in respect of certain prior year awards which
may fall within the proposed legislation.
The following approach has been taken on executive Directors’
remuneration:
– appropriate consideration was given to non-financial measures as well as
risk considerations in the assessment of executive Directors’ performance
– zero annual performance bonus for the Chief Executive and the President.
This is the second successive year that they have advised the Board that
they wish to decline any annual bonus awards
– no long-term award for the Chief Executive. This is the second successive
year that he has advised the Board that he wishes to decline any long-term
award
– current executive Directors who have long-term performance shares due
to vest and be released in 2010 intend to agree to voluntary clawback
arrangements operating over a further two years.
These outcomes for executive Directors were carefully considered and seek
to ensure an appropriate share of value between employees and
shareholders, with full consideration also being given to the requirements of
other stakeholders such as regulators and governments. They follow on
from the unequivocal outcomes in respect of 2008: no salary increases or
annual performance bonuses, long-term awards 64% lower than 2007 with
no awards for the Chief Executive and President, and the vesting of long-
term awards to executive Directors due to be released in 2009 being
deferred for a further two years subject to additional financial performance
over that period.
Activities in 2009
The Committee exercised effective governance in 2009, meeting 14 times to
review remuneration practices, frameworks, regulatory developments and
market data and advice from external consultants.
In addition to the wider review of remuneration arrangements, the key
activities were as follows:
– approval of annual remuneration packages including incentive awards for
executive Directors and other senior executives as part of the 2009 pay
review
– approval of senior executive remuneration packages on appointment,
promotion and termination
– approval of aggregate incentive funding for each of the major businesses
– assessment of performance against relative TSR, cumulative Economic
Profit and other financial performance targets to determine the vesting
level under performance share and other long-term awards
– selection of performance metrics and calibration of targets for long-term
awards
– preparation, review and approval of the Remuneration Report.
Report
The following report of the Committee provides further explanation of the
current remuneration governance and arrangements for executive Directors
and is divided into the following sections:
– Committee remit, members and advisers
– Remuneration policy , decisions and governance
– Executive Directors’ remuneration
– Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
– Former Directors’ remuneration
– Share plan descriptions.
As required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the Group’ s auditors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have audited the information contained in
T ables 1b, 3, 5, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Committee’ s report.
The Committee unanimously recommends that you vote at the 2010
AGM to approve the Remuneration Report as all Directors will be doing with
their own Barclays PLC shares.
On behalf of the Board
Sir Richard Broadbent
Chairman, Board HR and Remuneration Committee
9th March 2010 172 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued
Board HR and Remuneration Committee remit and membership
The Committee provides governance and strategic oversight of executive
and all other employee remuneration, Barclays Human Resources activities
and senior management development. The Committee’ s terms of reference
are available in the Corporate Governance section of the website
http://www.aboutbarclays.com. The terms of reference were revised in
February 2010 in the light of best practice and to take account of regulatory
and corporate governance developments. The Committee met formally 
14 times during 2009. The Chairman of the Committee presented a report
to the full Board on each meeting. A report on the Committee’ s activities is
set out on page 161 as part of the Corporate Governance Report.
The members of the Committee are Sir Richard Broadbent (Committee
Chairman), Marcus Agius (Group Chairman), Leigh Clifford, Sir John
Sunderland and Simon Fraser who was appointed to the Committee with
effect from 1st May 2009.
The non-executive Directors who are Committee members are
considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from
any business or other relationship that could materially affect the exercise of
their independent judgement. Marcus Agius, the Group Chairman, is also a
member and he was considered independent on appointment to the Board.
Advisers
The Committee’ s work is supported by independent professional advice.
The Committee reviews the appointment of advisers each year. T owers
Perrin MGMC (now T owers Watson) were re-appointed by the Committee 
in 2009. 
Any potential conflicts of interest the advisers may have are disclosed to
the Committee. In addition to advising the Committee, T owers Watson
provided remuneration benchmarking data to the Group.
The Group Chief Executive, the Human Resources Director, the
Compensation and Benefits Director and, as necessary , members of the
Executive Committee, also advise the Committee, supported by their teams.
No Group employee is permitted to participate in discussions or decisions of
the Committee relating to his or her own remuneration.
Remuneration Policy
The aims of the Barclays Remuneration Policy are to:
1. Attract and retain those people with the ability , experience and skill to
deliver the strategy .
2. Create a direct and recognisable alignment between the rewards and risk
exposure of shareholders and employees, particularly executive Directors
and senior management.
3. Incentivise employees to deliver sustained performance consistent
with strategic goals and appropriate risk management, and to reward
success in this.
4. Deliver compensation that is affordable and appropriate in terms of value
allocated to shareholders and employees.
5. Encourage behaviour consistent with the principles that guide Barclays
business:
i) Winning together
– Doing what is right for Barclays, its teams and colleagues, to achieve
collective and individual success.
ii) Best people
– Developing talented colleagues and differentiating compensation
to reflect performance.
– Doing what is needed to ensure a leading position in the global financial
services industry .
iii) Customer and client focus
– Understanding what customers and clients want and need and then
serving them brilliantly .
100
138
106
135
148
100
109
121
136
98
33
60
Fig 2: Total Shareholder Return 
£
Y ear ended 31st December
07
08
05
04
06
09
Barclays PLC
FTSE 100 Index
Source: Datastream
08
£3m
(£86m)
Fig 1: Executive Directors’ remuneration –  
alignment of interests with shareholders
Total direct remuneration Indicative cumulative fair value 
movements from 1st January 2007
on beneficial shareholdings and 
share-based remuneration
Share price
£m
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
30
20
10
0
(10)
(20)
(30)
(40)
(50)
(60)
(70)
(80)
(90)
Share price
(p)
07
09
£11m
(£62m)
£27m
(£29m)
Total Shareholder Return 
Figure 2 shows the value, at 31st December 2009, of £100 invested in
Barclays on 31st December 2004 compared with the value of £100 invested
in the FTSE 100 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening
financial year ends. The FTSE 100 Index is a widely recognised performance
comparison for large UK companies and this is why it has been chosen as a
comparator to illustrate Barclays TSR. The graph shows that, at the end of
2009, a hypothetical £100 invested in Barclays on 31st December 2004
would have generated a total loss of £40 compared with a gain of £35 if
invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Executive Directors’ remuneration – alignment of interests
with shareholders
Figure 1 shows the aggregate total direct remuneration of the current
executive Directors for 2007, 2008 and 2009 compared to the indicative fair
value movements on the current executive Directors’ aggregate share-
based remuneration and beneficial interests in Barclays PLC shares from
1st January 2007 on a cumulative basis. The performance of Barclays share
price is shown for context. The chart shows that the current executive
Directors’ interests have decreased in value by £62m over 2007, 2008 and
2009 as a consequence of the movement in Barclays share price.
In addition to the interests in Barclays PLC shares above, Robert E Diamond Jr held equity
interests in BGI Holdings which were disposed as part of the sale of BGI as set out on 
page 178.  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 173
iv) Pioneering
– Driving new ideas, especially those that make Barclays profitable
and improve control.
– Improving operational excellence.
– Adding diverse skills to stimulate new perspectives and bold steps.
v) Trusted
– Acting with the highest levels of integrity to retain the trust
of customers, shareholders, other external stakeholders and
colleagues.
– T aking full responsibility for decisions and actions.
– Reflecting the operation of independent, robust and evidence based
governance and control and complying with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements.
The Committee keeps the Remuneration Policy and arrangements, as
detailed in this report, under review to ensure that Barclays programmes
remain competitive and provide appropriate incentive for performance.
Remuneration decisions 
Our Remuneration Policy provides a framework for the Committee in
carrying out its work including remuneration decisions in relation to
executive Directors.
One of the core elements of Barclays approach is to deliver
compensation that is affordable and appropriate in terms of value allocated
to shareholders and employees, with full consideration also being given 
to other relevant stakeholders such as customers, regulators and
governments. When making compensation decisions, Barclays balances 
the views of these stakeholders with the need to be able to attract, retain
and incentivise talent in a competitive market.
A particular focus during 2009 has been to ensure that our approach to
discretionary pay awards for 2009 is compliant with both the Financial
Services Authority Remuneration Code and the Financial Stability Board
Implementation Standards, and that aggregate funding decisions balance a
number of factors including the need to continue to strengthen capital
ratios, to invest in the business, to recommence dividend payments and to
protect the business franchise.
We are committed to the principle of pay for performance. A key
element of ensuring the link between pay and performance on an individual
basis is the robust performance assessment framework operated across the
Group. Employee behaviours are considered in the context of the Guiding
Principles set out above which are incorporated into our Remuneration
Policy . The extent to which employee behaviour accords with these
standards is assessed as part of the performance assessment framework,
which includes an examination of the employee’ s performance from both a
financial and non-financial perspective. Performance against these areas
helps to reinforce the right behaviours and so mitigate operational and
reputational risks. The resulting performance ratings have a direct impact on
all individual compensation decisions.
At an aggregate level, in order to ensure that a link is maintained
between pay and performance, incentive funding decisions are made by
reference to a number of quantitative and qualitative measures and are
determined at the discretion of the Committee. During 2009, the role of Risk
and other control functions in remuneration governance was enhanced and
the process for setting the remuneration of control functions was
formalised.
The exercise of informed discretion plays an important role in the
assessment of performance in the context of all our remuneration decisions,
rather than using a formulaic approach which could incentivise
inappropriate behaviours.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are taken into
account by the Committee in determining the remuneration packages for
executive Directors. The general approach is the same across the Group,
namely decisions are made on a total compensation basis (base salary ,
bonus and long-term awards) against the relevant market. We seek to
provide market competitive retirement and other benefits and eligible
employees have the opportunity to participate in share plans.
Remuneration Policy governance
T o ensure appropriate operation of the Remuneration Policy , the Committee
has established frameworks for the governance of remuneration in each of
the major businesses and for the Group as a whole. These frameworks were
reviewed in 2009.The current frameworks set out key financial ratios
achieved by Barclays and its competitors and have been used by the
Committee to inform its decision-making process when approving
aggregate remuneration spend, including bonus and long-term incentive
expenditure, strategic investment for new hires, and the remuneration
arrangements of any employee with annual total remuneration equal to or 
in excess of £750,000. Going forward, compensation of employees within
the scope of the FSA Remuneration Code’ s particular remuneration
structure requirements will also be individually approved by the Committee.
The reporting of senior hires and leavers to the Committee has also been
enhanced.
For individual remuneration decisions made by the Committee,
including those for executive Directors and other key senior management,
the Committee reviews each element of remuneration relative to
performance and to the practice of other comparable organisations.
Remuneration is benchmarked against the markets in which we compete for
talent. This includes benchmarking against other leading international
banks and financial services organisations, and other companies of a similar
size to Barclays in the FTSE 100 Index. 
Given the materiality of Barclays pension arrangements, the Committee
operates a specific framework for the management of pensions to ensure
proper oversight. The Global Retirement Fund Governance Framework is
operated to ensure best practice in respect of regulatory compliance,
governance, investment and administration. In the second half of 2009,
Barclays announced the closure of its UK final salary pension schemes to
future accrual in order to reduce current and future UK pension liability risk
and to ensure that our pension arrangements are sustainable and affordable
over the long term. Details of the pension arrangements in place for
executive Directors are set out on page 178 and for other employees on
page 236. 174 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued
Executive Directors’ remuneration
T able 1a explains the purpose of each element of remuneration and 
T able 1b shows executive Directors’ remuneration in respect of 2009 
and 2008.
Base salaries
T able 2 shows the annual base salaries for the current executive Directors.
T able 2: Base salary Base salary at Base salary at Date of
31st December 2009 1st April 2010 previous
£000 £000 increase
Executive Directors
John Varley 1,100 1,100 1st April 2008
Robert E Diamond Jr 250 250 1st March 1999
Chris Lucas 650 800 1st April 2008
Robert E Diamond Jr has, since 1st January 2009, received his base salary in US dollars converted
from sterling into US dollars using an average sterling/US dollar exchange rate for 2008 of 1.86.
In respect of Chris Lucas, having regard to the levels of salary and total
compensation in comparable organisations, the Committee approved the
increase to base salary set out above, effective from 1st April 2010.
Annual cash bonus and deferred share awards
The maximum bonus opportunity for executive Directors is tailored to the
relevant market; this is typically 250% of base salary . The annual bonus
award is made by reference to a qualitative and quantitative assessment of
performance with the latter assessment comprising the majority . For 2009,
more emphasis was placed on non-financial measures as well as risk
considerations.
ESAS is a deferred share award plan operated in conjunction with various
Group bonus plans for executive Directors and certain other employees,
subject to trustee discretion. For 2009, the use of ESAS was significantly
scaled back as the new Share Value Plan and Cash Value Plan are being
operated for deferrals across the Group. The future use of ESAS is under
review. Further detail of these plans is included on pages 183 to 185. 
The Board, through the Committee, formed the view that annual bonus
awards for John Varley and Robert E Diamond Jr were merited based on both
Group and personal performance. However, out of consideration of the
continued impact of the economic downturn on many clients, customers and
shareholders, combined with the fact that banks and bankers’ pay remain
matters of intense public interest and concern, both advised the Board that
they wish to decline any such awards for the second successive year.
For Chris Lucas, a recommendation will be made to the ESAS trustee that
T able 1a: Executive Directors’ annual remuneration
When normally
received/ 
Element Purpose Delivery Programme summary awarded
Base salary T o reflect the market value of – Cash – Reviewed annually , with any Paid in year
the individual and their role – Monthly increases typically effective
– Pensionable on 1st April
Annual T o incentivise the delivery – A proportion of annual – Based on annual performance Normally paid
performance of annual goals at the performance bonus paid in cash of the Group as a whole, in the following
bonus (cash) Group, business division – Non-pensionable business unit performance financial year
and individual levels where relevant and individual
performance
Total cash Sub-total of the above
Deferred share award T o align annual – A proportion of annual – Discretionary award of shares  Normally 
(ESAS) performance with performance bonus to be deferred for three to five  awarded in 
shareholder value and recommended as a deferred years. No performance condition on the following 
increase retention share award under ESAS release, as a deferred share award financial year
– Non-pensionable – 20% bonus shares releasable
after three years, a further 10%
after five years
– Dividends normally accumulated 
during deferral period
Long-term incentive T o reward the creation – Award of shares that vests – Discretionary awards Normally
award 2010-2012 of sustained growth in after three years, subject to – Participation reviewed annually awarded in 
(PSP) shareholder value performance conditions – Barclays performance over three  the following
– Non-pensionable years determines the performance financial year
shares eligible for release to 
each individual 
– Dividends normally accumulated 
during deferral period
Pension T o provide a market competitive – Deferred cash or cash allowance – Non-contributory , defined Paid or accrued
(or cash allowance) post-retirement benefit – Monthly benefit scheme and/ or defined during year
contribution scheme, or cash 
allowance in lieu of pension 
contributions
Other benefits T o provide market competitive – Benefit in kind, or cash allowance – Benefits include private medical Received 
benefits – Non-pensionable insurance, life and disability cover, during year
accommodation overseas when
required for business purposes, use 
of company-owned vehicle or cash 
equivalent and tax advice
Sub-total in accordance 
with Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 T otal of base salary , annual performance bonus (cash), pension cash allowance and other benefits  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 175
100% of his annual bonus is delivered as a share award under ESAS which is
deferred over a three- to five-year period. The ESAS amounts shown in T able
1b show the basic allocations, but do not include bonus shares. Including the
maximum potential 30% bonus shares, the award in respect of 2009 will
have an initial value of £1,950,000 for Mr Lucas. Typically , 20% bonus shares
become releasable after three years, with the full 30% bonus shares only
normally releasable five years from the date of award. Following consultation
with the Committee and mindful of evolving best practice and regulatory
developments, Mr Lucas intends to write to the ESAS trustee in respect of any
awards made in 2010. He proposes that, in its absolute discretion, the trustee
may take into account personal misconduct and/ or any material misstatement
of the 2009 financial results when considering whether to release any shares
under these awards to him at the scheduled release dates.
PSP awards due to vest in 2010
For the PSP awards made in relation to the 2007-2009 cycle, the TSR
condition was not met and the EP condition was met. As a result, awards that
are scheduled to vest in March 2010 (at the absolute discretion of the PSP
trustee) are due to vest at 1.5 times the initial award (maximum is 3 times).
This represents a reduction in value of approximately 75% of the maximum
value of the number of shares that could vest at the share price at award.
T able 1b: Executive Directors’ annual remuneration John Varley Robert E Diamond Jr Chris Lucas
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Base salary 1,100 1,075 250 250 650 638
Annual performance bonus (cash) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total cash 1,100 1,075 250 250 650 638
Deferred share award
(ESAS) 0 0 0 0 1,500 0
Long-term incentive
award 2010-2012 0 0 6,000 0 1,000 800
(PSP)
Pension (or cash allowance) 163 159
Other benefits 23 23 134 66 19 18
Sub-total in accordance
with Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 1,123 1,098 384 316 832 815
Member of Member of Member of Member of
pension pension pension pension
scheme scheme scheme scheme
See page 178 See page 178 See page 178 See page 178
After consultation with the Committee, the current executive Directors
intend to write to the Committee agreeing voluntary clawback
arrangements to operate for a two-year period following vesting of their
awards. By this voluntary agreement, the executive Directors will repay the
value of the shares at the end of the two-year period (after deduction of
taxes paid) should a performance condition, to be agreed and assessed by
the Committee, not be met.
Proposed awards in 2010
It is proposed that Bob Diamond and Chris Lucas are awarded a
performance share plan award in 2010 which will be based upon
performance over the three-year period 2010 to 2012.
The Board, through the Committee, formed the view that a
performance share plan award for John Varley was merited, based on both
Group and personal performance. However, John Varley advised the Board
that he wishes to decline any such award.
The number of shares awarded to date and the performance conditions
relating to each award are set out below.
The PSP awards are shown in T able 1b at the fair value of the
recommended awards. 176 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued
Share plans
Barclays operates a number of share plans to align the interests of
employees with shareholders. The following tables summarise the interests 
of each current executive Director in each plan and the relevant three-year
performance conditions for outstanding PSP cycles. The interests shown 
are the maximum number of shares that may be received under each plan.
Executive Directors do not pay for any share plan award.
Summary descriptions of principal share plans operated by Barclays 
are shown on pages 183 to 186.
For PSP , at the end of each performance period, independent 
T able 3: Long-term plans and deferred share plans
Number of
shares under
award/option at Market Weighted Number
1st January 2009 Awarded in price on average released/
(maximum) year (maximum) award date exercise price exercised
John Varley
PSP 2006-2008 473,604 – £6.75 – –
PSP 2007-2009 504,294 – £7.08 – –
PSP 2008-2010 812,412 – £4.25 – –
ISOP 944,655 – – £4.29 –
Sharesave 3,735 – – £4.70 –
ESAS 469,467 – – – (38,498)
Robert E. Diamond Jr
PSP 2006-2008 2,368,014 – £6.75 – –
PSP 2007-2009 2,878,686 – £7.08 – –
PSP 2008-2010 2,031,030 – £4.25 – –
ISOP 575,008 – – £4.42 –
BGI EOP 100,000 – – £20.11 (100,000)
ESAS 7,048,112 – – – (3,682,230)
Chris Lucas
PSP 2007-2009 255,396 – £7.08 – –
PSP 2008-2010 541,608 – £4.25 – –
PSP 2009-2011 – 1,598,046 £2.34 – –
Sharesave 3,735 – – £4.70 –
ESAS 79,477 – – – (35,471)
Numbers shown for ESAS above represent provisional allocations that have been awarded.
Numbers shown as aggregate ESAS amounts also include shares under option as at 31st
December 2009. Nil cost options are normally granted under mandatory ESAS awards at the
third anniversary of grant and are exercisable (over initial allocation and two-thirds of bonus
shares) typically for two years. The aggregate exercise price of a nil cost option is £1. At the fifth
anniversary of the provisional allocation the nil cost options normally lapse and the shares
(including bonus shares) are released at the discretion of the ESAS trustee (further detail is
included on page 183). In 2009, nil cost options were granted to Mr Varley over 100,924 shares.
Nil cost options (granted in 2007) lapsed during the year. Mr Varley held 146,282 nil cost
options under ESAS as at 1st January 2009, and 206,934 as at 31st December 2009. The first
and last exercise dates were 12th March 2008 and 21st March 2011 respectively .
Mr Varley received 9,674 dividend shares and Mr Diamond and Mr Lucas received 578,308 
and 6,211 dividend shares respectively from the ESAS released during the year (share price 
on release date was £2.10).
T able 4: Performance conditions attaching to the share plans in which the executive Directors participate
Performance Performance
Scheme period measure Target
PSP 2009 -2011 50% of award calibrated against TSR   33% of maximum award released for above median performance  
(6th place) with 100% released in 1st place and a scaled basis 
in between
50% average RoRWA 17% of maximum award released for 0.83% scaled to a maximum 
award at 1.34% 
2008-2010 50% of award calibrated against TSR As above
50% of award calibrated against Cumulative 33% of maximum award released for £6,921m scaled to 100%  
EP over the three-year performance period of maximum award at £8,350m
2007-2009 50% of award calibrated against TSR As above
50% of award calibrated against Cumulative 33% of maximum award released for £7,618m scaled to 100% 
EP over the three-year performance period of maximum award at £8,668m www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 177
confirmation is provided to the Committee of the extent to which each
performance condition has been met.
Relative T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) and Return on Risk-Weighted
Assets (RoRWA) were selected in 2009 as performance measures to
support the Group’ s long-term goals.
All awards and releases are recommended by the Committee to the
independent trustee and are subject to trustee discretion.
The trustee may also release to participants dividend shares which
represent accumulated dividends (net of withholding) in respect of shares
under award.
During 2009 Barclays highest share price was £3.84 and the lowest was
£0.51. The share price at year end was £2.76.
End of three-
Number of year PSP
shares under performance
award/option at Vested period, or first Last
Market price Number 31st December number Value of exercise/ exercise/
on release/ lapsed in 2009 of shares release/ scheduled scheduled
exercise date 2009 (maximum) under option exercise release date release date
– (240,749) 232,855 – – 31/12/08 30/03/11
– – 504,294 – – 31/12/09 22/03/10
– – 812,412 – – 31/12/10 20/03/11
– – 944,655 944,655 – 18/05/03 22/03/14
– – 3,735 – – 01/11/14 30/04/15
£2.08 – 430,969 – £0.08m 12/03/08 20/03/13
– (1,203,741) 1,164,273 – – 31/12/08 30/03/11
– – 2,878,686 – – 31/12/09 22/03/10
– – 2,031,030 – – 31/12/10 20/03/11
– – 575,008 575,008 – 12/03/04 22/03/14
£109.45 – – – £8.93m 26/03/07 15/12/09
£2.08 – 3,365,882 – £7.67m 07/03/10 20/03/13
– – 255,396 – – 31/12/09 22/03/10
– – 541,608 – – 31/12/10 20/03/11
– – 1,598,046 – – 31/12/11 27/04/12
– – 3,735 – – 01/11/14 30/04/15
£2.08 – 44,006 – £0.07m 20/03/11 20/03/13
Following completion of the sale of BGI on 1st December 2009, the BGI EOP was terminated In
accordance with the rules of the plan. As part of the EOP termination and in line with other
participants, Robert E Diamond Jr exercised his EOP options and sold his BGI Holdings shares to
Barclays Bank PLC.  Robert E Diamond Jr’ s EOP options were granted before he was appointed to
the Board of Barclays.
In relation to the 2006-2008 PSP awards, after consultation with the Committee, the executive
Directors wrote to the PSP trustee to request that it defer the exercise of its discretion to release
shares to them until 2011 (subject to continued employment and further financial performance
conditions relating to the underlying financial health of the Group). The maximum number of
shares that may be released in 2011 was determined in 2009 and is fixed as set out in the table
above. There will be no opportunity to receive shares in excess of this number (except for any
dividend shares that may be awarded by the PSP trustee).
TSR peer group constituents
Actual
UK Mainland Europe US Underpin performance
HSBC, Lloyds Banking Group, Banco Santander, Citigroup, Committee must be satisfied with the T o be determined
Royal Bank of Scotland BBV A, BNP Paribas, JP Morgan underlying financial health of the Group at vesting in
Deutsche Bank, UBS, Chase after considering Economic Profit (EP) March 2012
Unicredit and Profit Before T ax (PBT) on a cumulative 
basis over the three-year period
HBOS, HSBC, Lloyds TSB, As above As above Cumulative EP over performance T o be determined
Royal Bank of Scotland period must exceed cumulative EP at vesting in
over previous three years March 2011
As above As above As above As above Performance
condition
partially met 178 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued
Pensions
Chris Lucas receives a cash allowance of 25% of base salary in lieu of joining
a Group pension scheme. 
John Varley is a member of the Group’ s 1964 UK defined benefit pension
scheme. Following a review of UK pension schemes, in line with other
employees, he will cease to build up benefits in this non-contributory
defined benefit scheme with effect from 31st March 2010. At present
Mr Varley has a contractual entitlement to an unreduced pension of 60% of
pensionable salary should he retire at age 55, and a pension of up to two
thirds of his pensionable salary at the normal retirement age of 60. Mr Varley
has voluntarily chosen to give up this contractual entitlement with effect
from 1st April 2010 and a lesser amount will now be available, equating to
the benefit accrued up to 31st March 2010.
From 1st April 2010 Mr Varley will instead receive a cash allowance of
25% of his base salary in lieu of joining a Group pension scheme in line with
other executive Directors. No compensation was paid to Mr Varley for giving
up his contractual right to continue to accrue benefits in the defined benefit
pension scheme. 
Mr Varley also has a defined contribution benefit of £596,568 as at 
31st December 2009 in respect of a previous transfer from a freestanding
A VC, arising from his personal contributions only .
Robert E Diamond Jr participates in the Group’ s US non-contributory
defined benefit arrangements which provide a benefit at age 65 of 1/60th of
final average pensionable pay for each year of service up to a maximum of
30 years. In line with current market practice, final average pensionable pay
includes salary and an element of bonus up to a current combined
maximum of US$350,000. The benefits are provided through the US
defined benefit plan (a funded arrangement) and the US Restoration Plan
(an unfunded arrangement). The scheme also provides a death in service
spouse’ s pension of approximately 50% of the pension that would have
been payable had early retirement occurred on the date of death.
Mr Diamond also participates in the Barclays Bank PLC 401K Thrift
Savings Plan and Thrift Restoration Plan, which are both defined
contribution plans. The company contributions paid in respect of 2009
amounted to £18,786 (US$29,400). 
T able 5 sets out the pension benefits of the current executive Directors.
Pension accrued during the year represents the change in accrued pension
during the year (including inflation at the prescribed rate of –1 .6% (UK)).
Pensions paid from the UK defined benefit pension scheme are reviewed
annually and increase by a minimum of the increase in the retail prices index
(capped at 5%), subject to the scheme rules.
The transfer value for Mr Varley has been calculated in a manner
consistent with the approach used by the independent UK Retirement Fund
Trustee to calculate cash equivalent transfer values in compliance with the
transfer value regulations that came into force on 1st October 2008. During
2009, the UK Retirement Fund Trustee changed the transfer basis for all
members. The change reflected different mortality assumptions and a lower
discount rate. This contributed £3m of the increase in Mr Varley’ s transfer
value during the year and this amount does not relate to an increase in the
pensions benefits accrued by Mr Varley (but the current actuarial
assessment of the value of those benefits). The remainder of the increase in
transfer value relates to Mr Varley’ s additional year of pensionable service.
The transfer value for Mr Diamond has been calculated consistent with
the approach and assumptions appropriate to the US defined benefit plans
of which he is a member.
The transfer values disclosed do not represent a sum paid or payable to
the executive Directors, but rather they represent the present value of
accrued payments to be made under the pension schemes.
Other benefits
Executive Directors are provided with benefits including private medical
insurance, life and disability cover, the use of a company-owned vehicle or
the cash equivalent, tax advice and accommodation overseas when
required for business purposes. These benefits are available on similar terms
to each executive Director. No Director has an expense allowance. 
T able 5: Pension provision Transfer Transfer
Pension value of value of
Accrued accrued Pension Accrued accrued accrued
pension during 2009 accrued pension pension pension Increase
at 31st (including during 2009 at 31st at 31st at 31st in transfer Annual cash
Age at 31st Completed December increase for (excluding December December December value during in lieu of 
December years of 2008 inflation) inflation) 2009 2008 2009 the year pension
2009 service £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
John Varley 53 27 572 47 56 619 12,328 17,015 4,687 –
Robert E Diamond Jr 58 13 45 13 14 58 280 383 103 –
Chris Lucas 49 2 – ––– – – – 163
T able 6: Interests in shares of Barclays PLC 
at 31st December 2009
At 1st January 2009 At 31st December 2009
Non- Non-
Beneficial beneficial Beneficial beneficial
Executive Directors 
John Varley 593,266 – 622,418 –
Robert E Diamond Jr 5,866,965 – 8,333,810 –
Chris Lucas 76,038 – 101,697 –
Beneficial interests include shares held either directly , or through a nominee, spouse, or
children under 18. They include any interests held through Sharepurchase. Non-beneficial
interests include any interests in shares where the executive Director holds the legal, but not
beneficial interest. Note 42 provides further information on Directors’ and officers’
shareholdings. There were no changes to the interests of executive Directors in shares of
Barclays PLC in the period 31st December 2009 to 5th March 2010. 
As part of the termination of EOP , Robert E Diamond Jr exercised his options over 100,000 BGI
Holdings shares. He then sold his newly acquired BGI Holdings shares and existing 200,000
BGI Holdings shares to Barclays Bank PLC for a net consideration of £26.8m, after deducting
aggregate option exercise costs of £6.0m.
T able 7: Indicative change in value of executive Director 
total share interests
Indicative
Indicative Indicative increase on
value at Indicative value at 31st total share
1st January change in December interest 
2009 holdings 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Executive Directors
John Varley 2.5 – 4.8 2.3
Robert E Diamond Jr 23.5 (3.7) 40.0 20.2
Chris Lucas 0.7 0.8 2.6 1.1
T otal share interests are beneficial interests plus share-based remuneration including any
initial or provisional allocations and vested awards under ESAS, PSP , ISOP and Sharesave. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 179
Shareholding guideline
The Committee guideline provides that executive Directors should hold
Barclays PLC shares worth, as a minimum, the higher of two times base
salary or average of total remuneration over the last three years. Executive
Directors have five years from their appointment to meet this guideline and a
reasonable period to build up to the guideline again if it is not met because
of a share price fall. T able 6 shows the current executive Directors’ beneficial
and non-beneficial interests in shares. T able 7 shows the indicative change
in value of the executive Directors’ total share interests during 2009. 
Performance-linked remuneration
Each element of remuneration is important and has a specific role in
achieving the aims of the Remuneration Policy . The combined potential
remuneration from annual performance bonus and PSP outweighs the
other elements, and is subject to personal and Group performance, thereby
placing the majority of potential remuneration at risk.
T able 8 shows the average proportions of fixed and variable pay over the
last three years.
T able 8: Average fixed and variable pay over
the last three years (or since joining) Variable
Fixed Cash Shares
Executive Directors
John Varley 79% 9% 12%
Robert E Diamond Jr 4% 23% 73% 
Chris Lucas 30% 6% 64%
This incorporates salary and benefits, the increase in transfer value of accrued pension or
annual cash in lieu of pension, annual bonus comprising cash bonus and deferred share
awards including bonus shares, and the fair value of PSP awards.
Service contracts
The Group has service contracts with its executive Directors which do
not have a fixed term but provide for a notice period from the Group of 
12 months and normally for retirement at age 65. Executive Directors’
contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Group 
or, in the alternative, termination by way of payment in lieu of notice
(in phased instalments) which are subject to contractual mitigation. 
In the event of gross misconduct, neither notice nor a payment in lieu 
of notice will be given.
The Committee’ s approach when considering payments in the event 
of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including
the reason for termination, contractual obligations and share and pension
plan rules.
The Committee is sensitive to stakeholder concerns regarding
contractual bonus payments to departing executive Directors. The executive
Directors’ service contracts will be reviewed in 2010 in the light of best
practice and regulatory and corporate governance developments. The
Committee does not intend to include similar contractual provisions in
relation to executive Director appointments going forward.
Details of current executive Director contract terms are shown in T able 9.
External appointments
The fees for external appointments held by executive Directors are shown in
T able 10.
T able 9: Contract terms Effective date Notice period
of contract from the Company Potential compensation for loss of office
Executive Directors 
John Varley 1st September 2004 12 months 12 months base salary , bonus equivalent 
to the average of the previous three years
and continuation of medical and pension 
benefits whilst an employee
Robert E Diamond Jr 1st June 2005 12 months 12 months base salary , bonus equivalent 
to the average of the previous three years
and continuation of medical and pension 
benefits whilst an employee
Chris Lucas 1st April 2007 12 months 12 months base salary , bonus equivalent 
to the average of the previous three 
years up to 100% of base salary and 
continuation of medical and pension 
benefits whilst an employee 
T able 10: Fees for external appointments held by executive Directors 2009 2008
Fees Fees 
Director Organisation Fees retained Fees retained
John Varley British Grolux Investments Limited £8,061 £8,061 £7,788 £7,788
AstraZeneca PLC £95,000 £95,000 £83,333 £83,333
Any other positions held by the executive Directors do not attract fees. 180 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued
Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman and non-executive Directors
The Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman and non-executive Directors
receive fees which reflect the individual responsibilities and membership of
Board Committees. Fees are reviewed each year by the Board. Fees were last
increased in June 2008.
The first £20,000 of each non-executive Director’ s base fee and the
Deputy Chairman’ s fee is used to purchase Barclays PLC shares. These
shares, together with reinvested dividends, are retained on behalf of the
non-executive Directors until they retire from the Board.
Marcus Agius, Group Chairman, has a minimum time commitment
to Barclays equivalent to 60% of a full-time role and he receives private
health insurance in addition to his fees. Marcus Agius is not eligible to
participate in Barclays bonus and share incentive plans nor will he participate
in Barclays pension plans or receive any pension contributions. No other
non-executive Director receives any benefits from Barclays.
Membership and Chairmanship of Board Committees as at 31st
December 2009 and details of the remuneration received by the non-
executive Directors during the year are set out in T able 11. The Corporate
Governance Report sets out current membership. Details of non-executive
Director beneficial interests in Barclays PLC shares are set out in T able 12. 
T able 12: Shareholdings At At 31st At 5th 
1st January December March
2009 2009 2010
total total total
beneficial beneficial beneficial
interests interests interests
Group Chairman
Marcus Agius 113,148 113,530 113,530
Non-executive Directors
David Booth 64,248 73,325 75,376
Sir Richard Broadbent 24,625 34,590 36,634
Leigh Clifford AO 26,236 35,427 37,348
Fulvio Conti 30,482 39,304 41,274
Simon Fraser – 46,247 48,172
Reuben Jeffery III – 26,173 62,841
Sir Andrew Likierman 13,297 23,007 25,078
Sir Michael Rake 6,399 15,127 17,138
Sir John Sunderland 71,463 79,775 81,705
T able 13: Terms of letters of appointment Notice Potential
period compensation
Effective from the for loss
date Company of office
Group Chairman
12 months 
contractual
Marcus Agius 1st Jan 2007 12 months remuneration
Non-executive Directors
David Booth 1st May 2007 6 months 6 months fees
Sir Richard Broadbent 16th July 2009 6 months 6 months fees
Leigh Clifford AO 1st Oct 2004 6 months 6 months fees
Fulvio Conti 1st Apr 2006 6 months 6 months fees
Simon Fraser 10th Mar 2009 6 months 6 months fees
Reuben Jeffery III 16th July 2009 6 months 6 months fees
Sir Andrew Likierman 1st Sep 2004 6 months 6 months fees
Sir Michael Rake 1st Jan 2008 6 months 6 months fees
Sir John Sunderland 1st June 2005 6 months 6 months fees
T able 11: 2009 fees Board
Corporate
Board HR Governance
Board and and
Deputy Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Risk Total Total
Chairman Chairman Member Committee Committee Committee Committee Benefits 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fees (at 31st Dec 09) 
Full-year fee 750 200 70 – – – – – – –
Committee Chair – – – 60 40 – 40 – – –
Committee Member – – – 25 15 15 15 – – –
Fees to 31st December 2009
Group Chairman
Marcus Agius 750 – – – M. Ch. – 1 751 751
Non-executive Directors
David Booth – – M. – – – M. – 85 83
Sir Richard Broadbent – DCh. M. – Ch. M. Ch. – 197 188
Leigh Clifford AO – – M. – M. – – – 123 115
Fulvio Conti – – M. M. – – – – 95 90
Simon Fraser – – M. M. M. – – – 83 –
Reuben Jeffery III – – M. – – – – – 32 –
Sir Andrew Likierman – – M. M. – – M. – 110 105
Sir Michael Rake – – M. Ch. – M. M. – 141 90
Sir John Sunderland – – M. – M. M. – – 108 98
Leigh Clifford was also a member of the Asia Pacific Advisory Committee and received fees of US$60,000 (2008: US$60,000). These fees are included in those shown above.
As Deputy Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent receives a fee of £200,000 per annum. From 16th July 2009, the date from which he was appointed as Deputy Chairman, 
Sir Richard Broadbent did not receive any additional fees for serving on Board Committees or as Senior Independent Director.
Sir John Sunderland was appointed as a member of the Group Brand and Reputation Committee (for which the full-year fee is £15,000) with effect from 1st July 2009 
and received fees of £7,500. These fees are included in those shown above.
Simon Fraser was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 10th March 2009.
Reuben Jeffery III was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 16th July 2009.
On 16th February 2010, the non-executive Directors acquired ordinary shares pursuant to
arrangements under which part of each non-executive Director’ s fee is used to buy shares 
in Barclays. Barclays PLC shares were acquired by each non-executive Director as follows: 
David Booth 2,051; Sir Richard Broadbent 2,044; Leigh Clifford 1,921; Fulvio Conti 1,970;
Simon Fraser 1,925; Reuben Jeffery 2,668; Sir Andrew Likierman 2,071; Sir Michael Rake 2,011
and Sir John Sunderland 1,930. On 17th February 2010, Reuben Jeffery also acquired 8,500
Barclays American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), representing 34,000 Barclays PLC shares.
Except as described in this note, there were no changes to the beneficial or non-beneficial
interests of non-executive Directors in the period 31st December 2009 – 5th March 2010. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 181
Letters of appointment
The Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman and non-executive Directors have individual letters of appointment. Each non-executive Director appointment is for
an initial six-year term, renewable for a single term of three years thereafter. 
Details of non-executive Directors standing for re-election at the 2010 AGM are set out on page 148.
Former Directors
Frits Seegers, Sir Nigel Rudd, Professor Dame Sandra Dawson, Stephen Russell and Patience Wheatcroft ceased to be Directors during the year.
Frits Seegers ceased to be a Director with effect from 3rd November 2009 and continued as an employee in order to effect a successful handover.
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson and Sir Nigel Rudd did not put themselves forward for re-election at the 2009 AGM and received no termination payments.
Patience Wheatcroft resigned as a non-executive Director with effect from 16th June 2009 and received no termination payment. Stephen Russell resigned
as a non-executive Director with effect from 31st October 2009 and received no termination payment. Their remuneration for 2009 was as follows:
T able 14: Annual remuneration Received for 2009
Deferred Long term
Salary Annual share award incentive Cash Total Total
and fees cash bonus (ESAS) (PSP) Benefits allowance 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Frits Seegers 700 467 933 0 110 175 2,385 2,502
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 30 ––––– 30 90
Sir Nigel Rudd DL 63––––– 63 200
Stephen Russell 113––––– 113 153
Patience Wheatcroft 41––––– 41 78
In respect of the deferred share award (ESAS), a recommendation was made to the ESAS trustee that a provisional allocation of shares is made to Mr Seegers,
scheduled to vest over a three-year period (31.5% scheduled to vest at first and second anniversary of grant and 37% scheduled to vest at third anniversary
of grant. The third portion alone will include 20% bonus shares). The ESAS amount shown in T able 14 shows the basic allocation, but does not include
bonus shares. Including the maximum potential bonus shares, the ESAS award will have an initial value of £1,002,042 for Mr Seegers.
During Mr Seegers’ notice period, which will expire on 31st December 2010 at the latest, monthly payments of £161,150 constituting base salary ,
instalments in respect of bonus for 2010 and other benefits are payable in line with his contract. In the event of an earlier cessation of employment by
mutual agreement, monthly payments in respect of salary , cash allowance in lieu of pension and other benefits will cease to be made.
Sir Nigel Rudd was appointed as Chairman of the Advisory Committee – UK & Ireland Private Bank with effect from 1st December 2009. As Chairman
of the Advisory Committee, Sir Nigel will receive a fee of £150,000 p.a. and in 2009 received £12,500. These fees are not included in those shown above.
Patience Wheatcroft was a member of the Group Brand and Reputation Committee (for which the full-year fee is £15,000) until her resignation as a
non-executive Director with effect from 16th June 2009 and received fees of £6,917. These fees are included in those shown above.
T able 15: Terms of contract or letter of appointment Notice period from
Effective date the Company Potential compensation for loss of office
Frits Seegers 7th June 2006 12 months 12 months base salary , bonus equivalent
to the average of the previous three years
and continuation of medical and pension 
benefits whilst an employee
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 1st March 2003 6 months 6 months fees
Sir Nigel Rudd DL 1st February 1996 6 months 6 months fees
Stephen Russell 25th October 2000 6 months 6 months fees
Patience Wheatcroft 1st January 2008 6 months 6 months fees
T able 16: Other directorships held by Frits Seegers 2009 2008
Fees Fees
Director Organisation Fees retained Fees retained
Frits Seegers Absa Group Limited and Absa Bank Limited £7,598 £0 £26,807 £0
Frits Seegers held this position until 11th February 2009.  182 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued
Former Directors continued
T able 17: Executive Share Award Scheme (ESAS)
Number
Number at Market Market at 3rd 
1st January Awarded price on price on Number November First Last
2009 in year award Number release lapsed in 2009 Value of release release
Scheme (maximum) (maximum) date released date 2009 (maximum) release date date
Frits Seegers
ESAS 285,712 – – (84,521) £2.83 – 201,191 £0.24m 21/03/10 20/03/11
Mr Seegers received 53,817 dividend shares from the ESAS released during the year (share price on release date was £2.86).
T able 18: Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Number of Number of
shares at Market Market shares at End of three-
1st January Awarded price on price on Number 3rd November year PSP Scheduled
2009 in year award Number release lapsed in 2009 Value of performance release
Scheme (maximum) (maximum) date released date 2009 (maximum) release period date
Frits Seegers
PSP 2006-2008 485,868 – £6.30 – – (246,983) 238,885 – 31/12/08 31/08/11
PSP 2007-2009 420,246 – £7.08 – – – 420,246 – 31/12/09 22/03/10
PSP 2008-2010 1,083,216 – £4.25 – – – 1,083,216 – 31/12/10 20/03/11
PSP 2009-2011 – 3,196,095 £2.34 – – – 3,196,095 – 31/12/11 27/04/12
In respect of Mr Seegers’ 2006 PSP award (scheduled to vest in 2009), vesting was deferred for a further two-year period at his request, subject to the
satisfaction of further performance conditions. The maximum number of shares that may be released is as set out in the table. There is no opportunity to
receive shares in excess of this number (save for any dividend shares that may be awarded by the PSP trustee). Following his cessation as a Director, a
recommendation has been made for the award to vest in March 2010. The Committee determined that the further performance conditions (as requested
in 2009) had been met. 
50% of Mr Seegers’ 2009 PSP award was subject to the Return on Risk-Weighted Assets condition measured at GRCB level. The Committee
determined that following the reorganisation of GRCB, performance would be measured for the 2009 financial year only , to reflect his contribution whilst in
service (and is subject to the auditors’ final confirmation). Performance shares under this portion of the award (if any) will not vest until the third anniversary
of grant. The TSR portion of the award will continue to be measured for the full three-year period, with shares (if any) scheduled to vest on or after the third
anniversary of grant.
T able 19: Sharesave
Number Vested 
Number at Weighted Market at 3rd  number
1st January Awarded average Number price on Number November of First Last
2009 in year exercise vested Number exercise lapsed in 2009 share Value of exercise exercise
Scheme (maximum) (maximum) price in year exercised date 2009 (maximum) options exercise date date
Frits Seegers
Sharesave 3,480 – £4.70 – – – 3,480 – – 01/11/12 01/05/13
Gary Hoffman, a former Director, is a Director of Barclays Pension Fund Trustees Limited and received fees of £55,254. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 183
Share and long-term incentive plans
Barclays operates a number of Group-wide plans. Summaries of the principal plans are set out below. Barclays has a number of employee benefit trusts
which operate with these plans. In some cases, the trustees grant awards and purchase shares in the market to satisfy awards as required, in others, new
issue or treasury shares may be used to satisfy awards where the appropriate shareholder approval has been obtained. The number of shares held by 
the trustees is set out in Note 44 on pages 263 and 264. The limits on the issue of new shares comply with the guidelines issued by the Association of
British Insurers.
T able 20: Plans under which awards made in 2009
Executive 
Directors
Plan name eligible? Description 
Performance Y es – PSP is a performance related share plan under which awards of Barclays PLC shares may be made to selected
Share Plan employees (including executive Directors), subject to trustee discretion.
(PSP) – The PSP trustee may select any employee of the Group to participate in the plan.
– Awards are granted by the PSP trustee, in consultation with the Remuneration Committee and are communicated
as provisional allocations to participants. No right to the shares arises until the PSP trustee releases the shares.
– Participants do not pay for a grant or release of an award.
– Awards are normally releasable on or after the third anniversary of grant, to the extent that applicable performance
conditions are satisfied, subject to trustee discretion.
– Any awards released may also include an additional number of shares equivalent to any dividends that would have
been paid on the shares between the date of grant and release.
– Normally , the maximum expected value of an award made to an employee at the date of grant is the higher of 150%
of base salary , or 75% of base salary and target bonus. Maximum awards reflect the relevant market for each
executive Director. Awards are communicated on grant as an expected value. This is a single value for the award at
grant, which takes into account the sum of the various possible performance and vesting outcomes.
– On cessation of employment, eligible leavers (as defined) normally receive an award pro rated for time and
performance subject to trustee discretion. For other leavers, awards will normally lapse.
– On a change of control awards may vest at the PSP trustee’ s discretion and may be pro rated for time and
performance to the date of change of control.
– PSP is not an HMRC approved plan.
– The plan was approved for a ten year period by shareholders in April 2005.
Executive Share Y es – ESAS is a deferred share award plan operated in conjunction with various Group bonus plans for selected employees 
Award Scheme (including executive Directors), subject to trustee discretion. 
(ESAS) – Awards are granted by the ESAS trustee having first consulted with the Remuneration Committee.
– For certain eligible employees a proportion of discretionary annual bonus is delivered in cash and a proportion is as
a recommended mandatory provisional allocation of Barclays PLC shares under ESAS.
– The mandatory provisional allocation will normally include bonus shares equal to 30% of the value of the deferred
bonus amount awarded in shares.
– Under mandatory ESAS awards, nil cost options are typically granted three years from award, subject to the discretion
of the ESAS trustee. Participants may then call for the shares plus two thirds of the bonus shares and any associated
dividend shares. If the nil cost option is not exercised by the end of the two year period, the ESAS trustee may release
all shares, bonus shares and any dividend shares to the participant.
– In addition to mandatory ESAS, participants may also request to waive any bonus (or part of a bonus) to which they
may become entitled and request that a voluntary ESAS award be made to them in the form of a nil cost option.
Voluntary ESAS awards are typically fully exercisable after five years, and include bonus shares equal to 30% of the
waived bonus amount. Dividend shares may be awarded, as per mandatory ESAS awards.
– On cessation of employment, a participant may forfeit an award depending on the reason for leaving. Special
provisions apply on a change of control.
– ESAS is also used to make certain awards to facilitate the retention and recruitment of new joiners to the Group who
have forfeited share awards on leaving previous employment. Typically bonus shares are not awarded, though
dividend shares may be awarded, as per mandatory ESAS awards.
– ESAS is not an HMRC approved plan.
Incentive shares No – Incentive shares are discretionary share awards that may be made to selected employees (excluding executive 
Directors), subject to trustee discretion.
– Shares are normally released after three years, subject to continued employment and the discretion of the trustee.
Dividends received are normally awarded as additional shares and released at the same time.
– On cessation of employment eligible leavers (as defined) normally receive an award pro rated for time in employment,
subject to the discretion of the trustee; for other leavers, awards will normally lapse.
– On a change of control awards may vest, pro rated for time to the date of change of control, subject to the discretion
of the trustee.
– Incentive shares is not an HMRC approved plan. 184 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued 
Share and long-term incentive plans  continued
T able 20: Plans under which awards made in 2009 continued
Executive 
Directors
Plan name eligible? Description 
Long Term No – The LTCP is a forward-looking plan introduced for 2009, under which conditional awards of cash are made to 
Cash Plan eligible employees (excluding executive Directors).
(LTCP) – Awards are released in portions over a period of time (two years for 2009 awards), subject to continued employment. 
– At the time of the final release, for 2009 awards, a service credit (10% of the initial value of the award) is added.
– Participants must normally be in employment at the time of release in order to receive each portion of the payment. 
– Participants who leave employment before the release date of any portion of the award will normally forfeit any
outstanding amounts. For categories of eligible leavers an award will vest, pro rated for time in service. 
– On a change of control awards may vest at the discretion of the Committee.
Sharesave Y es – Sharesave was approved for a ten-year period in 2000 and is due to expire at the end of 2010. Shareholder approval
will be sought at the AGM to establish a replacement scheme on substantially the same terms.
– Sharesave is a share option plan under which all eligible employees in the UK, Ireland and Spain (including executive
Directors) are invited to participate. It is HMRC approved in the UK and approved by the Revenue Commissioners in
Ireland.
– Participants are granted options over Barclays PLC shares which may be at a discount to the market value at the date
of award (currently 20%).
– At the expiry of a fixed term (three, five or seven years) participants may use savings to acquire the shares by
exercising their option within 6 months of the date of vesting. Participants may save up to £250 per month (¤500 in
Ireland, ¤135 in Spain) for this purpose.
– On cessation of employment eligible leavers (as defined) may exercise their option to acquire shares to the extent of
their savings for a period of 6 months.
– On a change of control, participants may be able to exercise their options to acquire shares to the extent of their
savings for a period of 6 months (or a shorter period in certain circumstances).
Sharepurchase Y es – Sharepurchase is an HMRC approved share incentive plan under which all employees in the UK (including executive
Directors) are invited to participate.
– Participants may purchase up to £1,500 of shares each tax year. T o encourage employee share ownership, Barclays
matches the first £600 of shares purchased by participants on a one-for-one basis. Dividends are also earned in
the form of additional shares.
– Purchased shares may be withdrawn from the plan at any time. Matching and dividend shares must be held in trust
for three years before release, but may be kept in trust for five years.
– On cessation of employment participants must withdraw all shares and depending on the reason for and timing of
cessation, the matching shares may be forfeited.
– On a change of control, participants are able to instruct the Sharepurchase trustee how to act or vote on their behalf.
– The plan was approved by shareholders in April 2000.
Global Y es – Global Sharepurchase is an extension of the Sharepurchase plan that is offered to employees in the UK.
Sharepurchase When the Sharepurchase plan was approved by shareholders in April 2000, the approval included the option of 
extending the plan to other jurisdictions.
– Employees in certain jurisdictions are invited under the terms of the Global Sharepurchase plan to purchase shares in
Barclays PLC, which attract a matching share award awarded by Barclays (up to a cap) and associated dividend shares. 
– Global Sharepurchase operates in substantially the same way as Sharepurchase. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 185
Share and long-term incentive plans  continued
T able 21: New plans under which awards to be made in 2010
Executive 
Directors
Plan name eligible? Description 
Share Value Plan No – The SVP is a new share incentive plan to be introduced for 2010.
(SVP) – Share awards in 2010 will be discretionary awards that may be made to selected employees (excluding executive
Directors), subject to trustee discretion.
– Awards vest in three annual instalments over three years, subject to continued employment and the discretion of
the trustee. Dividends received are normally awarded as additional shares and released at the same time.
– Vesting of the awards may be reduced (to nil if appropriate) on occurrence of certain events (e.g. where the
Company’ s accounts have been materially restated at any time during the vesting period). 
– Participants who leave employment voluntarily or are dismissed for gross misconduct before the release date of any
instalment will normally forfeit any outstanding awards. For categories of eligible leavers awards will vest.
– On a change of control awards may vest subject to the discretion of the Committee and the trustee.
– The SVP is not an HMRC approved plan.
Cash Value Plan No – The CVP is a new cash incentive plan to be introduced for 2010.
(CVP) – Discretionary awards of cash are made to eligible employees (excluding executive Directors).
– The CVP operates in substantially the same way as the SVP with the intention that 2010 awards are paid in three
annual instalments over a three-year period, at the discretion of the Company’ s Cash Plans Committee.
– In addition to cash awards, participants may be awarded a service credit (10% of the initial value of the award) to be
paid at the same time as the final instalment of their award, subject to continued employment in the Group.
– Similar leaver and change of control provisions apply under the CVP as for the SVP . 186 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Remuneration report
continued 
Share and long-term incentive plans continued
T able 22: Plans under which awards not made in 2009
Executive 
Directors
Plan name eligible? Description 
ISOP Y es – The Incentive Share Option Plan is a share option plan under which share options were granted to selected employees
(Incentive Share (including executive Directors). No options have been granted since 2004.
Option Plan) – ISOP contains HMRC approved and unapproved parts.
– Options were awarded at the market price at the date of grant calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan.
– Options granted had an EP threshold and a TSR performance condition associated with them. Options were normally
exercisable between three and ten years of the grant date.
– All options granted which met these performance criteria have now vested and are exercisable.
– On cessation of employment eligible leavers (as defined) normally are able to exercise their options; for other leavers,
options normally lapse.
– On a change of control options would remain exercisable for a specified period.
– The plan was approved for a ten year period by shareholders in April 2000.
ESOS n/a – The Executive Share Option Scheme is a share option plan under which share options were granted to selected 
(Executive Share employees (including executive Directors). No options have been granted since 2000. 
Option Scheme) – Options were awarded at the market price at the date of grant calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan.
– Options were normally exercisable between three and ten years of the grant date. All options are now vested.
– On cessation of employment eligible leavers (as defined) normally are able to exercise their option pro-rated for 
performance; for other leavers, options normally lapse.
– On a change of control options remain exercisable for a specified period.
– The plan was adopted for a ten year period by shareholders in 1990.
BGI EOP No – The BGI Equity Ownership Plan (BGI EOP) was approved by shareholders at Barclays 2000 AGM to provide the 
(BGI Equity employee share incentive arrangements required to recruit and retain senior management.
Ownership Plan) – Under the terms of the BGI EOP , options were granted at fair value to key BGI employees over shares in Barclays 
Global Investors UK Holdings Limited (BGI Holdings) within an overall cap of 20% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of BGI Holdings.
– Employees who were executive Directors of Barclays PLC at the date of grant were not eligible to receive options under
the BGI EOP .
– Following completion of the sale of BGI on 1st December 2009, the BGI EOP was terminated on 16th December 2009,
in accordance with the rules of the plan. Under the terms of EOP participants were able to exercise their outstanding
options in full. Participants were then able to sell their newly acquired and existing BGI Holdings shares 
to Barclays Bank PLC. In accordance with the terms of EOP , the price per BGI Holdings share was determined to 
be £109.45.
– As part of the termination of EOP , participants exercised outstanding options to purchase 6.4 million shares and the
Group repurchased all participants’ holdings totalling 10.2 million shares for a net consideration of £542m, after
deducting aggregate option exercise costs of £571m.
BGI EOP – Accounting and disclosure 
– The BGI EOP is accounted for as an equity settled share-based payment in accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based
Payment’. The fair value of the services received from the employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the
share options granted on the date of the grant. The cost of the employee services received in respect of the share
options granted is recognised in the income statement over the period that the services are received.
– In accordance with IFRS 2, details of share options granted and exercised, together with weighted average fair values
at grant date and weighted average exercise prices are set out in Note 44 to the accounts. In accordance with IAS 33
‘Earnings per Share’, unexercised options are taken into account in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as set
out in Note 11 to the accounts. 
– For Group reporting, participants’ shareholdings are treated as non controlling interests and goodwill has been
previously recognised as a result of the purchase of shares offered for sale by employees. The related goodwill and
non-controlling interests relating to the scheme are included in Notes 21 and 33 to the accounts respectively .
– Following completion of the sale of BGI, the BGI EOP was terminated. The cost of terminating the plan has been
included as a cost of disposal in Note 38 to the accounts.
BGI Equity No – The BGI Equity Participation Plan was a share plan linked to the value of BGI shares intended for selected BGI 
Participation employees (in the form of stock appreciation rights settled in shares of restricted share awards).
Plan – No awards have been or will be made under the plan as BGI has now been sold from the Group. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 187
Corporate governance
Accountability and audit
Going concern
The Group’ s business activities and financial position; the factors likely to
affect its future development and performance; and its objectives and
policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital
are discussed in the Business Review.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated
economic conditions, the Group’ s ability to continue as a going concern. 
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the
Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the ‘going concern’ basis for
preparing accounts.
Internal control
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain
an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Throughout the
year ended 31st December 2009, and to date, the Group has operated a
system of internal control which provides reasonable assurance of effective
and efficient operations covering all controls, including financial and
operational controls and compliance with laws and regulations. Processes
are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
facing the Group in accordance with the guidance ‘Internal Control: Revised
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’ published by the Financial
Reporting Council. The Board regularly reviews these processes through its
principal Board Committees. 
The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control
semi-annually . An internal control compliance certification process is
conducted throughout the Group in support of this review. The effectiveness
of controls is periodically reviewed within the business areas. Regular reports
are made to the Board Audit Committee by management, Internal Audit and
the finance, compliance and legal functions covering particularly financial
controls, compliance and operational controls. The Board Audit Committee
monitors resolution of any identified control issues of Group level significance
through to a satisfactory conclusion.
The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework (GICAF) describes
the Group’ s approach to internal control and details Group policies and
processes. The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group Chief
Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee. 
Regular risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group
significance including credit risk, market risk, operational risk and legal risk.
Reports covering credit, market and operational risk, key risks, risk
measurement methodologies and risk appetite are made to the Board Risk
Committee. Further details of risk management procedures are given in the
Risk management section on pages 87 to 93.
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting
The management of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC (collectively
‘Management’) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal 
executive and principal financial officers of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank
PLC to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting
purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). 
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures
that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets; provide
reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and 
that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with
authorisations of management and the respective Directors of Barclays PLC
and Barclays Bank PLC; and provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition
of assets that could have a material affect on the financial statements. 
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of Barclays PLC
and Barclays Bank PLC’ s internal control over financial reporting as of
31st December 2009. In making its assessment, Management has utilised
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of
the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated Framework.
Management concluded that, based on its assessment, the internal control
over financial reporting of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC was effective
as of 31st December 2009. 
Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report
on Barclays PLC’ s internal control over financial reporting which is set out on
page 192.
This annual report does not include a report of our registered public
accounting firm on Barclays Bank PLC’ s internal control over financial
reporting. Barclays Bank PLC’ s internal control over financial reporting
is not subject to assessment by our registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission
that permit Barclays Bank PLC to provide only the management’ s report
in this annual report.
The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject
to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas. Further
information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided
under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk Management section on 
pages 145 to 146.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting
There have been no changes in Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC’ s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period
covered by this report which have materially affected or are reasonably likely
to materially affect Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC’ s internal control over
financial reporting. 188 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Corporate governance
Accountability and audit
continued
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities for accounts
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the
Auditors’ report set out on page 191, is made with a view to distinguishing
for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the
auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare
accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in
accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The Directors have prepared
individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European
Union. The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the
financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for
that period. The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts,
that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair
presentation.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 193 to
308, and the additional information contained on pages 327 to 335, the
Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable
judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they
consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company
and the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which
enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies
Act 2006.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Disclosure controls and procedures
The Group Chief Executive, John Varley , and the Group Finance Director,
Chris Lucas, conducted with Group Management an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group’ s disclosure controls
and procedures as at 31st December 2009, which are defined as those
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the US Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time
periods specified in the US Securities and Exchange Commission’ s rules and
forms. As of the date of the evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group
Finance Director concluded that the design and operation of these
disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
(a) The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit or loss of Barclays PLC and the undertakings
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
(b) The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors’ Report
on pages 147 to 150, includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and the
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Marcus Agius
Group Chairman 
9th March 2010 190 Presentation of information
191 Independent Auditors’ Report
192 Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm’ s report
193 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
193 Accounting policies
203 Accounting developments
204 Consolidated income statement
205 Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
206 Consolidated balance sheet
207 Consolidated statement of changes
in equity
208 Consolidated cash flow statement
209 Parent Company accounts
212 Notes to the accounts
309 Barclays Bank PLC data
Financial 
statements 190 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Presentation of information
Barclays PLC is a public limited company registered in England under
company number 48839. The Company , originally named Barclay &
Company Limited, was incorporated in England and Wales on 20th July
1896 under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by
shares. The company name was changed to Barclays Bank Limited on
17th February 1917 and it was reregistered in 1982 as a public limited
company under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980. On 1st January 1985,
the company changed its name to Barclays PLC. 
Barclays Bank PLC is a public limited company registered in England
under company number 1026167. The Bank was incorporated on
7th August 1925 under the Colonial Bank Act 1925 and on 4th October
1971 was registered as a company limited by shares under the Companies
Acts 1948 to 1967. Pursuant to The Barclays Bank Act 1984, on 1st January
1985 the Bank was reregistered as a public limited company and its name
was changed from Barclays Bank International Limited to Barclays Bank PLC.
All of the issued ordinary share capital of Barclays Bank PLC is owned
by Barclays PLC. The Annual Report for Barclays PLC also contains the
consolidated accounts of, and other information relating to, Barclays Bank
PLC. The Annual Report includes information required to be included in the
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2009.
Form 20-F will contain as exhibits certificates pursuant to Sections 302 and
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, signed by the Group Chief Executive
and Group Finance Director, with respect to both Barclays PLC and Barclays
Bank PLC. Except where otherwise indicated, the information given is
identical with respect to both Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
The accounts of Barclays Bank PLC included in this document do not
comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the
Companies Act 2006. The statutory accounts of Barclays Bank PLC, which
contain an unqualified audit report and do not contain any statement
under Section 498(2) or (3) of that Act, will be delivered to the Registrar of
Companies in accordance with Section 441 of that Act and are published
as a separate document.
Draft BBA Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure
In accordance with the agreement set out in the FSA discussion paper,
‘Enhancing financial reporting disclosure by UK credit institutions’, Barclays
confirms that it has complied with the draft BBA Code for Financial
Reporting Disclosure.
In October 2009, the British Bankers’ Association published a draft
Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure. The draft Code sets out five
disclosure principles together with supporting guidance. The principles are
that UK banks will: provide high quality , meaningful and decision-useful
disclosures; review and enhance their financial instrument disclosures for
key areas of interest; assess the applicability and relevance of good practice
recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of
such guidance; seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement
disclosures across the UK banking sector; and clearly differentiate in their
annual reports between information that is audited and information that
is unaudited.
The Group and other major UK banks have voluntarily adopted the
draft Code in their 2009 financial statements. The Group’ s 2009 financial
statements have therefore been prepared in compliance with the draft
Code’ s principles and the Group aims to continue to enhance its disclosures
in line with developing market practice and areas of focus.
Statutory Accounts
The consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries are set out
on pages 193 to 308 along with the accounts of Barclays PLC itself on
pages 209 to 211. The consolidated accounts of Barclays Bank PLC and its
subsidiaries are set out on pages 309 to 326. The accounting policies on
pages 193 to 203 and the Notes commencing on page 212 apply equally to
both sets of accounts unless otherwise stated. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 191
Independent Auditors’ report
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Barclays PLC 
We have audited the financial statements of Barclays PLC for the year ended
31st December 2009 which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent income
statements and the related Consolidated statements of comprehensive
income, Consolidated and Parent balance sheet, Consolidated statement
of changes in equity and Consolidated cash flow statements. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by
the European Union.  
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for
Accounts, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’ s
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the Company’ s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’ s and the Parent Company’ s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the financial statements: 
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’ s and of the Parent
company’ s affairs as at 31st December 2009 and of the Group’ s and
the Parent Company’ s profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
– have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by
the European Union; and 
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements,
Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
– the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
– the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
statements; and
– the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with
respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our
opinion: 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company ,
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches
not visited by us; or 
– the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or 
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are
not made; or 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require
for our audit; or
– a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the
Parent Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
– the Directors’ statement, set out in the Corporate Governance section,
in relation to going concern; and
– the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the
Company’ s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008
Combined Code specified for our review.
Philip Rivett (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
9th March 2010
Notes
a The maintenance and integrity of the Barclays PLC website is the responsibility of the
directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these
matters and, accordingly , the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have
occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdiction. 192 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’ s report 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC
In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated income statements and the
related Consolidated balance sheets, Consolidated cash flow statements
and, Consolidated statements of comprehensive income and Consolidated
statements of changes in equity present fairly , in all material respects, the
financial position of Barclays PLC (The Company) and its subsidiaries at 
31st December 2009 and 31st December 2008 and the results of their
operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
31st December 2009, in conformity with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Also, in our opinion the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2009,
based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). 
The Company’ s management are responsible for these financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in ‘Management’ s report on internal control over
financial reporting’ as it pertains to Barclays PLC in the section headed
‘ Accountability and Audit’. 
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements
and on the Company’ s internal control over financial reporting based on our
integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company’ s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company’ s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’ s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
London, United Kingdom
9th March 2010 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 193
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Accounting policies
Significant accounting policies
1. Reporting entity
These financial statements are prepared for the Barclays PLC Group under
Section 399 of the Companies Act 2006. The Group is a major global
financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit
cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment
management services. In addition, individual financial statements have
been prepared for the holding company , Barclays PLC (the Company),
under Section 397 of the Companies Act 2006.
Barclays PLC is a public limited company , incorporated in England and
Wales having a registered office in England and is the holding company of
the Group.
2. Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays PLC Group, and
the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), as published by the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). They are also in accordance with
IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the
consolidated and individual financial statements are set out below. These
policies have been consistently applied. Changes in accounting policy are
set out on page 203.
3. Basis of preparation
The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared
under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair valuation
of investment property , certain financial instruments and contracts to buy
or sell non-financial items and trading inventories to the extent required
or permitted under accounting standards and as set out in the relevant
accounting polices. They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling (£m),
the currency of the country in which Barclays PLC is incorporated.
Critical accounting estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires 
the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management
to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The notes to the financial statements set out areas involving a higher degree
of judgement or complexity , or areas where assumptions are significant to
the consolidated and individual financial statements such as fair value of
financial instruments (Note 50), allowance for impairment (Note 47),
goodwill (Note 21), intangible assets (Note 22), retirement benefit
obligations (Note 30), derecognition of financial assets (Note 29), taxation
(Note 10) and credit risk (Note 47).
4. Consolidation 
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of
Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries, including certain special purpose entities
(SPEs) where appropriate, made up to 31st December. Entities qualify as
subsidiaries where the Group has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities,
generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting
rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently
exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing whether the Group
controls another entity . Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in Note 41. 
SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between
the Group and that entity indicates control. Potential indicators of control
include, amongst others, an assessment of the Group’ s exposure to the risks
and benefits of the SPE.
This assessment of risks and benefits is based on arrangements in place
and the assessed risk exposures at inception. The initial assessment is
reconsidered at a later date if:
a) the Group acquires additional interests in the entity; 
b) the contractual arrangements of the entity are amended such that the
relative exposure to risks and benefits change; or
c) if the Group acquires control over the main operating and financial
decisions of the entity .
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is
transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date that
control ceases. 
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the
purchase of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair
value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred
or assumed, plus any costs directly related to the acquisition. 
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Group’ s share of the
fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
See accounting policy 14 for the accounting policy for goodwill. A gain on
acquisition is recognised in profit or loss if there is an excess of the Group’ s
share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired over the cost
of the acquisition. Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated
on consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout
the Group for the purposes of the consolidation.
As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where
a Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption
under Regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 with
regard to the preparation and filing of individual partnership financial
statements.
In the individual financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are
stated at cost less impairment, if any .
Associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence, but
not control, over the operating and financial management policy decisions.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in excess of 20%, but
no more than 50%, of the voting rights.
A joint venture exists where the Group has a contractual arrangement
with one or more parties to undertake activities typically , though not
necessarily , through entities which are subject to joint control. 
Unless designated as at fair value through profit and loss as set out in
policy 7, the Group’ s investments in associates and joint ventures are initially
recorded at cost and increased (or decreased) each year by the Group’ s 194 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Accounting policies 
continued
share of the post-acquisition profit (or loss), or other movements reflected
directly in the other comprehensive income of the associated or jointly
controlled entity . Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint
venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment (net of any
accumulated impairment loss). When the Group’ s share of losses or other
reductions in equity in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds the
recorded interest, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group
does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made
payments on behalf of the entity .
The Group’ s share of the results of associates and joint ventures is based
on financial statements made up to a date not earlier than three months
before the balance sheet date, adjusted to conform with the accounting
polices of the Group. Unrealised gains on transactions are eliminated to the
extent of the Group’ s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are also
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment in the
asset transferred.
In the individual financial statements, investments in associates and
joint ventures are stated at cost less impairment, if any . 
5. Foreign currency translation
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’ s entities are
measured using their functional currency , being the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates. 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate
functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the rate prevailing at the period end. Foreign exchange gains
and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these items are
recognised in the income statement except for qualifying cash flow hedges or
hedges of net investments. See policy 12 for the policies on hedge accounting.
Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated
using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held at
fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or
loss. Translation differences on equities classified as available for sale
financial assets and similar non-monetary items are included directly in equity .
For the purposes of translation into the presentational currency , assets,
liabilities and equity of foreign operations are translated at the closing rate,
and items of income and expense are translated into Sterling at the rates
prevailing on the dates of the transactions, or average rates of exchange
where these approximate to actual rates. 
The exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign
operation are included in cumulative translation reserves within
shareholders’ equity and included in the profit or loss on disposal or partial
disposal of the operation. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign
subsidiaries are maintained in the functional currency of the foreign
operation, translated at the closing rate and are included in hedges of net
investments where appropriate.
6. Interest, fees and commissions
Interest 
Interest is recognised in interest income and interest expense in the income
statement for all interest bearing financial instruments classified as held to
maturity , available for sale or other loans and receivables using the effective
interest method. 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised
cost of a financial asset or liability (or group of assets and liabilities) and of
allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the expected
future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial
instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying
amount of the instrument. The application of the method has the effect of
recognising income (and expense) receivable (or payable) on the
instrument evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the period
to maturity or repayment. 
In calculating effective interest, the Group estimates cash flows (using
projections based on its experience of customers’ behaviour) considering
all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit
losses. Fees, including those for early redemption, are included in the
calculation to the extent that they can be measured and are considered to
be an integral part of the effective interest rate. Cash flows arising from the
direct and incremental costs of issuing financial instruments are also taken
into account in the calculation. Where it is not possible to otherwise estimate
reliably the cash flows or the expected life of a financial instrument, effective
interest is calculated by reference to the payments or receipts specified in
the contract, and the full contractual term.
Fees and commissions 
Unless included in the effective interest calculation, fees and commissions
are recognised on an accruals basis as the service is provided. Fees and
commissions not integral to effective interest arising from negotiating, or
participating in the negotiation of a transaction from a third party , such as
the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale
of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised
based on the applicable service contracts. Asset management fees related
to investment funds are recognised over the period the service is provided.
The same principle is applied to the recognition of income from wealth
management, financial planning and custody services that are continuously
provided over an extended period of time.
Commitment fees, together with related direct costs, for loan facilities
where draw down is probable are deferred and recognised as an adjustment
to the effective interest on the loan once drawn. Commitment fees in
relation to facilities where draw down is not probable are recognised over
the term of the commitment.  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 195
Insurance premiums
Insurance premiums are recognised in the period earned.
Net trading income
Income arises from the margins which are achieved through market-making
and customer business and from changes in fair value caused by movements
in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other market variables.
Trading positions are held at fair value and the resulting gains and losses are
included in the income statement, together with interest and dividends arising
from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities. 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, this is when the
dividends are received or when the dividends are appropriately authorised
by the subsidiary .
7. Financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial
instruments at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held to
maturity investments and available for sale financial assets. Management
determines the classification of financial assets and liabilities at initial
recognition.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial instruments are classified in this category if they are held for
trading, or if they are designated by management under the fair value
option. Instruments are classified as held for trading if they are:
a) acquired principally for the purposes of selling or repurchasing in the
near term;
b) part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed
together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of
short-term profit taking; or
c) a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract
or a designated and effective hedging instrument.
It is not possible to transfer a financial instrument out of this category whilst
it is held or issued with the exception of non-derivative financial assets held
for trading which may be transferred out of this category from 1st July 2008
after initial classification where: 
a) in rare circumstances, it is no longer held for the purpose of selling or
repurchasing in the near term, or
b) it is no longer held for the purpose of trading, it would have met the
definition of a loan and receivable on initial classification and the Group
has the intention and ability to hold it for the foreseeable future or until
maturity. 
Financial instruments included in this category are recognised initially at fair
value and transaction costs are taken directly to the income statement.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included directly in
the income statement.
Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments held for
trading or designated under the fair value option are recognised on trade
date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the
asset. The fair value option is used in the following circumstances:
a) financial assets backing insurance contracts and financial assets backing
investment contracts are designated at fair value through profit or loss
because the related liabilities have cash flows that are contractually based
on the performance of the assets or the related liabilities are insurance
contracts whose measurement incorporates current information. Fair
valuing the assets through profit and loss significantly reduces the
recognition inconsistencies that would arise if the financial assets were
classified as available for sale;
b) financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial
guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through
profit or loss if they contain substantive embedded derivatives;
c) financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial
guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through
profit or loss where doing so significantly reduces measurement
inconsistencies that would arise if the related derivatives were treated as
held for trading and the underlying financial instruments were carried at
amortised cost; and
d) certain private equity and other investments that are managed, and
evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk
management or investment strategy and reported to key management
personnel on that basis.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and which
are not classified as available for sale. Loans and receivables are initially
recognised at fair value, including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest
method (see accounting policy 6).
Regular way purchases and sales of loans and receivables are
recognised on contractual settlement.
Held to maturity
Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or
determinable payments that the Group’ s management has the intention and
ability to hold to maturity . They are initially recognised at fair value including
direct and incremental transaction costs. They are subsequently valued at
amortised cost, using the effective interest method (see accounting policy 6). 196 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Accounting policies 
continued
Regular way purchases of held to maturity financial assets are
recognised on trade date, being the date on which the Group commits
to purchase the asset.
Available for sale
Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are
designated as available for sale and are not categorised into any of the other
categories described above. They are initially recognised at fair value
including direct and incremental transaction costs. They are subsequently
held at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are
included as a separate component of equity until sale when the cumulative
gain or loss is transferred to the income statement. Interest determined
using the effective interest method (see accounting policy 6), impairment
losses and translation differences on monetary items are recognised in the
income statement.
Regular way purchases and sales of available for sale financial
instruments are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the
Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
A financial asset classified as available for sale that would have met the
definition of loans and receivables may only be transferred from the available
for sale classification where the Group has the intention and the ability to
hold the asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity .
Embedded derivatives
Some hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative
component. In such cases, the derivative component is termed an
embedded derivative. Where the economic characteristics and risks of the
embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract,
and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value through profit or loss,
the embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair value with gains
and losses being recognised in the income statement. 
Profits or losses cannot be recognised on the initial recognition of
embedded derivatives unless the host contract is also carried at fair value.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset,
where the contractual rights to that asset have expired. Derecognition is also
appropriate where the rights to further cash flows from the asset have been
transferred to a third party and, with them, either:
(i) substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset; or
(ii) significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell
or pledge the asset.
Where significant risks and rewards have been transferred, but the
transferee does not have the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset,
the Group continues to account for the asset to the extent of its continuing
involvement (‘continuing involvement accounting’).
T o assess the extent to which risks and rewards have been transferred, 
it is often necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. Such an analysis will
compare the Group’ s exposure to variability in asset cash flows before the
transfer with its retained exposure after the transfer.
Where neither derecognition nor continuing involvement accounting 
is appropriate, the Group continues to recognise the asset in its entirety 
and recognises any consideration received as a financial liability .
Loan commitments
Loan commitments, where the Group has a past practice of selling the
resulting assets shortly after origination, are held at fair value through profit
or loss. Other loan commitments are accounted for in accordance with
accounting policy 23.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading
liabilities and liabilities designated at fair value, which are held at fair value
through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are derecognised when
extinguished.
An exchange of an existing debt instrument for a new instrument with
the lender on substantially different terms is accounted for as an
extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new
financial liability . An assessment is made as to whether the terms are
substantially different considering qualitative and quantitive characteristics.
For example, if the discounted present value calculated using the original
effective interest rate of the cash flows under the new terms, including fees,
is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present value of the
remaining cash flows of the original financial liability , or if the qualitative
assessment concludes that the nature and risk profile of the original financial
liability is materially different from that of the new financial liability based on
the terms of the instruments including repayment terms, coupon terms and
call options, the original financial liability is extinguished.
When an exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or
fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the
extinguishment. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial
liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration
paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is
recognised in profit or loss.
Determining fair value
Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be stated at
fair value, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for
that instrument or by using a valuation model. Where the fair value is
calculated using valuation models, the methodology is to calculate the
expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then
discount these values back to a present value. These models use as their
basis independently sourced market parameters including, for example,
interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option volatilities
and currency rates. For financial liabilities measured at fair value, the carrying
amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own credit spreads
derived from observable market data, such as spreads on Barclays issued
bonds or credit default swaps. Most market parameters are either directly
observable or are implied from instrument prices. The model may perform
numerical procedures in the pricing such as interpolation when input values
do not directly correspond to the most actively traded market trade
parameters. However, where valuations include significant unobservable
inputs, the transaction price is deemed to provide the best evidence of initial
fair value for accounting purposes. As such, profits or losses are recognised
upon trade inception only when such profits can be measured solely by
reference to observable market data. For valuations that include significant
unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the
initial transaction price is recognised in profit or loss: www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 197
a) on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction, or over the period
until all model inputs will become observable where appropriate, or;
b) released in full where previously unobservable inputs become
observable.
Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these may
vary from product to product and change over time. Factors include, for
example, the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of product,
whether the product is new and not widely traded in the marketplace, the
maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction (bespoke or
generic). T o the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are
not observable in the market, the determination of fair value can be more
subjective, dependant on the significance of the unobservable input to the
overall valuation. Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best
information available, for example by reference to similar assets, similar
maturities or other analytical techniques.
8. Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective
evidence that loans and receivables or available for sale financial
investments are impaired. These are impaired and impairment losses are
incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result
of one or more loss events that occurred after the initial recognition of the
asset and prior to the balance sheet date (a loss event) and that loss event or
events has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial
asset or the portfolio that can be reliably estimated. The criteria that the
Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment
loss include:
a) significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor; 
b) a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or
principal payments;
c) the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’ s
financial difficulty , granting to the borrower a concession that the lender
would not otherwise consider;
d) it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other
financial reorganisation;
e) the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because
of financial difficulties; or
f) observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the
estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since the
initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be
identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, including:
(i) adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the
portfolio;
(ii) national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults
on the assets in the portfolio.
For loans and receivables the Group first assesses whether objective
evidence of impairment exists individually for loans and receivables that
are individually significant, and individually or collectively for loans and
receivables that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that
no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed loan
and receivable, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of
loans and receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively
assesses them for impairment. Loans and receivables that are individually
assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to
be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between
the asset’ s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash
flows discounted at the asset’ s original effective interest rate. The amount of
the loss is recognised using an allowance account and recognised in the
income statement.
Where appropriate, the calculation of the present value of the estimated
future cash flows of a collateralised loan and receivable asset reflect the cash
flows that may result from foreclosure costs for obtaining and selling the
collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, loans and
receivables are grouped on the basis of similar risk characteristics, taking
into account asset type, industry , geographical location, collateral type, past-
due status and other relevant factors. These characteristics are relevant to
the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets by being
indicative of the counterparty’ s ability to pay all amounts due according to
the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
Future cash flows in a group of loans and receivables that are collectively
evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash
flows of the assets in the group and historical loss experience for assets with
credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group. Historical loss
experience is adjusted based on current observable data to reflect the effects
of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical
loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the
historical period that do not currently exist.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash
flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss
estimates and actual loss experience.
Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the effective
rate of interest which was used to discount the future cash flows for the
purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related
allowance for loan impairment. Such loans are written off after all the
necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has
been determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off
are credited to the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases
and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is
reversed by adjusting the allowance account. The amount of the reversal is
recognised in the income statement.
Equity securities or properties acquired in exchange for loans in order
to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the loan
and an acquisition of equity securities or investment properties. Where
control is obtained over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity
is consolidated. Any further impairment of the assets or business acquired
is treated as an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an
impairment of the original instrument. 198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Accounting policies 
continued
In the case of available for sale equity securities, a significant or
prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is also
considered in determining whether impairment exists. Where such evidence
exists, the cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised directly
in equity is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
In the case of debt instruments classified as available for sale, impairment
is assessed based on the same criteria as all other financial assets. Reversals
of impairment of debt instruments are recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment of equity shares are not recognised in the income
statement, increases in the fair value of equity shares after impairment are
recognised directly in equity .
9. Sale and repurchase agreements (including stock borrowing and
lending)
Securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them
(a repo). Such securities are retained on the balance sheet when
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group,
and the counterparty liability is included separately on the balance sheet
when cash consideration is received.
Similarly , where the Group borrows or purchases securities subject to
a commitment to resell them (a reverse repo) but does not acquire the risks
and rewards of ownership, the transactions are treated as collateralised
loans when cash consideration is paid, and the securities are not included
in the balance sheet.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the
life of the agreements using the effective interest method. Securities lent
to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements. Securities
borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these
are sold to third parties, at which point the obligation to repurchase the
securities is recorded as a trading liability at fair value and any subsequent
gain or loss included in net trading income.
10. Securitisation transactions
The Group enters into securitisation transactions in respect of its own
financial assets and to facilitate client transactions as described in Note 29
to the accounts.
All financial assets continue to be held on the Group balance sheet, and
a liability recognised for the proceeds of the funding transaction, unless:
a) substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial
instruments have been transferred, in which case, the assets are
derecognised in full; or 
b) if a significant portion, but not all, of the risks and rewards have been
transferred, the asset is derecognised entirely if the transferee has the
ability to sell the financial asset, otherwise the asset continues to be
recognised only to the extent of the Group’ s continuing involvement. 
Where a) or b) above applies to a fully proportionate share of all or
specifically identified cash flows, the relevant accounting treatment is
applied to that proportion of the asset. 
11. Collateral and netting
The Group enters into master agreements with counterparties whenever
possible and, when appropriate, obtains collateral. Master agreements
provide that, if an event of default occurs, all outstanding transactions with
the counterparty will fall due and all amounts outstanding will be settled on
a net basis. 
Collateral
The Group obtains collateral in respect of customer liabilities where this is
considered appropriate. The collateral normally takes the form of a lien over
the customer’ s assets and gives the Group a claim on these assets for both
existing and future customer liabilities.
The Group also receives collateral in the form of cash or securities in
respect of other credit instruments, such as stock borrowing contracts, and
derivative contracts in order to reduce credit risk. Collateral received in the
form of securities is not recorded on the balance sheet. Collateral received
in the form of cash is recorded on the balance sheet with a corresponding
liability . These items are assigned to deposits received from bank or other
counterparties. Any interest payable or receivable arising is recorded as
interest expense or interest income respectively except for funding costs
relating to trading activities which are recorded in net trading income.
Netting
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported on the
balance sheet if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to set off the
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to
realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously . In many cases, even
though master netting agreements are in place, the lack of an intention to
settle on a net basis results in the related assets and liabilities being
presented gross on the balance sheet.
12. Hedge accounting
Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity , and
equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price
indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions. 
Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when
transactions meet the required criteria, the Group applies fair value hedge
accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging of a net investment in
a foreign operation as appropriate to the risks being hedged.
When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group
formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and
hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its strategy for
undertaking the various hedging transactions. The Group also documents
its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of
whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
The Group discontinues hedge accounting when:
a) it is determined that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly
effective as a hedge; 
b) the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised; 
c) the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid; or 
d) a forecast transaction is no longer deemed highly probable.  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 199
In certain circumstances, the Group may decide to cease hedge accounting
even though the hedge relationship continues to be highly effective by no
longer designating the financial instrument as a hedging instrument. T o the
extent that the changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative differ from
changes in the fair value of the hedged risk in the hedged item; or the
cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging derivative differs from the
cumulative change in the fair value of expected future cash flows of the
hedged item, the hedge is deemed to include ineffectiveness. The amount
of ineffectiveness, provided it is not so great as to disqualify the entire hedge
for hedge accounting, is recorded in the income statement.
Fair value hedge accounting
Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair
value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes
in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the
hedged risk.
If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge
accounting, it is discontinued. For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, the
fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income
statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge
relationship using the effective interest method.
If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value
adjustment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedges
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with
the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially in
shareholders’ equity , and recycled to the income statement in the periods
when the hedged item will affect profit or loss. Any ineffective portion of the
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income
statement immediately .
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the
hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or
loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income
statement.
Hedges of net investments
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items
that are accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for
similarly to cash flow hedges; the effective portion of the gain or loss on the
hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. The cumulative
gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income
statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
Hedges of net investments may include non-derivative liabilities as well
as derivative financial instruments although for a non-derivative liability only
the foreign exchange risk is designated as a hedge.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Derivative contracts entered into as economic hedges that do not qualify
for hedge accounting are held at fair value through profit or loss. 
Note
a Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 15 years, costs of
adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the remaining life of the lease.
13. Property, plant and equipment
Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
and provisions for impairment, if required. Additions and subsequent
expenditures are capitalised only to the extent that they enhance the future
economic benefits expected to be derived from the assets.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property
and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic
lives. The depreciable amount is the gross carrying amount, less the
estimated residual value at the end of its useful economic life. 
The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation:
Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property
(more than 50 years to run) 2-3.3%
Leasehold property Over the remaining
(less than 50 years to run) life of the lease
Costs of adaptation of freehold and 
leasehold property
a
7-10%
Equipment installed in freehold and
leasehold property
a
7-10%
Computers and similar equipment 20-33%
Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 10-20%
Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the
calculation of depreciation of items of property , plant and equipment are
kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances. 
When deciding on depreciation rates and methods, the principal factors
the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological
developments and expected market requirements for, and the expected
pattern of usage of, the assets. When reviewing residual values, the Group
estimates the amount that it would currently obtain for the disposal of the
asset after deducting the estimated cost of disposal if the asset were already
of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful economic life. 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land, although, in common
with all long-lived assets, it is subject to impairment testing, if deemed
appropriate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income
statement.
Investment property is property held to earn rentals or for capital
appreciation or for both rather than for sale or use in the business. The
Group initially recognises investment properties at cost, and subsequently
at their fair value at each balance sheet date reflecting market conditions
at the reporting date. The fair value of investment property is determined
by reference to current market prices for similar properties, adjusted as
necessary for condition and location, or by reference to recent transactions
updated to reflect current economic conditions. Discounted cash flow
techniques may be employed to calculate fair value where there have been
no recent transactions, using current external market inputs such as market
rents and interest rates. Valuations are carried out by management with the
support of appropriately qualified independent valuers.
Movements in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are included
in the income statement. No depreciation is provided in respect of
investment properties. 200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Accounting policies 
continued
14. Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates and joint
ventures, and represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase
consideration and direct costs of making the acquisition, over the fair value
of the Group’ s share of the assets acquired, and the liabilities and contingent
liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition. 
For the purpose of calculating goodwill, fair values of acquired assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to market
values or other valuation methodologies including discounted cash flow
techniques, using market rates or by using risk-free rates and risk-adjusted
expected future cash flows. Goodwill is capitalised and reviewed annually for
impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment
may have occurred. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the
purpose of impairment testing. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and
joint ventures is included in the amount of the investment. Gains and losses
on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of the goodwill
relating to the entity sold.
Computer software
Computer software is stated at cost, less amortisation and provisions for
impairment, if required. 
The identifiable and directly associated external and internal costs of
acquiring and developing software are capitalised where the software is
controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that future economic
benefits that exceed its cost will flow from its use over more than one year.
Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an expense
when incurred.
Capitalised computer software is amortised over three to five years.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets consist of brands, customer lists, licences and
other contracts, core deposit intangibles, mortgage servicing rights and
customer relationships. Other intangible assets are initially recognised
when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights,
the cost can be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets
not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future
economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow from their use. The
value of intangible assets which are acquired in a business combination is
generally determined using income approach methodologies such as the
discounted cash flow method and the relief from royalty method that
estimate net cash flows attributable to an asset over its economic life and
discount to present value using an appropriate rate of return based on the
cost of equity adjusted for risk. 
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation and
provisions for impairment, if any , and are amortised over their useful lives in
a manner that reflects the pattern to which they contribute to future cash
flows, generally over 4-25 years. 
15. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, or more frequently where events or changes in
circumstances dictate, property , plant and equipment and intangible assets,
are assessed for indications of impairment. If indications are present, these
assets are subject to an impairment review. Goodwill is subject to an
impairment review as at the balance sheet date each year. The impairment
review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its
recoverable amount: the higher of the asset’ s or the cash-generating unit’ s
fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair value less costs to sell is
calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed
of in a binding sale agreement in an arm’ s length transaction evidenced by
an active market or recent transactions for similar assets. Value in use is
calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows obtainable as a
result of the asset’ s continued use, including those resulting from its
ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis. 
The carrying values of fixed assets and goodwill are written down by
the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the income
statement in the period in which it occurs. A previously recognised
impairment loss relating to a fixed asset may be reversed in part or in full
when a change in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used
to determine the fixed asset’ s recoverable amount. The carrying amount
of the fixed asset will only be increased up to the amount that it would have
been had the original impairment not been recognised. Impairment losses
on goodwill are not reversed. For the purpose of conducting impairment
reviews, cash-generating units are the lowest level at which management
monitors the return on investment on assets.
16. Financial guarantees
Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to make
specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a
specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the
terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial statements
at fair value on the date that the guarantee was given. Other than where
the fair value option is applied, subsequent to initial recognition, the Group’ s
liabilities under such guarantees are measured at the higher of the initial
measurement, less amortisation calculated to recognise in the income
statement any fee income earned over the period, and any financial obligation
arising as a result of the guarantees at the balance sheet date, in accordance
with policy 23. 
Any increase in the liability relating to guarantees is taken to the income
statement in Provisions for undrawn contractually committed facilities and
guarantees provided. Any liability remaining is recognised in the income
statement when the guarantee is discharged, cancelled or expires.
17. Issued debt and equity securities
Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities
where the contractual arrangement results in the Group having a present
obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset to the holder, to
exchange financial instruments on terms that are potentially unfavourable
or to satisfy the obligation otherwise than by the exchange of a fixed amount
of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of equity shares. Issued
financial instruments, or their components, are classified as equity where
they meet the definition of equity and confer on the holder a residual interest
in the assets of the Group. The components of issued financial instruments
that contain both liability and equity elements are accounted for separately
with the equity component being assigned the residual amount after
deducting from the instrument as a whole the amount separately
determined as the fair value of the liability component. 
Financial liabilities, other than trading liabilities and financial liabilities
designated at fair value, are carried at amortised cost using the effective
interest method as set out in policy 6. Derivatives embedded in financial
liabilities that are not designated at fair value are accounted for as set out
in policy 7. Equity instruments, including share capital, are initially recognised
at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any related income
tax. Dividend and other payments to equity holders are deducted from
equity , net of any related tax.
18. Share capital
Share issue costs
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options
including those issued on the acquisition of a business are shown in equity
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 201
Dividends on ordinary shares
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which
they are paid or, if earlier, approved by the Barclays PLC (the Company)
shareholders.
Treasury shares
Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the Company’ s
share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders’ equity
as treasury shares until they are cancelled. Where such shares are
subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in
shareholders’ equity .
19. Insurance contracts and investment contracts
The Group offers wealth management, term assurance, annuity , property
and payment protection insurance products to customers that take the form
of long- and short-term insurance contracts.
The Group classifies its wealth management and other products as
insurance contracts where these transfer significant insurance risk, generally
where the benefits payable on the occurrence of an insured event are at
least 5% more than the benefits that would be payable if the insured event
does not occur. 
Contracts that do not contain significant insurance risk or discretionary
participation features are classified as investment contracts. Financial assets
and liabilities relating to investment contracts, and assets backing insurance
contracts are classified and measured as appropriate under IAS 39, ‘Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ as set out in policy 7.
Long-term insurance contracts 
These contracts insure events associated with human life (for example,
death or survival) over a long duration. Premiums are recognised as revenue
when they become payable by the contract holder. Claims and surrenders
are accounted for when notified. Maturities on the policy maturity date and
regular withdrawals are accounted for when due. 
A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in
the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised, based on the
expected discounted value of the benefit payments and directly related
administration costs, less the expected discounted value of the future
premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and other expenses.
The calculation of the liability contains assumptions regarding mortality ,
maintenance expenses and investment income. 
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts (such as
endowment policies) in addition reflect the value of assets held within
unitised investment pools. 
Short-term insurance contracts
Under its payment protection insurance products the Group is committed to
paying benefits to the policyholder rather than forgiving interest or principal
on the occurrence of an insured event, such as unemployment, sickness, or
injury . Property insurance contracts mainly compensate the policyholders
for damage to their property or for the value of property lost.
Premiums are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period
of the coverage. Claims and claims handling costs are charged to income
as incurred, based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to
policyholders arising from events that have occurred up to the balance
sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Group, based
on assessments of individual cases reported to the Group and statistical
analyses for the claims incurred but not reported.
Deferred acquisition costs (DAC)
Commissions and other costs that are related to securing new insurance
and investment contracts are capitalised and amortised over the estimated
lives of the relevant contracts. 
Deferred income liability
Fees that are designed to recover commissions and other costs related to
either securing new insurance and investment contracts or renewing
existing investment contracts are included as a liability and amortised over
the estimated life of the contract. 
Value of business acquired
On acquisition of a portfolio of contracts, such as through the acquisition
of a subsidiary , the Group recognises an intangible asset representing
the value of business acquired (VOBA), representing the future profits
embedded in acquired insurance contracts and investment contracts with
a discretionary participation feature. The asset is amortised over the
remaining terms of the acquired contracts. 
Liability adequacy test
Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to ensure
the adequacy of contract liabilities net of DAC and VOBA assets. Current best
estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and
administration costs, and investment returns from the assets backing
the liabilities are taken into account in the tests. Where a deficiency is
highlighted by the test, DAC and VOBA assets are written off first,
and insurance liabilities increased when these are written off in full.
Any deficiency is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Reinsurance
Short- and long-term insurance business is ceded to reinsurers under
contracts to transfer part or all of one or more of the following risks:
mortality , investment and expenses. All such contracts are dealt with as
insurance contracts. The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its
reinsurance contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets. The Group
assesses reinsurance assets at each balance sheet date. If there is objective
evidence of impairment, the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset is
reduced accordingly , resulting in a charge to the income statement.
20. Leases
Lessor
Assets leased to customers under agreements, which transfer substantially
all the risks and rewards of ownership, with or without ultimate legal title, are
classified as finance leases. When assets are held subject to a finance lease,
the present value of the lease payments, discounted at the rate of interest
implicit in the lease, is recognised as a receivable. The difference between
the total payments receivable under the lease and the present value of the
receivable is recognised as unearned finance income, which is allocated to
accounting periods under the pre-tax net investment method to reflect a
constant periodic rate of return.
Assets leased to customers under agreements which do not transfer
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as
operating leases. The leased assets are included within property , plant
and equipment on the Group’ s balance sheet and depreciation is provided
on the depreciable amount of these assets on a systematic basis over their
estimated useful lives. Lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis
over the period of the lease unless another systematic basis is more
appropriate. 
Lessee
The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
Operating lease rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another
systematic basis is more appropriate. 202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Accounting policies
continued
21. Employee benefits
The Group provides employees worldwide with post-retirement benefits
mainly in the form of pensions. The Group operates a number of pension
schemes which may be funded or unfunded and of a defined contribution
or defined benefit nature. In addition, the Group contributes, according to
local law in the various countries in which it operates, to Governmental and
other plans which have the characteristics of defined contribution plans. 
For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the scheme’ s
obligations using the projected unit credit method and the fair valuation of
each of the scheme’ s assets are performed annually , using the assumptions
set out in Note 30. The difference between the fair value of the plan assets
and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet
date, adjusted for any historic unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and
past service cost, is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet. An asset
arising, for example, as a result of past over funding or the performance
of the plan investments, is recognised to the extent that it does not exceed
the present value of future contribution holidays or refunds of contributions.
Gains and losses on curtailments are recognised when the curtailment
occurs which is when there is a demonstrable commitment to make a
significant reduction in the number of employees covered by the plan or
amendments have been made to the terms of the plan so that a significant
element of future service will no longer qualify for benefits or will qualify only
for reduced benefits. The gain or loss comprises any resulting change in the
present value of the defined benefit obligation, any resulting change in the
fair value of the plan assets and any related actuarial gain or loss that had not
previously been recognised since they fell within the corridor. 
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% of
the assets or 10% of the obligations of the plan (the corridor) are recognised
in the income statement over the remaining average service lives of the
employees of the related plan, on a straight-line basis.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group recognises contributions
due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement. Any
contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability .
The Group also provides health care benefits to certain retired
employees, which are accrued as a liability in the financial statements over
the period of employment, using a methodology similar to that for defined
benefit pensions plans. 
Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and
other benefits including any related payroll taxes are accounted for on an
accruals basis over the period in which the employees provide the related
services. Bonuses are recognised to the extent that the Group has a present
obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably .
All expenses related to employee benefits are recognised in the income
statement in staff costs, which is included within operating expenses.
22. Share-based payments to employees
The Group engages in equity settled share-based payment transactions in
respect of services received from certain of its employees. The fair value of
the services received is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares
or share options granted on the date of the grant. The cost of the employee
services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is
recognised in the income statement over the period that the services are
received, which is the vesting period. The fair value of the options granted
is determined using option pricing models, which take into account the
exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk-free interest rate,
the expected volatility of the share price over the life of the option and other
relevant factors. Except for those which include terms related to market
conditions, vesting conditions, which are service conditions or performance
conditions, included in the terms of the grant are not taken into account in
estimating fair value. Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account
by adjusting the number of shares or share options included in the
measurement of the cost of employee services so that ultimately , the
amount recognised in the income statement reflects the number of vested
shares or options. Where vesting conditions are related to market conditions,
the charges for the services received are recognised regardless of whether
or not the market-related vesting condition is met, provided that the non-
market vesting conditions are met. Similarly , non-vesting conditions, which
are other conditions not being service conditions or performance conditions,
are taken into account in estimating the grant date fair value and share-
based payment charges and are recognised when all non-market vesting
conditions are satisfied irrespective of whether the non-vesting conditions
are satisfied. If meeting a non-vesting condition is a matter of choice, failure
to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, resulting in
an acceleration of recognition of the cost of the employee services.
23. Provisions
Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of
past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic benefit
will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated.
When a leasehold property ceases to be used in the business or a
demonstrable commitment has been made to cease to use a property ,
provision is made where the unavoidable costs of the future obligations
relating to the lease are expected to exceed anticipated rental income and
other benefits. The net costs are discounted using market rates of interest
to reflect the long-term nature of the cash flows. 
Provision is made for the anticipated cost of restructuring, including
redundancy costs when an obligation exists. An obligation exists when the
Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and has raised
valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by starting to
implement the plan or announcing its main features. The provision raised
is normally utilised within nine months.
Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments and similar facilities
if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the recognition
of an asset at an amount less than the amount advanced.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be
confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the
transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are disclosed unless they are
remote.
24. T axes, including deferred taxes
Income tax payable on taxable profits (Current T ax), is recognised as an
expense in the period in which the profits arise. Income tax recoverable on
tax allowable losses is recognised as an asset only to the extent that it is
regarded as recoverable by offset against current or future taxable profits.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising from the differences between the tax bases
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated
financial statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and
legislation enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date which
are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred
tax liability is settled. Current T ax assets and liabilities are only offset when
they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both the legal
right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and
settle the liability simultaneously .
25. Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal
reporting provided to the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee,
which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of
the operating segments, has been identified as the chief operating decision
maker.
All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arm’ s
length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in
Head Office. Income and expenses directly associated with each segment
are included in determining business segment performance.
26. Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand
and demand deposits, and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid
investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of
changes in value with original maturities of less than three months.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be
part of cash equivalents.
27. Trust activities
The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities that
result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts,
retirement benefit plans and other institutions. These assets and income
arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not
assets of the Group. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 203
Changes to Accounting Policy
The Group has continued to apply the accounting policies used for the 2008
Annual Report and has adopted the following:
– The 2008 amendments to IFRS 2 – Shared-Based Payment-Vesting
Conditions and Cancellations which has led to a change in accounting for
share-based payments to employees. As a result, non-vesting conditions
are taken into account in estimating the grant date fair value and the
timing of recognition of charges. No prior year adjustments have been
made as the impact on previous years is immaterial
– IFRS 7 – Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, an
amendment to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which has
resulted in additional disclosures being made regarding liquidity risk and
fair value of financial instruments
– IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements (revised), which has resulted
in the reformatting of the statement of recognised income and expense
into a statement of comprehensive income and the addition of a
statement of changes in equity . This does not change the recognition,
measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and events required by
other standards
Future accounting developments
Consideration will be given during 2010 to the implications, if any , of the
following revised standards as follows:
– IFRS 3 – Business Combinations and IAS 27 – Consolidated and Separate
Financial Statements are revised standards issued in January 2008. The
revised IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business combinations first
accounted for in accounting periods beginning on or after 1st July 2009
and the amendments to IAS 27 apply retrospectively to periods beginning
on or after 1st July 2009. The main changes in existing practice resulting
from the revision to IFRS 3 affect acquisitions that are achieved in stages
and acquisitions where less than 100% of the equity is acquired. In
addition, acquisition-related costs – such as fees paid to advisers – must
be accounted for separately from the business combination, which means
that they will be recognised as expenses unless they are directly connected
with the issue of debt or equity securities. The revisions to IAS 27 specify
that changes in a Parent’ s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not
result in the loss of control must be accounted for as equity transactions.
Until future acquisitions take place that are accounted for in accordance
with the revised IFRS 3, the main impact on Barclays will be that, from
2010, gains and losses on transactions with non-controlling interests that
do not result in loss of control will no longer be recognised in the income
statement but directly in equity . In 2009, gains of £3m were recognised in
income relating to such transactions.
The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been
published and are mandatory for the Group’ s accounting periods beginning
on or after 1st January 2010 or later periods, but have not been adopted.
They are not expected to result in significant changes to the Group’ s
accounting policies.
– Embedded derivatives: Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39
– Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions: 
Amendments to IFRS 2
– Eligible Hedged Items (an amendment to IAS 39)
– IFRS classification of rights issues: Amendment to IAS 32
– IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
– Prepayments and minimum funding requirements 
(Amendments to IFRIC 14)
– IFRIC 17 – Distribution of non-cash assets to owners
– IFRIC 18 – Transfers of assets from customers
– IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments
– Improvements to IFRS 2008
– Improvements to IFRS 2009
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement’ was
published on 12th November 2009. It is the first phase of a project to replace
IAS 39 and will ultimately result in fundamental changes in the way that the
Group accounts for financial instruments. Adoption of the standard is not
mandatory until accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2013
but early adoption is permitted. However, it is not available for adoption in
the EU until it has been endorsed. 
The main differences from IAS 39 are as follows:
– All financial assets, except for certain equity investments, would be
classified into two categories:
– amortised cost, where they generate solely payments of interest and
principal and the business model is to collect contractual cash flows that
represent principal and interest; or
– fair value through profit or loss.
– Certain non-trading equity investments would be classified at fair value
through profit or loss or fair value though Other comprehensive income
with dividends recognised in net income.
– Embedded derivatives are no longer considered for bifurcation but are
included in the assessment of the cash flows for the classification of the
financial asset as a whole.
– Financial assets which meet the requirements for classification at
amortised cost are optionally permitted to be measured at fair value if that
eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
– Reclassifications are required if, and only if, there is a change in the
business model.
Aspects of financial instrument accounting which will be addressed in 
future phases of the project include the accounting for financial liabilities,
impairment of amortised cost financial assets and hedge accounting. 
The Group is assessing the impacts of the first phase in the project, as 
well as following developments in the future phases.
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Accounting developments 204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
Notes £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Interest income 2 21,236 28,010 25,296
Interest expense 2 (9,318) (16,541) (15,698)
Net interest income 11,918 11,469 9,598
Fee and commission income 3 9,946 7,573 6,741
Fee and commission expense 3 (1,528) (1,082) (970)
Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,771
Net trading income 4 7,001 1,339 3,754
Net investment income 4 56 680 1,216
Principal transactions 7,057 2,019 4,970
Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,172 1,090 1,011
Other income 6 1,389 367 186
T otal income 29,954 21,436 21,536
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 (831) (237) (492)
T otal income net of insurance claims 29,123 21,199 21,044
Impairment charges and other credit provisions 7 (8,071) (5,419) (2,795)
Net income 21,052 15,780 18,249
Staff costs 8 (9,948) (7,204) (7,611)
Administration and general expenses 9 (5,561) (5,305) (3,854)
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 23 (759) (606) (453)
Amortisation of intangible assets 22 (447) (276) (178)
Operating expenses (16,715) (13,391) (12,096)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 34 14 42
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 38 188 327 28
Gains on acquisitions 40 26 2,406 –
Profit before tax 4,585 5,136 6,223
Tax 10 (1,074) (453) (1,699)
Profit after tax from continuing operations 3,511 4,683 4,524
Discontinued operations
Profit after tax for the year from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 39 6,777 604 571
Net profit for the year 10,288 5,287 5,095
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent from:
Continuing operations 2,628 3,795 3,886
Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531
Total 9,393 4,382 4,417
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 33 895 905 678
10,288 5,287 5,095
p pp
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share 11 86.2 59.3 68.9
Basic earnings per share – continuing operations 24.1 51.4 60.6
Basic earnings per share – discontinued operations 62.1 7.9 8.3
Diluted earnings per share 11 81.6 57.5 66.9
Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations 22.7 49.8 58.8
Diluted earnings per share – discontinued operations 58.9 7.7 8.1
Interim dividend per ordinary share 1.0 11.5 11.50
Final dividend per ordinary share 1 1.5 – 22.50
£m £m £m
Interim dividend paid 113 906 768
Final dividend  1 176 – 1,485
The Board of Directors approved the accounts set out on pages 193 to 308 on 9th March 2010.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 205
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Net profit for the year 10,288 5,287 5,095
Other comprehensive income:
Continuing operations
Currency translation differences (861) 2,274 43
Available for sale financial assets 1,236 (1,561) 1
Cash flow hedges 165 376 359
Other – (5) 22
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income (26) 851 40
Other comprehensive income for the year , net of tax, from continuing operations 514 1,935 465
Other comprehensive income for the year , net of tax, from discontinued operations (58) 114 26
Total comprehensive income for the year 10,744 7,336 5,586
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Parent 9,556 6,213 4,854
Non-controlling interests 1,188 1,123 732
10,744 7,336 5,586
Income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in Note 10. 206 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31st December 2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,593 1,695
Trading portfolio assets 12 151,344 185,637
Financial assets designated at fair value:
– held on own account 13 41,311 54,542
– held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,257 66,657
Derivative financial instruments 14 416,815 984,802
Loans and advances to banks 15 41,135 47,707
Loans and advances to customers 15 420,224 461,815
Available for sale financial investments 16 56,483 64,976
Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 143,431 130,354
Other assets 18 6,358 6,302
Current tax assets 349 389
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 422 341
Goodwill 21 6,232 7,625
Intangible assets 22 2,563 2,777
Property , plant and equipment 23 5,626 4,674
Deferred tax assets 19 2,303 2,668
Total assets 1,378,929 2,052,980
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 76,446 114,910
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,466 1,635
Customer accounts 322,429 335,505
Trading portfolio liabilities 12 51,252 59,474
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 86,202 76,892
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,679 69,183
Derivative financial instruments 14 403,416 968,072
Debt securities in issue 135,902 149,567
Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 198,781 182,285
Other liabilities 25 12,101 12,640
Current tax liabilities 992 1,216
Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 2,140 2,152
Subordinated liabilities 27 25,816 29,842
Deferred tax liabilities 19 470 304
Provisions 28 590 535
Retirement benefit liabilities 30 769 1,357
Total liabilities 1,320,451 2,005,569
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 31 2,853 2,093
Share premium account 31 7,951 4,045
Other equity 31 – 3,652
Other reserves 32 2,768 2,793
Retained earnings 32 33,845 24,208
Less: treasury shares 32 (140) (173)
Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests 47,277 36,618
Non-controlling interests 33 11,201 10,793
Total shareholders’ equity 58,478 47,411
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 1,378,929 2,052,980
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
Marcus Agius 
Group Chairman
John Varley 
Group Chief Executive
Chris Lucas 
Group Finance Director www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 207
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Share capital Non-
and share Other Retained controlling Total
premium
a
Reserves
b
earnings
c
Total interests
d
equity
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1st January 2009 6,138 6,272 24,208 36,618 10,793 47,411
Net profit for the year – – 9,393 9,393 895 10,288
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences – (1,138) – (1,138) 277 (861)
Available for sale financial assets – 1,250 – 1,250 (14) 1,236
Cash flow hedges – 194 – 194 (29) 165
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income – (256) 171 (85) 59 (26)
Other comprehensive income net of tax from discontinued operations – (75) 17 (58) – (58)
Total comprehensive income – (25) 9,581 9,556 1,188 10,744
Issue of new ordinary shares 749 – – 749 – 749
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 35 – 298 333 – 333
Net purchase of treasury shares – (47) – (47) – (47)
Transfers – 80 (80) – – –
Dividends 1 – – (113) (113) (767) (880)
Net decrease in non-controlling interest arising on 
acquisitions, disposals and capital issuances – – – – (82) (82)
Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes 3,882 (3,652) (230) – – –
Other – – 181 181 69 250
Balance at 31st December 2009 10,804 2,628 33,845 47,277 11,201 58,478
Balance at 1st January 2008 1,707 614 20,970 23,291 9,185 32,476
Net profit for the year – – 4,382 4,382 905 5,287
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences – 2,174 – 2,174 100 2,274
Available for sale financial assets – (1,559) – (1,559) (2) (1,561)
Cash flow hedges – 271 – 271 105 376
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income – 882 (46) 836 15 851
Other – – (5) (5) – (5)
Other comprehensive income net of tax from discontinued operations – 124 (10) 114 – 114
Total comprehensive income – 1,892 4,321 6,213 1,123 7,336
Issue of new ordinary shares 4,422 – – 4,422 – 4,422
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 19 – 463 482 – 482
Issue of shares and warrants – – 1,410 1,410 – 1,410
Repurchase of shares (10) 10 (173) (173) – (173)
Net purchase of treasury shares – (350) – (350) – (350)
Transfers – 437 (437) – – –
Dividends – – (2,344) (2,344) (703) (3,047)
Net increase in non-controlling interest arising on acquisitions, 
disposals and capital issuances – – – – 1,338 1,338
Issue of Mandatorily Convertible Notes – 3,652 – 3,652 – 3,652
Other – 17 (2) 15 (150) (135)
Balance at 31st December 2008 6,138 6,272 24,208 36,618 10,793 47,411
Notes
a Details of share capital and share premium are shown in Note 31.
b Details of other reserves are shown in Note 32. Other reserves above includes treasury shares.
c Details of retained earnings and treasury shares are shown in Note 32.
d Details of non-controlling interests are shown in Note 33. 208 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC
Consolidated cash flow statement
Note
a Other non-cash movements principally comprise movements in exchange rates and the fair value of available for sale investments less subordinated debt hedging.
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Continuing operations
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 4,585 5,136 6,223
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Allowance for impairment 8,071 5,419 2,795
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property , plant, equipment and intangibles 1,196 885 651
Other provisions, including pensions 428 804 753
Net profit from associates and joint ventures (34) (14) (42)
Net profit on disposal of investments and property , plant and equipment (383) (371) (862)
Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 3 – (26)
Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries (191) (327) (2)
Net gains on acquisitions (26) (2,406) –
Other non-cash movements
a
4,573 960 (1,181)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Net decrease/(increase) in loans and advances to banks and customers 25,482 (58,431) (77,987)
Net (decrease)/increase in deposits and debt securities in issue (49,203) 77,743 90,589
Net decrease/(increase) in derivative financial instruments 3,321 (17,529) (2,144)
Net decrease/(increase) in trading assets 34,334 26,919 (18,227)
Net decrease in trading liabilities (8,222) (5,928) (6,472)
Net increase/(decrease) in financial investments 20,459 5,229 (4,379)
Net (increase)/ decrease in other assets (465) (3,016) 1,116
Net decrease in other liabilities (907) (477) (1,071)
T ax paid (1,177) (1,404) (1,254)
Net cash from operating activities 41,844 33,192 (11,520)
Purchase of available for sale investments (78,420) (57,756) (26,899)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 88,559 51,429 38,423
Net addition of intangible assets (226) (666) (227)
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (1,150) (1,643) (1,182)
Proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment 372 799 617
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (28) (961) (270)
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 339 238 383
Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash disposed 2,469 ––
Increase in investment in subsidiaries – (157) (668)
Decrease in investment in subsidiaries – 19 57
Acquisition of associates and joint ventures (81) (96) (220)
Disposal of associates and joint ventures 69 137 145
Other cash flows associated with investing activities (15) (5) 153
Net cash from investing activities 11,888 (8,662) 10,312
Dividends paid (633) (2,697) (2,151)
Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of debt securities 3,549 5,763 4,646
Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities (4,383) (1,207) (683)
Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 773 9,505 2,494
Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments – (173) (1,802)
Net disposal/(purchase) of treasury shares 33 87 (48)
Net issue of shares to non-controlling interests – 1,356 1,331
Net cash from financing activities (661) 12,634 3,787
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2,864) (6,018) (537)
Net cash from discontinued operations (376) 286 83
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 49,831 31,432 2,125
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 64,509 33,077 30,952
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 114, 340 64,509 33,077
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019 5,801
Loans and advances to banks 41,135 47,707 40,120
Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months (10,674) (15,428) (19,377)
30,461 32,279 20,743
Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 56,483 64,976 43,072
Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months (54,239) (62,876) (41,688)
2,244 2,100 1,384
Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637 193,691
Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months (151,192) ( 185,526) (188,556)
152 111 5,135
Other – –14
114,340 64,509 33,077
Interest received in 2009 was £32,437m (2008: £41,017m, 2007: £49,441m) and interest paid in 2009 was £20,889m (2008: £38,975m, 2007: £37,821m).
The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to £2,470m at 31st December 2009
(2008: £1,050m). www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 209
Accounts of Barclays PLC
Parent company accounts
Income statement
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Dividends received from subsidiary 103 1,173 3,287
Interest income 53 74
Trading gain/(loss) – 18 (13)
Other income – –15
Management charge from subsidiary (4) (4) (4)
Profit before tax 152 1,194 3,289
Tax (27) (1) –
Profit after tax 125 1,193 3,289
The Company had no staff during the year (2008: nil, 2007: nil).
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year was £125m (2008: £1,193m, 2007: £3,289m). There were no other components of total
comprehensive income other than the net profit for the year.
Balance sheet
As at 31st December 2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 41 20,215 15,340
Current assets
Cash and balances at central banks 1 –
Other assets 26 3,851
Total assets 20,242 19,191
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Amounts payable within one year 28 1
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 31 2,853 2,093
Share premium account 31 7,951 4,045
Other equity 31 – 3,652
Capital redemption reserve 32 394 394
Retained earnings 32 9,016 9,006
Total shareholders’ equity 20,214 19,190
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 20,242 19,191
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
Marcus Agius
Group Chairman
John Varley 
Group Chief Executive
Chris Lucas 
Group Finance Director 210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Accounts of Barclays PLC
Parent company accounts
continued
Statement of changes in equity Share capital
and share Other Retained Total 
premium
a
reserves
b
earnings
c
equity
Notes £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1st January 2009 6,138 4,046 9,006 19,190
Total comprehensive income:
Net profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – 125 125
Issue of new ordinary shares 749 – – 749
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 35 – – 35
Issue of warrants ––––
Mandatorily Convertible Notes issued 3,882 (3,652) (230) –
Repurchase of shares ––––
Dividends 1 – – (113) (113)
Other – – 228 228
Balance at 31st December 2009 10,804 394 9,016 20,214
Balance at 1st January 2008 1,707 384 8,990 11,081
Total comprehensive income:
Net profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – 1,193 1,193
Issue of new ordinary shares 4,422 – 634 5,056
Issue of shares under employee share schemes 19 – – 19
Issue of warrants – – 776 776
Mandatorily Convertible Notes issued – 3,652 – 3,652
Repurchase of shares (10) 10 (173) (173)
Dividends – – (2,414) (2,414)
Other ––––
Balance at 31st December 2008 6,138 4,046 9,006 19,190
In 2009 and 2008 there were no other components of total comprehensive income other than the net profit for the year. 
Notes
a Details of share capital and share premium are shown in Note 31.
b Details of other reserves are shown in Note 32.
c Details of retained earnings are shown in Note 32. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 211
Cash flow statement
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 152 1,194 3,289
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Net decrease/(increase) in other assets 2 (16) (3)
Net increase/(decrease) in other liabilities 1 – (3)
Net cash from operating activities 155 1,178 3,283
Capital contribution to subsidiaries (800) (4,362) (1,434)
Purchase of shares in subsidiaries (25) (16) (316)
Liquidation of subsidiary – 205 –
Net cash used in investing activities (825) (4,173) (1,750)
Issue of shares and other equity instruments 784 4,911 2,494
Dividends paid (113) (2,414) (2,129)
Repurchase of ordinary shares – (173) (1,802)
Net cash from financing activities 671 2,324 (1,437)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1 (671) 96
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – 671 575
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1 – 671
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 1 – 671
Net cash from operating activities includes:
Dividends received 103 1,173 3,287
Interest received 53 74
The Parent Company’ s principal activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiary , Barclays Bank PLC. Dividends received are treated as
operating income.
The Company was not exposed at 31st December 2009 or 2008 to significant risks arising from the financial instruments it holds; which comprised cash,
balances with central banks and other assets which had no credit or market risk.
Non-cash transactions
During 2008 Barclays Bank PLC issued £4,050m of Mandatorily Convertible Notes (MCNs), which had mandatorily converted into ordinary shares of
Barclays PLC by 30th June 2009. Barclays PLC’ s right to receive the MCNs was included in other assets in 2008, with a corresponding increase, net of issue
costs, in other equity . In 2009, Barclays PLC waived its rights over the MCNs, which have been added to its cost of investment in its subsidiary .
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.  212 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
1 Dividends per share
The Directors have recommended the final dividend in respect of 2009 of 1.5p per ordinary share of 25p each, amounting to a total of £176m, which will 
be paid on 19th March 2010. The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2009 do not reflect these dividends, which will be accounted for
in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31st December 2010. The financial statements to 31st December 2009
include the 2009 interim dividend of £113m.
2 Net interest income
2009 2008 2007
Interest arising from: £m £m £m
Cash and balances with central banks 131 174 145
Available for sale investments 1,937 2,355 2,580
Loans and advances to banks 513 1,267 1,416
Loans and advances to customers 18,456 23,754 19,559
Other interest income 199 460 1,596
Interest income 21,236 28,010 25,296
Deposits from banks (634) (2,189) (2,720)
Customer accounts (2,716) (6,697) (4,110)
Debt securities in issue (3,889) (5,910) (6,651)
Subordinated liabilities (1,718) (1,349) (878)
Other interest expense (361) (396) (1,339)
Interest expense (9,318) (16,541) (15,698)
Net interest income 11,918 11,469 9,598
Interest income includes £185m (2008: £135m, 2007: £113m) arising from impaired loans.
Other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements. Similarly , other interest expense principally includes
interest expense relating to repurchase agreements and hedging activity .
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14.
3 Net fee and commission income
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Fee and commission income
Brokerage fees 88 56 78
Investment management fees 133 120 122
Banking and credit related fees and commissions 9,578 7,208 6,363
Foreign exchange commissions 147 189 178
Fee and commission income 9,946 7,573 6,741
Fee and commission expense (1,528) (1,082) (970)
Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,771 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 213
4 Principal transactions
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Net trading income 7,001 1,339 3,754
Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets 349 212 560
Dividend income 6 196 26
Net (loss)/ gain from financial instruments designated at fair value (208) 33 293
Other investment (losses)/income (91) 239 337
Net investment income 56 680 1,216
Principal transactions 7,057 2,019 4,970
Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to fair value,
together with the interest income earned from these instruments and the related funding cost.
Net trading income included a £682m gain (2008: £1,272m, 2007: £640m) related to foreign exchange dealings.
The net loss on financial assets designated at fair value included within principal transactions was £2,557m (2008: £6,602m loss, 2007: £78m gain)
of which losses of £2,349m (2008: £6,635m loss, 2007: £215m loss) were included in net trading income and losses of £208m (2008: £33m gain,
2007: £293m gain) were included within net investment income.
The net loss on financial liabilities designated at fair value included within principal transactions was £3,158m (2008: £3,328m gain, 2007: £231m loss) 
all of which was included within net trading income.
Net trading income includes the net loss from tightening credit spreads relating to Barclays Capital issued structured notes held at fair value of £1,820m
(2008: £1,663m gain, 2007: £658m gain).
5 Insurance premiums and insurance claims and benefits
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Gross premiums from insurance contracts 1,224 1,138 1,062
Premiums ceded to reinsurers (52) (48) (51)
Net premiums from insurance contracts 1,172 1,090 1,011
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Gross claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 858 263 520
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred (27) (26) (28)
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 831 237 492
6 Other income
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities 
to customers under investment contracts 102 (1,219) 23
(Increase)/ decrease in liabilities to customers under investment contracts (102) 1,219 (23)
Property rentals 64 73 53
Gains on debt buy backs and extinguishments 1,255 24 –
Other 70 270 133
Other income 1,389 367 186 214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
7 Impairment charges and other credit provisions
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Impairment charges on loans and advances
New and increased impairment allowances 8,111 5,116 2,871
Releases (631) (358) (338)
Recoveries (150) (174) (227)
Impairment charges on loans and advances 7,330 4,584 2,306
Charge in respect of provision for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 28 329 476
Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions 7,358 4,913 2,782
Impairment charges on reverse repurchase agreements 43 124 –
Impairment on available for sale assets 670 382 13
Impairment charges and other credit provisions 8,071 5,419 2,795
An analysis of the impairment charges by class of financial instrument is included in Note 47. 
8 Staff costs
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Salaries and accrued incentive payments 8,081 5,787 6,322
Social security costs 606 444 480
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 224 221 119
Pension costs – defined benefit plans (Note 30) (33) 89 150
Other post-retirement benefits (Note 30) 16 19
Other 1,054 662 531
Staff costs 9,948 7,204 7,611
Included in salaries and incentive payments is £290m (2008: £257m, 2007: £551m) arising from equity settled share-based payments, of which £56m
(2008: £23m, 2007: £60m) is a charge related to option-based schemes and of which £12m (2008: £35m, 2007: £74m) relates to discontinued operations.
Also included is £8m (2008: £3m, 2007: £8m) arising from cash settled share-based payments. 
In December 2009, the UK government announced that the Finance Bill 2010 will introduce a bank payroll tax of 50% applicable to discretionary bonuses
over £25,000 awarded to UK bank employees between 9th December 2009 and 5th April 2010. Draft legislation and further guidance on its application has
been published. Based on this, and in accordance with IAS 19 – Employee benefits, the Group has accrued for the estimated tax payable in respect of
employee services provided during the period. For 2009, £190m has been included within Other Staff Costs in respect of 2009 cash awards. A further
provision of £35m has also been included in Other Staff Costs in respect of certain prior year awards being distributed during the tax window, which may fall
within the proposed legislation. 
Staff costs above relate to continuing operations only . T otal staff costs for the Group (including both continuing and discontinued operations) was
£10,683m (2008: £7,779m, 2007: £8,405m) comprising salaries and accrued incentive payments of £8,595m (2008: £6,273m, 2007: £6,993m), social
security costs of £621m (2008: £464m, 2007: £508m), pension costs of £217m (2008: £326m, 2007: £291m), other post-retirement benefits of £19m
(2008: £1m, 2007: £10m) and other staff costs of £1,231m (2008: £715m, 2007: £603m).
The total average number of persons employed by the Group (including both continuing and discontinued operations) during the year was 153,800 
(2008: 151,500).
9 Administration and general expenses
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Administrative expenses 4,889 4,791 3,691
Impairment charges/(releases)
– property and equipment (Note 23) 34 33 2
– intangible assets (Note 22) 27 (3) 14
– goodwill (Note 21) 1 112 –
Operating lease rentals 639 520 414
Gain on property disposals (29) (148) (267)
Administration and general expenses 5,561 5,305 3,854 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 215
9 Administration and general expenses continued
Auditors’ remuneration
Audit Taxation Other
Audit related services services Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m
2009
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 12 – – – 12
Other services:
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’ s associates pursuant to legislation a) 23––– 23
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation b) –2 – –2
Other services relating to taxation c) –– 7– 7
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates d) – – –33
Other –4 –15
Total auditors’ remuneration 35674 52
2008
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 12––– 12
Other services:
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’ s associates pursuant to legislation a) 19 – – – 19
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation b) – 2 – – 2
Other services relating to taxation c) – – 9 – 9
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates d) – – – 2 2
Other –4 –15
Total auditors’ remuneration 31693 49
2007
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 7––– 7
Other services:
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’ s associates pursuant to legislation a) 11 – – – 11
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation b) 6 2 – – 8
Other services relating to taxation c) – – 3 – 3
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates d) – – – 5 5
Other –1 –12
Total auditors’ remuneration 24 3 3 6 36 
The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for continuing operations of business. Fees paid to
other auditors not associated with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in respect of the audit of the Company’ s subsidiaries were £3m (2008: £3m, 2007: £2m).
a) Fees payable for the audit of the Company’ s associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and
associated pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Company . The fees relating to the audit of the associated pension schemes were £0.5m
(2008: £0.2m, 2007: £0.3m).
b) Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These include audit services for
the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and fees paid for reporting under Section 404 of the
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Section 404). In 2009 and 2008 fees paid for reporting under Section 404 are not separately identifiable from the fees of the
audit of the Group’ s annual accounts and the Company’ s associates.
c) Other services relating to taxation include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters,
tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
d) Services relating to corporate finance transactions comprise due diligence related to transactions and other work in connection with such transactions.
Excluded from the total auditors’ remuneration above are fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and associates relating to BGI (discontinued operations)
of £4m (2008: £3m, 2007: £8m). 216 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
10 Tax
The charge for tax is based upon the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%) and comprises: 
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Current tax charge/(credit)
Current year 1,249 1,201 2,013
Adjustment for prior years (118) 98 10
1,131 1,299 2,023
Deferred tax charge/(credit)
Current year 45 (577) (297)
Adjustment for prior years (102) (269) (27)
(57) (846) (324)
Total charge 1,074 453 1,699
The effective tax rate for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%). 
The differences are set out below: 
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit before tax 4,585 5,136 6,223
T ax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%) 1,284 1,464 1,867
Adjustment for prior years (220) (171) (17)
Effect of overseas tax rates different from UK standard tax rate (27) 175 (82)
Non-taxable gains and income (including amounts offset by unrecognised tax losses) (112) (859) (136)
Share-based payments (38) 201 71
Deferred tax assets not recognised/(previously not recognised) 27 (504) (159)
Change in tax rates (12) (1) 24
Other non-allowable expenses 172 148 131
Overall tax charge 1,074 453 1,699
Effective tax rate 23% 9% 27%
The effective tax rate for 2009, based on profit before tax on continuing operations was 23.4% (2008: 8.8%). The effective tax rate differs from the UK tax rate
of 28% (2008: 28.5%) because of non-taxable gains and income, different tax rates applied to taxable profits and losses outside the UK, disallowed expenditure
and adjustments in respect of prior years. The low effective tax rate of 8.8% on continuing operations in 2008 mainly resulted from the Lehman Brothers
North American business acquisition.
T ax effects relating to each component of other comprehensive income
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
Tax Tax Tax
Before tax (expense)/ Net of tax Before tax (expense)/ Net of tax Before tax (expense)/ Net of tax 
amount benefit amount amount benefit amount amount benefit amount
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Currency translation differences (861) (2) (863) 2,274 840 3,114 43 102 145
Available for sale 1,236 (177) 1,059 (1,561) 207 (1,354) 1 (1) –
Cash flow hedge 165 (65) 100 376 (194) 182 359 (119) 240
Other – 218 218 (5) (2) (7) 22 58 80
Other comprehensive income 540 (26) 514 1,084 851 1,935 425 40 465 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 217
11 Earnings per share
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Continuing operations
Profit attributable to equity holders of Parent 2,628 3,795 3,886
Dilutive impact of convertible options (17) (19) (15)
Profit attributable to equity holders of Parent including dilutive impact of convertible options 2,611 3,776 3,871
Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531
2009 2008 2007
million million million
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 10,890 7,389 6,410
Number of potential ordinary shares 594 188 177
Diluted weighted average number of shares 11,484 7,577 6,587
p pp
Basic earnings per share 86.2 59.3 68.9
Continuing operations 24.1 51.4 60.6
Discontinued operations 62.1 7.9 8.3
Diluted earnings per share 81.6 57.5 66.9
Continuing operations 22.7 49.8 58.8
Discontinued operations 58.9 7.7 8.1
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent and the number of basic weighted average
number of shares excluding own shares held in employee benefits trusts and shares held for trading.
The basic weighted average number of shares in issue in the year ended 31st December 2009 reflects the full year impact of the 1,803 million shares issued
during 2008, the 2,642 million shares that were issued during the first six months of 2009 following conversion in full of the Mandatorily Convertible Notes,
and the weighted average impact of the 379 million warrants exercised during 2009. The increase in the number of potential ordinary shares is primarily
driven by the warrants issued in 2008 becoming dilutive in 2009 as the average share price exceeded the warrants’ exercise price.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent is adjusted for the dilutive impact of the potential
conversion of outstanding options held in respect of Absa Group Limited that would increase the Group’ s non-controlling interests on exercise. In addition,
the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares held in respect of Barclays PLC, totalling
594 million (2008: 188 million, 2007: 177 million). 
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31st December 2009, 97 million were anti-dilutive (2008: 64 million, 2007: nil). 
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Group continued to make on-market purchases of treasury shares for the purposes of satisfying its various
employee share schemes. No adjustment has been made to earnings per share in respect of these purchases.
12 Trading portfolio
2009 2008
£m £m
Trading portfolio assets
Treasury and other eligible bills 9,926 4,544
Debt securities 116,594 148,686
Equity securities 19,602 30,535
Traded loans 2,962 1,070
Commodities 2,260 802
Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637
Trading portfolio liabilities
Treasury and other eligible bills (381) (79)
Debt securities (44,327) (44,309)
Equity securities (6,468) (14,919)
Commodities (76) (167)
Trading portfolio liabilities (51,252) (59,474)
As disclosed in Note 51, £8,027m of collateralised loan obligations were reclassified from the trading portfolio to loans and receivables during the year. 218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
13 Financial assets designated at fair value 
Held on own account
2009 2008
£m £m
Loans and advances 22,390 30,187
Debt securities 4,007 8,628
Equity securities 6,256 6,496
Other financial assets 8,658 9,231
Financial assets designated at fair value – held on own account 41,311 54,542
The maximum exposure to credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value at 31st December 2009 was £22,390m (2008: £30,187m). 
The amount by which related credit derivatives and similar instruments mitigate the exposure to credit risk at 31st December 2009 was £1,416m
(2008: £2,084m). 
The net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value was £2,370m in 2009 (2008: £2,550m). The gains on
related credit derivatives was £229m for the year (2008: £519m). 
The cumulative net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value since initial recognition is £5,321m at 
31st December 2009 (2008: £2,951m). The cumulative change in fair value of related credit derivatives at 31st December 2009 is £744m (2008: £515m). 
Held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts/liabilities arising from investment contracts
2009 2008
£m £m
Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,257 66,657
Cash and bank balances within the portfolio 422 2,526
Assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,679 69,183
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts (1,679) (69,183)
A portion of the Group’ s fund management business in 2008, mostly relating to BGI, takes the legal form of investment contracts, under which legal title to
the underlying investment is held by the Group, but the inherent risks and rewards in the investments are borne by the investors. In the normal course of
business, the Group’ s financial interest in such investments is restricted to fees for investment management services.
Due to the nature of these contracts, the carrying value of the assets is always the same as the value of the liabilities and any change in the value of the
assets results in an equal but opposite change in the value of the amounts due to the policyholders.
The Group is therefore not exposed to the financial risks – market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk – inherent in the investments and they are omitted from
the disclosures on financial risks in Notes 47 to 49.
On the balance sheet, the assets are included as ‘Financial assets designated at fair value – held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment
contracts’. Balances within the portfolio have been included in the Group’ s cash balances. The associated obligation to deliver the value of the investments
to customers at their fair value on-balance sheet date is included as ‘Liabilities to customers under investment contracts’. 
The increase/ decrease in fair value arising from the return on the investments and the corresponding increase/ decrease in linked liabilities to customers
is disclosed in Note 6. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 219
14 Derivative financial instruments 
The Group’ s objectives and policies on managing the risks that arise in connection with derivatives, including the policies for hedging, are included in 
Notes 46 to 49.
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for trading are set out in the following table:
Y ear ended 31st December
Derivatives held for trading 2009 2008
Notional Notional
contract
Fair value
contract
Fair value
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Foreign exchange derivatives
Forward foreign exchange 1,457,271 18,148 (18,019) 1,374,108 44,631 (46,371)
Currency swaps 810,666 26,008 (32,357) 828,983 47,077 (53,116)
OTC options bought and sold 539,976 7,332 (7,321) 426,739 15,405 (14,331)
OTC derivatives 2,807,913 51,488 (57,697) 2,629,830 107,113 (113,818)
Exchange traded futures – bought and sold 2,035 – – 8,008 – –
Exchange traded options – bought and sold 28,220 – – 1,295 – –
Foreign exchange derivatives 2,838,168 51,488 (57,697) 2,639,133 107,113 (113,818)
Interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps 9,408,811 193,133 (179,744) 17,624,591 498,661 (496,292)
Forward rate agreements 4,436,628 3,595 (3,289) 4,377,619 8,853 (8,224)
OTC options bought and sold 5,113,613 63,647 (61,304) 5,598,960 105,743 (101,005)
OTC derivatives 18,959,052 260,375 (244,337) 27,601,170 613,257 (605,521)
Exchange traded futures – bought and sold 547,685 – – 586,312 – –
Exchange traded options – bought and sold 272,960 – – 276,752 – –
Exchange traded swaps 13,424,261 – – 9,411,001 – –
Interest rate derivatives 33,203,958 260,375 (244,337) 37,875,235 613,257 (605,521)
Credit derivatives
Swaps 2,016,796 56,295 (51,780) 4,129,244 184,072 (170,011)
Equity and stock index derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 124,944 13,042 (15,681) 180,157 19,576 (19,998)
Equity swaps and forwards 45,922 2,057 (1,718) 51,267 3,432 (2,819)
OTC derivatives 170,866 15,099 (17,399) 231,424 23,008 (22,817)
Exchange traded futures – bought and sold 57,565 – – 38,340 – –
Exchange traded options – bought and sold 130,885 2,631 (2,371) 121,712 5,551 (3,109)
Equity and stock index derivatives 359,316 17,730 (19,770) 391,476 28,559 (25,926)
Commodity derivatives
OTC options bought and sold 92,508 4,262 (4,215) 78,680 6,565 (10,261)
Commodity swaps and forwards 252,621 22,872 (22,012) 407,015 38,316 (35,556)
OTC derivatives 345,129 27,134 (26,227) 485,695 44,881 (45,817)
Exchange traded futures – bought and sold 312,883 2,436 (2,008) 165,564 3,953 (2,745)
Exchange traded options – bought and sold 55,729 180 (200) 54,435 161 (233)
Commodity derivatives 713,741 29,750 (28,435) 705,694 48,995 (48,795)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 39,131,979 415,638 (402,019) 45,740,782 981,996 (964,071) 220 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
14 Derivative financial instruments continued
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table:
Y ear ended 31st December
Derivatives held for trading 2009 2008
Notional Notional
contract
Fair value
contract
Fair value
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
Currency swaps ––– 586 – (271)
Interest rate swaps 79,241 478 (494) 60,669 1,013 (1,011)
Equity options ––– 400 – (154)
OTC options bought and sold 673 2 – –––
Forward foreign exchange 2,224 237 (51) 1,871 309 (354)
Exchange traded interest rate swaps 33,534 – – 20,028 – –
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 115,672 717 (545) 83,554 1,322 (1,790)
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Currency swaps 502 10 – 2,666 283 (105)
Interest rate swaps 12,199 357 (459) 14,010 1,052 (357)
Equity options 7,710 53 (56) 259 124 (110)
Forward foreign exchange 5,386 18 (103) –––
Exchange traded interest rate swaps 32,257 – – 18,767 – –
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 58,054 438 (618) 35,702 1,459 (572)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments
Forward foreign exchange 5,321 22 (97) 2,019 4 (76)
Currency swaps 971 – (137) 3,675 21 (1,563)
Derivatives designated as hedges of net investment 6,292 22 (234) 5,694 25 (1,639)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 180,018 1,177 (1,397) 124,950 2,806 (4,001)
Interest rate derivatives, designated as cash flow hedges, primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow variability from interest rates of variable rate loans to
banks and customers, variable rate debt securities held and highly probable forecast financing transactions and reinvestments. 
Interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges primarily hedge the interest rate risk of fixed rate borrowings in issue, fixed rate loans to banks and
customers and investments in fixed rate debt securities held. 
Currency derivatives are primarily designated as hedges of the foreign currency risk of net investments in foreign operations. 
The Group’ s total derivative asset and liability position as reported on the balance sheet is as follows:
Y ear ended 31st December 2009 2008
Notional Notional
contract
Fair value
contract
Fair value
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
T otal derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 39,131,979 415,638 (402,019) 45,740,782 981,996 (964,071)
T otal derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk management 180,018 1,177 (1,397) 124,950 2,806 (4,001)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) 39,311,997 416,815 (403,416) 45,865,732 984,802 (968,072)
Derivative assets and liabilities subject to counterparty netting agreements amounted to £343bn (2008: £862bn). Additionally , the Group held £31bn
(2008: £55bn) of collateral against the net derivative assets exposure. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 221
14 Derivative financial instruments continued
The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates. These cash flows are expected to impact the income
statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied:
Between Between Between Between
Up to one to two to three to four to More than
Total one year two years three years four years five years five years
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2009
Forecast receivable cash flows 3,304 467 838 837 700 370 92
Forecast payable cash flows 558 51 96 122 145 116 28
2008
Forecast receivable cash flows 2,569 875 586 596 347 127 38
Forecast payable cash flows 974 275 166 175 145 123 90
The maximum length of time over which the Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, excluding those
forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments, is nine years (2008: seven years).
All gains or losses on hedging derivatives relating to forecast transactions, which are no longer expected to occur, have been recycled to the income
statement.
A loss of £1,478m on hedging instruments was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income (2008: £2,439m gain). A gain of £1,604m
on the hedged items was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income (2008: £2,423m loss).
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to cash flow hedges in net interest income was a gain of £21m (2008: £14m gain). Ineffectiveness recognised in
relation to hedges of net investment was a loss of £5m (2008: £2m gain).
15 Loans and advances to banks and customers
2009 2008
£m £m
Gross loans and advances to banks 41,196 47,758
Less: Allowance for impairment (61) (51)
Loans and advances to banks 41,135 47,707
Gross loans and advances to customers 430,959 468,338
Less: Allowance for impairment (10,735) (6,523)
Loans and advances to customers 420,224 461,815 222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
16 Available for sale financial investments 
2009 2008
£m £m
Debt securities 43,888 58,831
Treasury bills and other eligible bills 5,919 4,003
Equity securities 6,676 2,142
Available for sale financial investments 56,483 64,976
Movement in available for sale financial investments
At beginning of year 64,976 43,072
Exchange and other adjustments (4,399) 14,275
Acquisitions and transfers 83,915 59,703
Disposals (through sale and redemption) (88,854) (50,501)
Gains/(losses) from changes in fair value recognised in equity 1,576 (1,174)
Impairment charge (670) (382)
Amortisation charge (6) (17)
Business disposals/ discontinued operations (55) –
At end of year 56,483 64,976
17 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements
Amounts included in the balance sheet and reported on a net basis where the Group has the intention and the legal ability to settle net or realise
simultaneously were as follows: 
a) Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed
Amounts advanced to counterparties under reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral provided under stock borrowing agreements are treated as
collateralised loans receivable. The related securities purchased or borrowed subject to an agreement with the counterparty to repurchase them are not
recognised on-balance sheet where the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the counterparty .
2009 2008
£m £m
Banks 67,872 55,471
Customers 75,559 74,883
Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral held on securities borrowed 143,431 130,354
b) Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent
Securities that are not recorded on the balance sheet (for example, securities that have been obtained as a result of reverse repurchase and stock borrowing
transactions) may also be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase – such securities remain off-balance sheet. In both instances, amounts
received from counterparty are treated as liabilities, which at 31st December were as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Banks 93,692 87,403
Customers 105,089 94,882
Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 198,781 182,285
18 Other assets
2009 2008
£m £m
Sundry debtors 4,909 4,814
Prepayments 1,010 882
Accrued income 347 483
Reinsurance assets 92 123
Other assets 6,358 6,302
Included in the above are balances of £4,978m (2008: £4,704m) expected to be recovered within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date
and balances of £1,380m (2008: £1,598m) expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Other assets include £3,476m (2008: £3,096m) of receivables which meet the definition of financial assets. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 223
19 Deferred tax
The components of deferred taxes disclosed on the balance sheet are as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Deferred tax liability (470) (304)
Deferred tax asset 2,303 2,668
Net deferred tax 1,833 2,364
Deferred taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method. Movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
Pensions Allowance
Fixed Available and other for T ax losses
asset timing for sale Cash flow retirement impairment Other carried Share based
differences investments hedges benefits on loans provisions forward payments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities (945) (46) (368) ––––– (1,075) (2,434)
Assets 87 57 246 403 356 532 1,659 342 1,116 4,798
At 1st January 2009 (858) 11 (122) 403 356 532 1,659 342 41 2,364
Income statement 340 (8) 44 (189) 39 15 (785) 50 293 (201)
Equity – (21) (59) –––– 156 24 100
Acquisitions and 
disposals 1 – – (5) (1) (8) 4 (41) (98) (148)
Exchange and
other adjustments (26) (8) (2) 10 (15) (245) 160 (171) 15 (282)
(543) (26) (139) 219 379 294 1,038 336 275 1,833
Liabilities (660) (54) (278) ––––– (197) (1,189)
Assets 117 28 139 219 379 294 1,038 336 472 3,022
At 31st December 
2009 (543) (26) (139) 219 379 294 1,038 336 275 1,833
Liabilities (803) (101) (51) ––––– (771) (1,726)
Assets – – 44 491 108 377 215 428 671 2,334
At 1st January 2008 (803) (101) (7) 491 108 377 215 428 (100) 608
Income statement 124 8 5 (90) 223 (10) 598 (215) 227 870
Equity – 103 (161) – – – 750 (33) (13) 646
Acquisitions and 
disposals (195) –––– 56– 75 (211) (275)
Exchange and
other adjustments 16 1 41 2 25 109 96 87 138 515
(858) 11 (122) 403 356 532 1,659 342 41 2,364
Liabilities (945) (46) (368) ––––– (1,075) (2,434)
Assets 87 57 246 403 356 532 1,659 342 1,116 4,798
At 31st December 2008 (858) 11 (122) 403 356 532 1,659 342 41 2,364
The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £955m (2008: £1,949m). 
The amount of deferred tax asset expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is £2,446m (2008: £4,593m).
The deferred tax assets balance includes £197m (2008: £2,139m) which is the excess deferred tax assets over deferred tax liabilities in entities which have
suffered a loss in either the current or prior year. This is based on management assessment that it is probable that the relevant entities will have taxable
profits against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of deductible temporary differences (gross) of £4m (2008: £9m), unused tax losses (gross)
of £8,542m (2008: £4,083m) and unused tax credits of £nil (2008: £46m). T ax losses of £8,516m expire in 2029. The other tax losses, tax credits and
temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise benefits. The unused tax losses include amounts relating to non-UK
branches of Barclays Bank PLC where the future tax benefit might be restricted to the amount in excess of the UK rate.
The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities
have not been recognised is £738m (2008: £8,429m). 224 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Share of net assets
Associates Joint ventures Total
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m .
At beginning of year 175 90 166 287 341 377
Share of results before tax 21 25 21 (6) 42 19
Share of tax (2) (3) (6) (2) (8) (5)
Share of post-tax results 19 22 15 (8) 34 14
Dividends paid – – (1) – (1) –
New investments 198 6 1 27 199 33
Acquisitions 38 62 3 1 41 63
Disposals (58) (20) (14) (117) (72) (137)
Exchange and other adjustments (122) 15 2 (24) (120) (9)
At end of year 250 175 172 166 422 341
Goodwill included above:
Associates Joint ventures Total
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m .
Cost
At beginning of year – – 31 27 31 27
Acquisitions 19 – – – 19 –
Exchange and other adjustments (1) – (1) 4 (2) 4
At end of year 18 – 30 31 48 31
The Group holds investments in associates listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange: Pinnacle Point Group Limited, Blue Financial Services Limited
(acquired during 2009) and Sekunjalo Investments Limited (acquired during 2009). The fair value of the Group’ s investment in these associates is £15m
(2008: £60m). Ambit Properties Limited was disposed during 2009 (2008: fair value of £51m).
Aggregate cash consideration paid for additional investments in associates and joint ventures was £82m (2008: £96m), which also included New China
Trust. Additional investments for non-cash consideration, include Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compañía de Seguros (£69m) and associates held by Crescent
Real Estate Holdings LLC (£89m).
Summarised financial information for the Group’ s associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2009 2008
Joint Joint
Associates ventures Associates ventures
£m £m £m £m .
Property , plant and equipment 1,174 98 788 104
Financial investments 772 6 124 –
Trading portfolio assets 426 – ––
Loans to banks and customers 712 3,124 271 2,883
Other assets 1,855 293 1,343 418
Total assets 4,939 3,521 2,526 3,405
Deposits from banks and customers 2,200 2,751 1,376 2,207
Trading portfolio liabilities 370 107 ––
Other liabilities 1,666 380 985 890
Shareholders’ equity 703 283 165 308
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 4,939 3,521 2,526 3,405
Net income 1,022 391 859 357
Operating expenses (1,045) (342) (732) (364)
(Loss)/profit before tax (23) 49 127 (7)
(Loss)/profit after tax (96) 30 52 (11)
The amounts included above, which include the entire assets, liabilities and net income of the investees, not just the Group’ s share, are based on accounts
made up to 31st December 2009 with the exception of certain undertakings for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier
than three months before the balance sheet date. 
The Group’ s share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures is £5m (2008: £nil). www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 225
21 Goodwill
2009 2008
£m £m
Net book value
At beginning of year 7,625 7,014
Acquisitions 63 400
Business disposals/ discontinued operations (1,503) (10)
Impairment charge (1) (112)
Exchange and other adjustments 48 333
At end of year 6,232 7,625
Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments identified by the Group under IFRS 8, as follows:
2009 2008
a
£m £m
UK Retail Banking 3,146 3,139
Barclays Commercial Bank 22 10
Barclaycard 525 413
GRCB – Western Europe 886 948
GRCB – Emerging Markets 39 49
GRCB – Absa 1,116 1,084
Barclays Capital 107 95
Barclays Global Investors – 1,496
Barclays Wealth 391 391
Goodwill 6,232 7,625
The goodwill disposal relates to Barclays Global Investors. During 2009, the allocation of balances has been updated to reflect certain changes in the
business structure.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indicators that impairment may have occurred, by comparing the carrying
value to its recoverable amount.
Impairment testing of goodwill
The recoverable amount of each operation’ s goodwill is based on value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell calculations. The calculations are based upon
discounting expected pre-tax cash flows at a risk-adjusted interest rate appropriate to the cash generating unit, the determination of both of which requires
the exercise of judgement. The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding
the long-term sustainable cash flows. While forecasts are compared with actual performance and external economic data, expected cash flows naturally
reflect management’ s view of future performance. 
At 31st December 2009, the goodwill allocated to UK Retail Banking was £3,146m (2008: £3,139m) including £3,130m (2008: £3,130m) relating
to Woolwich, the goodwill allocated to GRCB – Absa was £1,116m (2008: £1,084m) and the goodwill allocated to Barclays Global Investors was £nil
(2008: £1,496m). The remaining aggregate of goodwill of £1,986m (2008: £1,915m) consists of balances relating to multiple business operations which
are not considered individually significant.
Key assumptions used in impairment testing for significant goodwill
UK Retail Banking
The recoverable amount of UK Retail Banking has been determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses cash flow predictions based on
financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period, with a terminal growth rate of 3% applied thereafter. The forecast cash flows
have been discounted at a rate of 14%. The recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount including goodwill by £1.2bn. A one percentage point
change in the discount rate or the terminal growth rate would reduce the recoverable amount by £0.7bn and £0.5bn respectively . A reduction in the forecast
cash flows of 5% per annum would reduce the recoverable amount by £0.4bn.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Absa
The recoverable amount of GRCB – Absa has been determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses cash flow predictions based on
financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period, with a terminal growth rate of 6% applied thereafter. The forecast cash flows have
been discounted at a rate of 14%. The result of the impairment test is not sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
Barclays Global Investors
All of the goodwill in Barclays Global Investors has been disposed of following the sale of this business to BlackRock, Inc on 1st December 2009. The value of
the goodwill was recovered in full as a result of the transaction.
Note
a Figures have been restated for the transfer of Barclays Russia from GRCB – Emerging Markets
to GRCB – Western Europe. 226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
22 Intangible assets
Internally Core Mortgage
generated Other deposit Customer servicing Licences
software software intangibles Brands lists rights and other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2009
Cost
At 1st January 2009 721 328 261 155 1,565 173 426 3,629
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries – – – – 1 – 109 110
Disposal of discontinued operations (66) – – (2) – – (32) (100)
Additions/disposals 264 (36) – – – – 11 239
Exchange and other adjustments 44 (55) 40 22 (45) (9) (52) (55)
At 31st December 2009 963 237 301 175 1,521 164 462 3,823
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1st January 2009 (284) (69) (52) (55) (172) (116) (104) (852)
Disposal of discontinued operations 25 – – 2 – – 8 35
Disposals 12 4––––– 16
Amortisation charge (190) (29) (22) (17) (136) (13) (54) (461)
Impairment charge (11) – – (6) – – (10) (27)
Exchange and other adjustments (17) 36 (8) (8) (10) 12 24 29
At 31st December 2009 (465) (58) (82) (84) (318) (117) (136) (1,260)
Net book value 498 179 219 91 1,203 47 326 2,563
2008
Cost
At 1st January 2008 388 188 244 149 524 126 161 1,780
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries – 127 17 6 992 – 210 1,352
Additions/disposals 274 5 – – – – 3 282
Exchange and other adjustments 59 8 – – 49 47 52 215
At 31st December 2008 721 328 261 155 1,565 173 426 3,629
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1st January 2008 (163) (57) (37) (38) (101) (64) (38) (498)
Disposals 11 7––––– 18
Amortisation charge (86) (33) (14) (15) (62) (22) (59) (291)
Impairment release 3 – – –––– 3
Exchange and other adjustments (49) 14 (1) (2) (9) (30) (7) (84)
At 31st December 2008 (284) (69) (52) (55) (172) (116) (104) (852)
Net book value 437 259 209 100 1,393 57 322 2,777
Of the amortisation charge for the year, £447m (2008: £276m) relates to continuing operations.
The impairment release detailed above has been included within other operating expenses. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 227
23 Property, plant and equipment
Investment Leased
property Property Equipment assets Total
£m £m £m £m £m
2009
Cost
At 1st January 2009 – 3,624 3,944 304 7,872
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 978 171 5 – 1,154
Disposal of discontinued operations – (120) (99) – (219)
Additions/disposals 137 233 387 (37) 720
Change in fair value of investment properties 6––– 6
Fully depreciated assets written off – (6) (17) – (23)
Exchange and other adjustments 86 (72) (23) (201) (210)
At 31st December 2009 1,207 3,830 4,197 66 9,300
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1st January 2009 – (1,011) (2,144) (43) (3,198)
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries –– 2– 2
Disposal of discontinued operations –3364 –97
Depreciation charge – (201) (565) (20) (786)
Impairment charge – (32) (2) – (34)
Disposals – 46 97 1 144
Fully depreciated assets written off –6 17 – 23
Exchange and other adjustments – 31 2 45 78
At 31st December 2009 – (1,128) (2,529) (17) (3,674)
Net book value 1,207 2,702 1,668 49 5,626
2008
Cost
At 1st January 2008 – 2,451 2,995 413 5,859
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries – 992 218 – 1,210
Additions/disposals –8570(109)469
Fully depreciated assets written off – (15) (7) – (22)
Exchange and other adjustments – 188 168 – 356
At 31st December 2008 – 3,624 3,944 304 7,872
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1st January 2008 – (1,044) (1,804) (15) (2,863)
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries – (8) (12) – (20)
Depreciation charge – (124) (475) (31) (630)
Impairment charge – – (33) – (33)
Disposals – 168 185 3 356
Fully depreciated assets written off – 15 7 – 22
Exchange and other adjustments – (18) (12) – (30)
At 31st December 2008 – (1,011) (2,144) (43) (3,198)
Net book value – 2,613 1,800 261 4,674
Of the depreciation charge for the year £759m (2008: £606m) relates to continuing operations.
The fair value of Barclays investment property is based on valuations supported by appropriately qualified independent valuers.
Leased assets represent assets leased to customers under operating leases.
Certain of the Group’ s equipment is held on finance leases, see Note 37. 228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
24 Financial liabilities designated at fair value
2009 2008
Contractual Contractual
amount amount
due on due on
Fair value maturity Fair value maturity
£m £m £m £m
Debt securities 72,191 77,636 61,297 69,197
Deposits 6,275 6,544 10,518 10,109
Other 7,736 8,811 5,077 6,761
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 86,202 92,991 76,892 86,067
At 31st December 2009, the own credit adjustment arose from the fair valuation of £61.5bn of Barclays Capital structured notes (2008: £54.5bn). 
The movement in Barclays credit spreads in the year affected the fair value of these notes and as a result revaluation losses of £1,820m were recognised 
in trading income (2008: £1,663m gains).
The cumulative own credit net gain that has been recognised on issued notes is £501m at 31st December 2009 (2008: £2,321m).
25 Other liabilities 
2009 2008
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 6,007 6,495
Sundry creditors 5,972 6,049
Obligations under finance leases (Note 37) 122 96
Other liabilities 12,101 12,640
Included in the above are balances of £10,966m (2008: £11,068m) expected to be settled within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date; 
and balances of £1,135m (2008: £1,572m) expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Accruals and deferred income includes £108m (2008: £101m) for the Group’ s estimated share of levies that will be raised by the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). The provision is based on estimates of the Group’ s market participation in the relevant charging periods and the interest
FSCS will pay on the facilities provided by HM Treasury in support of its obligations to depositors of banks declared in default. The total of these facilities
is understood to be some £20bn. 
While it is anticipated that the substantial majority of these facilities will be repaid wholly from recoveries from the institutions concerned, there is the risk
of shortfall, such that the FSCS may place additional levies on FSCS participants. It is not currently possible to estimate the amount of potential additional
levies, or the Group’ s share, which is expected to be based on a future level of market participation, or the effect that such levies may have upon operating
results in any particular financial period.
26 Insurance assets and liabilities
Insurance assets
Reinsurance assets are £92m (2008: £123m) and relate principally to the Group’ s long-term business. Reinsurers’ share of provisions relating to the Group’ s
short-term business are £7m (2008: £32m). The reinsurance assets expected to be recovered after more than one year are £85m (2008: £91m).
Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities
Insurance liabilities comprise the following:
2009 2008
£m £m
Insurance contract liabilities:
– linked liabilities 139 125
– non-linked liabilities 1,886 1,908
Provision for claims 115 119
Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities 2,140 2,152
Insurance contract liabilities relate principally to the Group’ s long-term business. Insurance contract liabilities associated with the Group’ s short-term non-life
business are £132m (2008: £73m). www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 229
26 Insurance assets and liabilities continued
Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets
Movements in insurance assets and insurance contract liabilities were as follows:
2009 2008
Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of year 2,152 (123) 2,029 3,903 (157) 3,746
Change in year (12) 31 19 (1,751) 34 (1,717)
At end of year 2,140 (92) 2,048 2,152 (123) 2,029
Assumptions used to measure insurance liabilities
The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised above, and the processes used to determine them were 
as follows:
Long-term business – linked and non-linked
Mortality – mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the Group’ s own
experience. A margin is added to ensure prudence – for example, future mortality improvements for annuity business.
Renewal expenses level and inflation – expense reserves are a small part of overall insurance liabilities, however, increases in expenses caused by unanticipated
inflation or other unforeseen factors could lead to expense reserve increases. Expenses are therefore set using prudent assumptions. Initial renewal expense
levels are set by considering expense forecasts for the business and, where appropriate, building in a margin to allow for the increasing burden of fixed costs
on the UK closed life book of business. The inflation assumption is set by adding a margin to the market rate of inflation implied by index-linked gilt yields.
Short-term business
Short-term business – for single premium policies the proportion of unearned premiums is calculated based on estimates of the frequency and 
severity of incidents.
Changes in assumptions
There have been no changes in assumptions in 2009 that have had a material effect on the financial statements.
Uncertainties associated with cash flows related to insurance contracts and risk management activities
The assumptions used to determine uncertainties in cash flows and the processes used to manage risk were as follows:
Long-term insurance contracts (linked and non-linked)
For long-term insurance contracts where death is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could affect the frequency and severity of claims are the
incidence of disease, such as AIDS, or general changes in lifestyle, such as in eating, exercise and smoking. Where survival is the insured risk, advances in
medical care and social conditions are the key factors that increase longevity .
The Group manages its exposure to risk by operating in part as a unit-linked business, prudent product design, applying strict underwriting criteria,
transferring risk to reinsurers, managing claims and establishing prudent reserves.
Short-term insurance contracts
For payment protection contracts where inability to make payments under a loan contract is the insured risk, the most significant factors are the health of
the policyholder and the possibility of unemployment which depends upon, among other things, long-term and short-term economic factors. The Group
manages its exposure to such risks through prudent product design, efficient claims management, prudent reserving methodologies and bases, regular
product, economic and market reviews and regular adequacy tests on the size of the reserves.
Absa insures property and motor vehicles, for which the most significant factors that could affect the frequency and severity of claims are climatic change
and crime. Absa manages its exposure to risk by diversifying insurance risks accepted and transferring risk to reinsurers.
Sensitivity analysis
The following table presents the sensitivity of the level of insurance contract liabilities disclosed in this note to movements in the actuarial assumptions used
to calculate them. The percentage change in variable is applied to a range of existing actuarial modelling assumptions to derive the possible impact on net
profit after tax. The disclosure is not intended to explain the impact of a percentage change in the insurance assets and liabilities disclosed above.
2009 2008
Net profit Net profit
Change in after tax Change in after tax
variable impact variable impact
%£m %£m
Long-term insurance contracts:
Improving mortality (annuitants only) 10 – 10 1
Worsening of mortality (assured lives only) 10 14 10 20
Worsening of base renewal expense level 20 11 20 19
Worsening of expense inflation rate 10 3 10 1
Short-term insurance contracts:
Worsening of claim expense assumptions 10 5 10 3
Any change in net profit after tax would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in shareholders’ equity .
The above analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice this is unlikely to occur. 230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
26 Insurance assets and liabilities continued
Options and guarantees
The Group’ s insurance contracts do not contain options or guarantees that give rise to material risk.
Concentration of insurance risk
The Group considers that the concentration of insurance risk that is most relevant to the Group financial statements is according to the type of cover offered
and the location of insured risk. The following table shows the maximum amounts payable under all of the Group’ s insurance products. It ignores the
probability of insured events occurring and the contribution from investments backing the insurance policies. The table shows the broad product types and
the location of the insured risk, before and after the impact of reinsurance that represents the risk that is passed to other insurers.
2009 2008
Before After Before After
Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Total benefits insured by product type
Long-term insurance contracts 13,405 (1,547) 11,858 19,193 (3,591) 15,602
Short-term insurance contracts 49,359 (4,145) 45,214 36,228 (2,735) 33,493
T otal benefits insured 62,764 (5,692) 57,072 55,421 (6,326) 49,095
Total benefits insured by geographic location
United Kingdom 5,727 (363) 5,364 8,120 (525) 7,595
Other European Union 1,724 (20) 1,704 6,519 (2,305) 4,214
Africa 55,313 (5,309) 50,004 40,782 (3,496) 37,286
T otal benefits insured 62,764 (5,692) 57,072 55,421 (6,326) 49,095
Reinsurer credit risk
For the long-term business, reinsurance programmes are in place to restrict the amount of cover on any single life.The reinsurance cover is spread across
highly rated companies to diversify the risk of reinsurer solvency . Net insurance reserves include a margin to reflect reinsurer credit risk.
27 Subordinated liabilities
Subordinated liabilities, which are all issued by Barclays Bank PLC (‘The Bank’) or other subsidiaries of the Group, include accrued interest and comprise
dated and undated loan capital as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Undated loan capital 8,148 13,673
Dated loan capital 17,668 16,169
25,816 29,842
Undated loan capital
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Non-convertible
Barclays Bank PLC
6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes a,p 424 487
6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes (US$1,000m) a,p 784 1,118
5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments b,q 560 652
5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments (US$1,350m) c,r 928 1,109
6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments m,ac 567 600
7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments (US$1,250m) n,ad 866 1,055
14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments e,s 2,608 2,514
Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes (US$121m) d,t 75 83
7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes (US$99m, 2008: US$2,000m) o,af 65 1,644
Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 d,u 145 147
9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds (ex-Woolwich plc) f,v 95 232
9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds g,w 43 120
8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes o,ae 152 1,092
7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes h,x 180 620
6.875% Undated Subordinated Notes i,y 151 729
6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes j,z 147 526
6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes k,aa 220 666
6.5% Undated Subordinated Notes (FFr 1,000m) – 151
5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (Y en 8,000m) l,ab 55 51
5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan (Y en 12,000m) l,ab 83 77
Undated loan capital – non-convertible 8,148 13,673 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 231
27 Subordinated liabilities continued
Security and subordination
None of the undated loan capital is secured.
The Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes (the Junior Notes) rank behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated
creditors and holders of dated loan capital.
All other issues of undated loan capital rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Junior Notes, except for the 6% and
6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes (the TONs) and the 5.3304%, 5.926%, 6.3688%, 7.434% and 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve
Capital Instruments (the RCIs) (such issues, excluding the TONs and the RCIs, being the Undated Notes and Loans).
The TONs and the RCIs rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Undated Notes and Loans.
Interest
Notes 
a) These TONs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2032. After that date, in the event that the TONs are not redeemed, the TONs will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
b) These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2036. After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
c) These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2016. After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
d) These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
e) These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2019. After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
f) These Bonds bear a fixed rate of interest until 2021. After that date, in the event that the Bonds are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed
margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
g) The interest rate on these Bonds is fixed for the life of this issue.
h) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2020. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed
margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
i) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed
margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
j) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed
margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
k) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2027. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed
margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
l) These Loans bear a fixed rate of interest until 2028 based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a
Y en interest rate payable, which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates. After that date, in the event that the Loans are not
redeemed, the Loans will bear Y en interest rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
m)These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2019. After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
n) These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017. After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
o) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2018. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates. 232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
27 Subordinated liabilities continued
Barclays Bank PLC is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes and Loans excluding the 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds,
7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes and 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on
any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank. The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on
its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 months’ interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share
capital. Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances. During the year, the
Bank declared and paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.
No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes and 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes. Until such time
as any deferred interest has been paid in full, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its
ordinary shares, preference shares, or other share capital or satisfy any payments of interest or coupons on certain other junior obligations.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs (b, c, e, m and n above). Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier
of (i) the date of redemption of the RCIs, (ii) the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment,
and (iii) in respect of e above only , substitution. Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject
to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in non-compliance with
capital adequacy requirements and policies of the FSA. Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption of the TONs. Until such
time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may (i) declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain
exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or Preference Shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the Bank’ s Reserve Capital Instruments
and (ii) certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply .
Repayment
Notes
p) These TONs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2032.
q) These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2036.
r) These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2016.
s) These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2019.
t) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole or in part on any interest payment date.
u) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
v) These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2021, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
w) These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole at any time.
x) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2020, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
y) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2015, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
z) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2017, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
aa) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2027, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ab) These Loans are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2028, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ac) These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2019.
ad) These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2017.
ae) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date falling in or after December 2018.
af) These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date falling in or after April 2018.
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole for certain tax reasons, either at any time, or on an interest
payment date. There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest.
Any repayments require the prior notification to the FSA.
All issues of undated loan capital have been made in the eurocurrency market and/ or under Rule 144A, and no issues have been registered under the
US Securities Act of 1933. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 233
27 Subordinated liabilities continued
Dated loan capital
Dated loan capital is issued by the Bank for the development and expansion of the Group’ s business and to strengthen its capital base by Barclays Bank
Spain SA (Barclays Spain), Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd (BBB), Barclays Bank Zambia PLC (Barclays Zambia) and Barclays Bank of Kenya (Barclays Kenya)
to enhance their respective capital bases and by Absa and Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd (BBG) for general corporate purposes. It comprises:
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Non-convertible
Barclays Bank PLC
7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 (US$400m) – 275
Subordinated Fixed to CMS-Linked Notes 2009 (¤31m) – 31
12% Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2010 a 27 27
5.75% Subordinated Notes 2011 (¤1,000m) a 853 943
5.25% Subordinated Notes 2011 (¤250m) (ex-Woolwich plc) a 246 260
5.015% Subordinated Notes 2013 (US$150m) a 99 112
4.875% Subordinated Notes 2013 (¤750m) a 693 750
Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 (US$1,500m) b,j 927 1,031
4.38% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 (US$75m) a 51 88
4.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 (US$150m) a 103 81
Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2016 (US$750m) b,j 463 514
Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 (¤1,250m) b,j 1,115 1,211
Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 (US$500m) b,j 309 343
10.125% Subordinated Notes 2017 (ex-Woolwich plc) g,j 107 109
Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 (US$1,500m) b,j 926 1,029
Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 (¤1,500m) b,j 1,337 1,444
6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 (US$2,250m) a 1,505 1,856
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 (¤40m) b 36 38
6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes due 2018 (¤1,750m) a 1,641 1,767
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes due 2018 (¤100m) b 92 100
CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes due 2018 (¤135m) b 124 135
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 (¤50m) b 43 47
Callable Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 (¤1,000m) h 915 984
9.5% Subordinated Bonds 2021(ex-Woolwich plc) a 276 298
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2021 (¤100m) b 87 94
10% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 a 2,022 –
10.179% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 (US$ 1,521m) a 942 –
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2022 (¤50m) b 45 49
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2023 (¤50m) b 45 48
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2023 m,j 568 571
5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 a 631 690
5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan 2027 (Y en 15,000m) i 105 128
6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 a 52 53
Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2040 (¤100m) b 89 96
Barclays Bank SA, Spain (Barclays Spain)
Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2011 (¤11m) b 4 11
Absa
14.25% Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 (ZAR 3,100m) – 240
10.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 (ZAR 1,100m) c,j 95 85
Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 (ZAR 400m) d,j 36 30
8.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 (ZAR 1,500m) e,j 129 115
Subordinated Callable Notes 2018 (ZAR 1,886m) d,j 173 144
8.8% Subordinated Fixed Rate Callable Notes 2019 (ZAR 1,725m) n,j 143 146
Subordinated Callable Notes 2019 (ZAR 3,000m) d,j 268 –
8.1% Subordinated Callable Notes 2020 (ZAR 2,000m) f,j 160 130
Subordinated Callable Notes 2028 (ZAR 1,500m) d,j 127 –
Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd (BBG)
14% Fixed Rate BBG Subordinated Callable Notes 2016 (GHC 10m) a,j 4 5
Barclays Bank of Kenya (Barclays Kenya)
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2014 (KES 968m) o 8 8
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 (KES 740m) o 6 6
Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 (KES 1,260m) a 10 12
Barclays Bank Zambia PLC (Barclays Zambia)
Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2016 (ZMK 49,232m) p 6 –
Dated loan capital – non-convertible 17,643 16,134 234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
27 Subordinated liabilities continued
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Convertible
Barclays Bank of Botswana (BBB)
Subordinated Unsecured Fixed Rate Capital Notes 2014 (BWP 190m) j,k) 18 17
Barclays Bank Zambia PLC (Barclays Zambia)
Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2015 (ZMK 49,086m) j,l) 7 7
Absa
Redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares (ZAR 147m) – 11
Dated loan capital convertible 25 35
Total dated loan capital 17,668 16,169
None of the Group’ s dated loan capital is secured. The debt obligations of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa
rank ahead of the interests of holders of their equity and the dated loan capital has been issued on the basis that the claims thereunder are subordinated to
the respective claims of their depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors.
Interest
Notes
a) The interest rates on these Notes are fixed for the life of those issues.
b) These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London or European interbank rates.
c) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2010. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
d) These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
e) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
f) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
g) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed
margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
h) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance based on European interbank rates.
i) This Loan bears a fixed rate of interest based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Y en interest
rate payable which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
j) Repayable at the option of the issuer, prior to maturity , on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or in part, and some only
in whole.
k) These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Botswana Certificate Rate. All of these Notes will be compulsorily
converted to Preference Shares of BBB, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion,
should BBB experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
l) These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rate. All of these Notes will be compulsorily
converted to Preference Shares of Barclays Zambia, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of
conversion, should Barclays Zambia experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
m)These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2018. After that date in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
n) These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014. After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed
periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
o) These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Central Bank of Kenya Treasury Bill rates.
p) These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Central Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rates. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 235
27 Subordinated liabilities continued
The 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 (the ‘7.4% Notes’) issued by the Bank were registered under the US Securities Act of 1933. All other issues of dated
loan capital by the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa, which were made in non-US markets, have not been so
registered. 
Repayment terms
Unless otherwise indicated, the Group’ s dated loan capital outstanding at 31st December 2009 is redeemable only on maturity , subject in particular cases,
to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law or, in the case of BBB and Barclays Zambia, to certain changes in
legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity require, in the case of the Bank, the prior notification to the FSA, in the case of BBB, the prior approval of the Bank of
Botswana, in the case of Barclays Zambia, the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia, and in the case of Absa, the prior approval of the South African Registrar
of Banks.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity .
28 Provisions
Undrawn
contractually
committed
facilities 
Redundancy and
Onerous and re- guarantees Sundry
contracts structuring provided provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2009 50 118 109 258 535
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries – (2) 1 (6) (7)
Exchange and other adjustments –42 –6
Additions 51 269 119 125 564
Amounts used (27) (201) (21) (142) (391)
Unused amounts reversed (8) (26) (48) (37) (119)
Amortisation of discount 2––– 2
At 31st December 2009 68 162 162 198 590
At 1st January 2008 64 82 475 209 830
Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 9 (9) – (1) (1)
Exchange and other adjustments 2 – 63 15 80
Additions 12 269 461 102 844
Amounts used (41) (213) (794) (42) (1,090)
Unused amounts reversed – (11) (96) (25) (132)
Amortisation of discount 4 – – – 4
At 31st December 2008 50 118 109 258 535
Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31st December 2009 were £466m (2008: £333m).
Sundry provisions are made with respect to commission clawbacks, warranties and litigation claims.
29 Securitisations
The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances. In addition, 
the Group acts as a conduit for commercial paper, whereby it acquires static pools of residential mortgage loans from other lending institutions for
securitisation transactions.
In these transactions, the assets, or interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special
purpose entity , or to a trust which then transfers its beneficial interests to a special purpose entity , which then issues floating rate debt securities to 
third-party investors.
Securitisations may , depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt
securities issued in the transaction; lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Group’ s continuing involvement in those assets 
or to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer. Full
derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual
rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and
also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk. 236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
29 Securitisations continued
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Group’ s continuing involvement where appropriate,
together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet:
2009 2008
Carrying Carrying
amount of Associated amount of Associated
assets liabilities assets liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Loans and advances to customers
Residential mortgage loans 10,374 (10,738) 12,754 (13,172)
Credit card receivables 1,288 (1,288) 1,888 (2,109)
Other personal lending 94 (124) 212 (256)
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 4,835 (5,999) 7,702 (8,937)
Total 16,591 (18,149) 22,556 (24,474)
Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 
Retained interest in residential mortgage loans 26 316
Balances included within loans and advances to customers represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset have been
retained by the Group. 
The excess of total associated liabilities over the carrying amount of assets primarily reflects timing differences in the receipt and payment of cash flows, and
foreign exchange movements where the assets and associated liabilities are denominated in different currencies.
Retained interests in residential mortgage loans are securities which represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying
securitised assets. The total amount of the loans was £14,795m (2008: £31,734m). The retained interest is initially recorded as an allocation of the original
carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the portion derecognised and the portion retained.
30 Retirement benefit obligations
Pension schemes
The UK Retirement Fund (UKRF), which is the main scheme of the Group, amounting to 93% of all the Group’ s schemes in terms of benefit obligations,
comprises ten sections.
The 1964 Pension Scheme
Most employees recruited before July 1997 are members of this non-contributory defined benefit scheme. Pensions are calculated by reference to service
and pensionable salary and are normally subject to a deduction from State pension age.
The Retirement Investment Scheme (RIS)
A defined contribution plan for most joiners between July 1997 and 1st October 2003. This was closed to new entrants on 1st October 2003 and the large
majority of existing members of the RIS transferred to Afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual with effect from 1st January 2004. There are no longer
any active members of the RIS.
The Pension Investment Plan (PIP)
A defined contribution plan created from 1st July 2001 to provide benefits for employees of Barclays Capital. 
Afterwork
Combines a contributory cash balance element with a voluntary defined contribution element. The majority of new employees outside of Barclays Capital
since 1st October 2003 are eligible to join Afterwork. In addition, the large majority of active members of the RIS (now closed) were transferred to Afterwork
in respect of future benefit accrual after 1st January 2004.
Career Average Section
The Career Average Section was established in the UKRF with effect from 1st May 2004 following the transfer of members from the Woolwich Pension
Fund. The Career Average Section is a non-contributory career average scheme and was closed to new entrants on 1st December 2006.
1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section, BCPS Section, CCS Section and Mercantile Section 
Five new sections were established in the UKRF with effect from 31st March 2007 following the merger of the UKRF with five smaller schemes sponsored
from within the Group. All five sections are closed to new members.
The 1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section and Mercantile Section provide final salary benefits calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary . 
The BCPS and CCS Sections provide defined contribution benefits. The benefits built up in these sections in relation to service before 6th April 1997 are
subject to a defined benefit minimum.
In addition, the costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits are generally borne by the UKRF for each of the ten sections. From November
2008, members were given the option to contribute by way of salary sacrifice to the UKRF .
On 10th September 2009, the Trust Deed was amended such that with effect from 1st April 2010 the following sections of the UKRF will close to the
accrual of future pension benefits: 1964 Pension Scheme; AP89 Section; 1951 Fund Section; Mercantile Section; Career Average Section; and CCS Section.
Members of these sections will be eligible to accrue future service pension benefits in either Afterwork or PIP from 1st April 2010. This gave rise to the
recognition of a curtailment gain during the year of £487m, the recognition of actuarial losses of £79m and an additional cost of £37m included in other 
staff costs. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 237
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Governance
The UKRF operates under trust law and is managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and all
relevant legislations. The Corporate Trustee is Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited (BPFTL), a private limited company incorporated on 20th December
1990 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC. The Trustee is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF which are held separately from the
assets of the Group.
The Trustee Board comprises six Management Directors selected by Barclays, of whom three are independent Directors with no relationship with Barclays or
the UKRF , and three are Member Nominated Directors. In addition there are three Alternate Management Directors and three Alternate Member Nominated
Directors. Member Nominated Directors are selected from those eligible active staff and pensioner members who apply to be considered for the role. 
The Pensions Act 2004 (the Act) requires corporate trustees to take responsibility for making arrangements for the nomination and selection of Member
Nominated Directors (MNDs). A formal procedure has been in place since 1st September 2007, which is fully compliant with the legal requirements and
reflects best practice. Eligibility for nomination and selection is open to all members of the UKRF but excludes those in receipt of solely spouses, civil
partners, dependants or ex-spouse participants pensions, deferred pensioners and members with eligibility for death benefits only.
Under the Act, the Bank and the Trustee must agree on the funding rate, including a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme specific statutory
funding objective. The first ongoing funding valuation to be completed under this legislation was carried out as at 30th September 2007.
There are other pension schemes (both defined benefit and defined contribution) in the UK and overseas. The same principles of pension governance
applies to UK based schemes, although different legislation covers overseas schemes where, in most cases, the Bank has the power to determine the
funding rate.
The following tables present an analysis of defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for all the Group’ s pension schemes and post-retirement
benefits (the latter are unfunded) and present the amounts recognised in the income statement including those related to post-retirement health care.
2009 2008 2007
Other post- Other post- Other post-
retirement retirement retirement
Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Income statement charge
Current service cost 281 10 291 299 2 301 332 2 334
Interest cost 992 9 1,001 991 8 999 905 8 913
Expected return on scheme assets (935) – (935) (1,175) – (1,175) (1,074) – (1,074)
Recognised actuarial (gain)/loss 96 – 96 (23) (1) (24) (1) – (1)
Past service cost 6– 6 2 (8) (6) 20 – 20
Curtailment or settlements (473) – (473) (5) – (5) (32) – (32)
Total included in staff costs (33) 19 (14) 89 1 90 150 10 160
Staff costs are included in other operating expenses. Of the other post retirement benefit costs £16m relate to continuing operations (2008: £1m, 2007: £9m).
2009 2008
Post-retirement Post-retirement
Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total
UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Benefit obligation at 
beginning of the year (14,395) (1,220) (43) (125) (15,783) (16,563) (913) (60) (98) (17,634)
Current service cost (254) (27) (1) (9) (291) (276) (23) – (2) (301)
Interest cost (941) (51) (3) (6) (1,001) (946) (45) (3) (5) (999)
Past service cost (1) – – – (1) (2) (11) 7 – (6)
Curtailments or settlements 482 (7) – 1 476 7 2 – – 9
Actuarial (loss)/ gain (4,757) (33) (3) 7 (4,786)2,807 – 11 (5)2,813
Contributions by plan participants (2) (5) – – (7) (20) (3) – – (23)
Benefits paid 659 58 1 6 724 598 42 2 9 651
Business disposals –9 –6 15 – – – – – 
Exchange and other adjustments – (1) (16) 25 8 – (269) – (24) (293)
Benefit obligation at end of the year (19,209) (1,277) (65) (95) (20,646) (14,395) (1,220) (43) (125) (15,783) 238 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The benefit obligation arises from plans that are wholly unfunded and wholly or partly funded as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Unfunded obligations (288) (297)
Wholly or partly funded obligations (20,358) (15,486)
Total (20,646) (15,783)
Change in plan assets
2009 2008
Post-retirement Post-retirement
Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total
UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at 
beginning of the year 13,537 959 – – 14,49617,231 796 – – 18,027
Expected return on plan assets 904 31 – – 935 1,134 41 – – 1,175
Employer contribution 525 76 1 6 608 336 71 2 9 418
Settlements – (2) – – (2) – (2) – – (2)
Contributions by plan participants 2 5–– 7 20 3 – – 23
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1,424 (8) – – 1,416(4,534) (121) – – (4,655)
Benefits paid (659) (58) (1) (6) (724) (598) (42) (2) (9) (651)
Business disposals – (6) – – (6) – – – – –
Exchange and other adjustments (58) 28 – – (30) (52) 213 – – 161
Fair value of plan assets at 
the end of the year 15,675 1,025 – – 16,70013,537 959 – – 14,496
Amounts recognised on-balance sheet
The pension and post-retirement benefit assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet are as follows:
2009 2008
Post-retirement Post-retirement
Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total
UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Benefit obligation at 
end of period (19,209) (1,277) (65) (95) (20,646) (14,395) (1,220) (43) (125) (15,783)
Fair value of plan assets at 
end of period 15,675 1,025 – – 16,700 13,537 959 – – 14,496
Net deficit (3,534) (252) (65) (95) (3,946) (858) (261) (43) (125) (1,287)
Unrecognised actuarial losses/(gains) 3,087 158 (7) 10 3,248 (167) 150 (11) 23 (5)
Net recognised liability (447) (94) (72) (85) (698) (1,025) (111) (54) (102) (1,292)
Recognised assets
a
– 71–– 71 – 65 – – 65
Recognised liability (447) (165) (72) (85) (769) (1,025) (176) (54 ) (102) (1,357)
Net recognised liability (447) (94) (72) (85) (698) (1,025) (111) (54 ) (102) (1,292)
The UKRF funded status, as measured using the IAS 19 assumptions detailed below, has decreased from a deficit of £0.9bn at 31st December 2008 to a
deficit of £3.5bn at 31st December 2009. The most significant reasons for this change were the decrease in AA corporate bond yields which resulted in a
lower discount rate of 5.61% (31st December 2008: 6.75%) and an increase in the long-term inflation assumption to 3.76% (31st December 2008: 3.16%).
The impact of the change in assumptions was partially offset by a one-off curtailment credit resulting from the closure of the UK final salary pension
schemes to existing members, better than expected asset performance, and contributions paid in excess of the pension expense.
Note
a Included within other assets. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 239
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Assumptions
Obligations arising under defined benefit schemes are actuarially valued using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, where a defined
benefit scheme is closed to new members, such as in the case of the 1964 Pension Scheme, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of salary
is expected to increase in the future, although this higher rate will be applied to a decreasing payroll. The latest actuarial IFRS valuations were carried out
as at 31st December using the following assumptions:
UK schemes Overseas schemes
2009 2008 2009 2008
% p.a. % p.a. % p.a. % p.a.
Discount rate 5.61 6.75 7.53 7.09
Rate of increase in salaries 4.26 3.66 5.49 5.93
Inflation rate 3.76 3.16 3.78 3.98
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.56 3.06 3.27 3.17
Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 3.76 3.16 2.81 4.37
Initial health care inflation 7.00 8.00 8.50 9.00
Long-term health care inflation 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.01
Expected return on plan assets 6.70 6.80 7.44 7.95
The expected return on plan assets assumption is weighted on the basis of the fair value of these assets. Health care inflation assumptions are weighted on
the basis of the health care cost for the period. All other assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period.
The UK Schemes discount rate assumption is based on a liability-weighted rate derived from an AA corporate bond yield curve.
The overseas health care inflation assumptions relate to the US.
Mortality assumptions
The post-retirement mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UKRF were based on the standard 2000 series tables as published by the
Institute and Faculty of Actuaries. These tables are considered to be most relevant to the population of the UKRF based on their mortality history . These
were then adjusted in line with the actual experience of the UKRF’ s own pensioners relative to the standard table. An allowance has been made for future
mortality improvements based on the medium cohort projections published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau subject to a floor of 1% pa
on future improvements. On this basis the post-retirement mortality assumptions for the UKRF includes:
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Longevity at 60 for current pensioners (years)
– Males 27.5 27.4 26.7 25.8 25.8
– Females 28.7 28.5 27.9 29.5 29.5
Longevity at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 (years)
– Males 29.6 29.5 28.0 27.1 27.1
– Females 30.6 30.5 29.1 30.7 30.6
Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis for each of the principal assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation of the UKRF are as follows:
Impact on UKRF benefit obligation
(Decrease)/ (Decrease)/
Increase Increase
% £bn
0.5% increase to:
– Discount rate (8.5) (1.6)
– Rate of inflation 7.7 1.5
1 year increase to longevity at 60 2.5 0.5
Following the amendment to the UKRF Trust Deed on 10th September 2009, the UKRF benefit obligation is not sensitive to future salary growth. 240 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Post-retirement health care
A one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates, assuming all other assumptions remain constant would have the following effects 
for 2009:
1% increase 1% decrease
£m £m
Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1 (1)
Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 13 (11)
Assets
A long-term strategy has been set for the asset allocation of the UKRF which comprises a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be more volatile than others. 
The long-term strategy ensures that investments are adequately diversified. Asset managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from
the long-term strategy within control ranges agreed with the Trustees from time to time.
The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely to liabilities. The
value of assets shown reflects the actual physical assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a mark to market basis. The expected
return on asset assumptions overall have been based on the portfolio of assets created after allowing for the net impact of the derivatives on the risk and
return profile of the holdings.
During the second half of 2009, an investment de-risking programme was agreed for the UKRF between the Bank and the Trustee in order to achieve a
better matching between assets and liabilities and to reduce the investment risk profile of the plan. This involved a partial sale of physical equities and
purchase of index-linked gilts.
The value of the assets of the schemes, their percentage in relation to total scheme assets, and their expected rate of return at 31st December 2009 and
31st December 2008 were as follows:
UK schemes Overseas schemes Total
% of Expected % of Expected % of Expected
total fair rate total fair rate total fair rate
value of of value of of value of of
Value scheme return Value scheme return Value scheme return
£m assets % £m assets % £m assets %
2009
Equities 4,236 27 8.6 400 39 7.8 4,636 28 8.5
Bonds 8,787 56 4.9 387 38 6.0 9,174 55 4.9
Property 1,186 8 7.0 20 2 12.6 1,206 7 7.1
Derivatives (37) – – – – – (37) – –
Cash 1,157 7 0.5 139 14 3.2 1,296 8 0.8
Other 346 2 5.0 79 7 8.1 425 2 5.6
Fair value of plan assets
a
15,675 100 6.7 1,025 100 6.6 16,700 100 6.7
2008
Equities 5,813 43 8.5 217 23 9.3 6,030 42 8.5 
Bonds 6,360 47 5.3 166 17 6.2 6,526 45 5.3 
Property 1,214 9 7.2 16 2 13.4 1,230 8 7.3 
Derivatives (420) (3) – – – – (420) (3) –
Cash (131) (1) 2.0 415 43 7.6 284 2 3.9
Other 701 5 7.4 145 15 6.4 846 6 7.2 
Fair value of plan assets
a
13,537 100 6.8 959 100 8.0 14,496 100 6.9
Note
a Excludes £890m (2008: £675m) representing the money purchase assets of the UKRF . www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 241
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The UKRF plan assets include £58m relating to UK private equity investments (2008: £27m) and £921m relating to overseas private equity investments
(2008: £735m). These are disclosed within Equities. 
Amounts included in the fair value of plan assets include £4m (2008: £5m) relating to shares in Barclays Group, £5m (2008: £11m) relating to bonds issued
by the Barclays Group, £nil (2008: £nil) relating to other investments in the Barclays Group, and £10m (2008: £17m) relating to property occupied by Group
companies. 
The expected return on assets is determined by calculating a total return estimate based on weighted average estimated returns for each asset class.
Asset class returns are estimated using current and projected economic and market factors such as inflation, credit spreads and equity risk premiums.
The Group actual return on plan assets was an increase of £2,351m (2008: £3,480m decrease). 
Actuarial gains and losses
The actuarial gains and losses arising on plan liabilities and plan assets are as follows:
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
UK schemes
Present value of obligations (19,274) (14,438) (16,623) (17,353) (18,252)
Fair value of plan assets 15,675 13,537 17,231 16,761 15,571
Net (deficit)/surplus in the plans (3,599) (901) 608 (592) (2,681)
Experience gains and (losses) on plan liabilities
– amount 107 (81) (297) 48 (2)
– as percentage of plan liabilities 1% (1%) (2%) – –
Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets
– amount 1,424 (4,534) (332) 423 1,599
– as percentage of plan assets 9% (33%) (2%) 3% 10%
Overseas schemes
Present value of obligations (1,372) (1,345) (1,011) (970) (1,017)
Fair value of plan assets 1,025 959 796 745 819
Net deficit in the plans (347) (386) (215) (225) (198)
Experience losses on plan liabilities
– amount (45) (96) (79) (54) (2)
– as percentage of plan liabilities (3%) (7%) (8%) (6%) –
Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets
– amount (8) (121) (11) 25 2
– as percentage of plan assets (1%) (13%) – 3% –
Total UK and Overseas schemes
Present value of obligations (20,646) (15,783) (17,634) (18,323) (19,269)
Fair value of plan assets 16,700 14,496 18,027 17,506 16,390
Net (deficit)/surplus in the plans (3,946) (1,287) 393 (817) (2,879)
Experience gains and (losses) on plan liabilities
– amount 62 (177) (376) (6) (4)
– as percentage of plan liabilities 0% (1%) (2%) – –
Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets
– amount 1,416 (4,655) (343) 448 1,601
– as percentage of plan assets 8% (32%) (2%) 3% 10% 242 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Funding
The most recent triennial funding valuation of the UK Retirement Fund (UKRF) was performed with an effective date of 30th September 2007. In compliance
with the Pensions Act 2004, the Bank and Trustee have agreed a scheme-specific funding target, statement of funding principles, and a schedule of
contributions. This agreement forms the basis of the Group’ s commitment that the fund has sufficient assets to make payments to members in respect 
of their accrued benefits as and when they fall due. This funding valuation uses a discount rate that reflects a prudent expectation of long-term future
investment returns from the current and assumed future investment strategy , and takes into account projected future salary increases when assessing
liabilities arising from accrued service.
As at 30th September 2007 the funding valuation showed a surplus of £0.2bn. The Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the funding position 
as at 30th September. The latest annual update was carried out as at 30th September 2009 and showed a deficit of £4.8bn. The next triennial funding
valuation will take place with an effective date of 30th September 2010.
The Group has agreed funding contributions which, in aggregate, are no less than those which are sufficient to meet the Group’ s share of the cost of
benefits accruing over each year. The Group has, in the recent past, chosen to make funding contributions in excess of this, more consistent with the 
IAS 19 service cost; and in 2009 made an additional voluntary contribution of £150m. 
Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows:
£m
Contributions paid
2009 525
2008 336
2007 355
Excluding the UKRF , the Group is expected to pay contributions of approximately £1m to UK schemes and £59m to overseas schemes in 2010.
The Group is committed to making estimated contributions to UKRF in 2010 of £290m, with potential additional voluntary contributions dependent on the
scheme’ s funding level.
31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity
Ordinary shares and share premium
Number of Ordinary Share
shares shares premium Total
m£m£m£m
At 1st January 2009 8,372 2,093 4,045 6,138
Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan
a
––––
Issued to staff under the Share Incentive Plan 19 53035
Issue of new ordinary shares 379 94 655 749
Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes 2,642 661 3,221 3,882
At 31st December 2009 11,412 2,853 7,951 10,804
At 1st January 2008 6,601 1,651 56 1,707
Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 3 1 13 14
Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan
a
1– 3 3
Issued to staff under the Share Incentive Plan
a
1– 2 2
Issue of new ordinary shares 1,803 451 3,971 4,422
Repurchase of shares (37) (10) – (10)
At 31st December 2008 8,372 2,093 4,045 6,138
Note
a The nominal value of share options issued during 2008 for the Incentive Share Option Plan
and Share Incentive Plan was less than £500,000 in each case. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 243
31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued
The authorised share capital of Barclays PLC is £5,290m, US$77.5m, €40m and Japanese Y en (¥)4,000m (31st December 2008: £3,540m, US$77.5m,
€40m and ¥4,000m) comprising 20,996 million (31st December 2008: 13,996 million) ordinary shares of 25p each, 0.4 million (31st December 2008: 
0.4 million) Sterling preference shares of £100 each, 0.4 million (31st December 2008: 0.4 million) US Dollar preference shares of $100 each, 150 million
(31st December 2008: 150 million) US Dollar preference shares of $0.25 each, 0.4 million (31st December 2008: 0.4 million) Euro preference shares of
€100 each, 0.4 million (31st December 2008: 0.4 million) Y en preference shares of ¥10,000 each and 1 million (31st December 2008: 1 million) staff 
shares of £1 each.
Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid 2009 2008
£m £m
Ordinary shares:
At beginning of year 2,093 1,650
Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme – 1
Issued to staff under the Share Incentive Plan 5 –
Issue of new ordinary shares 94 451
Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes 661 –
Repurchase of shares – (9)
At end of year 2,853 2,093
Staff shares:
At beginning of year – 1
Repurchase of shares – (1)
At end of year – –
Total 2,853 2,093
Issue of new ordinary shares
During the year, the following share issues took place:
Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes
The Mandatorily Convertible Notes (MCNs), issued by Barclays Bank PLC on 27th November 2008, were converted into 2,642 million ordinary shares in
Barclays PLC by 30th June 2009 at the conversion price of £1.53276. £661m was credited to share capital and the remaining £3,221m (net of issuance
costs) was credited to the share premium account.
Warrants
On 31st October 2008 Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays Bank PLC, warrants
to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary shares at a price of £1.97775 to Qatar Holding LLC and HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Nahyan. 
On 28th October 2009, Qatar Holding LLC exercised 379.2 million warrants to subscribe for new Barclays PLC Shares. £94m was credited to share 
capital and the remaining £655m was credited to the share premium account.
Share repurchase
No share repurchases were made during the year. In 2008, Barclays PLC repurchased shares at a cost of £173m.
At the 2009 AGM on 23rd April 2009, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase 837,620,130 of its ordinary shares of 25p. The authorisation is effective
until the AGM in 2010.
Shares under option
The Group has four schemes that give employees rights to subscribe for new shares in Barclays PLC. A summary of the key terms of each scheme are
included in Note 44.
At 31st December 2009, 91.3 million (2008: 94.1 million) options were outstanding under the terms of the Sharesave Share Option Scheme (Sharesave),
no options were outstanding under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) (2008: 0.5 million), 0.1 million (2008: 0.4 million) options
were outstanding under the terms of the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan (Woolwich ESOP) and 12.6 million (2008: 20.5 million) options were
outstanding under the terms of the Incentive Share Option Plan (ISOP) enabling certain Directors and members of staff to subscribe for ordinary shares
between 2009 and 2017 at prices ranging from 144p to 547p.
In addition to the above, the independent trustee of the Barclays Group (ESAS) Employees’ Benefit Trust (ESAS Trust), established by Barclays Bank PLC in
1996, operates the Executive Share Award Scheme (ESAS). ESAS is a deferred share bonus plan for employees of the Group. The key terms of the ESAS are
described in Note 44. The independent trustees of the ESAS Trust make awards of Barclays shares and grant options over Barclays shares to beneficiaries of
the ESAS Trust. Beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust include employees and former employees of the Barclays Group. 244 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued
The independent trustee of the Barclays Group (PSP and ESOS) Employees’ Benefit Trust (PSP Trust), established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates
the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and may satisfy awards under the ESOS. No awards have been made under this trust since 1999. All awards are in the
form of options over Barclays shares.
The Sharepurchase scheme which was established in 2002 is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive Directors. The key terms of the
Sharepurchase scheme are described in Note 44.
The Global Sharepurchase scheme which was established in 2009 is open to all eligible non UK employees, excluding executive Directors. The key terms
of the Global Sharepurchase scheme are described in Note 44.
32 Reserves
Other reserves
Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency
redemption capital for sale hedging translation 
reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2009 394 617 (1,190) 132 2,840 2,793
Net gains from changes in fair value – – 1,194 287 – 1,481
Net gains transferred to net profit – – (415) (92) – (507)
Currency translation differences – – – – (1,223) (1,223)
Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment – – 670 – – 670
Changes in insurance liabilities – – (67) – – (67)
Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging – – (123) – – (123)
Tax – – (179) (75) (2) (256)
At 31st December 2009 394 617 (110) 252 1,615 2,768
At 1st January 2008 384 617 154 26 (307) 874
Net (losses)/ gains from changes in fair value – – (1,736) 252 – (1,484)
Net (gains)/losses transferred to net profit – – (212) 19 – (193)
Currency translation differences – – – – 2,307 2,307
Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment – – 382 – – 382
Changes in insurance liabilities – – 17 – – 17
Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging – – (2) – – (2)
Tax – – 207 (165) 840 882
Repurchase of shares 10–––– 10
At 31st December 2008 394 617 (1,190) 132 2,840 2,793
Available for sale net gains transferred to net profit includes £349m gain (2008: £212m gain) relating to continuing operations and £66m gain (2008: £nil)
relating to discontinued operations.
The capital redemption reserve and other capital reserve represent transfers from retained earnings in accordance with relevant legislation. These reserves
are not distributable.
The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments since initial recognition.
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the income
statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Group’ s net investment in foreign operations, net 
of the effects of hedging.
Transfers from cash flow hedging reserve
Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve were to: interest income: £22m loss (2008: £4m loss), interest expense: £272m gain 
(2008: £74m loss), net trading income: £165m loss (2008: £119m gain), and administration and general expenses: £7m gain (2008: £60m loss). www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 245
32 Reserves continued
Retained earnings and treasury shares
Retained Treasury
earnings shares Total
£m £m £m
At 1st January 2009 24,208 (173) 24,035
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 9,393 – 9,393
Equity-settled share schemes 298 – 298
T ax on equity-settled share schemes 156 – 156
Other taxes 32 – 32
Net purchases of treasury shares – (47) (47)
Transfer (80) 80 –
Dividends paid (113) – (113)
Conversion of mandatorily convertible notes (230) – (230)
Other 181 – 181
At 31st December 2009 33,845 (140) 33,705
At 1st January 2008 20,970 (260) 20,710
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 4,382 – 4,382
Equity-settled share schemes 463 – 463
T ax on equity-settled share schemes (4) – (4)
Other taxes (52) – (52)
Net purchases of treasury shares – (350) (350)
Transfer (437) 437 –
Dividends paid (2,344) – (2,344)
Repurchase of shares (173) – (173)
Arising on share issue 634 – 634
Issue of warrants 776 – 776
Other (7) – (7)
At 31st December 2008 24,208 (173) 24,035
The treasury shares primarily relate to Barclays PLC shares held by employee benefit trusts in relation to the Executive Share Award Scheme, Performance
Share Plan and Sharepurchase Scheme, to the extent that such shares have not been allocated to employees. These schemes are described in Note 44.
The total number of Barclays shares held in Group employee benefit trusts at 31st December 2009 was 125.1 million (2008: 217.9 million). No dividend
rights have been waived on these shares. The total market value of the shares held in trust, based on the year-end share price of £2.75 (2008: £1.53), was
£344m (2008: £333m). As at 31st December 2009, options over 15.6 million (2008: 19.1 million) of the total shares held in the trusts were exercisable.
The Group operates in a number of countries subject to regulations under which subsidiaries and other operations have to maintain minimum levels of capital.
The current policy of the Group is that the local capital requirements are met, to the greatest possible extent, through the retention of profit. Certain countries
also operate exchange control regulations which limit the amount of dividends that can be remitted to non-resident shareholders.
Retained earnings – Barclays PLC (Parent Company)
Capital
Retained redemption
earnings reserve
£m £m
At 1st January 2009 9,006 394
Profit after tax 125 –
Dividends paid (113) –
Conversion of mandatorily convertible notes (230) –
Other 228 –
At 31st December 2009 9,016 394
At 1st January 2008 8,990 384
Profit after tax 1,193 –
Dividends paid (2,414) –
Arising on share issue 634 –
Repurchase of shares (173) 10
Issue of warrants 776 –
At 31st December 2008 9,006 394
Details of principal subsidiaries held through Barclays Bank PLC are shown in Note 41. 246 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
33 Non-controlling interests
2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of year 10,793 9,185
Share of profit after tax 895 905
Dividend and other payments (767) (703)
Equity issued by subsidiaries – 1,349
Available for sale reserve: net (loss)/ gain from changes in fair value (12) (1)
Cash flow hedges: (loss)/ gain from changes in fair value (19) 76
Currency translation differences 277 100
Additions 9 –
Disposals (91) (11)
Other 116 (107)
At end of year 11,201 10,793
The non-controlling interests as at 31st December represented holdings in the following:
2009 2008
£m £m
Barclays Bank PLC issued Preference shares 5,933 5,927
Barclays Bank PLC issued Reserve Capital Instruments – equity accounted 1,908 1,908
Barclays Bank PLC issued Upper Tier 2 instruments – equity accounted 586 586
Absa Group Limited – issued preference shares and other non-controlling interests 2,539 1,994
Other 235 378
Total 11,201 10,793
There were no Preference Shares issued by Barclays Bank PLC during the year.
34 Contingent liabilities and commitments
The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off-balance sheet risk:
2009 2008
£m £m
Acceptances and endorsements 375 585
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 15,406 15,652
Securities lending arrangements 27,406 38,290 
Other contingent liabilities 9,587 11,783 
Contingent liabilities 52,774 66,310
Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 762 859
Undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities:
Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 46 291
Standby facilities, credit lines and other 206,467 259,666
Commitments 207,275 260,816
Nature of instruments
In common with other banks, the Group conducts business involving acceptances, performance bonds and indemnities. The majority of these facilities are
offset by corresponding obligations of third parties.
An acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of exchange drawn on a customer. The Group expects most acceptances to be presented, but
reimbursement by the customer is normally immediate. Endorsements are residual liabilities of the Group in respect of bills of exchange, which have been
paid and subsequently rediscounted.
Guarantees and letters of credit are given as security to support the performance of a customer to third parties. As the Group will only be required to 
meet these obligations in the event of the customer’ s default, the cash requirements of these instruments are expected to be considerably below their
nominal amounts.
Until the disposal of BGI on 1st December 2009, the Group facilitated securities lending arrangements for its managed investment funds whereby
securities held by funds under management were lent to third parties. Borrowers provided cash or investment grade assets as collateral equal to 100% of
the market value of the securities lent plus a margin of 2% –10%. The Group has agreed with BlackRock to continue to provide indemnities to support these
arrangements for a further three years. As at 31st December 2009, the value of the collateral held was £28,248m (2008: £39,690m) and that of the stock
lent was £27,406m (2008: £38,290m).
Other contingent liabilities include transaction-related customs and performance bonds and are, generally , short-term commitments to third parties which
are not directly dependent on the customer’ s creditworthiness. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 247
34 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued
Commitments to lend are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions. Such commitments are either made for a fixed
period, or have no specific maturity but are cancellable by the lender subject to notice requirements.
Documentary credits commit the Group to make payments to third parties, on production of documents, which are usually reimbursed immediately 
by customers.
Capital commitments
At 31st December 2009 the commitments for capital expenditure under contract amounted to £129m (2008: £48m).
Assets pledged
Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security deposits
relating to derivatives. The disclosure includes any asset transfers associated with liabilities under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions. 
The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities:
2009 2008
£m £m
Trading portfolio assets 96,176 81,186
Loans and advances 48,846 28,789
Available for sale investments 24,264 32,321
Other 77 3,812
Assets pledged 169,363 146,108
Collateral held as security for assets
Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to resell or repledge the
collateral held. The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and repledged to others was as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 357,159 424,819
Of which fair value of securities repledged/transferred to others 283,334 374,222
35 Legal proceedings
On 25th November 2009, the UK Supreme Court decided the test case relating to current account overdraft charges in favour of the banks. The Office of
Fair Trading subsequently confirmed that it will not proceed with its investigation into the fairness of these charges following the Supreme Court judgment.
Accordingly , we are seeking to have all outstanding claims which were premised on the same legal principles as those at issue in the test case discontinued
or dismissed. There remain a small number of residual complaints challenging the charges on a different basis, but these complaints are not expected to
have a material effect on Barclays. 
Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC and various current and former members of Barclays PLC’ s Board of Directors have been named as defendants in five
proposed securities class actions (which have been consolidated) pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New Y ork. The
consolidated amended complaint, dated 12th February 2010, alleges that the registration statements relating to American Depositary Shares representing
Preferred Stock, Series 2, 3, 4 and 5 (ADS) offered by Barclays Bank PLC at various times between 2006 and 2008 contained misstatements and omissions
concerning (amongst other things) Barclays portfolio of mortgage-related (including US subprime-related) securities, Barclays exposure to mortgage and
credit market risk and Barclays financial condition. The consolidated amended complaint asserts claims under Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the
Securities Act of 1933. Barclays considers that these ADS-related claims against it are without merit and is defending them vigorously . It is not possible to
estimate any possible loss in relation to these claims or any effect that they might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
On 15th September 2009 motions were filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New Y ork by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
(LBHI), the SIP A Trustee for Lehman Brothers Inc. (the Trustee) and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (the
Committee). All three motions challenge certain aspects of the transaction pursuant to which Barclays Capital Inc. (BCI) and other companies in the
Barclays Group acquired most of the assets of Lehman Brothers Inc. (LBI) in September 2008 and the court order approving such sale. The claimants seek
an order: voiding the transfer of certain assets to BCI; requiring BCI to return to the LBI estate alleged excess value BCI received; and declaring that BCI is not
entitled to certain assets that it claims pursuant to the sale documents and order approving the sale. On 16th November 2009, LBHI, the Trustee and the
Committee filed separate complaints in the Bankruptcy Court asserting claims against BCI based on the same underlying allegations as the pending
motions and seeking relief similar to that which is requested in the motions. On 29th January 2010, BCI filed its response to the motions. Barclays considers
that the motions and claims against BCI are without merit and BCI is vigorously defending its position. On 29th January 2010, BCI also filed a motion
seeking delivery of certain assets that LBHI and LBI have failed to deliver as required by the sale documents and the court order approving the sale. It is not
possible to estimate any possible loss to Barclays in relation to these matters or any effect that these matters might have upon operating results in any
particular financial period.
Barclays is engaged in various other litigation proceedings both in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States,
involving claims by and against it which arise in the ordinary course of business. Barclays does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of the proceedings
to which Barclays is party to have a significant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group and Barclays has not disclosed the contingent liabilities
associated with these claims either because they cannot reasonably be estimated or because such disclosure could be prejudicial to the conduct of the
claims. 248 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
36 Competition and regulatory matters
The scale of regulatory change remains challenging and the global financial crisis is resulting in a significant tightening of regulation and changes to
regulatory structures globally , especially for banks that are deemed to be of systemic importance. Concurrently , there is continuing political and regulatory
scrutiny of the operation of the banking and consumer credit industries in the UK and elsewhere which, in some cases, is leading to increased regulation.
For example, the Credit Card Accountability , Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 in the US will restrict many credit card pricing and marketing practices.
The nature and impact of future changes in the legal framework, policies and regulatory action cannot currently be fully predicted and are beyond Barclays
control but, especially in the area of banking regulation, are likely to have an impact on Barclays businesses and earnings.
The market for payment protection insurance (PPI) has been under scrutiny by the UK competition authorities and financial services regulators. Following a
reference from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the UK Competition Commission (CC) undertook an in-depth enquiry into the PPI market. The CC published
its final report on 29th January 2009 concluding that the businesses which offer PPI alongside credit face little or no competition when selling PPI to their
credit customers. In March 2009, Barclays submitted a targeted appeal focused on the prohibition on sale of PPI at the point of sale (POSP) remedy on the
basis that it was not based on sound analysis, and is unduly draconian. The Competition Appeals Tribunal (CA T) upheld Barclays appeal on two grounds,
meaning that the CC will be required to reconsider the POSP remedy and the basis for it, and made an order to that effect on 26th November 2009.
This remittal process is expected to take until the autumn of 2010, at which time the CC will publish its final Remedies Order.
Separately , in 2006, the FSA published the outcome of its broad industry thematic review of PPI sales practices in which it concluded that some firms fail
to treat customers fairly and that the FSA would strengthen its actions against such firms. T ackling poor PPI sales practices remains a priority for the FSA.
In September 2009, the FSA issued a Consultation Paper on the assessment and redress of PPI complaints made on or after 14th January 2005. The FSA
has announced that it intends to publish a final version of the policy statement in early 2010 and will amend the DISP (Dispute Resolution: Complaints)
rules in the FSA Sourcebook. Barclays voluntarily complied with the FSA ’ s request to cease selling single premium PPI by the end of January 2009. 
The OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and MasterCard credit card interchange rates. A decision by the OFT in the MasterCard interchange case
was set aside by the CA T in 2006. The OFT is progressing its investigations in the Visa interchange case and a second MasterCard interchange case in
parallel and both are ongoing. The outcome is not known but these investigations may have an impact on the consumer credit industry in general and
therefore on Barclays business in this sector. In 2007, the OFT expanded its investigations into interchange rates to include debit cards.
Notwithstanding the Supreme Court ruling in relation to the test case (see Note 35 on page 247) Barclays continues to be involved in the OFT’ s work on
personal current accounts. The OFT initiated a market study into personal current accounts (PCAs) in the UK in 2007 which also included an examination
of other retail banking products, in particular savings accounts, credit cards, personal loans and mortgages in order to take into account the competitive
dynamics of UK retail banking. In 2008, the OFT published its market study report, in which it concluded that certain features of the UK PCA market were
not working well for consumers. The OFT reached the provisional view that some form of regulatory intervention is necessary in the UK PCA market.
The OFT also held a consultation to seek views on the findings and possible measures to address the issues raised in its report. In October 2009, the OFT
published a follow-up report containing details of voluntary initiatives in relation to transparency and switching agreed between the OFT and the industry .
A further follow-up report is expected in March 2010 to provide details of voluntary initiatives agreed in relation to charging structures. Barclays has
participated fully in the market study process and will continue to do so.
US laws and regulations require compliance with US economic sanctions, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, against designated foreign
countries, nationals and others. HM Treasury regulations similarly require compliance with sanctions adopted by the UK government. Barclays has been
conducting an internal review of its conduct with respect to US Dollar payments involving countries, persons and entities subject to these sanctions and has
been reporting to governmental authorities about the results of that review. Barclays received inquiries relating to these sanctions and certain US Dollar
payments processed by its New Y ork branch from the New Y ork County District Attorney’ s Office and the US Department of Justice, which, along with other
authorities, has been reported to be conducting investigations of sanctions compliance by non-US financial institutions. Barclays has responded to those
inquiries and is cooperating with the regulators, the Department of Justice and the District Attorney’ s Office in connection with their investigations of
Barclays conduct with respect to sanctions compliance. Barclays has also received a formal notice of investigation from the FSA, and has been keeping
the FSA informed of the progress of the US investigations and Barclays internal review. Barclays review is ongoing. It is currently not possible to predict the
ultimate resolution of the issues covered by Barclays review and the investigations, including the timing and potential financial impact of any resolution,
which could be substantial. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 249
37 Leasing
The Group is both lessor and lessee under finance and operating leases, providing asset financing for its customers and leasing assets for its own use.
In addition, assets leased by the Group may be sublet to other parties. An analysis of the impact of these transactions on the Group balance sheet and
income statement is as follows:
a) As Lessor
Finance lease receivables
The Group specialises in asset-based lending and works with a broad range of international technology , industrial equipment and commercial companies
to provide customised finance programmes to assist manufacturers, dealers and distributors of assets.
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers.
The Group’ s net investment in finance lease receivables was as follows: 
2009 2008
Gross Present value of Gross Present value of
investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed
finance lease finance payments residual finance lease finance payments residual
receivables income receivable values receivables income receivable values
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Not more than one year 3,513 (456) 3,057 55 3,929 (689) 3,240 149
Over one year but not more 
than five years 7,597 (1,117) 6,480 154 8,668 (1,673) 6,995 355
Over five years 2,084 (427) 1,657 407 3,419 (768) 2,651 25
Total 13,194 (2,000) 11,194 616 16,016 (3,130) 12,886 529
The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment amounted to £321m at 31st December 2009 (2008: £189m).
Operating lease receivables
The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying as operating
leases. The items purchased to satisfy these leases are included within plant and equipment (see Note 23) and are generally disposed of at the end of the
lease term.
The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases at 31st December 2009 were as follows:
2009 2008
Plant and Plant and
equipment equipment
£m £m
Not more than one year 10 80
Over one year but not more than two years 7 42
Over two years but not more than three years 7 36
Over three years but not more than four years 6 24
Over four years but not more than five years 8 13
Over five years 1 39
Total 39 234 250 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
37 Leasing continued
b) As Lessee
Finance lease commitments
The Group leases items of property , plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases. Finance lease commitments are included
within other liabilities (see Note 25). 
Obligations under finance leases were as follows:
2009 2008
Total future T otal future
minimum minimum
payments payments
£m £m
Not more than one year 16 35
Over one year but not more than two years 7 13
Over two years but not more than three years 30 14
Over three years but not more than four years 18 17
Over four years but not more than five years 17 14
Over five years 34 3
Net obligations under finance leases 122 96
The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases at the balance sheet date was:
2009 2008
£m £m
Cost 127 87
Accumulated depreciation (84) (67)
Net book value 43 20
Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. The leases have various terms,
escalation and renewal rights. There are no contingent rents payable. The Group also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements.
Where the Group is the lessee the future minimum lease payment under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2009 2008
Property Equipment Property Equipment
£m £m £m £m
Not more than one year 459 9 275 5
Over one year but not more than two years 424 6 354 1
Over two years but not more than three years 378 – 334 1
Over three years but not more than four years 334 – 315 –
Over four years but not more than five years 341 – 465 5
Over five years 2,933 3 2,744 1
Total 4,869 18 4,487 13
The total of future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date is £147m (2008: £158m). www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 251
38 Disposal of subsidiaries
During the year, the Group disposed of Barclays Global Investors (BGI), 50% of Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compañía de Seguros and 7% of the GRCB –
Emerging Markets Botswana business.
BGI Other Total
2009 2009 2009
£m £m £m
Consideration received including hedging gains:
Cash received
a
4,207 158 4,365
Non-cash consideration 5,294 118 5,412
T otal consideration received 9,501 276 9,777
Assets and liabilities disposed of:
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 667 – 667
Financial assets designated at fair value:
– held on own account – 393 393
– held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 71,791 – 71,791
Derivative financial instruments –55
Loans and advances to customers –44
Available for sale investments 55 788 843
Other assets 398 204 602
Goodwill and Intangible assets 1,586 – 1,586
Property , plant and equipment 122 – 122
Deferred tax assets 99 – 99
Total 74,718 1,394 76,112
Liabilities
Customer accounts – (368) (368)
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts (71,791) (415) (72,206)
Derivative financial instruments – (8) (8)
Other liabilities (911) (74) (985)
Current tax liabilities 35 – 35
Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities – (354) (354)
Deferred tax liabilities – (16) (16)
Total (72,667) (1,235) (73,902)
Net assets disposed of 2,051 159 2,210
Group share of net assets disposed of 2,051 82 2,133
Transaction costs (539) (10) (549)
Amounts relating to non-controlling interests (580) – (580)
Gain on sale before tax 6,331 184 6,515
Tax (43) (28) (71)
Gain on sale, net of tax 6,288 156 6,444
On 1st December 2009 the Group completed the sale of BGI to BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock) recognising a profit on disposal before tax of £6,331m. The tax
charge of £43m reflects the application of UK substantial shareholdings relief in accordance with UK tax law.
The consideration at completion was $15.2bn (£9.5bn), including 37.567 million new BlackRock shares, giving an economic interest of 19.9% of the
enlarged BlackRock group. Barclays Group holds 4.9% of the voting rights and under the terms of the transaction may not acquire additional voting rights
and will vote in accordance with the recommendations of the BlackRock Board of Directors. John Varley and Robert E Diamond Jr. have been appointed to the
BlackRock Board, which comprises 18 Directors. The Group is not deemed to exercise significant influence and the investment has been accounted for as an
available for sale equity investment. 
The Group has provided BlackRock with customary warranties and indemnities in connection with the sale. Barclays will also continue to indemnify
securities lending arrangements until 30th November 2012 (included within contingent liabilities in Note 34) and provide support to certain BGI cash funds
until December 2013 in the form of credit derivatives (included within derivative liabilities in Note 14) and financial guarantees (included within provisions in
Note 28). 
In addition, Barclays, BlackRock and their respective affiliates also enter into agreements and transactions with one another in the ordinary course of their
respective businesses and on an arm’ s length commercial basis, subject to applicable regulation and agreements with relevant regulators.
In connection with its financing of its acquisition of BGI, BlackRock entered into a 364-day revolving credit facility with a group of lenders including Barclays,
who is also acting as revolving agent. Of the $2bn credit facility , $0.8bn was committed by other lenders and following completion BlackRock had borrowed
or notified to be borrowed $1.5bn under the facility . All amounts borrowed under this facility have been fully repaid and the facility was terminated prior to
31st December 2009.
Prior year disposals
In 2008, the Group disposed of Barclays Life Assurance Limited. There were no material disposals in 2007.
Note
a Net cash consideration received from the sale of BGI, excluding the effect of hedging, cash
balances disposed of and transaction costs paid, was £2,469m. 252 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
39 Discontinued operations
The disposed BGI business has been treated as a discontinued operation, the results of which are set out below. For the year ended 31st December 2009 the
results are for the 11 month period up to the date of disposal.
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Net interest income 33 –12
Net fee and commission income 1,759 1,916 1,937
Net trading income/(loss) 67 (10) 5
Other income 4 10 2
Total income 1,863 1,916 1,956
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets (1,123) (960) (1,095)
Amortisation of intangible assets (14) (15) (8)
Operating expenses (1,137) (975) (1,103)
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 726 941 853 
T ax on discontinued operations (237) (337) (282)
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 489 604 571
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations
a
6,331 ––
T ax on disposal (43) ––
Net profit on the disposal of the discontinued operation 6,288 – –
Profit after tax from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571
Other comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations is as follows:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Available for sale assets 10 (9) 1
Currency translation reserve (85) 133 11
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income 17 (10) 14
Other comprehensive income, net of tax, from discontinued operations (58) 114 26
The cash flows attributable to the discontinued operations were as follows:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Cash flows from discontinued operations
Net cash flows from operating activities 333 524 773
Net cash flows from investing activities (25) (93) (248)
Net cash flows from financing activities (550) (362) (429)
Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (134) 217 (13)
Net cash flows from discontinued operations (376) 286 83
Notes
a Details of the profit on disposal are shown in Note 38. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 253
40 Acquisition of subsidiaries
a) Crescent Real Estate
On 19th November 2009, Barclays formed Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC a joint venture with Goff Capital, Inc., to assume 99.7% ownership of Crescent
Real Estate Equities Limited partnership (Crescent) following the completion of a debt restructuring transaction. Crescent is a real estate investment company
that owns and manages office space, as well as investments in resort residential developments and luxury hotels across the US. These properties are
accounted for as investment properties.
The assets and liabilities of Crescent at acquisition were as follows:
Carrying
value pre- Fair value Fair
acquisition adjustments values
£m £m £m
Assets
Loans and advances to customers 85 – 85
Investment in associates and joint ventures 132 (45) 87
Property , plant and equipment 879 69 948
Other assets 154 (2) 152
Total assets 1,250 22 1,272
Liabilities
Deposits from banks (170) – (170)
Other liabilities (102) 3 (99)
Total liabilities (272) 3 (269)
Net assets 978 25 1,003
Group share of net assets acquired 978 25 1,003
Acquisition cost
Loans 1,003
Total consideration 1,003
No goodwill arose on acquisition.
The results of Crescent’ s operations have been included from 19th November 2009 and did not materially contribute to the consolidated profit before tax. 
It is impracticable to disclose the revenue and profit or loss of the combined entity as though the acquisition date had been 1st January 2009. 254 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
40 Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
b) Other acquisitions
Other acquisitions made by the Group during the year included 100% of PT Bank Akita on 1st February 2009 and 100% of the Portuguese credit card
business of Citibank International PLC on 1st December 2009.
The Group increased its share in Abseq Properties (Pty) Ltd (previously accounted for as an associate) to 85% on 30th January 2009.
On 6th April 2009, the Group acquired 100% of Care Principles as part of a debt restructuring transaction.
None of these acquisitions were individually material.
Details of the net assets acquired and the consideration paid are set out in aggregate below. The results of their operations have been included from the
dates acquired and contributed a loss of £17m to the consolidated profit before tax.
Carrying
value pre- Fair value Other Fair
acquisition adjustments adjustments values
£m £m £m £m
Assets
Loans and advances to customers 598 (9) – 589
Investments in associates and joint ventures 3 – – 3
Intangible assets –751691
Property , plant and equipment 201 5 – 206
Other assets 38 – – 38
Total assets 840 71 16 927
Liabilities
Deposits from banks (806) 45 117 (644)
Customer accounts (48) – – (48)
Derivative financial instruments – (32) 19 (13)
Deferred tax liabilities (14) (26) – (40)
Other liabilities (111) 18 (2) (95)
Total liabilities (979) 5 134 (840)
Net assets acquired (139) 76 150 87
Group share of net assets acquired 66
Acquisition cost
Cash Paid 24
Deferred consideration 19
Attributable costs 4
Total consideration 47
Goodwill 7
Gain on acquisition 26
Cash outflows in respect of acquisitions
The aggregate net outflow of cash from the acquisition of the above Group entities was £28m, representing cash consideration and attributable costs.
Prior year acquisitions 
The initial accounting for the 2008 acquisition of the North American businesses of Lehman Brothers was completed on 22nd September 2009. There were
no revisions to the initial accounting disclosed in the 2008 financial statements. Approximately £2.3bn of the assets acquired as part of the acquisition had
not been received by 31st December 2009, approximately £1.8bn of which were recognised as part of the accounting for the acquisition and are included in
the balance sheet as at 31st December 2009. Ongoing legal proceedings related to the acquisition, including in respect of assets not yet received, are
discussed in Note 35.
In addition, in 2008 the Group acquired Macquarie Bank Limited’ s residential mortgage businesses, Goldfish credit card UK businesses and 100% of the
ordinary shares of Expobank.
In 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of each of Indexchange Investment AG, Equifirst Corporation and Walbrook Group Limited. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 255
41 Investment in subsidiaries
The investment in Barclays Bank PLC is stated on the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of £20,215m (2008: £15,340m). The increase of £4,875m
(2008: £5,154m) during the year represents the cost of additional shares of £25m (2008: £16m), capital contributions of £800m (2008: £4,362m) and
a non-cash capital contribution of £4,050m (2008: £776m).
Principal subsidiaries
Percentage
of equity
Country of registration capital held
or incorporation Company name Nature of business %
Botswana Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited Banking 67.8
Egypt Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Banking 100
England Barclays Bank PLC Banking, holding company 100*
England Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited Loans and advances including leases to customers 100*
England Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited Banking, securities industries and trust services 100*
England Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Stockbroking 100*
England Barclays Capital Securities Limited Securities dealing 100*
England FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Secured loan provider 100
England Gerrard Investment Management Limited Investment management 100*
Ghana Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited Banking 100
Ireland Barclays Insurance (Dublin) Limited Insurance provider 100*
Ireland Barclays Assurance (Dublin) Limited Insurance provider 100*
Isle of Man Barclays Private Clients International Limited Banking 100
Japan Barclays Capital Japan Limited Securities dealing 100*
Jersey Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited Banking, trust company 100*
Kenya Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Banking 68.5
Russia Barclays Bank LLC Banking 100*
South Africa Absa Group Limited Banking 55.5
Spain Barclays Bank SA Banking 99.7
Switzerland Barclays Bank (Suisse) S.A. Banking and trust services 100
USA Barclays Capital Inc. Securities dealing 100*
USA Barclays Financial Corporation Holding company for US credit card issuer 100*
USA Barclays Group US Inc. Holding company 100
Zimbabwe Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited Banking 67.7*
In accordance with Section 410(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2006, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiaries.
The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries. Investments in these subsidiaries
are held directly by Barclays Bank PLC except where marked*.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return to be filed at UK Companies House.
Entities in which the Group holds less than half the voting rights
There are a number of entities in which the Group holds less than half the voting rights which are consolidated when the substance of the relationship
between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group. Such entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group when
relationships with such entities give rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary . 
The consolidation of such entities may be appropriate in a number of situations, but primarily when:
– the operating and financial policies of the entity are closely defined from the outset (i.e. it operates on an ‘autopilot’ basis) with such policies being largely
determined by the Group;
– the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the entity and/ or retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the entity; or
– the activities of the entity are being conducted largely on behalf of the Group according to its specific business objectives.
Such entities are created for a variety of purposes including securitisation, structuring, asset realisation, intermediation and management.
Subsidiaries with a different reporting date from that of the Parent of 31st December
Entities may have a different reporting date from that of the Parent of 31st December. Dates may differ for a variety of reasons including local reporting
regulations or tax laws. In accordance with our accounting policies, for the purpose of inclusion in the consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC,
entities with different reporting dates are made up until 31st December. 256 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
41 Investment in subsidiaries continued
Entities where the Group’s interest exceeds 50% which are excluded from consolidation
Although the Group’ s interest in the equity voting rights in certain entities exceeds 50%, or it may have the power to appoint a majority of their Boards
of Directors, they are excluded from consolidation because the Group either cannot direct the financial and operating policies of these entities, or on
the grounds that another entity has a superior economic interest in them. Consequently , these entities are not deemed to be controlled by Barclays.
The table below includes information in relation to such entities as required by the Companies Act 2006 Section 410(2)(b).
Equity Retained
Percentage of share- loss
ordinary share holders’ for the
Country of registration capital held funds year
or incorporation Name %£m£m
UK Fitzroy Finance Limited 100 – –
Cayman Islands Palomino Limited 100 1 –
42 Related party transactions and Directors’ remuneration
a) Related party transactions
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making
financial or operation decisions, or one other party controls both. The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and the Group’ s pension
schemes, as well as other persons. 
Subsidiaries
Transactions between Barclays PLC and subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions. Where these are eliminated on consolidation,
they are not disclosed in the Group financial statements. Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary , Barclays Bank PLC are fully disclosed in
its balance sheet and income statement. A list of the Group’ s principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 41.
Associates, joint ventures and other entities
The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures, the Group pension funds (principally the UK Retirement Fund) and to entities under
common directorships, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well as other
services. Group companies also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes. The Group also provides banking
services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies and are not individually material. All of these transactions are conducted on the
same terms as third-party transactions.
Entities under common directorships
The Group enters into normal commercial relationships with entities for which members of the Group’ s Board also serve as Directors. The amounts included in
the Group’ s financial statements relating to such entities that are not publicly listed are shown in the table opposite under Entities under common directorships. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 257
42 Related party transactions and Directors’ remuneration continued
Amounts included in the accounts, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows:
Pension
Entities funds, unit
under trusts and
Joint common investment
Associates ventures directorships funds Total
£m £m £m £m £m
For the year ended and as at 31st December 2009
Income statement:
Interest received 3 90 7 – 100
Interest paid – (18) – – (18)
Fees received for services rendered (including investment management 
and custody and commissions) 10 9 – 6 25
Fees paid for services provided (47) (113) – – (160)
Principal transactions (11) (35) 6 – (40)
Impairment (2) (5) – – (7)
Assets:
Loans and advances to banks and customers 144 1,145 192 – 1,481
Derivative transactions 38 48 – 59
Other assets 76 193 – – 269
Liabilities:
Deposits from banks – 654 – – 654
Customer accounts 54 252 29 23 358
Derivative transactions –3 10 – 13
Other liabilities 2 22 – 23 47
For the year ended and as at 31st December 2008
Income statement:
Interest received – 105 3 – 108
Interest paid – (73) – – (73)
Fees received for services rendered (including investment management 
and custody and commissions) – 15 – 5 20
Fees paid for services provided (44) (146) – – (190)
Principal transactions 8 59 60 (25) 102
Assets:
Loans and advances to banks and customers 110 954 34 – 1,098
Derivative transactions – 9 311 15 335
Other assets 67 276 – 3 346
Liabilities:
Deposits from banks – 592 – – 592
Customer accounts – 167 74 10 251
Derivative transactions – – 111 41 152
Other liabilities 3 18 – 28 49
For the year ended and as at 31st December 2007
Income statement:
Interest received 588 1 –94
Interest paid (1) (58) (1) – (60)
Fees received for services rendered (including investment management 
and custody and commissions) 1 34 – 26 61
Fees paid for services provided (52) (78) – – (130)
Principal transactions (27) 45 (16) – 2
Assets:
Loans and advances to banks and customers 142 1,285 40 – 1,467
Derivative transactions – 4 36 – 40
Other assets 213 106 – 14 333
Liabilities:
Deposits from banks 11 – – – 11
Customer accounts – 61 33 12 106
Derivative transactions – 10 50 – 60
Other liabilities 4 125 – – 129 258 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
42 Related party transactions and Directors’ remuneration continued
No guarantees, pledges or commitments have been given or received in respect of these transactions in 2009, 2008 or 2007.
Derivatives transacted on behalf of the Pensions Funds Unit Trusts and Investment Funds amounted to £192m (2008: £318m, 2007: £22m).
In 2008 Barclays paid £12m (2007: £18m) of its charitable donations through the Charities Aid Foundation, a registered charitable organisation, in which
a Director of the Company was a Trustee. In 2009, following personnel changes, Charities Aid Foundation is not a related party .
Key Management Personnel
The Group’ s Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes. Key
Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of Barclays PLC
(directly or indirectly) and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Group Chief Executive and the
heads of major business units.
There were no material related party transactions with Entities under common directorship where a Director or other member of Key Management
Personnel (or any connected person) is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel (or any connected person) of Barclays. 
The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them. Transactions during the year and
the balances outstanding at 31st December 2009 were as follows:
Directors, other Key Management
Personnel and connected persons
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Loans outstanding at 1st January 7.3 7.4 7.8
Loans issued during the year 1.9 6.9 2.7
Loan repayments during the year (1.6) (5.5) (3.2)
Loans outstanding at 31st December 7.6 8.8 7.3
Interest income earned 0.1 0.4 0.4
No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel (or any connected person)
in 2009, 2008 or 2007.
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Deposits outstanding at 1st January 28.7 8.9 15.0
Deposits received during the year 160.0 235.7 114.4
Deposits repaid during the year (158.0) (221.9) (115.0)
Deposits outstanding at 31st December 30.7 22.7 14.4
Interest expense on deposits 0.1 0.5 0.6
During 2009 the membership of the Group Executive Committee increased. These additional persons became Officers of the Group and as such are
included in Key Management Personnel for 2009, but not 2008.
Of the loans outstanding above, £0.1m (2008: £1.6m, 2007: £nil) relates to Directors and other Key Management Personnel (and persons connected
to them) that left the Group during the year. Of the deposits outstanding above, £3.7m (2008: £6.1m, 2007: £2.8m) related to Directors and other
Key Management Personnel (and persons connected to them) that left the Group during the year. The amounts disclosed as at 1st January includes
deposits outstanding for those who became Directors or Key Management Personnel during the year.
All loans to Directors and other Key Management Personnel  (and persons connected to them), (a) were made in the ordinary course of business, (b) were
made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with other
persons and (c) did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features; with the exception of £692 provided on an
interest free basis.
A loan of £692 provided on an interest free basis was granted to one non-Director member of Barclays Key Management to purchase a commuter rail ticket.
The maximum loan outstanding during the year was £692. Commuter rail ticket loans are provided to all Barclays staff members upon request on the
same terms. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 259
42 Related party transactions and Directors’ remuneration continued
Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel
Directors, other Key Management
Personnel and connected persons
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Salaries and other short-term benefits 8.6 10.7 23.7
Pension costs 0.7 0.9 1.1
Other long-term benefits 2.5 1.6 9.2
Share-based payments 15.8 11.8 31.7
Employer social security charges on emoluments 2.9 2.7 7.8
30.5 27.7 73.5
b) Disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006
The following information is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006:
Directors’ remuneration
2009 2008
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 8.8 6.0
Gains made on the exercise of share options 8.9 –
Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes – 7.4
17.7 13.4
Actual pension contributions of £18,786 were paid to money purchase schemes on behalf of one Director (2008: £11,745, one Director). Notional pension
contributions to money purchase schemes were £nil (2008: £nil).
As at 31st December 2009, two Directors were accruing retirement benefits under a defined benefit scheme (2008: two Directors). 
One Director (Frits Seegers) agreed to waive his fees as non-executive Director of Absa Group Limited and Absa Bank Limited. The fees for 2009 were 
ZAR 0.1m (£0.01m). The fees for 2008 were ZAR 0.4m (£0.03m). In both 2008 and 2009 the fees were paid to Barclays.
Directors’ and Officers’ shareholdings and options
The beneficial ownership of the ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC (involving 23 persons) and Barclays Bank
PLC (involving 24 persons) at 31st December 2009 amounted 20,000,820 ordinary shares of 25p each (0.18% of the ordinary share capital outstanding)
and 20,008,541 ordinary shares of 25p each (0.18% of the ordinary share capital outstanding), respectively .
Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC held in total (involving 12 persons) at 31st December 2009, options to purchase 3,279,642 Barclays PLC ordinary shares
of 25p each at prices ranging from 255p to 470p under Sharesave and ranging from 317p to 520p under the Incentive Share Option Plan, respectively . 260 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
42 Related party transactions and Directors’ remuneration  continued
Advances and credit to Directors and guarantees on behalf of Directors
In accordance with Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006 and in relation to those who served as Directors of the Company at any time in the financial year, 
the total amount of advances and credits at 31st December 2009 was £1.8m (2008: £0.8m). The total amount of guarantees on behalf of Directors at 
31st December 2009 was £nil (2008: £nil).
c) US disclosures
For US disclosure purposes, the aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC who held office during the year (2009: 28 persons,
2008: 24 persons, 2007: 22 persons) for the year ended 31st December 2009 amounted to £29.8m (2008: £26.8m, 2007: £64.6m). In addition, the
aggregate amount set aside for the year ended 31st December 2009, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to £0.7m
(2008: £0.9m, 2007: £1.1m). The aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays Bank PLC who held office during the year (2009: 29 persons,
2008: 25 persons, 2007: 23 persons) for the year ended 31st December 2009 amounted to £30.1m (2008: £26.9m and 2007: £64.9m). In addition, the
aggregate amount set aside by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31st December 2009, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and
Officers amounted to £0.7m (2008: £0.9m, 2007: £1.1m).
43 Events after the balance sheet date
On 1st January 2010, the Group acquired 100% ownership of Standard Life Bank Plc for a consideration of £227m in cash. The assets acquired include
a savings book of approximately £5.8bn, and a mortgage book with outstanding balances of approximately £7.5bn.
As announced on 3rd November 2009, the Group has made changes to its business structure, which will be reflected in the Group’ s external financial
reporting for periods commencing 1st January 2010. The segmental information presented in Note 53 represents the business segments and other
operations used for management and reporting purposes during the year ended 31st December 2009.
On 17th February 2010, 626.8 million of the 758.4 million warrants held by PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited (a subsidiary of Nexus Capital Investing Limited)
were exercised for an aggregate exercise price of approximately £1,240m. As a result 626.8 million new ordinary shares were issued representing a 5.2%
ownership in the Group’ s enlarged share capital.
44 Share-based payments
The Group operates share schemes for employees throughout the world. The main current schemes are:
Sharesave
Eligible employees in the UK, Spain and Ireland may participate in the Barclays Sharesave scheme. Under this scheme, employees may enter into contracts
to save up to £250 per month (Ireland: ¤500, Spain: ¤135) and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years (Spain: three years), have the option
to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme. The discount is currently 20%
of the market price at the date the options are granted. Participants in the scheme have six months from the date of vest in which the option can be
exercised.
UK Sharepurchase
UK Sharepurchase was introduced in January 2002. It is an HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee share plan. The plan is open to all eligible UK
employees, including executive Directors. Under the plan, participants are able to purchase up to £1,500 worth of Barclays PLC ordinary shares per tax year,
which, if kept in trust for five years, can be withdrawn from the plan tax-free. Matching shares were introduced to the scheme during 2005 where the
purchase of Barclays shares by the participant are matched equally by the Company up to a value of £600 per tax year. Any shares in the plan will earn
dividends in the form of additional shares, which must normally be held by the trustee for three years before being eligible for release.
Global Sharepurchase
Global Sharepurchase was introduced in August 2009. The plan is open to all eligible employees in countries outside the UK, including executive Directors.
In 2009, the plan was launched in Germany , Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and Switzerland. Under the plan, participants are able to purchase up to £1,500
worth of Barclays PLC ordinary shares per calendar year, from post-tax salary . The purchase of Barclays shares by the participant is matched by the
Company on a one-for-one basis up to a value of £600 per calendar year. Matching Shares are forfeited if the participant chooses to sell shares purchased
from their post-tax salary before the third anniversary of purchase. Any shares in the plan will earn dividends in the form of additional shares, which must
normally be held by the trustee for three years before being eligible for release.
Executive Share Award Scheme (ESAS) 
For certain employees of the Group an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of a provisional allocation of Barclays PLC shares
under ESAS. The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit, Group and individual
employee performance. The ESAS element of the annual bonus must normally be held for at least three years. Additional bonus shares are subsequently
awarded to recipients of the provisional allocation and vest upon achieving continued service for three and five years from the date of award. ESAS awards
are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes. All awards are subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns and commences work with
a competitor business.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM to replace the ISOP scheme. Performance shares are ‘free’ Barclays
shares for which no exercise price is payable and which qualify for dividends. Performance share awards are communicated to participants as an initial
allocation. Barclays performance over a three-year period determines the final number of shares that may be released to participants.
Incentive Share Plan (Incentive Shares)
The Incentive Share Plan (Incentive Shares) was introduced in March 2008. Incentive Shares are granted to participants in the form of a provisional
allocation of Barclays shares which vest upon achieving continued service after three years. Participants do not pay to receive an award or to receive
a release of shares. Incentive Shares qualify for dividends. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 261
44 Share-based payments continued 
Options granted under the following schemes are over subsidiaries of Barclays PLC:
Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust (AGLSIT)
In terms of the rules of Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust, the maximum number of shares which may be issued or transferred and/ or in respect
of which options may be granted to the participants shall be limited to shares representing 10% of the total number of issued shares from time to time.
This is an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement and options are allocated to Absa employees according to the normal human resources talent
management processes. The options issued up to August 2005 had no performance criteria linked to them and vested in equal tranches after three, four
and five years respectively . No dividends accrue to the option holder over the vesting period. The options expire after a period of ten years from the issuing
date. Options issued since August 2005 have performance criteria associated with them, which require headline earnings per share to exceed an agreed
benchmark over a three-year period from the grant date for the options to vest. Participants need to be in the employ of Absa at the vesting date in order
to be entitled to the options.
Absa Group Limited Executive Share Award Scheme (AGLESAS)
The ESAS is an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement, where the participant’ s notional bonus comprises a number of restricted nil-cost options,
based on the allocation price of ordinary shares. Such an initial allocation is held in trust or in the name of the participant. If the participant is in the employ
of Absa after the three-year vesting period, the participant will receive 20% matched shares. If the bonus award remains in the ESAS for another two years,
the participant receives another 10% matched shares. Dividend shares are paid to participants on the ordinary shares as if the shares were held from
inception. The number of dividend shares awarded is therefore calculated on the initial allocation and on the 20% and/ or 10% matched shares, over the
three- or five-year period. Employees that receive a performance bonus in excess of a predetermined amount were compelled to place a set percentage of
their bonus award into the ESAS. Employees also had the option of utilising more of their bonus award for voluntary ESAS options.
Absa Group Limited Performance Share Plan (AGLPSP)
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) was implemented in 2008. Performance shares are ‘free’ Absa Group Limited shares for which no exercise price is
payable and which qualify for dividends. Performance share awards are communicated to participants as an initial allocation. Absa Group Limited’ s
performance over a three-year period determines the final number of shares that may be released to participants.
Options remain outstanding under the following closed schemes:
Incentive Share Option Plan (ISOP)
The ISOP was open by invitation to the employees and Directors of Barclays PLC. Options were granted at the market price at the date of grant calculated in
accordance with the rules of the plan, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date. The final number of shares over which the
option may be exercised is determined by reference to set performance criteria. The number of shares under option represents the maximum possible
number that may be exercised. No awards were made under ISOP during 2009.
Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan (Woolwich ESOP)
Options originally granted over Woolwich PLC shares at market value were exercised in 2001 or exchanged, in accordance with the proposals made under
the offer to acquire the Woolwich, for options over Barclays PLC shares. Under the rules of ESOP , the performance conditions attached to the exercise of
options were disapplied on acquisition of Woolwich PLC by Barclays. Options lapse ten years after grant.
In addition, there were no options outstanding at year end under the following closed schemes:
Absa Group Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment transaction (BEE) 
The Group entered into a black economic empowerment (BEE) transaction with Batho Bonke Capital (Proprietary) Limited in July 2004. The shares issued
in terms of the transaction vested immediately . Due to the shares issued vesting immediately and also as a result of the issue being before 1st January 2005,
the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based payments were not applicable. In the current period 49.9% of the options were repurchased from Batho Bonke
(Proprietary) Limited at a discount to their fair value. Batho Bonke utilised the proceeds to exercise 11,970,536 options. The Group provided bridging
finance for the remaining 24,678,764 options. The life of these options was effectively extended for three months, effective 1st June 2009. The modification
did not result in an increase in the fair value of these options and therefore, in terms of the provisions of IFRS 2, no cost was recognised in the statement of
comprehensive income in the current period.
The bridging finance was redeemed on 1st September 2009 and Batho Bonke Capital (Proprietary) Limited exercised the balance of the options outstanding.
Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Administrative Trust (AGLSOT)
AGLSOT enabled all Absa employees to participate in a one-off offer to purchase 200 redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares. Each
redeemable preference share carries the option to acquire one Absa ordinary share. Options vest after three years and lapse after five years from the date
of issue. Exercise may occur in lots of 100 only and within a price range varying from R48 to R69 (£3.81 to £5.48) dependent on the 30-day volume
weighted trading price on the JSE Limited. Options are redeemed by Absa on the final exercise date.
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) 
The ESOS is a long-term incentive scheme and was available by invitation to certain senior executives of the Group with grants usually made annually .
Options were issued with an exercise price equivalent to the market price at the date of the grant without any discount, calculated in accordance with
the rules of the scheme, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date. No further awards are made under ESOS.
Barclays Global Investors Equity Ownership Plan (BGI EOP)
The EOP was provided to key employees of BGI and was wound up following the disposal of BGI. The exercise price of the options was determined by the
Remuneration Committee of Barclays PLC based on the fair value of BGI as determined by an independent appraiser. The options were granted over shares
in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Options were not exercisable until vesting, with a third of the options held generally becoming exercisable at each anniversary of grant. The shareholder
had the right to offer to sell the shares to Barclays Bank PLC 355 days following the exercise of the option. The most recently agreed valuation was £109.45,
at 30th November 2009. No awards were made under the BGI EOP in 2009.
The scheme rules provided that in the event of a sale of the business, outstanding options vest before the disposal. During the year the Group disposed
of Barclays Global Investors. Accordingly , the share-based payment charge has been accelerated in these financial statements. 262 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
44 Share-based payments continued
At the balance sheet date the following cash-settled schemes operated within the Group:
Absa Group Limited Phantom Performance Share Plan (Phantom PSP)
The Phantom PSP is a cash-settled plan and payments made to participants in respect of their awards are in the form of cash. The Phantom PSP shares
(and any associated notional dividend shares) are awarded at no cost to the participants. The amount that is ultimately paid to the participants is equal to
the market value of a number of ordinary shares as determined after a three-year vesting period. The vesting of the Phantom PSP awards will be subject
to two non-market performance conditions which will be measured over a three-year period, starting on the first day of the financial year in which the
award is made. The award will vest after three years to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied. These awards are forfeited in total if Absa
performance fails to meet the minimum criteria.
Absa Group Limited Phantom Executive Share Award Scheme (Phantom ESAS)
The Phantom ESAS is a cash-settled share-based payment arrangement, where the participant’ s notional bonus comprises a number of restricted nil-cost
options, based on the allocation price of ordinary shares. If the participant is in the employ of the Group after the three-year vesting period, the participant
will receive 20% bonus phantom shares. If the bonus award remains in the Phantom ESAS for another two years, the participant receives an additional
10% bonus phantom shares. Dividend phantom shares are paid to participants on the ordinary phantom shares as if the shares were held from inception.
The number of dividend phantom shares awarded is therefore calculated on the initial allocation and on the 20% and 10% bonus phantom shares, over
the three- or five-year period. Employees that receive performance bonuses in excess of a predetermined amount are compelled to place a set percentage
of the bonus award in the Phantom ESAS. Employees also have the option of utilising more of their bonus award for voluntary ESAS phantom shares.
The weighted average fair value per option granted during the year is as follows:
2009 2008
£ £
Sharesave 1.43 0.92
PSP 2.81 4.89
Sharepurchase 1.82 3.38
ISP 2.58 4.22
ESAS 1.08 4.09
AGLPSP 6.88 7.76
AGLESAS 6.82 7.17
Fair values for Sharesave and PSP are calculated at the date of grant using either a Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation. Sharepurchase, ISP ,
ESAS, AGLPSP and AGLESAS are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant. Consequently the
fair value of these awards is based on the market value at that date. 
As described above, the terms of the ESAS scheme require shares to be held for a set number of years from the date of vest. The calculation of the vest
date fair value of such awards includes a reduction for this post-vesting restriction. This discount is determined by calculating how much a willing market
participant would rationally pay to remove the restriction using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The total discount required in 2009 is £10m
(2008: £10m, 2007: £66m). 
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2009 are as follows:
2009
Sharesave PSP
Weighted average share price 3.51 2.34
Weighted average exercise price 2.70 1.77
Expected volatility 45% 45%
Expected option life 4 years 2 years
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2008 are as follows:
2008
Sharesave PSP
Weighted average share price 3.11 5.45
Weighted average exercise price 2.51 2.07
Expected volatility 37% 37%
Expected option life 4 years 3 years
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2007 are as follows:
2007
Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT
Weighted average share price 5.82 7.07 95.33 9.18
Weighted average exercise price 4.81 – 95.33 7.62
Expected volatility 25% 25% 20% 30%
Expected option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5 years www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 263
44 Share-based payments continued
Expected volatility and dividend yield on the date of grant have been used as inputs into the respective valuation models for Sharesave and PSP .
The yield on UK government bonds with a commensurate life has been used to determine the risk-free discount rate of 3% for Sharesave and PSP . Option
life is estimated based upon historical data for the holding period of options between grant and exercise dates.
For the purposes of determining the expected life and number of options to vest, historical exercise patterns have been used, together with an assumption
that a certain percentage of options will lapse due to leavers. 
The assumed dividend yield for Barclays PLC is the average annual dividend yield on the date of grant of 2%.
Analysis of the movement in the number and weighted average exercise price of options is set out below:
Sharesave
a
Sharepurchase
a, c
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
(000s) ex. price (£) (000s) ex. price (£)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding at beginning of year 94,131 74,027 1.83 4.48 6,961 3,824 – –
Granted in the year 28,005 56,024 2.70 2.51 6,832 3,834 – –
Adjustment in grants for open offer – 1,354 – 4.33 – – – –
Exercised/released in the year (153) (3,357) 2.83 3.71 (952) (64) – –
Less: forfeited in the year (30,672) (33,917) 3.58 4.35 (521) (633) – –
Less: expired in the year – – – – – – – –
Outstanding at end of year 91,311 94,131 3.01 1.83 12,320 6,961 – –
Of which exercisable: 7,537 4,025 4.19 3.71 1,621 737 – –
ESAS
a, c
PSP
a, c
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
(000s) ex. price (£) (000s) ex. price (£)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding at beginning of year 267,937 182,200 – – 50,729 63,163 – –
Granted in the year 311,977 141,269 – – 4,794 8,528 – –
Adjustment in grants for open offer – 6,884 – – – 1,370 – –
Exercised/released in the year (90,296) (56,231) – – (6,496) (1,467) – –
Less: forfeited in the year (25,107) (6,185) – – (17,765) (20,865) – –
Less: expired in the year – – – – – – – –
Outstanding at end of year 464,511 267,937 – – 31,262 50,729 – –
Of which exercisable: 12,714 15,131 – – – – – –
ISP
a,c
Absa BEE
b
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
(000s) ex. price (£) (000s) ex. price (£)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding at beginning of year/
acquisition date 7,100 – – – 73,152 73,152 3.16-4.55 3.40-3.89
Granted in the year 50,652 6,923 – – – – – –
Adjustment in grants for open offer – 177 – – – – – –
Exercised/released in the year (19) – – – (36,649) – 5.42 –
Less: repurchased in the year – – – – (36,503) – – –
Less: forfeited in the year (2,755) – – – – – – –
Less: expired in the year – – – – – – – –
Outstanding at end of year 54,978 7,100 – – – 73,152 – 3.16-4.55
Of which exercisable: – – – – – 73,152 – 3.16-4.55
Notes
a Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
b Options/award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
c Nil cost award . 264 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
44 Share-based payments continued
AGLSIT
b
AGLSOT
b
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
(000s) ex. price (£) (000s) ex. price (£)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding at beginning of year/
acquisition date 9,967 13,618 4.91 4.81 559 946 3.16-4.55 3.40-3.89
Exercised/released in the year (3,569) (3,252) 5.10 3.37 (539) (368) 5.33 –
Less: forfeited in the year (100) (399) 6.99 4.96 (20) (19) 3.81-5.48 3.16-4.55
Outstanding at end of year 6,298 9,967 6.28 4.91 – 559 – 3.16-4.55
Of which exercisable: 5,016 5,944 5.67 3.86 – 559 – 3.16-4.55
AGLPSP
b, c
AGLESAS
b,c
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
(000s) ex. price (£) (000s) ex. price (£)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,008 – – – 1,015 37 – –
Granted in the year 1,589 2,134 – – 1,324 1,019 – –
Less: forfeited in the year (180) (126) – – (155) (41) – –
Outstanding at end of year 3,417 2,008 – – 2,184 1,015 – – 
Of which exercisable: – – – – – – – – 
ISOP
a
ESOS
a
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
(000s) ex. price (£) (000s) ex. price (£)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding at beginning of year 20,547 20,549 4.44 4.56 473 1,423 4.33 4.13
Adjustment in grants for open offer – 537 – 4.44 – 12 – 4.33
Exercised/released in the year (253) (539) 3.17 4.06 – (70) – 3.97
Less: forfeited in the year (7,648) – 4.54 – (473) (892) 4.33 3.97
Outstanding at end of year 12,646 20,547 4.41 4.44 – 473 – 4.33
Of which exercisable: 12,646 20,547 4.41 4.44 – 473 – 4.33
Woolwich ESOP
a
BGI EOP
d
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
(000s) ex. price (£) (000s) ex. price (£)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding at beginning of year 442 540 3.70 3.81 6,584 7,502 78.50 75.66
Adjustment in grants for open offer – 12 – 3.70 – – – –
Exercised/released in the year (7) (104) 3.20 3.10 (6,417) (550) 78.16 34.55
Less: forfeited in the year (89) (6) 3.80 3.65 (167) (368) 91.54 86.57
Less: expired in the year (281) – – – – – – –
Outstanding at end of year 65 442 3.20 3.70 – 6,584 – 78.50
Of which exercisable: 65 442 3.20 3.70 – 3,631 – 69.29
Notes
a Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
b Options/award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
c Nil cost award .
d Options/award granted over Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited shares. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 265
44 Share-based payments continued
The table below shows the weighted average share price at the date of exercise/release of shares:
2009 2008
£ £
Sharesave
a
3.21 4.70
Sharepurchase
a, c
2.64 1.59
ESAS
a, c
2.02 4.07
PSP
a, c
1.77 2.07
BGI EOP
d
109.45 87.22
Absa BEE
b
7.92 –
AGLSIT
b
9.18 6.78
AGLSOT
b
7.86 6.79
ISP
a, c
3.43 –
ISOP
a
3.61 4.59
ESOS
a
– 4.74
Woolwich ESOP
a
3.52 4.72
The exercise price range, the weighted average contractual remaining life and number of options outstanding (including those exercisable) at the balance
sheet date are as follows:
Exercise price range 2009 2008
Weighted Weighted
average average
remaining Number remaining Number
contractual of options contractual of options
life in years outstanding life in years outstanding
Sharesave
a
£1.44-£2.49 2 1,817,640 3 2,121,926
£2.50-£3.49 3 69,543,729 4 54,437,940
£3.50-£4.49 1 9,057,990 1 19,986,642
£4.50-£5.49 2 10,892,016 3 17,584,689
Sharepurchase
a, c
2 12,319,993 2 6,960,593
ESAS
a, c
3 464,511,395 3 267,936,513
ISP
a, c
2 54,978,012 2 7,099,655
PSP
a, c
1 31,261,898 1 50,729,245
AGLSIT
b
£1.66-£7.50 5 6,298,491 6 9,967,000
AGLESAS
b, c
3 2,184,286 3 1,015,000
AGLPSP
b, c
2 3,417,488 2 2,008,000
ISOP
a
£2.50-£3.49 3 2,701,442 4 3,862,322
£3.50-£4.49 1 955,045 2 1,558,449
£4.50-£5.49 3 8,989,576 4 14,899,933
£5.50-£6.49 –– 7 225,894
ESOS
a
£3.50-£4.49 –– 1 472,561
Woolwich ESOP
a
£2.50-£3.49 – 65,024 1 89,644
£3.50-£4.49 –– 1 352,961
There were no modifications to the share-based payment arrangements in the years 2009, 2008 and 2007. As at 31st December 2009, the total liability
arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions was £13m (2008: £23m).
In accordance with the scheme rules, all options awarded vested and were exercised by the holders following the disposal of the BGI business on
1st December 2009. The options were all exercised during December 2009.
Notes
a Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
b Options/award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
c Nil cost award .
d Options/award granted over Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited shares. 266 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
45 Off-balance sheet arrangements
In the ordinary course of business and primarily to facilitate client transactions, the Group enters into transactions which may involve the use of off-balance
sheet arrangements and special purpose entities (SPEs). These arrangements include the provision of guarantees, loan commitments, retained interests
in assets which have been transferred to an unconsolidated SPE or obligations arising from the Group’ s involvements with such SPEs.
Guarantees
The Group issues guarantees on behalf of its customers. In the majority of cases, the Group will hold collateral against the exposure, have a right of recourse
to the customer or both. In addition, the Group issues guarantees on its own behalf. The main types of guarantees provided are: financial guarantees given
to banks and financial institutions on behalf of customers to secure loans; overdrafts; and other banking facilities, including stock borrowing indemnities
and standby letters of credit. Other guarantees provided include performance guarantees, advance payment guarantees, tender guarantees, guarantees to
Her Majesty’ s Revenue and Customs and retention guarantees. The nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities with off-balance sheet risk is set out in
Note 34 (Contingent liabilities and commitments).
Loan commitments
The Group enters into commitments to lend to its customers subject to certain conditions. Such loan commitments are made either for a fixed period or are
cancellable by the Group subject to notice conditions. Information on loan commitments and similar facilities is set out in Note 34 (Contingent liabilities and
commitments).
Leasing
The Group leases various offices, branches, other premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. With such operating lease
arrangements, the asset is kept on the lessor’ s balance sheet and the Group reports the future minimum lease payments as an expense over the lease term.
Information on leasing can be found in Note 37 (Leasing).
Special purpose entities
SPEs are entities that are created to accomplish a narrow and well defined objective. There are often specific restrictions or limits around their ongoing
activities. The Group’ s transactions with SPEs take a number of forms, including:
– The provision of financing to fund asset purchases, or commitments to provide finance for future purchases.
– Derivative transactions to provide investors in the SPE with a specified exposure.
– The provision of liquidity or backstop facilities which may be drawn upon if the SPE experiences future funding difficulties.
– Direct investment in the notes issued by SPEs.
Depending on the nature of the Group’ s resulting exposure, it may consolidate the SPE on to the Group’ s balance sheet. The consolidation of SPEs is
considered at inception, based on the arrangements in place and the assessed risk exposures at that time. In accordance with IFRS, SPEs are consolidated
when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates control. Potential indicators of control include, amongst others, an
assessment of the Group’ s exposure to the risks and benefits of the SPE. The initial consolidation analysis is revisited at a later date if:
i) the Group acquires additional interests in the entity;
ii) the contractual arrangements of the entity are amended such that the relative exposures to risks and rewards change; or
iii) the Group acquires control over the main operating and financial decisions of the entity . 
A number of the Group’ s transactions have recourse only to the assets of unconsolidated SPEs. Typically , the majority of the exposure to these assets
is borne by third parties and the Group’ s risk is mitigated through over-collateralisation, unwind features and other protective measures.
The business activities within the Group where SPEs are used include multi-seller conduit programmes, asset securitisations, client intermediation, credit
structuring, asset realisations and fund management. These activities are described below. In addition, later sections provide quantative information on
the Group’ s involvements with CDOs, SIVs SIV-Lites and conduits.
Multi-seller conduit programmes
Barclays creates, administers and provides liquidity and credit enhancements to several commercial paper conduit programmes, primarily in the United
States. These conduits provide clients access to liquidity in the commercial paper markets by allowing them to sell consumer or trade receivables to the
conduit, which then issues commercial paper to investors to fund the purchase. The conduits have sufficient collateral, credit enhancements and liquidity
support to maintain an investment grade rating for the commercial paper.
Asset securitisations
The Group has assisted its customers with the formation of asset securitisations, some of which are effected through the use of SPEs. These entities have
minimal equity and rely on funding in the form of notes to purchase the assets for securitisation. As these SPEs are created for other companies, the Group
does not usually control these entities and therefore does not consolidate them. The Group may provide financing in the form of senior notes or junior notes
and may also provide derivatives to the SPE. These transactions are included on the balance sheet. 
The Group has also used SPEs to securitise part of its originated and purchased retail and commercial lending portfolios and credit card receivables.
These SPEs are usually consolidated and derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial
assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without
material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate
risk. The carrying amount of securitised assets together with the associated liabilities are set out in Note 29. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 267
45 Off-balance sheet arrangements continued
Client intermediation
The Group has structured transactions as a financial intermediary to meet investor and client needs. These transactions involve entities structured by either
the Group or the client and they are used to modify cash flows of third party assets to create investments with specific risk or return profiles or to assist
clients in the efficient management of other risks. Such transactions will typically result in a derivative being shown on the balance sheet, representing the
Group’ s exposure to the relevant asset. The Group also invests in lessor entities specifically to acquire assets for leasing. Client intermediation also includes
arrangements to fund the purchase or construction of specific assets (most common in the property industry).
Credit structuring
The Group structures investments to provide specific risk profiles to investors. This may involve the sale of credit exposures, often by way of derivatives, to
an entity which subsequently funds those exposures by issuing securities. These securities may initially be held by Barclays prior to sale outside of the Group.
Asset realisations
The Group establishes SPEs to facilitate the recovery of loans in circumstances where the borrower has suffered financial loss.
T o the extent that there are guarantees and commitments in relation to SPEs the details are included in Note 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments.
Collateralised debt obligations (CDOs)
The Group has structured and underwritten CDOs. At inception, the Group's exposure principally takes the form of a liquidity facility provided to support
future funding difficulties or cash shortfalls in the vehicles. If required by the vehicle, the facility is drawn with the amount advanced included within loans
and advances on the balance sheet. Upon an event of default or other triggering event, the Group may acquire control of a CDO and, therefore, be required
to fully consolidate the vehicle for accounting purposes. The potential for transactions to hit default triggers before the end of 2010 has been assessed and
is included in the determination of £714m impairment charges and other credit provisions in relation to ABS CDO Super Senior and other credit market
exposures for the year ended 31st December 2009. 
The Group's exposure to ABS CDO Super Senior positions before hedging was £1,931m as at 31st December 2009, equivalent to an aggregate 50.83%
decline in value on average for all investors. This represents the Group's exposure to High Grade CDOs, stated net of write-downs and charges. These
facilities are fully drawn and included within loans and advances on the balance sheet. 
Collateral
The collateral underlying unconsolidated CDOs comprised 78% residential mortgage-backed securities, 3% non-residential asset-backed securities and
19% in other categories (a proportion of which will be backed by residential mortgage collateral). 
The remaining Weighted Average Life (WAL) of all collateral is 5.9 years. The combined Net Asset Value (NA V) for all of the CDOs was £0.9bn. 
Funding
The CDOs were funded with senior unrated notes and rated notes up to AAA. The capital structure senior to the AAA notes on cash CDOs was supported
by a liquidity facility provided by the Group. The senior portion covered by liquidity facilities is on average 88% of the capital structure. 
The initial WAL of the notes in issue averaged 6.7 years. The full contractual maturity is 38.2 years. 
Interests in third party CDOs
The Group has purchased securities in and entered into derivative instruments with third party CDOs. These interests are held as trading assets or liabilities
on the Group's balance sheet and measured at fair value. The Group has not provided liquidity facilities or similar agreements to third party CDOs.
Structured investment vehicles (SIVs)
The Group does not structure or manage SIVs. Group exposure to third party SIVs comprised: 
– £16m (2008: £52m) of senior liquidity facilities. 
– Derivative exposures included on the balance sheet at their net fair value of £53m (2008: £273m). 
SIV-Lites
The Group has exposure to two SIV-Lite transactions. The Group is not involved in their ongoing management. Exposures have decreased to £461m
(2008: £638m) representing drawn liquidity facilities of £106m and assets designated at fair value of £355m. 268 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
45 Off-balance sheet arrangements continued
Commercial paper and medium-term note conduits
The Group provided £16bn in undrawn backstop liquidity facilities to its own sponsored CP conduits. The Group fully consolidates these entities such that
the underlying assets are reflected on the Group balance sheet. 
These consolidated entities in turn provide facilities of £753m to third party conduits containing prime UK buy-to-let RMBS. As at 31st December 2009,
the entire facility had been drawn and is included in available for sale financial investments. 
The Group provided backstop facilities to support the paper issued by four third party conduits. These facilities totalled £287m, with underlying collateral
comprising 100% auto loans. Drawings on these facilities were £125m as at 31st December 2009 and are included within loans and advances to
customers. 
The Group provided backstop facilities to four third party SPEs that fund themselves with medium-term notes. These notes are sold to investors as a series
of 12-month securities and remarketed to investors annually . If investors decline to renew their holdings at a price below a pre-agreed spread, the backstop
facility requires the Group to purchase the outstanding notes at scheduled maturity . The Group has provided facilities of £1.6bn to SPEs holding prime UK
and Australian owner-occupied Residential Mortgage Back Securities (RMBS) assets. As at the balance sheet date these facilities had been drawn and were
included in loans and advances.  
46 Financial risks
Financial risk management
The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management
and investment management services. Financial instruments are fundamental to the Group’ s business and managing financial risks, especially credit risk, 
is a fundamental part of its business activity .
The Group’ s risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk appetite, limits, and controls, and to
monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date data. Risk management policies, models and systems are regularly reviewed
to reflect changes to markets, products and best market practice.
Risk responsibilities
The Board approves risk appetite and the Board Risk Committee (BRC) monitors the Group’ s risk profile against this appetite:
– The Chief Risk Officer, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk
management and control;
– Business Heads are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their businesses;
– Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk Director, are responsible for assisting Business Heads in the identification and
management of their business risk profiles for implementing appropriate controls. These risk management teams also assist Group Risk in the
formulation of Group Risk policy and the implementation of it across the businesses;
– Within Group Risk, Risk-Type Heads and their teams are responsible for establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight; and
– Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment.
Oversight of risk management is exercised by the Group Risk Oversight Committee which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer under authority delegated by
the Group Finance Director. The Group Risk Oversight Committee oversees management of the Group’ s risk profile, exercised through the setting, review
and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Group risk appetite.
The Executive Committee monitors and manages risk-adjusted performance of businesses and receives a regular update on forward risk trends and the
Group Risk Profile Report. 
The BRC reviews the Group risk profile, approves the Group Control Framework and approves minimum control requirements for principal risks. 
The Board Audit Committee (BAC) considers the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework and receives quarterly reports on control
issues of significance and half-yearly reports on impairment allowances and regulatory reports. 
Both BRC and BAC also receive reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time. The proceedings of both Committees are reported
to the full Board. The Board approves the overall Group risk appetite.
The Group Risk Oversight Committee is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and oversees the management of the Group’ s risk profile and all of its significant
risks. Oversight is exercised through the setting, review and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Group’ s risk
appetite. It has delegated and apportioned responsibility for credit risk management to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committees. 
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed in Notes 47 to 49. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 269
47 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Group’ s customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual obligations
to the Group. Credit risk arises mainly from commercial and consumer loans and advances, credit cards, and loan commitments arising from such lending
activities, but can also arise from credit enhancement provided, such as financial guarantees, letters of credit, endorsements and acceptances. 
The Group is also exposed to other credit risks arising from investments in debt securities and other exposures arising from its trading activities 
(‘trading exposures’) including, non-equity trading portfolio assets, derivatives as well as settlement balances with market counterparties and reverse
repurchase loans. 
Losses arising from exposures held for trading (derivatives, debt securities) are accounted for as trading losses, rather than impairment charges, even
though the fall in value causing the loss may be attributable to credit deterioration. 
Maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements 
The following table presents the maximum exposure at 31st December 2009 and 2008 to credit risk of balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial
instruments, before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements and after allowance for impairment and netting where appropriate. 
For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount. For financial guarantees granted, the
maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount that Barclays would have to pay if the guarantees were to be called upon. For loan commitments
and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the full amount of
the committed facilities. 
This analysis and all subsequent analyses of credit risk include only financial assets subject to credit risk. They exclude other financial assets, mainly equity
securities held in trading portfolio or available for sale as well as non-financial assets. The nominal value of off-balance sheet credit related instruments are
also shown, where appropriate. 
Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been included as the Group
is not exposed to credit risk on these assets. Credit losses in these portfolios, if any , would lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and result in no direct
loss to the Group. 
Whilst the Group’ s maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of the assets or, in the case of off-balance sheet items, the amount guaranteed,
committed, accepted or endorsed, in most cases the likely exposure is far less due to collateral, credit enhancements and other actions taken to mitigate
the Group’ s exposure. 270 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
47 Credit risk continued
A description of the credit risk management and measurement methodologies, the credit quality of the assets and the collateral and other credit
enhancements held against them is included in the relevant sections within this Note, for each of the categories in the following table:
At 31st December 2009 Reverse
Loans and Debt repurchase
advances securities Derivatives agreements Others Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 81,483
Items in course of collection from other banks 1,593 1,593
Trading portfolio:
Treasury and other eligible bills 9,926 9,926
Debt securities 116,594 116,594
Traded loans 2,962 2,962
Total trading portfolio 2,962 126,520 129,482
Financial assets designated at fair value held 
on own account:
Loans and advances 22,390 22,390
Debt securities 4,007 4,007
Other financial assets 557 7,757 344 8,658
Total financial assets designated at fair value 
held on own account 22,947 4,007 7,757 344 35,055
Derivative financial instruments 416,815 416,815
Loans and advances to banks 41,135 41,135
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 149,099 149,099
Credit card receivables 21,889 21,889
Other personal lending 25,435 25,435
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 212,928 212,928
Finance lease receivables 10,873 10,873
Total loans and advances to customers 420,224 420,224
Available for sale financial investments:
Treasury and other eligible bills 5,919 5,919
Debt securities 43,888 43,888
Total available for sale financial investments 49,807 49,807
Reverse repurchase agreements 143,431 143,431
Other assets 3,476 3,476
Total on-balance sheet 487,268 180,334 416,815 151,188 86,896 1,322,501
Off-balance sheet:
Acceptances and endorsements 375
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 
and securities lending arrangements 42,812
Commitments 207,275
Total off-balance sheet 250,462
Total maximum exposure 1,572,963 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 271
47 Credit risk continued
At 31st December 2008 Reverse
Loans and Debt repurchase
advances securities Derivatives agreements Others Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 30,019
Items in course of collection from other banks 1,695 1,695
Trading portfolio:
Treasury and other eligible bills 4,544 4,544
Debt securities 148,686 148,686
Traded loans 1,070 1,070
Total trading portfolio 1,070 153,230 154,300
Financial assets designated at fair value held 
on own account:
Loans and advances 30,057 130 30,187
Debt securities 8,628 8,628
Other financial assets 1,469 7,283 479 9,231
Total financial assets designated at fair value 
held on own account 31,526 8,628 7,283 609 48,046
Derivative financial instruments 984,802 984,802
Loans and advances to banks 47,707 47,707
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 139,845 139,845
Credit card receivables 22,304 22,304
Other personal lending 27,270 27,270
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 259,699 259,699
Finance lease receivables 12,697 12,697
Total loans and advances to customers 461,815 461,815
Available for sale financial investments:
Treasury and other eligible bills 4,003 4,003
Debt securities 58,831 58,831
Total available for sale financial investments 62,834 62,834
Reverse repurchase agreements 130,354 130,354
Other assets 3,096 3,096
Total on-balance sheet 542,118 224,692 984,802 137,637 35,419 1,924,668
Off-balance sheet:
Acceptances and endorsements 585
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security
and securities lending arrangements 53,942
Commitments 260,816
Total off-balance sheet 315,343
Total maximum exposure 2,240,011 272 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
47 Credit risk continued
Credit risk concentrations
A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would
cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The analyses of credit risk concentrations presented below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged.
Credit risk concentrations by geographical sector Other Rest of
United European United the
Kingdom Union States Africa World Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
2009
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 37,697 5,584 32,279 1,742 4,181 81,483
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,340 56 – 196 1 1,593
Trading portfolio 12,232 35,088 52,229 1,414 28,519 129,482
Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 13,945 3,986 10,800 2,352 3,972 35,055
Derivative financial instruments 133,713 128,881 111,269 2,511 40,441 416,815
Loans and advances to banks 5,117 12,697 13,137 2,388 7,796 41,135
Loans and advances to customers 203,582 84,343 58,355 47,495 26,449 420,224
Available for sale financial investments 16,752 14,028 7,175 4,993 6,859 49,807
Reverse repurchase agreements 22,222 44,014 60,759 527 15,909 143,431
Other assets 1,565 417 651 661 182 3,476
Total on-balance sheet 448,165 329,094 346,654 64,279 134,309 1,322,501
Off-balance sheet:
Acceptances and endorsements 134 5 – 26 210 375
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security
and securities lending arrangements 3,337 2,783 32,849 1,795 2,048 42,812
Commitments 95,120 26,344 57,598 19,480 8,733 207,275
Total off-balance sheet 98,591 29,132 90,447 21,301 10,991 250,462
Total 546,756 358,226 437,101 85,580 145,300 1,572,963
2008
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 8,406 11,039 8,381 1,712 481 30,019
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,447 59 – 169 20 1,695
Trading portfolio 23,865 35,396 66,084 2,770 26,185 154,300
Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 14,158 7,388 19,738 2,904 3,858 48,046
Derivative financial instruments 317,621 215,054 366,161 4,403 81,563 984,802
Loans and advances to banks 7,524 12,591 13,616 2,189 11,787 47,707
Loans and advances to customers 213,079 91,109 75,826 44,373 37,428 461,815
Available for sale financial investments 15,423 18,928 16,583 3,351 8,549 62,834
Reverse repurchase agreements 22,659 41,724 47,034 848 18,089 130,354
Other assets 1,198 548 550 520 280 3,096
Total on-balance sheet 625,380 433,836 613,973 63,239 188,240 1,924,668
Off-balance sheet:
Acceptances and endorsements 274 – 6 41 264 585
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 
and securities lending arrangements 4,433 3,742 42,227 1,738 1,802 53,942
Commitments 103,548 32,445 90,298 23,210 11,315 260,816
Total off-balance sheet 108,255 36,187 132,531 24,989 13,381 315,343
Total 733,635 470,023 746,504 88,228 201,621 2,240,011 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 273
47 Credit risk continued
Credit risk concentrations by industrial sector Transport,
postal and Agriculture,
communi- manufac-
cation and turing and Con-
Government business wholesale struction Energy Residential Other Finance
and central Financial and other and retail and and mortgage personal lease
banks services services trade property water loans lending receivables Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2009
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 81,483––––––––81,483
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks 71,586–––––––1,593
Trading portfolio 76,45441,4822,8114,5361,0633,136––– 129,482
Financial assets designated at 
fair value held on own account 5,435 13,366 2,893 948 11,929 330 150 4 – 35,055
Derivative financial instruments 6,119 379,901 8,424 7,805 2,416 12,081 – 69 – 416,815
Loans and advances to banks 4,42536,710–––––––41,135
Loans and advances to customers 4,800 93,370 40,034 41,645 29,175 10,727 149,099 40,501 10,873 420,224
Available for sale financial investments 16,320 30,398 1,962 377 269 57 416 – 8 49,807
Reverse repurchase agreements 5,347 136,184 608 366 926 –––– 143,431
Other assets 414 1,588 543 64 60 13 106 682 6 3,476
Total on-balance sheet 200,804 734,585 57,275 55,741 45,838 26,344 149,771 41,256 10,887 1,322,501
Off-balance sheet:
Acceptances and endorsements –8595 155 233 – 5 – 375
Guarantees and letters of credit 
pledged as collateral security and 
securities lending arrangements – 33,117 2,805 2,308 715 2,872 584 411 – 42,812
Commitments 1,687 39,806 18,670 28,552 10,647 13,502 15,356 79,055 – 207,275
Total off-balance sheet 1,687 73,008 21,570 31,015 11,364 16,407 15,940 79,471 – 250,462
Total 202,491 807,593 78,845 86,756 57,202 42,751 165,711 120,727 10,887 1,572,963 274 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
47 Credit risk continued
Credit risk concentrations by industrial sector Transport,
postal and Agriculture,
communi- manufac-
cation and turing and Con-
Government business wholesale struction Energy Residential Other Finance
and central Financial and other and retail and and mortgage personal lease
banks services services trade property water loans lending receivables Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2008
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 –––––––– 30,019
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks 10 1,685 ––––––– 1,695
Trading portfolio 68,962 73,729 3,320 2,590 1,404 4,272 – 4 19 154,300
Financial assets designated at 
fair value held on own account 5,871 21,860 1,080 1,286 17,415 271 – 263 – 48,046
Derivative financial instruments 10,370 928,793 9,265 14,420 3,779 18,054 – 121 – 984,802
Loans and advances to banks 2,794 44,913 ––––––– 47,707
Loans and advances to customers 5,296 112,506 52,243 49,068 29,988 14,078 139,845 46,094 12,697 461,815
Available for sale financial investments 14,891 44,865 1,288 436 333 354 569 98 – 62,834
Reverse repurchase agreements 17,939 110,645 536 428 806 –––– 130,354
Other assets 103 1,397 602 260 8 12 155 554 5 3,096
Total on-balance sheet 156,255 1,340,393 68,334 68,488 53,733 37,041 140,569 47,134 12,721 1,924,668
Off-balance sheet:
Acceptances and endorsements – 151 180 231 14 3 – 6 – 585
Guarantees and letters of credit 
pledged as collateral security and 
securities lending arrangements – 44,858 4,161 2,275 778 1,604 – 266 – 53,942
Commitments 5,096 33,746 32,769 36,815 11,405 16,279 12,196 112,510 – 260,816
Total off-balance sheet 5,096 78,755 37,110 39,321 12,197 17,886 12,196 112,782 – 315,343
Total 161,351 1,419,148 105,444 107,809 65,930 54,927 152,765 159,916 12,721 2,240,011 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 275
47 Credit risk continued
Loans and advances 
Credit risk management 
Governance and responsibilities 
The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to the Business Risk Directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the heads
of their businesses and also to the Chief Risk Officer.
The credit risk function provides Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking. The teams within this function manage the resolution of all significant credit
policy issues and run the Credit Committee, which approves major credit decisions. Each business segment has an embedded credit risk management
team. These teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and its implementation across the businesses. 
The principal committees that review credit risk management, formulate overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues are the Board
Risk Committee, the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee and the Retail Credit Risk Management Committee.
The Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee (WCRMC) oversees wholesale exposures, comprising lending to businesses, banks and other financial
institutions. The WCRMC monitors exposure by country , industry sector, individual large exposures and exposures to sub-investment grade countries. 
The Retail Credit Risk Management Committee (RCRMC) oversees exposures, which comprise unsecured personal lending (including small businesses),
mortgages and credit cards. The RCRMC monitors the risk profile and performance of the retail portfolios by receipt of key risk measures and indicators at
an individual portfolio level, ensuring mitigating actions taken to address performance are appropriate and timely . Metrics reviewed will consider portfolio
composition and both an overall stock and new flow level. 
The monthly Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees exercise oversight through review and challenge of the size and constitution of the
portfolios when viewed against Group Risk Appetite for wholesale and retail credit risks. They are chaired by the Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Directors. 
Credit monitoring
Wholesale and corporate loans which are deemed to contain heightened levels of risk are recorded on early-warning or watch lists. These lists are graded in line
with the perceived severity of the risk attached to the lending and its probability of default. The lists are updated on a monthly basis and are closely monitored. 
Regardless of whether they are recorded on early-warning or watch lists, all wholesale and corporate loans are subject to a full review of all facilities on, 
at least, an annual basis. More frequent interim reviews may be undertaken should circumstances dictate. 
Retail loans (which tend to comprise homogeneous assets) are monitored on a portfolio basis.
Credit risk measurement 
Barclays uses statistical modelling techniques throughout its business in its credit rating systems. They enable a coherent approach to risk measurement
across all credit exposures, retail and wholesale. The key building blocks in the measurement system are the probability of customer default (PD), exposure
in the event of default (EAD), and severity of loss-given-default (LGD). The models are reviewed regularly to monitor their robustness relative to actual
performance and amended as necessary to optimise their effectiveness. 
For wholesale and corporate lending, Barclays assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
Barclays credit rating contains 21 grades, representing the Group’ s best estimate of credit risk for a counterparty based on current economic conditions.
Retail customers are not all assigned internal risk ratings in this way for account management purposes, therefore their probability of default is considered. 
The Group considers Credit Risk Loans (defined as all customers overdue by 90 days or more, and/ or individually impaired or restructured) and loan loss
rates when assessing the credit performance of its loan portfolios, other than those held at fair value. For the purposes of historical and business unit
comparison, loan loss rates are defined as total annualised credit impairment charge (excluding available for sale assets and reverse repurchase agreements)
divided by gross loans and advances to customers and banks (at amortised cost).
Credit risk mitigation 
Where appropriate, the Group takes action to mitigate credit risk such as reducing amounts outstanding (in discussion with the customers, clients
or counterparties if appropriate), using credit derivatives, securitising assets, and disposals. 
Diversification to avoid unwanted credit risk concentrations is achieved through setting maximum exposure guidelines to individual counterparties.
Excesses are reported to the Board Risk Committee and the Group Risk Oversight Committee. Mandate and scale limits are used to limit the stock of 
current exposures in a loan portfolio and the flow of new exposures into a loan portfolio. Limits are typically based on the tenor and nature of the lending. 
Collateral and security 
The Group routinely obtains collateral and security to mitigate credit risk.
The Group ensures that any collateral held is sufficiently liquid, legally effective, enforceable and regularly reassessed. Before attaching value to collateral,
businesses holding specific, agreed classes of collateral must ensure that they are holding a correctly perfected charge. 
Before reliance is placed on third party protection in the form of bank, government or corporate guarantees or credit derivative protection from financial
intermediary counterparties, a credit assessment is undertaken. 
Security structures and legal covenants are subject to regular review, at least annually , to ensure that they remain fit for purpose and remain consistent
with accepted local market practice. 276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
47 Credit risk continued
All loans and advances are categorised as either:
– neither past due nor individually impaired;
– past due but not individually impaired; or
– individually impaired, which includes restructured loans. 
The impairment allowance includes allowances against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to collective impairment. 
Credit risk loans comprise loans and advances to banks and customers 90 days overdue or more and those subject to individual impairment. The coverage
ratio is calculated by reference to the total impairment allowance and the carrying value (before impairment) of credit risk loans.
Neither past Past due
due nor but not Total
individually individually Individually Impairment carrying Credit Risk Coverage
impaired
a
impaired
b
impaired Total allowance value Loans ratio
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
As at 31st December 2009
Trading portfolio:
Traded loans 2,962 – – 2,962 – 2,962 – –
Financial assets designated at fair value 
held on own account:
Loans and advances 22,210 180 – 22,390 – 22,390 – –
Other financial assets 557 – – 557 – 557 – –
Loans and advances to banks 38,859 2,280 57 41,196 (61) 41,135 57 100.0
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 139,199 8,846 1,693 149,738 (639) 149,099 3,604 17.7
Credit card receivables 20,195 1,544 2,459 24,198 (2,309) 21,889 3,068 75.3
Other personal lending 23,796 2,175 2,372 28,343 (2,908) 25,435 3,466 83.9
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 199,800 7,598 10,088 217,486 (4,558) 212,928 11,497 39.6
Finance lease receivables 10,128 664 402 11,194 (321) 10,873 696 46.1
Total 457,706 23,287 17,071 498,064 (10,796) 487,268 22,388 48.2
As at 31st December 2008
Trading portfolio:
Traded loans 1,070 – – 1,070 – 1,070 – –
Financial assets designated at fair value 
held on own account:
Loans and advances 29,182 875 – 30,057 – 30,057 – –
Other financial assets 1,469 – – 1,469 – 1,469 – –
Loans and advances to banks 46,665 1,045 48 47,758 (51) 47,707 48 100.0
Loans and advances to customers
c
:
Residential mortgage loans 131,017 7,481 1,668 140,166 (321) 139,845 2,528 12.7
Credit card receivables 21,092 1,426 1,231 23,749 (1,445) 22,304 1,990 72.6
Other personal lending 25,885 1,274 1,980 29,139 (1,869) 27,270 2,560 73.0
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 246,505 8,307 7,586 262,398 (2,699) 259,699 8,277 32.6
Finance lease receivables 12,367 285 234 12,886 (189) 12,697 297 63.6
Total 515,252 20,693 12,747 548,692 (6,574) 542,118 15,700 41.9
Notes
a Financial assets subject to collective impairment allowance are included in this column 
if they are not past due.
b Financial assets subject to collective impairment allowance are included in this column 
if they are past due.
c Loans and advances to customers in the above table have been reanalysed between
Residential mortgage loans and Other personal lending. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 277
47 Credit risk continued
Credit quality of loans and advances neither past due nor individually impaired
2009 2008
Strong Satisfactory Higher risk Total Strong Satisfactory Higher risk T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trading portfolio:
Traded loans 1,366 1,290 306 2,962 759 220 91 1,070
Financial assets designated at fair value 
held on own account:
Loans and advances 15,909 3,809 2,492 22,210 25,665 2,792 725 29,182
Other financial assets 261 – 296 557 – 1,469 – 1,469
Loans and advances to banks 35,825 2,492 542 38,859 40,181 6,384 100 46,665
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 66,956 69,919 2,324 139,199 86,937 42,770 1,310 131,017
Credit card receivables – 20,038 157 20,195 – 20,426 666 21,092
Other personal lending 3,417 18,108 2,271 23,796 2,975 21,750 1,160 25,885
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 119,764 70,132 9,904 199,800 141,868 94,453 10,184 246,505
Finance lease receivables 2,664 7,082 382 10,128 4,214 7,504 649 12,367
Total loans and advances 246,162 192,870 18,674 457,706 302,599 197,768 14,885 515,252
For the purposes of the analysis of credit quality , the following internal measures of credit quality have been used:
Retail lending Wholesale lending
Financial statements description Probability of default Probability of default Default grade 
Strong 0.0-0.60% 0.0-0.05%1-3
0.05-0.15% 4-5
0.15-0.30% 6-8
0.30-0.60% 9-11
Satisfactory 0.60-10.00% 0.60-2.15%12-14
2.15-11.35% 15-19
Higher risk 10.00% + 11.35% + 20-21
Financial statement descriptions can be summarised as follows:
Strong – there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full. 
Satisfactory – whilst there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may not be
collateralised, or may relate to retail facilities, such as credit card balances and unsecured loans, which have been classified as satisfactory , regardless of the
fact that the output of internal grading models may have indicated a higher classification. At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being
more carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of some deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value
ratio, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.
Higher risk – there is concern over the obligor’ s ability to make payments when due. However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency . There
may also be doubts over value of collateral or security provided. However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments when due and is
expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest. 278 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
47 Credit risk continued
Loans and advances that are past due but not individually impaired 
An age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not individually impaired is set out below.
For the purposes of this analysis an asset is considered past due and included below when any payment due under strict contractual terms is received late
or missed. The amount included is the entire financial asset, not just the payment, of principal or interest or both, overdue.
The table below provides a breakdown of total financial assets past due but not individually impaired. In general, retail and wholesale loans fall into this category for two
separate reasons. Retail loans and advances to customers may come under this category because the impairment allowance on such loans is calculated on a collective
– not individual – basis. This reflects the homogenous nature of the assets, which allows statistical techniques to be used, rather than individual assessment.
In contrast, some loans to wholesale and corporate customers and banks may come under this category because of instances where a payment on a loan
is past due without requiring an individual impairment allowance. For example, an individual impairment allowance will not be required when a loss is not
expected due to a corporate loan being fully secured or collateralised. As a result, it is past due but not individually impaired.
Past due Past due Past due Past due Past due Of which
up to 1 1-2 2-3 3-6 6 months Credit
month months months months and over Total Risk Loans
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2009
Financial assets designated at fair value held 
on own account:
Loans and advances 170 – 1 – 9 180 –
Loans and advances to banks 2,280 – – – – 2,280 –
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 4,849 1,453 633 1,410 501 8,846 1,911
Credit card receivables 501 214 220 459 150 1,544 609
Other personal lending 369 295 417 413 681 2,175 1,094
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 5,403 292 494 866 543 7,598 1,409
Finance lease receivables 186 86 98 282 12 664 294
Total loans and advances to customers 11,308 2,340 1,862 3,430 1,887 20,827 5,317
Total financial assets past due but not 
individually impaired 13,758 2,340 1,863 3,430 1,896 23,287 5,317
2008
Financial assets designated at fair value held 
on own account:
Loans and advances 315 147 81 82 250 875 –
Loans and advances to banks 1,044 1 – – – 1,045 –
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 4,421 1,570 630 713 147 7,481 860
Credit card receivables 293 224 150 291 468 1,426 759
Other personal lending 219 202 273 338 242 1,274 580
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 6,229 540 847 477 214 8,307 691
Finance lease receivables 130 53 39 63 – 285 63
Total loans and advances to customers 11,292 2,589 1,939 1,882 1,071 18,773 2,953
Total financial assets past due but not 
individually impaired 12,651 2,737 2,020 1,964 1,321 20,693 2,953 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 279
47 Credit risk continued
Loans and advances individually assessed as impaired
An analysis of financial assets individually assessed as impaired is as follows:
2009 2008
Original Revised Original Revised
carrying Impairment carrying carrying Impairment carrying
amount allowance amount amount allowance amount
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances to banks individually impaired 57 (49) 8 48 (44) 4
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 1,693 (317) 1,376 1,668 (240) 1,428
Credit card receivables 2,459 (1,690) 769 1,231 (727) 504
Other personal lending 2,372 (1,531) 841 1,980 (1,237) 743
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 10,088 (3,837) 6,251 7,586 (2,310) 5,276
Finance lease receivables 402 (233) 169 234 (140) 94
Total loans and advances individually impaired 17,071 (7,657) 9,414 12,747 (4,698) 8,049
Collective impairment allowance (3,139) (1,876)
Total impairment allowance (10,796) (6,574)
The movements on the impairment allowance during the year were as follows:
Amounts
At Acquisitions Unwind Exchange Amounts charged to Balance
beginning and of and other written income at 31st
of year disposals discount adjustments off Recoveries statement December
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2009
Loans and advances to banks 51 – – (11) – 10 11 61
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 321 19 (59) 46 (82) 3 391 639
Credit card receivables 1,445 415 (79) (28) (1,009) 78 1,487 2,309
Other personal lending 1,869 – (26) (89) (633) 21 1,766 2,908
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 2,699 – (15) (48) (1,538) 28 3,432 4,558
Finance lease receivables 189 – (6) 3 (118) 10 243 321
Total loans and advances to customers 6,523 434 (185) (116) (3,380) 140 7,319 10,735
Total impairment allowance 6,574 434 (185) (127) (3,380) 150 7,330 10,796
2008
Loans and advances to banks 3 – –1 –7 40 51
Loans and advances to customers:
Residential mortgage loans 137 – (35) 19 (44) 3 241 321
Credit card receivables 841 306 (68) 94 (845) 69 1,048 1,445
Other personal lending 1,368 1 (32) 134 (525) 42 881 1,869
Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 1,310 – – 506 (1,428) 41 2,270 2,699
Finance lease receivables 113 – – 37 (77) 12 104 189
Total loans and advances to customers 3,769 307 (135) 790 (2,919) 167 4,544 6,523
Total impairment allowance 3,772 307 (135) 791 (2,919) 174 4,584 6,574
Loan Loss Rates Loans and
Gross advances Loan
loans and Impairment net of Impairment Loss
advances allowance impairment charge Rate
£m £m £m £m basis points
As at 31st December 2009 472,155 (10,796) 461,359 7,358 156
As at 31st December 2008 516,096 (6,574) 509,522 4,913 95 280 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
47 Credit risk continued
Renegotiated loans and advances
Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in the circumstances
of the borrower. In the latter case renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a
concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers. This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue and will be individually impaired where
the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the asset. In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new
agreement, which is treated as a new loan.
Collateral and other credit enhancements held 
Financial assets that are past due or individually assessed as impaired may be partially or fully collateralised or subject to other forms of credit enhancement. 
Assets in these categories subject to collateralisation are mainly corporate loans, residential mortgage loans and finance lease receivables. Credit card receivables
and other personal lending are generally unsecured (although in some instances a charge over the borrowers property of other assets may be sought).
Corporate loans
Security is usually taken in the form of a fixed charge over the borrower’ s property or a floating charge over the assets of the borrower. Loan covenants may
be put in place to safeguard the Group’ s financial position. If the exposure is sufficiently large, either individually or at the portfolio level, credit protection in
the form of guarantees, credit derivatives or insurance may be taken out.
For these and other reasons collateral given is only accurately valued on origination of the loan or in the course of enforcement actions and as a result 
it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of the collateral held. 
Residential mortgage loans
These are secured by a fixed charge over the property . 
A description and the estimated fair value of collateral held in respect of residential mortgage loans that are past due or individually assessed as impaired
is as follows: 
Nature of assets 2009 2008 
Fair value Fair value
£m £m
Residential property 9,628 7,264
Collateral included in the above table reflects the Group’ s interest in the property in the event of default. That held in the form of charges against residential
property in the UK is restricted to the outstanding loan balance. In other territories, where the Group is not obliged to return any sale proceeds to the
mortgagee, the full estimated fair value has been included. 
Finance lease receivables
The net investment in the lease is secured through retention of legal title to the leased assets.
Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained 
The carrying value of assets held by the Group as at 31st December 2009 as a result of the enforcement of collateral was as follows: 
Nature of assets 2009 2008 
Carrying Carrying 
amount amount
£m £m
Residential property 71 171
Commercial and industrial property 66 2
Other credit enhancements 248 61
Total 385 234
Any properties repossessed are made available for sale in an orderly and timely fashion, with any proceeds realised being used to reduce or repay the
outstanding loan. For business customers, in some circumstances, where excess funds are available after repayment in full of the outstanding loan, they are
offered to any other, lower ranked, secured lenders. Any additional funds are returned to the customer. Barclays does not, as a rule, occupy repossessed
properties for its business use. 
The Group does not use assets obtained in its operations. Assets obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an orderly manner for the
maximum benefit of the Group, the borrower and the borrower’ s other creditors in accordance with the relevant insolvency regulations. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 281
47 Credit risk continued
Debt securities 
Trading portfolio assets, financial assets designated at fair value and available for sale assets are measured on a fair value basis. The fair value will reflect,
among other things, the credit risk of the issuer.
Most listed and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies. The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & Poors’
or Moody’ s. Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.
An analysis of the credit quality of the Group’ s debt securities is set out below:
2009 2008
AAA to BBB- AAA to BBB-
(investment B- and (investment B- and
grade) BB+ to B below Total grade) BB+ to B below T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trading portfolio: 
Treasury and other eligible bills 9,901 25 – 9,926 4,491 53 – 4,544
Debt securities 109,237 5,321 2,036 116,594 141,454 5,556 1,676 148,686
Total trading portfolio 119,138 5,346 2,036 126,520 145,945 5,609 1,676 153,230
Financial assets designated at fair value 
held on own account: 
Debt securities 2,200 1,791 16 4,007 1,222 7,406 – 8,628
Available for sale financial investments: 
Treasury and other eligible bills 4,049 1,870 – 5,919 2,823 1,180 – 4,003
Debt securities 40,184 3,185 519 43,888 55,817 2,347 667 58,831
Total available for sale financial investments 44,233 5,055 519 49,807 58,640 3,527 667 62,834
Total debt securities 165,571 12,192 2,571 180,334 205,807 16,542 2,343 224,692
% 91.8 6.8 1.4 100.0 91.6 7.4 1.0 100.0
Included in the table above, there are impaired available for sale debt securities with a carrying value at 31st December 2009 of £265m (2008: £329m),
after a write-down of £692m (2008: £363m). 
Collateral is not generally obtained directly from the issuers of debt securities. Certain debt securities may be collateralised by specifically identified assets
that would be obtainable in the event of default.
Derivatives 
Derivatives are measured on a fair value basis.
The credit quality of the Group’ s derivative assets according to the credit quality of the counterparty at 31st December 2009 and 2008 was as follows:
2009 2008
AAA to BBB- AAA to BBB-
(investment B- and (investment B- and
grade) BB+ to B below Total grade) BB+ to B below T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivatives 399,534 15,565 1,716 416,815 939,071 42,266 3,465 984,802
% 95.9 3.7 0.4 100.0 95.3 4.3 0.4 100.0
Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible through netting agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty
can be offset. Group policy requires all netting arrangements to be legally documented. The ISDA Master Agreement is the Group’ s preferred agreement for
documenting OTC derivatives. It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted and
contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party defaults or other pre-
determined events occur. 
Collateral is obtained against derivative assets, depending on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/ or nature of the transaction. Any collateral taken
in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject to a ‘haircut’ which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral agreement. A haircut is the valuation
percentage applicable to each type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security . The collateral obtained
for derivatives is either cash, direct debt obligation government (G14+) bonds denominated in the domestic currency of the issuing country , debt issued
by supranationals or letters of credit issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A+/ A3 or better. Where the Group has ISDA master
agreements, the collateral document will be the ISDA Credit Support Annex (CSA). The collateral document must give Barclays the power to realise any
collateral placed with it in the event of the failure of the counterparty , and to place further collateral when requested or in the event of insolvency ,
administration or similar processes, as well as in the case of early termination.
Derivative assets and liabilities would be £374bn (2008: £917bn) lower than reported if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities with the same
counterparty or for which the Group holds cash collateral. 282 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
47 Credit risk continued
Reverse repurchase agreements
Reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing arrangements are collateralised loans typically of short maturities.
The loans are fully collateralised with highly liquid securities legally transferred to the Group. The level of collateral is monitored daily and further collateral
called when required.
2009 2008
AAA to BBB- AAA to BBB-
(investment B- and (investment B- and
grade) BB+ to B below Total grade) BB+ to B below T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets designated at fair value 
held on own account:
Other financial assets 4,749 1,955 1,053 7,757 3,882 3,401 – 7,283
Reverse repurchase agreements 136,366 6,674 391 143,431 122,188 6,101 2,065 130,354
Total reverse repurchase agreements 141,115 8,629 1,444 151,188 126,070 9,502 2,065 137,637
% 93.3 5.7 1.0 100.0 91.6 6.9 1.5 100.0
No reverse repurchase agreements held by the Group at 31st December 2009 or 2008 were individually impaired, however during the year, the Group wrote
off £43m of reverse repurchase agreements (2008: 124m). 
Other credit risk assets
The Group’ s other assets that are subject to credit risk are cash with central banks of £81,483m (2008: £30,019m), items in course of collection from other
Banks £1,593m (2008: £1,695m), other financial assets £3,476m (2008: £3,096m). 
Cash and balances at central banks
Substantially all balances are held with central banks. There is limited credit risk in relation to balances at central banks.
Items in the course of collection from other banks
There is limited credit risk in relation to items in the course of collection through the clearing system from other banks.
Other financial assets
Other financial assets comprise £3,476m (2008: £3,096m) of other assets and £344m (2008 £609m) of assets held at fair value.
Off-balance sheet
The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies for off-balance sheet risks as it does for its on-balance sheet risks. In the case of
commitments to lend, customers and counterparties will be subject to the same credit management policies as for loans and advances. Collateral may
be sought depending on the strength of the counterparty and the nature of the transaction.
Credit market exposures
Barclays Capital’ s credit market exposures primarily relate to US residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and leveraged finance businesses that have
been significantly impacted by the continued deterioration in the global credit markets. The exposures include both significant positions subject to fair value
movements in the profit and loss account and positions that are classified as loans and advances and available for sale. 
The exposures are set out by asset class below:
As at As at
31.12.09 31.12.08
£m £m
US residential mortgages 
ABS CDO Super Senior 1,931 3,104
Other US sub-prime and Alt-A 1,392 7,729
Monoline wrapped US RMBS 6 1,639
Commercial mortgages
Commercial real estate loans and properties 7,734 11,578
Commercial mortgage-backed securities 471 735
Monoline wrapped CMBS 30 1,854
Other credit market exposures
Leveraged finance
a
5,507 9,048
SIVs, SIV-Lites  and CDPCs 553 1,113
Monoline wrapped CLO and other 2,126 4,939
Total exposures 19,750 41,739
Loan to Protium 7,859 –
On 16th September 2009, Barclays Capital sold assets of £7,454m, including £5,087m in credit market assets, to Protium Finance LP (Protium), a newly
established fund. As part of the transaction, Barclays extended a £7,669m 10-year loan to Protium Finance LP . At 31st December 2009, this loan had a
carrying value of £7,859m (including accrued interest).
Note
a This is a change in presentation from 31st December 2008, which reflected certain loan facilities originated post 1st July 2007. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 283
48 Market risk
Market risk management
Market risk is the risk that the Group’ s earnings or capital, or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility
of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates. The majority of market risk exposure
resides in Barclays Capital. Barclays is also exposed to market risk through interest rate risk on its non-trading activities and through the pension fund.
Organisation and structure
The Board approves market risk appetite for trading and non-trading activities. The Market Risk Director is responsible for the Market Risk Control Framework
and, under delegated authority from the Chief Risk Officer, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite. A daily market risk
report summarises Barclays market risk exposures against agreed limits. This daily report is sent to the Chief Risk Officer, the Market Risk Director, the Group
Finance Director and the appropriate Business Risk Directors.
The head of each business, assisted by the business risk management team, is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities. Each business
is responsible for the identification, measurement, management, control and reporting of market risk as outlined in Barclays Market Risk Control Framework.
Oversight and support is provided to the business by the Market Risk Director, assisted by the Group Market Risk team. The Market Risk Committee reviews,
approves, and makes recommendations concerning the market risk profile across Barclays including risk appetite, limits and utilisation. The Committee meets
monthly and is chaired by the Market Risk Director. Attendees include the Chief Risk Officer, respective business risk managers and Group Market Risk.
Traded market risk
Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital. This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients or with
the market. For maximum efficiency , client and market activities are managed together.
Risk measurement and control
The measurement techniques used to measure and control traded market risk include Daily Value at Risk (DVaR), Expected Shortfall , average of the three
worst hypothetical losses from the DVaR simulation (3W), Global Asset Class stress testing and Global Scenario stress testing.
DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business
day . Barclays Capital uses the historical simulation methodology with a two-year unweighted historical period at the 95% confidence level.
The historical simulation calculation can be split into three parts:
– Calculate hypothetical daily profit or loss for each position over the most recent two years, using observed daily market moves.
– Sum all hypothetical profit or losses for day one across all positions, giving one total profit or loss. Repeat for all other days in the two-year history .
– DVaR is the 95th percentile selected from the two years of daily hypothetical total profit or loss.
The DVaR model has been approved by the FSA to calculate regulatory capital for the trading book. The approval covers general market risk in interest rate,
foreign exchange, commodities and equity products, and issuer specific risk for the majority of single name and portfolio traded credit products.
DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool and consequently the model is regularly assessed. The main approach employed is the
technique known as back-testing which counts the number of days when a loss (as defined by the FSA), exceeds the corresponding DVaR estimate,
measured at the 99% confidence level.
The FSA categorises a DVaR model as green, amber or red. A green model is consistent with a good working DVaR model and is achieved for models that
have four or less back-testing exceptions in a 12-month period. For Barclays Capital’ s trading book, green model status was maintained for 2009 and 2008.
Expected Shortfall is the average of all hypothetical losses from the historical simulation beyond DVaR. T o improve the control framework, formal monitoring
of 3W (average of the three worst observations from the DVaR historical simulation) was started in the first half of 2009. 
Stress testing provides an indication of the potential size of losses that could arise in extreme conditions. Global Asset Class stress testing has been
designed to cover major asset classes including interest rate, credit spread, commodity , equity and foreign exchange rates. They are based on past stress
moves in respective asset class prices and rates. Global Scenario stress testing is based on hypothetical events which could lead to extreme yet plausible
stress type moves, under which profitability is seriously challenged. 
Market Risk is controlled through the use of limits where appropriate on the above risk measures. Limits are set at the total Barclays Capital level, risk factor
level such as interest rate risk, and business line level. Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity limits are also in place. 284 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
48 Market risk continued
Analysis of traded market risk exposures
Barclays Capital's market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR, increased by 45% to £77m (2008: £53m). The rise was mainly due to volatility
considerations, increased interest rate and credit spread exposure, and the Lehman Brothers North America businesses acquisition. Volatility impacted
average DVaR because 2008’ s extreme volatility impacted DVaR throughout 2009 but only impacted 2008 DVaR in the last four months of 2008. 
Expected shortfall and 3W averaged £121m and £209m respectively representing increases of £51m (73%) and £93m (80%) compared to 2008. 
The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, Expected Shortfall and 3W were calculated as below.
12 months to 12 months to
31st December 2009 31st December 2008
Average High
a
Low
a
Average High
a
Low
a
£m £m £m £m £m £m
DVaR (95%)
Interest rate risk 44 83 23 29 48 15
Credit spread risk 58 102 35 31 72 15
Commodity risk 14 20 11 18 25 13
Equity risk 13 27 5 921 5
Foreign exchange risk 815 3 613 2
Diversification effect
a
(60) n/a n/a (40) n/a n/a
Total DVaR 77 119 50 53 95 36
Expected shortfall 121 188 88 70 146 41
3W 209 301 148 116 282 61
Non-traded interest rate risk
Non-traded interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale (non-traded) banking products and services.
Barclays objective is to minimise non-traded risk. This is achieved by transferring risk from the business to a local treasury or Group T reasury , who in turn hedge
the net exposure with the external market. Limits exist to ensure no material risk is retained within any business or product area. The majority of non-trading
interest rate market exposures are within Global Retail and Commercial Banking, and Group T reasury . T rading activity is not permitted outside Barclays Capital.
Risk measurement and control
The risk in each business is measured and controlled using both an income metric (Annual Earnings at Risk) and a present value metric (Daily Value at Risk
or stress testing). In addition scenario stress analysis is carried out by the business and reviewed by senior management and business-level asset and
liability committees, when required. 
Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) measures the sensitivity of net interest income (NII) over the next 12 months. It is calculated as the difference between the
estimated income using the current yield curve and the lowest estimated income following a 100 basis points increase or decrease in interest rates, subject
to a minimum interest rate of 0%. Balances are adjusted for an assumed behavioural profile. This includes the treatment of non-maturity deposits.
Daily Value at Risk and stress testing is calculated using a Barclays Capital consistent approach. Both these metrics are calculated by each respective
business area with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
Risk exposures are monitored by respective business risk managers with oversight provided by Group Market Risk. The main business limits are approved
by Market Risk Committee. Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity limits are also in place where appropriate.
T o further improve the market risk control framework, Group Market Risk initiated an ongoing programme of conformance visits to non-traded Treasury
operations. These visits review both the current market risk profile and potential market risk developments, as well as verifying conformance with Barclays
policies and standards as detailed in the market risk control framework. 
Note
a The high (and low) DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the
same day as the high (and low) DVaR reported as a whole. Consequently , a diversification
effect number for the high (and low) DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is
therefore omitted from the above table. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 285
48 Market risk continued
Analysis of net interest income sensitivity
The tables below show the pre-tax net interest income sensitivity for the non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st December 2009.
The sensitivity has been measured using AEaR methodology as described above. The benchmark interest rate for each currency is set as at 31st December
2009. The figures include the effect of hedging instruments but exclude exposures held or issued by Barclays Capital as these are measured and managed
using DVaR. 
Net interest income sensitivity (AEaR) by currency +100 basis –100 basis +100 basis –100 basis
points points points points
2009 2009 2008 2008
£m £m £m £m
GBP 30 (360) 3 (273)
USD (43) 14 (25) 7
EUR (34) – (34) 30
ZAR 29 (27) 13 (13)
Others (1) 4 – (8)
Total (19) (369) (43) (257)
As percentage of net interest income (0.16%) (3.10%) (0.37%) (2.24%)
Non-traded interest rate risk, as measured by AEaR, was £369m in 2009, an increase of £112m compared to 2008. This estimate takes into account the
rates in place as at 31st December 2009. The increase mainly reflects the reduced spread generated on retail and commercial banking liabilities in the lower
interest rate environment. If the interest rate hedges had not been in place then the AEaR risk for 2009 would have been £704m (2008: £670m).
DVaR is also used to control market risk in Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Western Europe and in Group Treasury . The indicative average DVaRs
for 2009 are £1.4m (2008: £1.3m) for Western Europe and £1.0m (2008: £0.6m) for Group Treasury .
Analysis of equity sensitivity
+100 basis –100 basis +100 basis –100 basis
points points points points
2009 2009 2008 2008
£m £m £m £m
Net interest income (19) (369) (43) (257)
T axation effects on the above 486 633
Effect on profit for the year (15) (283) (37) (224)
As percentage of net profit after tax (0.15%) (2.75%) (0.70%) (4.24%)
Effect on profit for the year (per above) (15) (283) (37) (224)
Available for sale reserve (527) 527 (806) 806
Cash flow hedge reserve (929) 957 (473) 474
T axation effects on the above 341 (347) 166 (166)
Effect on equity (1,130) 854 (1,150) 890
As percentage of equity (1.93%) 1.46% (2.43%) 1.88% 286 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
48 Market risk continued
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk.
a) Transactional foreign currency exposure
Transactional foreign exchange exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional
currency of the transacting entity .
The Group’ s risk management policies prevent the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio managed by
Barclays Capital which is monitored through DVaR.
There were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures outside the trading portfolio at either 31st December 2009 or 2008. Due to the low
level of non-trading exposures no reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates would have a material effect on either the Group’ s profit or
movements in equity for the year ended 31st December 2009  or 2008.
b) Translational foreign exchange exposure
The Group’ s translational foreign currency exposure arises from both its capital resources (including investments in subsidiaries and branches, intangible
assets, non-controlling interests, deductions from capital and debt capital instruments) and risk weighted assets (RWAs) being denominated in foreign
currencies. Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in the Sterling equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital resources and risk
weighted assets. As a result, the Group’ s regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign exchange rate movements.
The Group’ s capital ratio hedge strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate movements. T o achieve this, 
the Group aims to maintain the ratio of foreign currency Core Tier 1, Tier 1 and T otal Capital resources to foreign currency RWAs the same as the 
Group’ s capital ratios.
The Group’ s foreign currency capital resources include investments in subsidiaries and branches, intangible assets, non-controlling interests, deductions
from capital and debt capital instruments.
The Group’ s investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches create capital resources denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the Sterling
value of the investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in a movement in Core Tier 1 capital.  
During 2009, structural currency exposures net of hedging instruments increased from £6.4bn to £12.5bn primarily as a result of US Dollar hedging
decisions taken in accordance with the Group’ s capital ratio hedge strategy for foreign exchange rate movements.
T o create foreign currency Tier 1 and T otal Capital resources additional to the Core Tier 1 capital resources, the Group issues, where possible, debt capital
in non sterling currencies. This is primarily achieved by the issuance of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing
capital in local currencies.
The carrying value of the Group’ s foreign currency net investments in subsidiaries and branches and the foreign currency borrowings and derivatives used
to hedge them as at 31st December 2009 were as follows:
Functional currency of the operation involved Structural
Foreign Borrowings Derivatives currency Remaining
currency which hedge which hedge exposures structural
net the net the net pre economic Economic currency
investmentsinvestmentsinvestments hedges hedges exposures
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31st December 2009
US Dollar 16,677 3,205 – 13,472 6,056 7,416
Euro 6,772 3,418 – 3,354 2,902 452
Rand 4,055 – 1,542 2,513 189 2,324
Japanese Y en 4,436 3,484 940 12 – 12
Swiss Franc 2,840 2,734 92 14 – 14
Other 2,983 – 677 2,306 – 2,306
Total 37,763 12,841 3,251 21,671 9,147 12,524
At 31st December 2008
US Dollar 14,577 6,019 – 8,558 6,720 1,838
Euro 6,336 2,922 – 3,414 3,125 289
Rand 3,725 – 1,306 2,419 164 2,255
Japanese Y en 5,009 801 4,212 (4) – (4)
Swiss Franc 3,042 2,936 101 5 – 5
Other 2,940 – 880 2,060 – 2,060
Total 35,629 12,678 6,499 16,452 10,009 6,443 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 287
48 Market risk continued
The economic hedges represent the US Dollar and Euro Preference Shares and Reserve Capital Instruments in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS,
and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
The impact of a change in the exchange rate between Sterling and any of the major currencies would be:
– A higher or lower Sterling equivalent value of non-Sterling denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets. This includes a higher or lower
currency translation reserve within equity , representing the retranslation of non-Sterling subsidiaries, branches and associated undertakings net 
of the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on derivatives and borrowings designated as hedges of net investments.
– A higher or lower profit after tax, arising from changes in the exchange rates used to translate items in the consolidated income statement.
– A higher or lower value of available for sale investments denominated in foreign currencies, impacting the available for sale reserve.
49 Liquidity risk
Liquidity management
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when they fall due as a result of a sudden, and potentially protracted, increase in net
cash outflows. Such outflows would deplete available cash resources for client lending, trading activities, investments and deposits. In extreme circumstances
lack of liquidity could result in reductions in balance sheet and sales of assets, or potentially an inability to fulfil lending commitments. The risk that it will be
unable to do so is inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of institution-specific and market-wide events. 
Organisation and structure
Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance and control process that covers all of the Group’ s liquidity risk management activities. Businesses assist
Barclays Treasury in policy formation and limit setting by providing relevant and expert input for their local markets and customers.
Execution of the Group’ s liquidity risk management strategy is carried out at country level within agreed policies, controls and limits, with the Country
Treasurer providing reports directly to Barclays Treasury to evidence conformance with the agreed risk profile. Liquidity risk is a standing agenda item
at Country and Cluster Asset and Liability Committees and on a consolidated basis is reported to the Group’ s Treasury Committee.
The objective of the Group’ s liquidity risk management strategy is to ensure that the funding profile of individual businesses and the Group as a whole is
appropriate to underlying market conditions and the profile of our business in each given country . Liquidity risk limits and controls are flexed to achieve that
profile and are based on regular qualitative and quantitative assessments of conditions under both normal and stressed conditions. Businesses are only
allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets where they can demonstrate that their market is sufficiently deep and liquid and then only relative
to the size and complexity of their business.
Liquidity limits reflect both local regulatory requirements as well as the behavioural characteristics of their balance sheets. Breaches of limits are reported
to Treasury Committee together with details of the requirements to return to compliance.
Liquidity risk framework
Barclays has a comprehensive Liquidity Risk Management Framework (the Liquidity Framework) for managing the Group’ s liquidity risk. The objective of
the Liquidity Framework is for the Group to have sufficient liquidity to continue to operate for at least the minimum period specified by the FSA in the event
that the wholesale funding markets are neither open to Barclays nor to the market as a whole. Many of the stress tests currently applied under the Liquidity
Framework will also be applied under the FSA ’ s new regime, although the precise calibration may differ in Barclays final Individual Liquidity Guidance to be
set by the FSA. The framework considers a range of possible wholesale and retail factors leading to loss of financing including: 
– maturing of wholesale liabilities;
– loss of secured financing and widened haircuts on remaining book;
– retail and commercial outflows from savings and deposit accounts;
– drawdown of loans and commitments;
– potential impact of a two-notch ratings downgrade; and
– withdrawal of initial margin amounts by counterparties.
These stressed scenarios are used to assess the appropriate level for the Group’ s liquidity pool, which comprises unencumbered assets and cash. Barclays
regularly uses these assets to access secured funding markets, thereby testing the liquidity assumptions underlying pool composition. The Group does not
presume the availability of central bank facilities to monetise the liquidity pool in any of the stress scenarios under the Liquidity Framework. 
Liquidity pool
The Group liquidity pool as at 31st December 2009 was £127bn gross (31st December 2008: £43bn) and comprised the following cash and
unencumbered assets:
Composition of Group liquidity pool Cash and Government
deposits Government and Other
with central guaranteed supranational available
banks bonds bonds liquidity Total
£bn £bn £bn £bn £bn
As at 31st December 2009 81 3 31 12 127
As at 31st December 2008
a
30 – 2 11 43
The cost of maintaining the liquidity pool is a function of the source of funding for the buffer and the reinvestment spread.
Note
a Previously disclosed as Barclays Capital only . 288 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
49 Liquidity risk continued
Term financing
Raising term funding is important in meeting the risk appetite of the Barclays Liquidity Framework. Barclays has continued to increase the term of issued
liabilities during 2009 by issuing:
– £15bn equivalent of public senior term funding 
– £1.8bn equivalent of public covered bonds
– £21bn equivalent of structured notes 
The Group has £4bn of publicly issued debt and £11bn of structured notes maturing in 2010.
Intraday liquidity
The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is recognised by the Group as a critical process: any failure to meet specific intraday
commitments would have significant consequences, such as a visible market disruption.
The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has access to sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have to clearing and
settlement systems. Major currency payment flows and payment system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that at all times there
is sufficient collateral to make payments. In practice the Group maintains a significant buffer of surplus intraday liquidity to ensure that payments are made
on a timely basis. The Group actively engages in payment system development to help ensure that new payment systems are robust.
Day to day funding
Day to day funding is managed through limits on wholesale borrowings, secured borrowings and funding mismatches. These ensure that on any day and
over any period there is a limited amount of refinancing requirement. These requirements include replenishment of funds as they mature or are borrowed
by customers.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors term mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as the level and type of undrawn
lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Diversification of liquidity sources
Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency , geography , provider, product and term. In addition, to avoid reliance
on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed. Important
factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors’ confidence. Such confidence is based on a number of factors including
the Group’ s reputation and relationship with those clients, the strength of earnings and the Group’ s financial position.
Wholesale depositor split by counterparty type – Barclays Capital Other Other
central financial
Banks Corporates Governments banks institutions Total
%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 36 15 2 16 31 100
As at 31st December 2008 32 15 11 9 33 100
Wholesale depositor split by geography – Barclays Capital Rest of
US UK Other EU Japan Africa World Total
%%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 9 25 23 3 16 24 100
As at 31st December 2008 13 22 16 9 17 23 100
Funding structure
Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth and Head Office Functions are structured to be self-funded through customer deposits and Barclays
equity and other long-term capital. The Barclays Capital and Absa businesses are funded through the wholesale secured and unsecured funding markets.
The ratio of customer loans to customer deposits and long-term funding has improved to 81% at 31st December 2009, from 93% at 31st December 2008. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 289
49 Liquidity risk continued
Global retail and commercial banking, Barclays Wealth and Head Office functions
An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa; mainly current accounts and savings accounts.
Although contractually current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Group’ s broad base of customers – numerically
and by depositor type – helps to protect against unexpected fluctuations. Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Group’ s operations and liquidity
needs.
Group policy is to ensure that the assets of the retail, wealth and corporate bank, together with Head Office functions, on a global basis, do not exceed
customer deposits and subordinated funding so that these businesses place no reliance on wholesale markets. The exception to this policy is Absa, which
has a large portion of wholesale funding due to the structure of the South African financial sector.
In order to assess liquidity risk, the balance sheet is modelled to reflect behavioural experience in both assets and liabilities and is managed to maintain
a cash surplus. The maturity profile, excluding Absa, resulting from this behavioural modelling is set out below. This shows that there is a funding surplus
of £94.5bn, and that there are expected outflows of £10.2bn within one year from asset repayments being less than liability attrition. For subsequent years
the expected repayments on assets are larger than the roll off of liabilities resulting in cash inflows. Maturities of net liabilities are, therefore, behaviourally
expected to occur after five years.
Behavioural maturity profile of assets and liabilities
a
Cash inflow/(outflow)
Over Over Over Over
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years
Not but not but not but not but not
Funding more than more than more than more than more than Over
surplus 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years
£bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn
As at 31st December 2009 94.5 (10.2) 17.8 21.2 7.8 1.8 (132.9)
Barclays Capital
Barclays Capital manages its liquidity to be primarily funded through wholesale sources, managing access to liquidity to ensure that potential cash outflows
in a stressed environment are covered.
73% of the inventory is funded on a secured basis (31st December 2008: 50%). Additionally , much of the short-term funding is invested in highly liquid
assets and central bank cash and therefore contributes towards the Group liquidity pool.
Barclays Capital undertakes secured funding in the repo markets based on liquidity characteristics. Limits are in place for each security asset class reflecting
liquidity in the cash and financing markets for these assets. The percentage of secured funding using each asset class as collateral is set out below: 
Secured funding by asset class Government Agency MBS ABS Corporate Equity Other
%%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 59 7 7 6 10 8 3
As at 31st December 2008 49 9 11 9 15 4 3
Unsecured wholesale funding for the Group (excluding Absa) is managed by Barclays Capital within specific term limits. Excluding short-term deposits
that are included within the Group’ s liquidity pool, the term of unsecured liabilities has been extended, with average life improving from at least 1 4 months
b
at 31st December 2008 to at least 26 months at 31st December 2009.
Contractual maturity of unsecured liabilities
a
Not more Not more Not more Not more Not more
(Net of assets available from the Group liquidity pool)
than than than than than Over
1 month 2 months 3 months 6 months 1 year 1 year
%%%%%%
As at 31st December 2009 – – – – 19 81
The extension of the term of the wholesale financing has meant that, as at 31st December 2009, 81% of net wholesale funding had remaining maturity
of greater than one year and, as at the same date, there was no net wholesale unsecured refinancing required within six months.
Notes
a In accordance with IFRS 7, prior year figures have not been provided as these measures
have not previously been reported on a comparable basis.
b The 31st December 2008 average unsecured liability term has been restated to at least 
14 months to reflect refinements in the underlying calculation. 290 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
49 Liquidity risk continued
Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities
Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk. Such information
is used (amongst other things) as the basis for modelling a behavioural balance sheet, for input into the liquidity framework, as discussed above.
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities. Derivatives (other than those
designated in a hedging relationship) and trading portfolio assets and liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value. Liquidity risk on
these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity and will frequently be
settled before contractual maturity at fair value. Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according to their contractual maturity .
Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have been included in Other assets and
Other liabilities as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them; any request for funds from creditors would be met by simultaneously
liquidating or transferring the related investment.
At 31st December 2009 Over 
three Over Over Over Over 
months six months one year three years five years
Not more but not but not but not but not but not 
On than three more than more than more than more than more than Over
demand months six months one year three years five years ten years ten years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks80,592 891––––––81,483
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks 1,243 350–––––– 1,593
Trading portfolio assets 151,344 – – – –––– 151,344
Financial assets designated 
at fair value: 
– held on own account 679 10,795 1,679 2,456 5,514 3,998 2,293 13,897 41,311
Derivative financial instruments:
– held for trading 415,638 – – – –––– 415,638
– designated for risk management – 216 115 89 236 101 334 86 1,177
Loans and advances to banks 5,114 30,385 314 1,787 2,396 544 98 497 41,135
Loans and advances to customers 44,826 68,876 8,987 17,848 51,886 38,357 63,180 126,264 420,224
Available for sale financial 
investments 1,157 6,999 8,356 3,434 20,530 5,871 6,802 3,334 56,483
Reverse repurchase agreements 
and cash collateral on
securities borrowed 248 129,095 3,558 5,604 4,680 31 210 5 143,431
Other financial assets – 2,816 – – 660 – – – 3,476
Total financial assets 700,841 250,423 23,009 31,218 85,902 48,902 72,917 144,083 1,357,295
Other assets 21,634
Total assets 1,378,929
Liabilities
Deposits from other banks 3,861 50,020 4,850 15,558 1,325 200 420 212 76,446
Items in the course of collection 
due to other banks 1,373 93–––––– 1,466
Customer accounts 205,868 86,481 8,226 11,940 2,954 3,049 2,864 1,047 322,429
Trading portfolio liabilities 51,252–––––––51,252
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value:
– held on own account 1,219 17,599 5,755 7,145 18,780 14,701 14,647 6,356 86,202
Derivative financial instruments:
– held for trading 402,019 – – – –––– 402,019
– designated for risk management – 186 68 37 111 433 394 168 1,397
Debt securities in issue 64 43,390 17,761 19,408 29,904 11,607 7,838 5,930 135,902
Repurchase agreements and 
cash collateral on securities lent 502 189,843 5,446 2,525 326 108 29 2 198,781
Subordinated liabilities – 173 1 27 1,234 1,375 9,871 13,135 25,816
Other financial liabilities – 4,959 – – 1,135 – – – 6,094
Total financial liabilities 666,158 392,744 42,107 56,640 55,769 31,473 36,063 26,850 1,307,804
Other liabilities 12,647
Total liabilities 1,320,451
Cumulative liquidity gap 34,683 (107,638) (126,736) (152,158) (122,025) (104,596) (67,742) 49,491 58,478 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 291
49 Liquidity risk continued
At 31st December 2008 Over
three Over Over Over Over 
months six months one year three years five years
Not more but not but not but not but not but not 
On than three more than more than more than more than more than Over
demand months six months one year three years five years ten years ten years T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 29,774 245 –––––– 30,019
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks 1,619 76 –––––– 1,695
Trading portfolio assets 185,637 ––––––– 185,637
Financial assets designated 
at fair value: 
– held on own account 661 13,861 1,648 5,861 5,420 6,738 4,159 16,194 54,542
Derivative financial instruments:
– held for trading 981,996 ––––––– 981,996
– designated for risk management – 381 91 542 505 336 419 532 2,806
Loans and advances to banks 4,882 35,690 505 1,892 1,887 1,854 52 945 47,707
Loans and advances to customers 51,155 87,624 12,447 21,976 60,927 44,982 57,409 125,295 461,815
Available for sale financial 
investments 132 11,539 5,129 13,461 10,266 6,660 9,779 8,010 64,976
Reverse repurchase agreements 
and cash collateral on
securities borrowed 29 107,415 8,947 2,582 10,124 1,019 238 – 130,354
Other financial assets – 2,459 – – 637 – – – 3,096
Total financial assets 1,255,885 259,290 28,767 46,314 89,766 61,589 72,056 150,976 1,964,643
Other assets 88,337
Total assets 2,052,980
Liabilities
Deposits from other banks 10,850 94,083 6,040 1,273 1,585 461 433 185 114,910
Items in the course of collection 
due to other banks 1,633 2 –––––– 1,635
Customer accounts 195,728 112,582 9,389 10,099 2,451 1,555 1,395 2,306 335,505
Trading portfolio liabilities 59,474 ––––––– 59,474
Financial liabilities designated 
at fair value:
– held on own account 1,043 16,573 10,630 5,115 12,229 12,041 11,825 7,436 76,892
Derivative financial instruments:
– held for trading 964,071 ––––––– 964,071
– designated for risk management – 222 141 1,345 1,197 108 781 207 4,001
Debt securities in issue 2,567 79,600 10,049 17,197 23,355 9,856 2,528 4,415 149,567
Repurchase agreements and 
cash collateral on securities lent 69 176,169 3,409 2,067 245 267 59 – 182,285
Subordinated liabilities – 260 49 281 1,345 999 10,176 16,732 29,842
Other financial liabilities – 4,573 – – 1,572 – – – 6,145
Total financial liabilities 1,235,435 484,064 39,707 37,377 43,979 25,287 27,197 31,281 1,924,327
Other liabilities 81,242
Total liabilities 2,005,569
Cumulative liquidity gap 20,450 (204,324) (215,264) (206,327) (160,540) (124,238) (79,379) 40,316 47,411
Expected maturity dates do not differ significantly from the contract dates, except for:
– Trading Portfolio Assets and Liabilities and derivative financial instruments, which may not be held to maturity as part of the Group’ s trading strategies. For
these instruments, which are mostly held by Barclays Capital, liquidity and repricing risk is managed through the Daily Value at Risk (DVaR) methodology .
– Retail deposits, which are included within customer accounts, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual basis. In practice, these
instruments form a stable base for the Group’ s operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers – both numerically and by
depositor type.
– Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities, which are managed with the associated liabilities. 292 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
49 Liquidity risk continued
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis
The table below presents the cash flows payable by the Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the balance sheet date. 
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial liabilities (i.e nominal values), whereas the Group manages
the inherent liquidity risk based on discounted expected cash inflows. Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are
included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Over 
one year
but 
On Within less than Over
demand one year five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 31st December 2009
Deposits from other banks 3,861 70,645 1,607 773 76,886
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,373 93 – – 1,466
Customer accounts 205,868 106,991 6,898 5,488 325,245
Trading portfolio liabilities 51,252 – – – 51,252
Financial liabilities designated at fair value:
– held on own account 1,219 31,030 35,733 34,206 102,188
Derivative financial instruments:
– held for trading 402,019 – – – 402,019
– designated for risk management – 311 627 998 1,936
Debt securities in issue 64 82,215 46,055 22,243 150,577
Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 502 197,864 450 37 198,853
Subordinated liabilities – 2,101 6,295 26,842 35,238
Other financial liabilities – 4,959 1,135 – 6,094
Total financial liabilities 666,158 496,209 98,800 90,587 1,351,754
Off-balance sheet items
Loan commitments 127,540 74,111 4,181 861 206,693
Other commitments 386 384 19 – 789
Total off-balance sheet items 127,926 74,495 4,200 861 207,482
Total financial liabilities and off-balance sheet items 794,084 570,704 103,000 91,448 1,559,236
At 31st December 2008
Deposits from other banks 10,850 101,537 2,224 671 115,282
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,633 2 – – 1,635
Customer accounts 195,728 132,927 5,249 5,807 339,711
Trading portfolio liabilities 59,474 – – – 59,474
Financial liabilities designated at fair value:
– held on own account 1,043 33,860 28,300 30,427 93,630
Derivative financial instruments:
– held for trading 964,071 – – – 964,071
– designated for risk management – 1,809 1,671 1,206 4,686
Debt securities in issue 2,567 108,955 34,510 11,853 157,885
Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 69 181,895 547 24 182,535
Subordinated liabilities
a
– 1,273 5,114 28,726 35,113
Other financial liabilities – 4,573 1,572 – 6,145
Total financial liabilities 1,235,435 566,831 79,187 78,714 1,960,167
Off-balance sheet items
Loan commitments 222,801 30,502 5,799 917 260,019
Other commitments 493 318 340 – 1,151
Total off-balance sheet items 223,294 30,820 6,139 917 261,170
Total financial liabilities and off-balance sheet items 1,458,729 597,651 85,326 79,631 2,221,337
Financial liabilities designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts have been excluded from this analysis as the Group is not
exposed to liquidity risk arising from them. Any request for funds from investors would be met simultaneously from the linked assets.
The balances in the above table do not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, on an
undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments. 
The principal due under perpetual subordinated liability instruments has been included in the over five years category . Further interest payments have not
been included on this amount, which according to their strict contractual terms, could carry on indefinitely .
Note
a Subordinated liabilities maturity has been reanalysed to reflect the date on which the
counterparty can require repayment as opposed to the date of first call. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 293
50 Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, in an arm’ s length transaction between
knowledgeable willing parties.
Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values
The following table summarises the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities presented on the Group’ s balance sheet, and their fair values
differentiating between financial assets and liabilities subsequently measured at fair value and those subsequently measured at amortised cost:
2009 2008
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Financial assets:
Cash and balances at central banks a 81,483 81,483 30,019 30,019
Items in the course of collection from other banks a 1,593 1,593 1,695 1,695
Trading portfolio assets
– Treasury and other eligible bills b 9,926 9,926 4,544 4,544
– Debt securities b 116,594 116,594 148,686 148,686
– Equity securities b 19,602 19,602 30,535 30,535
– Traded loans b 2,962 2,962 1,070 1,070
– Commodities b 2,260 2,260 802 802
Financial assets designated at fair value:
held in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts b 1,257 1,257 66,657 66,657
held under own account:
– Equity securities b 6,256 6,256 6,496 6,496
– Loans and advances b 22,390 22,390 30,187 30,187
– Debt securities b 4,007 4,007 8,628 8,628
– Other financial assets designated at fair value b 8,658 8,658 9,231 9,231
Derivative financial instruments b 416,815 416,815 984,802 984,802
Loans and advances to banks c 41,135 41,135 47,707 47,594
Loans and advances to customers
– Residential mortgage loans c 149,099 142,726 139,845 138,373
– Credit card receivables c 21,889 21,889 22,304 22,312
– Other personal lending c 25,435 25,430 27,270 26,496
– Wholesale and corporate loans and advances c 212,928 207,648 259,699 247,798
– Finance lease receivables c 10,873 10,898 12,697 12,697
Available for sale financial instruments 
– Treasury and other eligible bills b 5,919 5,919 4,003 4,003
– Debt securities b 43,888 43,888 58,831 58,831
– Equity securities b 6,676 6,676 2,142 2,142
Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed c 143,431 142,524 130,354 129,296
Financial liabilities:
Deposits from banks d 76,446 76,457 114,910 114,912
Items in the course of collection due to other banks a 1,466 1,466 1,635 1,635
Customer accounts:
– Current and demand accounts d 100,710 100,710 82,515 82,515
– Savings accounts d 81,188 81,188 76,008 76,008
– Other time deposits d 140,531 140,544 176,982 176,966
Trading portfolio liabilities:
– Treasury and other eligible bills b 381 381 79 79
– Debt securities b 44,327 44,327 44,309 44,309
– Equity securities b 6,468 6,468 14,919 14,919
– Commodities b 76 76 167 167
Financial liabilities designated at fair value: 
– Held on own account b 86,202 86,202 76,892 76,892
– Liabilities to customers under investment contracts b 1,679 1,679 69,183 69,183
Derivative financial instruments b 403,416 403,416 968,072 968,072
Debt securities in issue d 135,902 135,405 149,567 148,736
Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent d 198,781 198,781 182,285 182,285
Subordinated liabilities d 25,816 25,299 29,842 22,944 294 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Notes 
a) Fair value approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of these financial assets and liabilities.
b) The carrying value of financial instruments subsequently measured at fair value (including those held for trading, designated at fair value, derivatives
and available for sale) is determined in accordance with accounting policy as noted on pages 195 and196 and further description and analysis of these
fair values are set out below.
c) The carrying value of financial assets subsequently measured at amortised cost (including loans and advances, and other lending such as reverse
repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed) is determined in accordance with the accounting policy as noted on page 196.
In many cases the fair value disclosed approximates the carrying value because the instruments are short-term in nature or have interest rates that
reprice frequently . In other cases, fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, applying either market derived interest rates or, where the
counterparty is a bank, rates currently offered by other financial institutions for placings with similar characteristics. Alternatively , fair value can be
determined by applying an average of available regional and industry segmental credit spreads to the loan portfolio, taking the contractual maturity
of the loan facilities into consideration.
d) The carrying value of financial liabilities subsequently measured at amortised cost (including customer accounts and other deposits such as repurchase
agreements and cash collateral on securities lent, debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities) is determined in accordance with the accounting policy
as noted on page 196. In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates the carrying value because the instruments are short-term in nature or have
interest rates that reprice frequently such as customer accounts and other deposits and short-term debt securities. Fair values of other debt securities in
issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where these are unavailable, are estimated using a valuation model. Fair values for dated and undated
convertible and non convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issue concerned or similar issues with similar terms and conditions.
Valuation inputs
During the year, the Group adopted the requirements of IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures. This requires an entity to classify its financial assets and
liabilities held at fair value according to a hierarchy that reflects the significance of observable market inputs. The classification of these instruments is based
on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety . The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below.
Quoted market prices – Level 1
Financial instruments, the valuation of which are determined by reference to unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets
where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’ s length basis. An active
market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
This category includes highly liquid government bonds, short dated US agency securities, active listed equities and actively exchange-traded derivatives.
Valuation technique using observable inputs – Level 2 
Financial instruments that have been valued using inputs other than quoted prices as described for level 1 but which are observable for the asset or liability ,
either directly or indirectly .
This category includes most investment grade and liquid high yield bonds; asset backed securities; long dated US agency securities; certain government
bonds, less liquid listed equities; bank, corporate, and municipal obligations; certain OTC derivatives; certain convertible bonds; certificates of deposit and
commercial paper; certain collateralised debt obligations (CDOs) (cash and synthetic underlyings); collateralised loan obligations (CLOs); commodities
based derivatives; credit derivatives, certain credit default swaps (CDSs); most fund units; certain loans; foreign exchange spot and forward transactions;
and certain issued notes.
Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs – Level 3
Financial instruments, the valuation of which incorporate significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable
inputs). Unobservable inputs are those not readily available in an active market due to market illiquidity or complexity of the product. These inputs are generally
determined based on observable inputs of a similar nature, historic observations on the level of the input or analytical techniques. 
This category includes certain corporate debt securities; highly distressed debt; private equity investments; commercial real estate loans; certain OTC
derivatives (requiring complex and unobservable inputs such as correlations and long dated volatilities); certain convertible bonds; some CDOs (cash and
synthetic underlyings); certain credit default swaps; derivative exposures to Monoline insurers; fund units; certain asset backed securities; certain issued
notes; certain collateralised loan obligations (CLOs) and certain loans. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 295
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The following table shows the Group’ s financial assets and liabilities that are recognised and measured at fair value and analysed by level within the fair
value hierarchy .
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Valuation technique using
Quoted Significant
market Observableunobservable
prices inputs inputs
(Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total
£m £m £m £m
31st December 2009
Trading portfolio assets 76,256 69,010 6,078 151,344
Financial assets designated at fair value:
– held on own account 5,766 24,845 10,700 41,311
– held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,209 48 – 1,257
Derivative financial assets 3,163 401,451 12,201 416,815
Available for sale assets 19,919 35,287 1,277 56,483
Total assets 106,313 530,641 30,256 667,210
Trading portfolio liabilities (42,238) (8,936) (78) (51,252)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value – (82,374) (3,828) (86,202)
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts (109) (1,570) – (1,679)
Derivative financial liabilities (2,386) (391,916) (9,114) (403,416)
Total liabilities (44,733) (484,796) (13,020) (542,549)
31st December 2008
Trading portfolio assets 72,120 98,892 14,625 185,637
Financial assets designated at fair value:
– held on own account 5,129 32,340 17,073 54,542
– held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 33,554 32,495 608 66,657
Derivative financial assets 5,548 956,348 22,906 984,802
Available for sale assets 14,391 47,448 3,137 64,976
Total assets 130,742 1,167,523 58,349 1,356,614
Trading portfolio liabilities (42,777) (16,439) (258) (59,474)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value (23) (73,698) (3,171) (76,892)
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts (32,640) (35,935) (608) (69,183)
Derivative financial liabilities (3,516) (949,143) (15,413) (968,072)
Total liabilities (78,956) (1,075,215) (19,450) (1,173,621)
The table above has been compiled using the new definitions required by IFRS 7 revised and, as a result, the classifications of assets and liabilities are not
directly comparable to the Group’ s previously published tables of fair value measurement.
The following table shows the Group’ s financial assets and liabilities that are recognised and measured at fair value disaggregated by valuation techniques
and by product type.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value by product type
At 31st December 2009 Assets Liabilities
Valuation technique using Valuation technique using
Significant Significant
Quoted Observable unobservable Quoted Observable unobservable
market prices inputs inputs market prices inputs inputs
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Commercial real estate loans – – 7,170 – – –
Asset backed products – 34,779 5,840 – (6,165) (2,334)
Other credit products 1 47,202 2,020 – (47,904) (2,827)
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers – – 2,027 – – –
Non-asset backed debt instruments 72,578 66,885 3,127 (35,760) (73,371) (3,202)
Equity products 28,053 11,772 1,536 (8,788) (13,737) (1,922)
Private equity 73 176 1,978 – – –
Funds and fund-linked products 3,856 5,387 1,241 – (2,049) –
FX products – 24,885 761 – (25,159) (379)
Interest rate products 176 288,718 2,357 – (275,684) (1,775)
Commodity products 1,414 31,562 748 (76) (37,091) (581)
Other 162 19,275 1,451 (109) (3,636) –
Total 106,313 530,641 30,256 (44,733) (484,796) (13,020) 296 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Level 3 financial assets and liabilities by balance sheet classification and product type
As at 31st December 2009 Non-derivative assets Non-derivative liabilities Derivatives
Financial Financial Net
Trading assets Trading liabilities derivative
portfolio designated Available for portfolio designated financial
assets at fair value sale assets liabilities at fair value instruments
a
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Commercial real estate loans – 7,170––––
Asset backed products 1,840 423 205 (5) (63) 1,106
Other credit products – 92 – – (595) (304)
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers ––––– 2,027
Non-asset backed debt instruments 2,461 438 166 (73) (3,081) 14
Equity products 190 – 157 – – (733)
Private equity 104 1,237 637 – – –
Funds and fund-linked products 1,128 8 105 – – –
FX products ––––– 382
Interest rate products – 64 – – (25) 543
Commodity products – 12 4 – (64) 215
Other 355 1,256 3 – – (163)
Total 6,078 10,700 1,277 (78) (3,828) 3,087
Level 3 Movement Analysis
The following table summarises the movements in the level 3 balance during the year ended 31st December 2009. The table shows gains and losses and
includes amounts for all financial assets and liabilities transferred to level 3 during the year. The table does not reflect gains and losses for level 3 financial
assets and liabilities that were transferred out during the year. Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken place at the beginning of the year.
Analysis of movement in level 3 financial assets and liabilities
For the period ended 31st December 2009 Financial Financial Net
Trading assets Trading liabilities derivative
portfolio designated Available for portfolio designated financial
assets at fair value sale assets liabilities at fair value instruments
a
Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1st January 2009 14,625 17,681 3,137 (258) (3,779) 7,493 38,899
Purchases 2,021 700 459 (70) (313) 2,334 5,131
Sales (7,018) (4,875) (9) 172 690 (3,548) (14,588)
Issues – – – – (1,343) (1,718) (3,061)
Settlements (410) (804) (347) – 763 (100) (898)
T otal gains and losses in the period
Recognised in the income statement
– trading income (2,290) (3,356) – 27 1,574 (3,516) (7,561)
– other income – (434) (131) – – – (565)
T otal gains or losses recognised in 
other comprehensive income – – (103) – – – (103)
Transfers in/transfers out (850) 1,788 (1,729) 51 (1,420) 2,142 (18)
As at 31st December 2009 6,078 10,700 1,277 (78) (3,828) 3,087 17,236
The following table discloses the gains and losses recognised in the period arising on level 3 financial assets and liabilities held as at 31st December 2009.
Gains and losses recognised during the period on level 3 financial assets and liabilities held
As at 31st December 2009 Financial Financial Net
Trading assets Trading liabilities derivative
portfolio designated Available for portfolio designated financial
assets at fair value sale assets liabilities at fair value instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
T otal gains and losses held as at 31st December 2009
Recognised in the income statement
– trading income (736) (3,034) – 8 (269) (2,817) (6,848)
– other income – (452) (140) – – – (592)
T otal gains or losses recognised in 
other comprehensive income – – (65) – – – (65)
Total (736) (3,486) (205) 8 (269) (2,817) (7,505)
Note
a The derivative financial instruments in the tables above are represented on a net basis of
£3,087m. On a gross basis derivative financial assets are £12,201m, derivative financial
liabilities are £9,114m. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 297
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
The significant movements in the level 3 positions during the year ended 31st December 2009 are explained below:
– Purchases of £5.1bn were primarily composed of £1.7bn of asset backed products, £1.5bn of credit derivatives and £0.6bn of equity products.
– Sales of £14.6bn include the disposal of £7.5bn of assets backed products and Monoline exposures through the Protium transaction. 
The Crescent debt restructuring, disclosed in Note 40, resulted in the sale of £1.0bn of commercial real estate loans and there were additional sales 
of £3.8bn asset backed products and £0.6bn Monoline exposures during the period.
– Issuances of £3.1bn were driven by £1.3bn of new credit-linked notes and equity , credit and commodity derivatives of £1.7bn.
– Losses in Trading Income of £7.6bn were primarily attributable to the £4.4bn of writedowns on the credit market exposures summarised in Note 47, 
along with writedowns on other asset backed products, funds and other Monoline insurers. These were offset by gains on interest rate and commodity
products.
– Losses in Other Income of £0.6bn were driven by the writedown and impairment of commercial real estate loans.
– Transfers into level 3 were largely due to the lack of observable valuation inputs for certain securities as well as curves becoming unobservable for certain
derivative products.
– Transfers out of level 3 were principally due to unobservable valuation inputs being deemed insignificant to the overall valuation of certain instruments
particularly on investment grade asset backed products.
There were no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2.
Valuation techniques
Valuations based on observable inputs include financial instruments such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standard pricing
techniques; and options that are commonly traded in markets where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable.
Valuation models are reviewed at least annually for model performance and calibration. Current year valuation methodologies were consistent with 
the prior year unless otherwise noted below. These methodologies are commonly used by market participants.
The main products whose valuation includes unobservable inputs are described below.
Commercial real estate loans
This category includes lending on a range of commercial property types including retail, hotels, office and development properties.
The valuations are considered unobservable due to the bespoke nature of the instruments and the high level of volatility in the commercial real estate
market at present. Fair value is calculated using a risk adjusted spread based methodology performed on a loan by loan basis with consideration of
characteristics such as property type, geographic location, yields, credit quality and property performance reviews.
The valuation inputs are reviewed with reference to CMBX and CMBS bond indices. Initial spreads are sourced from market quoted origination spreads by
property type and classified into Loan-to-Value (LTV) buckets which are adjusted for internal credit rating and subordination of the loans. The internal credit
ratings used in the valuation model are subject to a monthly review process. The model is calibrated monthly based on external quotes of new origination
property type spreads and the latest internal credit ratings.
The methodology used differs to the prior period in that internal credit ratings, additional risk factors and property performance reviews are now
incorporated. The changes were made to take advantage of data that has become available and to enhance the assessment of credit risk.
Asset backed products
These are debt and derivative products that are linked to the cash flows of a pool of referenced assets. This category includes asset backed loans; CDOs
(cash underlyings); CLOs; asset backed credit derivatives; asset and mortgage backed securities.
Within this population, valuation inputs are unobservable for non-investment grade ABS; non-agency residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS)
and asset backed credit derivatives. The valuations are determined using industry standard cash flow models that calculate fair value based on loss
projections, prepayment, recovery and discount rates. These parameters are determined by reference to underlying collateral performance, independent
research, ABX indices, broker quotes, observable trades on similar securities and third party pricing sources.
The determination of parameter levels takes account of a range of factors such as deal vintage, underlying asset composition (historical losses; borrower
characteristics; various loan attributes such as loan-to-value and debt-to-income ratios and geographic concentration), credit ratings (original and current),
home price changes and interest rates.  298 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Other credit products
These products are linked to the credit spread of a referenced entity , index or basket of referenced entities. This category includes synthetic CDOs; single name
and index CDS and Nth to default basket swaps. Within this population, valuation inputs are unobservable for certain synthetic CDOs and CDS with illiquid
reference assets.
Synthetic CDOs are valued using a model that calculates fair value based on observable and unobservable parameters including credit spreads, recovery
rates, correlations and interest rates and is calibrated daily . For index and bespoke synthetic CDOs with unobservable inputs, correlation is set with reference
to index tranche market. 
CDS with illiquid reference assets are valued using an industry standard ‘hazard-type’ model that calculates fair value of the credit protection using interest
rates, credit spreads and recovery rates of the underlying issuers. Interest rates are observable and sourced from liquid interest rate instruments. Credit
spreads are unobservable and are determined with reference to recent transactions or bond spreads from observable issuances of the same issuer or other
similar obligors as a proxy . 
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers
These products comprise securities, principally CLOs, on which default protection has been purchased. Credit spreads of the counterparty providing
protection are unobservable. 
The derivative positions are valued with reference to the price of the underlying security . As the security and derivative are hedged, the net present value of
the derivative increases as the net present value of the security decreases. The derivative valuation is then adjusted to reflect the credit quality of the
counterparty.
Non-asset backed debt instruments
These are government bonds; US agency bonds; corporate bonds; commercial paper; certificates of deposit; convertible bonds; notes and other non-asset
backed bonds. Within this population, valuation inputs are unobservable for certain convertible bonds, corporate bonds and issued notes.
Convertible bonds are valued using prices observed through broker sources, market data services and trading activity . Prices are validated against liquid
external sources. Where liquid external sources are not available, fair value is determined using a spread to the equity conversion value or the value of the
bond without the additional equity conversion. The spread level is determined with reference to similar proxy assets. Positions are valued on a daily basis. 
Corporate bonds are valued on a price basis or using spreads over risk free interest rate curves built from liquid instruments. Where unobservable, bond
spreads are determined by reference to either issuances or alternatively CDS spreads of the same issuer are used as proxy inputs to obtain discounted cash
flows and accordingly the value of the bond. In the absence of observable bond or CDS spreads of the respective issuer, similar reference assets or sector
averages are applied as a proxy . 
Fixed and floating rate notes issued, in certain emerging markets, are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows. These proprietary
models calculate fair value based on observable interest rates and unobservable funding or credit spreads. The interest rates are derived from broker and
bank notes rates. Funding spreads up to five years are sourced from negotiable commercial deposit rates in the market as a proxy . Funding spreads greater
than five years are determined by applying linear extrapolation. 
Equity products
This category includes listed equities; exchange traded derivatives; OTC equity derivatives; preference shares and contracts for difference. Within this
population, valuation inputs for certain OTC equity derivatives are unobservable.
OTC equity derivatives valuation are determined using industry standard models. The models calculate fair value based on input parameters such as stock
prices, dividends, volatilities, interest rates, equity repo curves and, for multi-asset products, correlations. In general, input parameters are deemed
observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each parameter and underlying instrument. Unobservable model inputs are set by
referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques to match the risk profile of the trading portfolio. These are validated against
consensus market data services for the same or similar underlying instrument. Models are calibrated daily based on liquid market instrument prices.
Private equity
Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the ‘International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines’. This requires the use
of a number of individual pricing benchmarks such as the prices of recent transactions in the same or similar instruments, discounted cash flow analysis,
and comparison with the earnings multiples of listed comparative companies. Unobservable inputs include earnings estimates, multiples of comparative
companies, marketability discounts and discount rates. Model inputs are based on market conditions at the reporting date. The valuation of unquoted
equity instruments is subjective by nature. However, the relevant methodologies are commonly applied by other market participants and have been
consistently applied over time. Full valuations are performed bi-annually , with the portfolio reviewed on a monthly basis for material events that might
impact upon fair value.   www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 299
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Fund and fund-linked products
This category includes holdings in hedge funds; funds of funds; and fund derivatives. Fund derivatives are derivatives whose underlyings include mutual
funds, hedge funds, indices and multi-asset portfolios. They are valued using underlying fund prices, yield curves and other available market information.
In general fund holdings are valued based on the latest available valuation received from the fund administrator. Funds are deemed unobservable where the
fund is either suspended, in wind-down, has a redemption restriction that severely affects liquidity , or where the latest Net Asset Value (NA V) from the fund
administrators is more than three months old. In the case of illiquid fund holdings the valuation will take account of all available information in relation to the
underlying fund or collection of funds and may be adjusted relative to the performance of relevant index benchmarks. Prices are marked based on available
valuation data and any adjustments are reviewed on a monthly basis.
FX products
These products are derivatives linked to the foreign exchange market. This category includes Forward contracts, FX swaps and FX options.
Exotic derivatives are valued using industry standard and proprietary models. Fair value is based on input parameters that include FX rates, interest rates, FX
volatilities, interest rate volatilities, FX interest rate correlations and other model parameters. Unobservable model inputs are set by referencing liquid market
instruments and applying extrapolation techniques to match the risk profile of the trading portfolio. These are validated against consensus market data
services on a monthly basis. 
Interest rate products
These are products with a payoff linked to interest rates for example Libor (London interbank offer rate) or inflation rates and indices. This category includes
interest rate and inflation swaps; swaptions; caps; floors; inflation options; Bank of England base rate derivatives and other exotic interest rate derivatives. 
Inflation structured and property index-linked products are valued using an industry standard model. The model calculates fair value based on observable
and unobservable parameters such as inflation index levels, volatilities and correlations sourced from trading information, broker data and historical analysis.
The assumptions and inputs applied reflect observable parameters such as yield curves, interpolation adjustments for the seasonal nature of inflation and
volatility surfaces. The most significant unobservable input is correlation between inflation indices. The suitability of the models employed is reviewed on an
annual basis.
Bank of England base rate derivatives are valued using standard discounted cash flows techniques. Bank of England forward base rates are used as inputs
into the valuation model. These forward base rates are constructed from the base rate yield curve set from market data up to five years. For maturities
greater than five years, spreads to observable proxies are applied. The base rate yield curve used is updated daily .
Commodity products
These products are exchange traded and OTC derivatives based on an underlying commodity such as metals, oil and oil related, power and natural gas.
Within this population, valuation inputs of certain commodity swaps and options are unobservable.
Valuation inputs of certain commodity swaps and options are determined using models incorporating discounting of cash flows, closed form Black models
and Monte-Carlo simulation. The models calculate fair value based on inputs such as forward curves, volatility surfaces and tenor correlation. Unobservable
inputs are set with reference to similar observable products or by applying extrapolation techniques from the observable market. As markets close at
different times, curves are constructed using a spread to the primary market benchmark to ensure that all curves are valued using the dominant market
base price. 
The frequency and method used to calibrate the model is based on an assessment of observable option and swap prices.
Other 
This category is primarily made up of fixed rate loans, which are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows. These models calculate
the fair value based on observable interest rates and unobservable funding or credit spreads. Unobservable funding or credit spreads are determined by
applying linear extrapolation of observable spreads.
Fair value adjustments
The main adjustments to model or system balances to arrive at a fair value are described below:
Bid-Offer valuation adjustments
Portfolios are valued to reflect the most advantageous market price to which Barclays has immediate access. For assets and liabilities where the firm is not a
market maker, mid prices are adjusted to bid and offer prices respectively . The bid-offer adjustment factors reflect the expected close out strategy and, for
derivatives, that they are managed on a portfolio basis. The methodology for determining the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio will generally
involve netting between  long and short positions and the bucketing of risk by strike and term in accordance with hedging strategy . Bid-offer levels are
derived from market sources, such as broker data, and are reviewed periodically . For those assets and liabilities where the firm is a market maker (which is
the case for certain equity , bond and vanilla derivative markets), since the bid-offer spread does not represent a transaction cost, mid prices are used. 300 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Model valuation adjustments
New models used for valuing the firm’ s positions are reviewed under the firm’ s Model Validation Policy . This assesses the assumptions used in modelling
and recommends any model fair value adjustments. Such adjustments take account of any model limitations which may include additional model factors
such as volatility skew or uncertainties such as prepayment rates. These adjustments calibrate the carrying value to fair value. The magnitude of the
valuation adjustment is dependant on the size of portfolio, complexity of the model, whether the model is market standard and to what extent it
incorporates all known risk factors. Models and model value adjustment recommendations are subject to an annual review process. 
Credit and debit valuation adjustments
Credit Valuation Adjustments (CV As) and Debit valuation adjustments (DV As) are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on the
fair value of counterparty risk and Barclays’ own credit quality . These adjustments are modelled for OTC derivatives across all asset classes.
Probability of Default (PD) and Loss Given Default (LGD) are applied to expected exposures at a counterparty level to arrive at a CV A and DV A adjustment.
Monoline credit valuation adjustments
Expected exposure is calculated by simulating default losses on the underlying assets, calibrated to market observable parameters and forward looking
market research. This exposure is then adjusted for any spread between prices derived from observable proxies and expected exposure based on the PD or
regulatory intervention.
The PD used to calculate the CV A is derived from external ratings cross referenced to internal default grades and is based on internal simulations of credit-
factor indices by region and industry designations, calibrated to historical time-series and forecast on the basis of current values. The LGD used to calculate
the CV A is a function of available historical data, the monoline’ s credit quality and risk concentration.
Other credit and debit valuation adjustments
CV As and DV As for non Monoline exposures are calculated using Monte-Carlo simulation to generate an expected exposure profile. The expected exposure
is calculated at a counterparty level after netting and collateral are applied. 
For counterparties with an observable credit market, the PD and LGD are derived from single name credit default swap prices. For all other counterparties,
PDs are derived from a combination of industry curves; indices; and loan/note pricing taking into account geographic factors, internal credit ratings, loss
assumptions and ratings agency data. Where the curve is unobservable and the CV A is significant to the overall value of the underlying derivative, the full
value of the derivative and its associated credit valuation adjustment has been deemed unobservable.
CV As are not incorporated into the fair value of certain counterparties where the market does not apply a credit charge. The categories of counterparties
excluded are as follows:
– Strongly collateralised counterparties – this is any counterparty with a collateral agreement with minimum weekly calls and the collateral threshold plus
minimum transfer amount below a defined level;
– Certain highly-rated sovereigns, supra-nationals and government agencies; and
– Liquidity providers – when trading on the interbank market with certain collateralised market making counterparties no counterparty spreads are applied.
Where counterparty credit quality and exposure to that counterparty are linked, wrong way risk may arise. In these instances, wrong way risk suggests that
exposure to the counterparty is likely to increase as counterparty credit quality deteriorates. Exposure to ‘wrong way risk’ is limited via internal governance
processes and deal pricing.
Own credit adjustments
The carrying amount of issued notes that are designated under the IAS 39 fair value option is adjusted to reflect the effect of changes in own credit spreads.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
For funded instruments such as issued notes, credit spreads on Barclays issued bonds represent the most appropriate basis for this adjustment. However,
from 30th September 2007 to 30th June 2009, Barclays credit default swap spreads were used to calculate the carrying amount of issued notes, since there
were insufficient observable own credit spreads through secondary trading prices in issued bonds. From 1st July 2009, the carrying amount of issued notes
has been calculated using credit spreads derived from secondary trading in Barclays issued bonds.
At 31st December 2009, the own credit adjustment arose from the fair valuation of £61.5bn of Barclays Capital structured notes (31st December 2008:
£54.5bn). Barclays credit spreads improved during 2009, leading to a loss of £1,820m (2008: gain £1,663m) from the fair value of changes in own credit.
If Barclays had calculated the carrying amount of issued notes using credit default swap spreads at 31st December 2009, the fair value of changes in own
credit would have been a loss of £2,448m in the year. 
Barclays Capital also uses credit default swap spreads to determine the impact of Barclays own credit quality on the fair value of derivative liabilities. 
At 31st December 2009, cumulative adjustments of £307m (31st December 2008: £1,176m) were netted against derivative liabilities. The impact of 
these adjustments in both periods was more than offset by the impact of the credit valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty creditworthiness that
were netted against derivative assets.  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 301
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs
The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price (the fair value at initial recognition) and the
amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less amounts subsequently recognised,
was as follows:
Y ear ended 31st December 2009 2008
£m £m
Opening balance 128 154
Additions 39 77
Amortisation and releases (68) (103)
Closing balance 99 128
Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs
At 31st December 2009 Fair value Favourable changes Unfavourable change
Total Total Profit Profit
assets liabilities and loss Equity and loss Equity
Product type £m £m £m £m £m £m
Commercial real estate loans 7,170 – 429 – (437) –
Asset backed products 5,840 (2,334) 175 4 (175) (4)
Other credit products 2,020 (2,827) 171 – (152) –
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers 2,027 – 336 – (532) –
Non-asset backed debt instruments 3,127 (3,202) 145 2 (141) (2)
Equity products 1,536 (1,922) 28 15 (28) (15)
Private equity 1,978 – 267 73 (339) (95)
Funds and fund-linked products 1,241 – 100 – (100) –
FX products 761 (379) 33 – (33) –
Interest rate products 2,357 (1,775) 78 – (78) –
Commodity products 748 (581) 36 – (36) –
Other 1,451 – 52 – (52) –
Total 30,256 (13,020) 1,850 94 (2,103) (116)
As part of risk management processes, an analysis is performed on unobservable parameters to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative
valuations. 
The effect of stressing the unobservable assumptions to a range of reasonably possible alternatives would be to increase the fair values by up to £1.9bn
(2008: £2.4bn) or to decrease the fair values by up to £2.2bn (2008: £3bn) with substantially all the potential effect impacting profit or loss rather than
equity . The metric has not been offset for the effect of hedging.
The stresses applied take account of the nature of valuation techniques used, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historic data.
In all cases, an assessment is made to determine the suitability of available data. The sensitivity methodologies are based on a range, standard deviation
or spread data of a reliable reference source or a scenario based on alternative market views. The level of shift or scenarios applied is considered for each
product and varied according to the quality of the data and variability of underlying market. The approach adopted in determining these sensitivities has
evolved during the year, in the context of changing market conditions.
Commercial real estate loans
The unobservable inputs include but are not limited to market quoted origination spreads, internal credit ratings and subordination of the loans. The sensitivity
is determined by applying a +/- 6% shift for each underlying position based on the largest upward and downward price movement of observable published
indices of a similar nature in the preceding 12-month period.
Asset backed products
For non-agency RMBS and non-investment grade ABS, sensitivity is calculated on the price movement on observable ABX.HE indices. For asset backed
credit derivatives, sensitivity is calculated on price movements within the ABX.HE.AAA indices. Sensitivity is based on the average of the largest price
movement upward and the largest price movement downward in the preceding 12-month period.  302 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
50 Fair value of financial instruments continued
Other credit products
Sensitivity of synthetic CDOs is determined by using valuations based on different assumptions for recovery and tranche mapping. The sensitivity
represents the impact of the application of different modelling assumptions. These model assumptions change the distribution of losses on the trades.
The sensitivity of valuations of the illiquid CDS portfolio is determined by applying a +/- 0.5% stress to the DV01 for each underlying reference asset. 
The stress is based upon the average bid offer spreads observed in the market for similar CDS.
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers
The main unobservable input in the valuation of the derivative exposure to Monoline insurers is the credit quality of the Monoline insurers. The approach 
to determine downside sensitivity is dependent on the credit quality of the Monoline insurer. For higher quality Monoline insurers a shift in internal credit
ratings has been applied. For lower quality Monoline insurers the impact has been assessed by a shift to default and recovery rates. The recovery rate was
set to 10% and risk of default to 100%. T o assess the upside risk to Monoline insurers, the underlying assets were flexed by 3%, based on the average
monthly move for the LCDX index over the preceding 12-month period.
Non-asset backed debt instruments
The sensitivity on convertible bonds, is determined by applying a +/- 1% shift for each underlying value. The shift is based upon the bid offer spreads
observed in the market for similar bonds.
The sensitivity on corporate bonds portfolio is determined by applying a +/- 1% shift for each underlying value. The shift is based upon the average bid 
offer spreads observed in the market for similar bonds. 
The sensitivity for fixed and floating rate notes is calculated using a +/- 1% shift in credit spreads.
Equity products
The sensitivity is estimated based on the statistical spread of consensus data services either directly or through proxies. The estimate has been calculated
using 1 standard deviation of the consensus returns. 
Private equity
The relevant valuation models are sensitive to each of the key assumptions, such as projected future earnings, comparator multiples, marketability
discounts and discount rates. Valuation sensitivity is estimated by flexing such assumptions to reasonable alternative levels and determining the impact 
to the outcome of the valuation, for example comparator multiples for a range of similar companies. 
Fund and fund-linked products
The sensitivity measure is based on observing the largest monthly move in the main hedge fund index (HFRX) over the prior two-year period.
FX products
The sensitivity is based on the statistical spread of consensus data services. The estimate has been calculated using consensus data service statistical
standard deviation and this represents 2 standard deviations of the mid correlations.
Interest rate products
For inflation products, the sensitivity is calculated by stressing the correlation parameters. The sensitivity was determined by applying a +/- 8% shift to 
the correlation risks and this was based on the historical observation of correlation levels over the preceeding month.
For base rate derivatives, the sensitivity is based on bid offer spreads of base rates swaps. The sensitivity was determined by applying a +/- 0.125% shift
to the PV01 for each underlying position. 
Commodity products
The sensitivity is determined by applying values based on historic variability over two years. The estimate has been calculated using data for shortdated
forward volatility curves to generate a best and worst case likely scenario. The sensitivities are based on a 25% probability of occurrence over two years, 
and taking 50% of the difference between the best and worst multiplied by exposure to the relevant risk factor. 
Other 
The sensitivity for fixed rate loans is calculated using a +/- 1% shift in credit spreads.
Valuation control framework
The independent price verification process is a key control in ensuring the material accuracy of valuation. Price verification procedures cover all fair value
positions. Data sources that are most representative of the market and readily available are used. The data sources are assessed against the following
characteristics: independence; reliability; consistency between sources and evidence that it represents executable levels. This control process assists in
the determination of whether market levels represent forced transactions which should not be considered in the assessment of fair value. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 303
51 Reclassification of financial assets held for trading
On 25th November 2009 the Group reclassified certain financial assets, originally classified as held for trading that were deemed to be no longer held for
trading purposes, and thus considered as loans and receivables. The reclassified assets comprised Collateralised Loan Obligations (CLOs) against which
the Group held credit protection with monoline counterparties rated below investment grade. 
As at the 25th November, the assets had a carrying value of £8,027m. The effective interest rates on these assets ranged from 0.50% to 2.99% with
undiscounted interest and principal cash flows of £8,769m.
In the period prior to reclassification, £1,500m of fair value gains were recognised in the consolidated income statement. Since the 25th November,
paydowns and maturities of £26m along with foreign exchange movements on the assets and accrued interest resulted in a carrying value as at
31st December 2009 of £8,099m.
The carrying value of the securities reclassified during 2008 into loans and receivables has decreased from £3,986m to £1,279m primarily as a result
of paydowns and maturities of the underlying securities of £2,733m. No impairment has been identified on these securities.
The following table provides a summary of the assets reclassified from held for trading to loans and advances.
As at 31st December As at 31st December 
2009 2008
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
£m £m £m £m
Trading assets reclassified to loans and receivables
Reclassification 25th November 2009 8,099 7,994 ––
Reclassification 16th December 2008 1,279 1,335 3,986 3,984 
Total financial assets reclassified to loans and receivables 9,378 9,329 3,986 3,984
If the reclassifications had not been made, the Group's income statement for 2009 would have included net losses on the reclassified trading assets
of £49m (2008: £2m).
After reclassification, the reclassified financial assets contributed £192m (2008: £4m) to interest income.
52 Capital Management
Barclays operates a centralised capital management model, considering both regulatory and economic capital. The capital management strategy is to
continue to maximise shareholder value through optimising both the level and mix of capital resources. Decisions on the allocation of capital resources
are conducted as part of the strategic planning review. 
The Group’ s capital management objectives are to:
– maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital requirements set by the FSA and the US Federal Reserve Bank’ s requirements
that a financial holding company be well capitalised;
– maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Group’ s risk appetite and economic capital requirements;
– support the Group’ s credit rating;
– ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital requirements; and
– allocate capital to businesses to support the Group’ s strategic objectives, including optimising returns on economic and regulatory capital.
External regulatory capital requirements
The Group is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), following guidelines developed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee) and implemented in the UK via European Union Directives.
Under Basel II, effective from 1st January 2008, the Group has approval by the FSA to use the advanced approaches to credit and operational risk
management. Pillar 1 capital requirements are generated using the Group’ s risk models.
Under Pillar 2 of Basel II, the Group is subject to an overall regulatory capital requirement based on individual capital guidance (‘ICG’) received from the FSA.
The ICG imposes additional capital requirements in excess of Pillar 1 minimum capital. 304 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
52 Capital Management continued
Outside the UK, the Group has operations (and main regulators) located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany , Spain, Portugal and Italy (local
central banks and other regulatory authorities); Asia Pacific (various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority , the Japanese FSA
and the Monetary Authority of Singapore); Africa, where the Group’ s operations are headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa (The South African Reserve
Bank and the Financial Services Board (FSB)) and the United States of America (the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) and the
Securities and Exchange Commission).
The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those Group entities that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual countries
meet their minimum capital requirements. Local management manages compliance with subsidiary entity minimum regulatory capital requirements with
reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees and to Treasury Committee, as required.
Regulatory capital 
The table below provides details of the regulatory capital resources managed by the Group.
Basel ll Basel II
2009 2008
£m £m
Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 49,637 37,250
Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 14,703 22,333
Total deductions (880) (856)
Total net capital resources 63,460 58,727
53 Segmental reporting
The following section analyses the Group’ s performance by business. For management reporting purposes during 2009, Barclays was organised into the
following business groupings:
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
– UK Retail Banking 
– Barclays Commercial Bank 
– Barclaycard
– GRCB – Western Europe
– GRCB – Emerging Markets
– GRCB – Absa
Investment Banking and Investment Management
– Barclays Capital 
– Barclays Global Investors
– Barclays Wealth
Head Office Functions and Other Operations
UK Retail Banking 
UK Retail Banking comprises Personal Customers, Home Finance, Local Business, Consumer Lending and Barclays Financial Planning. This cluster of businesses
aims to build broader and deeper relationships with its Personal and Local Business customers through providing a wide range of products and financial services.
Personal Customers and Home Finance provide access to current account and savings products, W oolwich branded mortgages and general insurance.
Consumer Lending provides unsecured loan and protection products and Barclays Financial Planning provides investment advice and products. Local Business
provides banking services, including money transmission, to small businesses. 
Barclays Commercial Bank
Barclays Commercial Bank provides banking services to organisations with an annual turnover of more than £1m. Customers are served via a network 
of relationship and industry sector specialists, which provides solutions constructed from a comprehensive suite of banking products, support, expertise
and services, including specialist asset financing and leasing facilities. Customers are also offered access to the products and expertise of other businesses
in the Group, particularly Barclays Capital, Barclaycard and Barclays Wealth. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 305
53 Segmental reporting continued
Barclaycard
Barclaycard is a multi-brand credit card and consumer lending business which also processes card payments for retailers and merchants and issues credit
and charge cards to corporate customers and the UK Government. It is one of Europe’ s leading credit card businesses and has an increasing presence in the
United States and South Africa.
In the UK, Barclaycard comprises Barclaycard UK Cards, Barclaycard Partnerships, Barclays Partner Finance and FirstPlus.
Outside the UK, Barclaycard provides credit cards in the United States, Germany , South Africa (through management of the Absa credit card portfolio)
and in the Scandinavian region, where Barclaycard operates through Entercard, a joint venture with Swedbank.
Barclaycard works closely with other parts of the Group, including UK Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank and GRCB – Western Europe and 
GRCB – Emerging Markets, to leverage their distribution capabilities.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Western Europe
GRCB – Western Europe encompasses Barclays Global Retail and Commercial Banking, as well as Barclaycard operations, in Spain, Italy , Portugal, France
and Russia. GRCB – Western Europe serves customers through a variety of distribution channels. GRCB – Western Europe provides a variety of products
including retail mortgages, current and deposit accounts, commercial lending, unsecured lending, credit cards, investments, and insurance serving the
needs of Barclays retail, mass affluent, and corporate customers. 
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Emerging Markets 
GRCB – Emerging Markets serves retail and commercial banking customers in Botswana, Egypt, Ghana, India, Kenya, Mauritius, Pakistan, Seychelles,
T anzania, Uganda, the UAE, Zambia, Indonesia and Zimbabwe. Through a network of more than 683 distribution points and 1,023 A TMs, we provide 
3.7 million customers and clients with a full range of products and services. This includes current accounts, savings, investments, mortgages and 
secured and unsecured lending.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Absa 
GRCB – Absa represents Barclays consolidation of Absa, excluding Absa Capital and Absa Card and Absa Wealth which is included as part of Barclays Capital,
Barclaycard and Barclays Wealth respectively . Absa Group Limited is a South African financial services organisation serving personal, commercial and
corporate customers predominantly in South Africa. GRCB – Absa serves retail customers through a variety of distribution channels and offers a full range of
banking services, including current and deposit accounts, mortgages, instalment finance, credit cards, bancassurance products and wealth management
services. It also offers customised business solutions for commercial and large corporate customers. 
Barclays Capital
Barclays Capital is the investment banking division of Barclays that provides large corporate, institutional and government clients with solutions to their
financing and risk management needs.
Barclays Capital services a wide variety of client needs, covering strategic advisory and M&A; equity and fixed income capital raising and corporate lending;
and risk management across foreign exchange, interest rates, equities and commodities.
Activities are organised into three principal areas: Global Markets, which includes commodities, credit products, equities, foreign exchange, interest rate
products; Investment Banking, which includes corporate advisory , Mergers and Acquisitions, equity and fixed-income capital raising and corporate lending;
and Private Equity and Principal Investments. Barclays Capital includes Absa Capital, the investment banking business of Absa. Barclays Capital works
closely with all other parts of the Group to leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities.
Barclays Global Investors
The majority of the BGI business, which was previously reported as a separate business segment, was sold on 1st December 2009 to BlackRock, Inc. and
represents the Group’ s discontinued operations. The continuing operations of BGI disclosed in the segmental analysis represent residual obligations under
the cash support arrangements and associated liquidity support charges and, from 1st December 2009, include the Group’ s 19.9% ongoing economic
interest in BlackRock, Inc. This investment is accounted for as an available for sale equity investment, with no dividends being received during 2009.
Barclays Wealth
Barclays Wealth focuses on private and intermediary clients worldwide providing international and private banking, fiduciary services, investment
management, and brokerage. 
Barclays Wealth works closely with all other parts of the Group to leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities.
Head Office Functions and Other Operations
Head Office Functions and Other Operations comprises head office and central support functions, businesses in transition and inter-segment adjustments.
Head office and central support functions comprises the following areas: Executive Management, Finance, Treasury , Corporate Affairs, Human Resources,
Strategy and Planning, Internal Audit, Legal, Corporate Secretariat, Property , T ax, Compliance and Risk. Costs incurred wholly on behalf of the businesses
are recharged to them.
Businesses in transition principally relate to certain lending portfolios that are centrally managed with the objective of maximising recovery from the assets. 306 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
53 Segmental reporting continued
As at 31st December 2009 Barclays Head office
UK Com- GRCB – GRCB – Barclays functions T otal
Retail mercial Barclay- Western Emerging GRCB – Barclays Global Barclays and other Continuing
Banking Bank card Europe Markets Absa Capital Investors
a
Wealth operations Operations
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest income from 
external customers 2,421 1,568 2,573 1,083 765 1,385 1,002 (37) 470 688 11,918
Other income from 
external customers 1,550 1,096 1,456 640 280 1,166 10,097 76 966 (122) 17,205
Income from external
customers, net of
insurance claims 3,971 2,664 4,029 1,723 1,045 2,551 11,099 39 1,436 566 29,123
Inter-segment income 14 89 13 – – (2) 526 1 (103) (538) –
Total income net of 
insurance claims 3,985 2,753 4,042 1,723 1,045 2,549 11,625 40 1,333 28 29,123
Impairment charges and 
other credit provisions (936) (974) (1,798) (667) (471) (567) (2,591) – (51) (16) (8,071)
Segment expenses – external (2,187) (838) (1,440) (1,318) (934) (1,743) (6,559) 2 (1,015) (683) (16,715)
Inter-segment expenses (253) (192) (54) 205 82 274 (33) (19) (123) 113 –
Total expenses (2,440) (1,030) (1,494) (1,113) (852) (1,469) (6,592) (17) (1,138) (570) (16,715)
Share of post-tax  results
of associates and 
joint ventures 3 – 8 4 – (4) 22 – – 1 34
Profit on disposal of 
subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures – – 3 157 24 (3) – (1) 1 7 188
Gains on acquisitions ––– 26–––––– 26
Business segment 
profit before tax 612 749 761 130 (254) 506 2,464 22 145 (550) 4,585
Additional information
Depreciation and 
amortisation 146 69 133 110 77 143 452 – 51 25 1,206
Impairment loss 
– intangible assets 41 17112 – – –1 27
Impairment of goodwill – 1–––––––– 1
Investments in associates 
and joint ventures 2 (1) (5) 88 – 34 170 – – 134 422
Total assets 105,228 75,547 30,220 64,185 11,874 45,8241,019,120 5,406 15,095 6,430 1,378,929
Total liabilities 102,934 68,108 5,543 48,049 9,836 25,769 951,192 416 41,648 66,956 1,320,451
Note
a The discontinued operations of the Barclays Global Investors business are disclosed in Note 39. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 307
53 Segmental reporting continued
As at 31st December 2008 Barclays Head office
UK Com- GRCB – GRCB – Barclays functions T otal
Retail mercial Barclay- Western Emerging GRCB – Barclays Global Barclays and other Continuing
Banking Bank card Europe
b
Markets
b
Absa Capital Investors
a
Wealth operations Operations
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest income from 
external customers 2,816 1,589 1,677 831 621 1,223 2,026 (52) 496 242 11,469
Other income from 
external customers 1,702 1,068 1,492 627 373 946 2,989 (26) 914 (355) 9,730
Income from external 
customers, net of 
insurance claims 4,518 2,657 3,169 1,458 994 2,169 5,015 (78) 1,410 (113) 21,199
Inter-segment income (36) 88 50 (3) – 29 216 6 (86) (264) –
Total income net of 
insurance claims 4,482 2,745 3,219 1,455 994 2,198 5,231 (72) 1,324 (377) 21,199
Impairment charges and 
other credit provisions (602) (414) (1,097) (297) (165) (347) (2,423) – (44) (30) (5,419)
Segment expenses – external (2,138) (934) (1,405) (1,139) (825) (1,576) (3,789) (256) (809) (520) (13,391)
Inter-segment expenses (381) (129) (17) 179 137 271 15 (18) (126) 69 –
Total expenses (2,519) (1,063) (1,422) (960) (688) (1,305) (3,774) (274) (935) (451) (13,391)
Share of post-tax results 
of associates and 
joint ventures 8 (2) (3) – – 5 6 – – – 14
Profit on disposal of  
subsidiaries,associates 
and joint ventures ––––– 1 –– 326– 327
Gains on acquisitions – – 92 52 – – 2,262 – – – 2,406
Business segment 
profit before tax 1,369 1,266 789 250 141 552 1,302 (346) 671 (858) 5,136
Additional information
Depreciation and 
amortisation 111 69 114 75 52 117 272 1 40 31 882
Impairment loss  
– intangible assets –––––– –– (3) – (3)
Impairment of goodwill – – 37 – – – 74 1 – – 112
Investments in associates 
and joint ventures 1 (3) (13) – – 84 150 – – 122 341
Total assets 101,384 84,029 30,925 65,519 13,866 40,391 1 ,629,117 71,340 13,263 3,146 2,052,980
Total liabilities 104,640 64,997 3,004 37,632 10,135 20,720 1 ,603,093 68,372 45,846 47,130 2,005,569
Notes
a The discontinued operations of the Barclays Global Investors business are disclosed in Note 39.
b Figures have been restated for Barclays Russia, which was transferred from GRCB – Emerging Markets to
GRCB – Western Europe during 2009. 308 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 st December 2009
continued
53 Segmental reporting continued
As at 31st December 2007 Barclays Head office
UK Com- GRCB – GRCB – Barclays functions T otal
Retail mercial Barclay- Western Emerging GRCB – Barclays Global Barclays and other Continuing
Banking Bank card Europe Markets Absa Capital Investors
a
Wealth operations Operations
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest income from 
external customers 2,725 1,624 1,303 472 344 1,140 1,536 (14) 453 15 9,598
Other income from 
external customers 1,652 922 1,086 474 189 832 5,398 (27) 890 30 11,446
Income from external 
customers, net of 
insurance claims 4,377 2,546 2,389 946 533 1,972 6,934 (41) 1,343 45 21,044
Inter-segment income (80) 18 141 (9) – 27 185 11 (56) (237) –
Total income net of 
insurance claims 4,297 2,564 2,530 937 533 1,999 7,119 (30) 1,287 (192) 21,044
Impairment charges and 
other credit provisions (559) (292) (827) (76) (39) (146) (846) – (7) (3) (2,795)
Segment expenses – external (2,154) (785) (1,079) (859) (553) (1,518) (3,989) (77) (829) (253) (12,096)
Inter-segment expenses (316) (144) (14) 186 158 251 16 (12) (144) 19 –
Total expenses (2,470) (929) (1,093) (673) (395) (1,267) (3,973) (89) (973) (234) (12,096)
Share of post-tax results 
of associates and 
joint ventures 7 – (7) – 1 6 35 – – – 42
Profit on disposal of 
subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures – 14– 8– 5 ––– 1 28
Business segment 
profit before tax 1,275 1,357 603 196 100 597 2,335 (119) 307 (428) 6,223
Additional information
Depreciation and 
amortisation 101 33 79 42 30 121 181 – 18 26 631
Impairment loss  
– intangible assets – 13––– 1 –––– 14
Investments in associates 
and joint ventures (7) 1 (8) – – 108 171 – – 112 377
T otal assets 88,477 74,566 22,121 43,702 9,188 36,368 839,850 89,218 18,188 5,683 1,227,361
T otal liabilities 101,516 66,251 1,952 24,004 7,507 17,176 811,704 87,096 44,152 33,527 1,194,885
Revenue by products and services
Details of revenue from external customers by product or service are disclosed in Notes 2 to 6 on pages 212 and 213.
Geographical information
(i) A geographical analysis of revenues from external customers is presented below:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m `
Continuing operations
Attributed to the UK 12,850 11,958 12,744
Other European Union 4,397 3,514 3,232
United States 5,547 (471) 1,119
South Africa 2,980 2,618 2,374 
Other Africa 917 1,015 814
Rest of the World 2,432 2,565 761
Total 29,123 21,199 21,044
Discontinued operations
Attributed to the UK 432 319 383
Other European Union 100 119 142
United States 1,084 1,181 1,090
Rest of the World 247 297 341
There are no individual countries included in Other European Union, Other Africa, or Rest of the World contributing more than 5% of income from 
external customers.
Note
a The discontinued operations of the Barclays Global Investors business are disclosed in Note 39. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 309
Barclays Bank PLC data
310 Consolidated income statement
311 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
312 Consolidated balance sheet
313 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
314 Consolidated cash flow statement
315 Notes to the accounts
324 Financial data 310 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
Notes £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Interest income a 21,236 28,010 25,296
Interest expense a (9,567) (16,595) (15,707)
Net interest income 11,669 11,415 9,589
Fee and commission income b 9,946 7,573 6,745
Fee and commission expense b (1,528) (1,082) (970)
Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,775
Net trading income c 6,994 1,270 3,754
Net investment income c 283 680 1,216
Principal transactions 7,277 1,950 4,970
Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,172 1,090 1,011
Other income f 1,389 444 222
T otal income 29,925 21,390 21,567
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 (831) (237) (492)
T otal income net of insurance claims 29,094 21,153 21,075
Impairment charges and other credit provisions 7 (8,071) (5,419) (2,795)
Net income 21,023 15,734 18,280
Staff costs 8 (9,948) (7,204) (7,611)
Administration and general expenses d (5,558) (5,301) (3,854)
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 23 (759) (606) (453)
Amortisation of intangible assets 22 (447) (276) (178)
Operating expenses (16,712) (13,387) (12,096)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 34 14 42
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 188 327 28
Gains on acquisitions 40 26 2,406 –
Profit before tax 4,559 5,094 6,254
Tax e (1,047) (449) (1,699)
Profit after tax from continuing operations 3,512 4,645 4,555
Discontinued operations
Profit after tax for the year from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571
Net profit for the year 10,289 5,249 5,126
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent from:
Continuing operations 3,228 4,259 4,218
Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531
Total 9,993 4,846 4,749
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 296 403 377
10,289 5,249 5,126
The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 212 to 308, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 315 to 323. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 311
Barclays Bank PLC data
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Net profit for the year 10,289 5,249 5,126
Other comprehensive income:
Continuing operations
Currency translation differences (853) 2,233 34
Available for sale financial assets 1,320 (1,577) (94)
Cash flow hedges 165 376 359
Other (1) (56) 22
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income (26) 851 40
Other comprehensive income for the year , net of tax from continuing operations 605 1,827 361
Other comprehensive income for the year , net of tax from discontinued operations (58) 114 26
Total comprehensive income for the year 10,836 7,190 5,513
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Parent 10,286 6,654 5,135
Non-controlling interests 550 536 378
10,836 7,190 5,513 312 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31st December 2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019
Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,593 1,695
Trading portfolio assets g 151,395 185,646
Financial assets designated at fair value:
– held on own account 13 41,311 54,542
– held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,257 66,657
Derivative financial instruments 14 416,815 984,802
Loans and advances to banks 15 41,135 47,707
Loans and advances to customers 15 420,224 461,815
Available for sale financial investments h 56,651 65,016
Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 143,431 130,354
Other assets 18 6,358 6,302
Current tax assets 349 389
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 422 341
Goodwill 21 6,232 7,625
Intangible assets 22 2,563 2,777
Property , plant and equipment 23 5,626 4,674
Deferred tax assets 19 2,303 2,668
Total assets 1,379,148 2,053,029
Liabilities
Deposits from banks 76,446 114,910
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,466 1,635
Customer accounts 322,455 335,533
Trading portfolio liabilities 12 51,252 59,474
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 86,202 76,892
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,679 69,183
Derivative financial instruments 14 403,416 968,072
Debt securities in issue 135,902 153,426
Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 198,781 182,285
Other liabilities 25 12,101 12,640
Current tax liabilities 964 1,215
Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 2,140 2,152
Subordinated liabilities 27 25,816 29,842
Deferred tax liabilities 19 470 304
Provisions 28 590 535
Retirement benefit liabilities 30 769 1,357
Total liabilities 1,320,449 2,009,455
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital i 2,402 2,398
Share premium account i 12,092 12,060
Other reserves j 1,783 1,723
Other shareholders’ equity k 2,559 2,564
Retained earnings j 37,089 22,457
Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests 55,925 41,202
Non-controlling interests l 2,774 2,372
Total shareholders’ equity 58,699 43,574
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 1,379,148 2,053,029
The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 212 to 308, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 315 to 323.
These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 9th March 2010. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 313
Barclays Bank PLC data
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Other
reserves
b
Share capital and Non-
and share shareholders’ Retained controlling Total
premium
a
equity earnings
c
Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1st January 2009 14,458 4,287 22,457 41,202 2,372 43,574
Net profit for the year – – 9,993 9,993 296 10,289
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences – (1,138) – (1,138) 285 (853)
Available for sale financial assets – 1,334 – 1,334 (14) 1,320
Cash flow hedges – 194 – 194 (29) 165
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income – (209) 171 (38) 12 (26)
Other – – (1) (1) – (1)
Other comprehensive income net of tax from 
discontinued operations – (75) 17 (58) – (58)
Total comprehensive income – 106 10,180 10,286 550 10,836
Issue of new ordinary shares 25 – – 25 – 25
Issue of new preference shares ––––––
Equity settled share schemes – – 298 298 – 298
Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes – – (80) (80) – (80)
Capital injection from Barclays PLC – – 4,850 4,850 – 4,850
Dividends paid – – (103) (103) (132) (235)
Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity – – (599) (599) – (599)
Net increase/ decrease in non-controlling interest arising on acquisitions, 
disposals and capital issuances – – – – (82) (82)
Other 11 (51) 86 46 66 112
Balance at 31st December 2009 14,494 4,342 37,089 55,925 2,774 58,699
Balance at 1st January 2008 13,133 2,517 14,222 29,872 1,949 31,821
Net profit for the year – – 4,846 4,846 403 5,249
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences – 2,174 – 2,174 59 2,233
Available for sale financial assets – (1,575) – (1,575) (2) (1,577)
Cash flow hedges – 271 – 271 105 376
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income – 926 (46) 880 (29) 851
Other – – (56) (56) – (56)
Other comprehensive income net of tax from 
discontinued operations – 124 (10) 114 – 114
Total comprehensive income – 1,920 4,734 6,654 536 7,190
Issue of new ordinary shares 16 – – 16 – 16
Issue of new preference shares 1,309 – – 1,309 – 1,309
Equity settled share schemes – – 463 463 – 463
Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes – – (437) (437) – (437)
Capital injection from Barclays PLC – – 5,137 5,137 – 5,137
Dividends paid – – (1,160) (1,160) (134) (1,294)
Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity – – (502) (502) – (502)
Net increase/ decrease in non-controlling interest arising on acquisitions, 
disposals and capital issuances – – – – 4 4
Other – (150) – (150) 17 (133)
Balance at 31st December 2008 14,458 4,287 22,457 41,202 2,372 43,574
Notes
a Details of share capital and share premium are shown in Note i.
b Details of other reserves are shown in Note j.
c Details of retained earnings are shown in Note j. 314 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Continuing operations 
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 4,559 5,094 6,254
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Allowance for impairment 8,071 5,419 2,795
Depreciation and amortisation and impairment of property , plant, equipment and intangibles 1,196 885 651
Other provisions, including pensions 428 804 753
Net profit from associates and joint ventures (34) (14) (42)
Net profit on disposal of investments and property , plant and equipment (610) (371) (862)
Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 3 – (26)
Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries (191) (327) (2)
Net gains on acquisitions (26) (2,406) –
Other non-cash movements 4,255 994 (1,519)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Net decrease/(increase) in loans and advances to banks and customers 25,482 (58,432) (77,987)
Net (decrease)/increase in deposits and debt securities in issue (49,014) 76,886 91,451
Net decrease/(increase) in derivative financial instruments 3,321 (17,529) (2,144)
Net decrease/(increase) in trading assets 34,292 26,945 (18,245)
Net decrease in trading liabilities (8,222) (5,928) (6,472)
Net increase/(decrease) in financial investments 20,459 5,229 (4,379)
Net (increase)/ decrease in other assets (465) (3,013) 1,113
Net decrease in other liabilities (907) (492) (1,056)
T ax paid (1,176) (1,398) (1,254)
Net cash from operating activities 41,421 32,346 (10,971)
Purchase of available for sale financial investments (78,420) (57,756) (26,947)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale financial investments 88,931 51,429 38,423
Net addition of intangible assets (226) (666) (227)
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (1,150) (1,643) (1,182)
Proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment 372 799 617
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (28) (961) (270)
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 339 238 383
Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash acquired 2,469 ––
Increase in investment in subsidiaries – (157) (668)
Decrease in investment in subsidiaries – 19 57
Acquisition of associates and joint ventures (81) (96) (220)
Disposal of associates and joint ventures 69 137 145
Other cash flows associated with investing activities (15) (5) 153
Net cash from investing activities 12,260 (8,662) 10,264
Dividends paid (590) (1,446) (3,010)
Proceeds from borrowings and issuance of debt securities 3,549 9,645 4,646
Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities (4,383) (1,207) (683)
Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 14 1,339 1,355
Capital injection from Barclays PLC 800 5,137 1,434
Net issues of shares to non-controlling interests – 11 199
Net cash from financing activities (610) 13,479 3,941
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2,864) (6,018) (641)
Net cash from discontinued operations (376) 286 83
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 49,831 31,431 2,676
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 64,509 33,078 30,402
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 114,340 64,509 33,078
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019 5,801
Loans and advances to banks 41,135 47,707 40,120
Less: non-cash amounts and amounts with original maturity greater than three months (10,674) (15,428) (19,376)
30,461 32,279 20,744
Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 56,483 64,976 43,256
Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months (54,239) (62,876) (41,872)
2,244 2,100 1,384
Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637 193,726
Less: non-cash and amounts with maturity greater than three months (151,192) (185,526) (188,591)
152 111 5,135
Other – –14
114,340 64,509 33,078 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 315
Barclays Bank PLC data
Notes to the accounts
a Net interest income
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Cash and balances with central banks 131 174 145
Available for sale investments 1,937 2,355 2,580
Loans and advances to banks 513 1,267 1,416
Loans and advances to customers 18,456 23,754 19,559
Other 199 460 1,596
Interest income 21,236 28,010 25,296
Deposits from banks (634) (2,189) (2,720)
Customer accounts (2,720) (6,714) (4,110)
Debt securities in issue (4,134) (5,947) (6,651)
Subordinated liabilities (1,718) (1,349) (878)
Other (361) (396) (1,348)
Interest expense (9,567) (16,595) (15,707)
Net interest income 11,669 11,415 9,589
Interest income includes £185m (2008: £135m, 2007: £113m) accrued on impaired loans. 
Other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements. Similarly , other interest expense principally includes
interest expense relating to repurchase agreements and hedging activity .
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14.
b Net fee and commission income
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Fee and commission income
Brokerage fees 88 56 78
Investment management fees 133 120 122
Banking and credit related fees and commissions 9,578 7,208 6,367
Foreign exchange commissions 147 189 178
Fee and commission income 9,946 7,573 6,745
Fee and commission expense (1,528) (1,082) (970)
Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,775
c Principal transactions
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Net trading income 6,994 1,270 3,754
Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets 576 212 560
Dividend income 6 196 26
Net (loss)/ gain from financial instruments designated at fair value (208) 33 293
Other investment (losses)/income (91) 239 337
Net investment income 283 680 1,216
Principal transactions 7,277 1,950 4,970 316 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Notes to the accounts
continued
d Administration and general expenses
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Administrative expenses 4,886 4,787 3,691
Impairment charges/(releases):
– property and equipment (Note 23) 34 33 2
– intangible assets (Note 22) 27 (3) 14
– goodwill (Note 21) 1 112 –
Operating lease rentals 639 520 414
Gain on property disposals (29) (148) (267)
Administration and general expenses 5,558 5,301 3,854
Auditors’ remuneration
Audit Taxation Other
Audit related services services Total
£m £m £m £m £m
2009
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 12 – – – 12
Other services:
Fees payable for the audit of the Bank’ s associates pursuant to legislation 23 – – – 23
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation –2 – –2
Other services relating to taxation –– 7– 7
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates ––– 3 3
Other –4 –15
Total auditors’ remuneration 35674 52
2008
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 12 – – – 12
Other services:
Fees payable for the audit of the Bank’ s associates pursuant to legislation 19 – – – 19
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation – 2 – – 2
Other services relating to taxation – – 9 – 9
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates – – – 2 2
Other –4 –15
Total auditors’ remuneration 31693 49
2007
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 7––– 7
Other services:
Fees payable for the audit of the Bank’ s associates pursuant to legislation 11 – – – 11
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 6 2 – – 8
Other services relating to taxation – – 3 – 3
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates – – – 5 5
Other –1 –12
Total auditors’ remuneration 24336 36
The figures shown in the above tables relate to fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for continuing operations of business. Fees paid
to other auditors not associated with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in respect of the audit of the Bank’ s subsidiaries were £3m (2008: £3m, 2007: £2m). www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 317
d Administration and general expenses continued
Fees payable for the audit of the Bank’ s associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and associated
pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in respect of the
consolidated financial statements of the Bank. The fees relating to the audit of the associated pension schemes were £0.5m (2008: £0.2m, 2007: £0.3m).
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These includes audit services for
the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and fees paid for reporting under Section 404 of the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Section 404). In 2008 and 2009 fees paid for reporting under Section 404 are not separately identifiable from the fees of the audit
of the Bank’ s annual accounts and the Bank’ s associates. Fees for the audit of Barclays Bank PLC Group accounts are not separately identifiable from
Barclays PLC, therefore there is no difference in the amounts reported in both Annual Reports.
Other services related to taxation include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters,
tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions comprise due diligence related to transactions and other work in connection with such transactions.
Excluded from the total auditors’ remuneration above are fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and associates relating to BGI (discontinued operations)
of £4m (2008: £3m, 2007: £8m).
eTax
The charge for tax is based upon the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%) and comprises:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Current tax charge/(credit)
Current year 1,235 1,197 2,013
Adjustment for prior years (131) 98 10
1,104 1,295 2,023
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
Current year 45 (577) (297)
Adjustment for prior years (102) (269) (27)
(57) (846) (324)
Total charge 1,047 449 1,699
The effective tax rate for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%). 
The differences are set out below:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit before tax 4,560 5,094 6,254
T ax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%) 1,277 1,452 1,876
Adjustment for prior years (233) (171) (17)
Differing overseas tax rates (27) 175 (82)
Non-taxable gains and income (including amounts offset by unrecognised tax losses) (119) (851) (145)
Share-based payments (38) 201 71
Deferred tax assets not recognised/(previously not recognised) 27 (504) (159)
Change in tax rates (12) (1) 24
Other non-allowable expenses 172 148 131
Overall tax charge 1,047 449 1,699
Effective tax rate 23% 9% 27%
The effective tax rate for 2009, based on profit before tax on continuing operations was 23.0% (2008: 8.8%). The effective tax rate differs from the UK 
tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%) because of non-taxable gains and income, different tax rates applied to taxable profits and losses outside the UK, 
disallowed expenditure and adjustments in respect of prior years. The low effective tax rate of 8.8% on continuing operations in 2008 mainly resulted 
from the Lehman Brothers North American business acquisition. 318 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Notes to the accounts
continued
f Other income
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities 
to customers under investment contracts 102 (1,219) 23
(Increase)/ decrease in liabilities to customers under investment contracts (102) 1,219 (23)
Property rentals 64 73 53
Gain on debt buy backs and extinguishments 1,255 24 –
Other income 70 347 169
Other income 1,389 444 222
g Trading portfolio assets
2009 2008
£m £m
Trading portfolio assets
Treasury and other eligible bills 9,926 4,544
Debt securities 116,594 148,686
Equity securities 19,653 30,544
Traded loans 2,962 1,070
Commodities 2,260 802
Trading portfolio assets 151,395 185,646
h Available for sale financial investments
2009 2008
£m £m
Debt securities 43,888 58,831
Treasury bills and other eligible bills 5,919 4,003
Equity securities 6,844 2,182
Available for sale financial investments 56,651 65,016
Movement in available for sale financial investments 2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of year 65,016 43,256
Exchange and other adjustments (4,439) 14,275
Acquisitions and transfers 83,915 59,703
Disposals (through sale and redemption) (88,999) (50,629)
Gains/(losses) from changes in fair value recognised in equity 1,889 (1,190)
Impairment charge (670) (382)
Amortisation charge (6) (17)
Business disposals/ discontinued operations (55) –
At end of year 56,651 65,016 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 319
i Called up share capital
Ordinary Shares
The authorised ordinary share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2009, was 3,000 million ordinary shares of £1 each (2008: 3,000 million).
During the year 4 million ordinary shares were issued for cash consideration of £25m.
Preference Shares
The authorised preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2009, was 1,000 Preference Shares of £1 each (2008: 1,000); 400,000
Preference Shares of ¤100 each (2008: 400,000); 400,000 Preference Shares of £100 each (2008: 400,000); 400,000 Preference Shares of US$100 each
(2008: 400,000); 300 million Preference Shares of US$0.25 each (2008: 300 million).
The issued preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2009, comprised 1,000 Sterling Preference Shares of £1 each (2008: 1,000);
240,000 Euro Preference Shares of ¤100 each (2008: 240,000); 75,000 Sterling Preference Shares of £100 each (2008: 75,000); 100,000 US Dollar
Preference Shares of US$100 each (2008: 100,000); 237 million US Dollar Preference Shares of US$0.25 each (2008: 237 million).
2009 2008
£m £m
Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid
At beginning of year 2,338 2,336
Issued for cash 4 2
At end of year 2,342 2,338
Called up preference share capital, allotted and fully paid
At beginning of year 60 46
Issued for cash – 14
At end of year 60 60
Called up share capital 2,402 2,398
Share premium 2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of year 12,060 10,751
Ordinary shares issued for cash 21 15
Preference shares issued for cash – 1,294
Preference shares – other movement 11 –
At end of year 12,092 12,060
Sterling £1 Preference Shares
1,000 Sterling cumulative callable preference shares of £1 each (the £1 Preference Shares) were issued on 31st December 2004 at nil premium.
The £1 Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Sterling cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-
annually at a rate reset semi-annually equal to the Sterling interbank offered rate for six-month sterling deposits.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be obliged to pay such dividends if: (1) it has profits available for the purpose of distribution under the Companies Act 2006 as at
each dividend payment date; and (2) it is solvent on the relevant dividend payment date, provided that a capital regulations condition is satisfied on such
dividend payment date. The dividends shall not be due and payable on the relevant dividend payment date except to the extent that Barclays Bank PLC
could make such payment and still be solvent immediately thereafter. Barclays Bank PLC shall be considered solvent on any date if: (1) it is able to pay its
debts to senior creditors as they fall due; and (2) its auditors have reported within the previous six months that its assets exceed its liabilities. If Barclays Bank
PLC shall not pay , or shall pay only in part, a dividend for a period of seven days or more after the due date for payment, the holders of the £1 Preference
Shares may institute proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC. No remedy against Barclays Bank PLC shall be available to the holder of any
£1 Preference Shares for the recovery of amounts owing in respect of £1 Preference Shares other than the institution of proceedings for the winding-up
of Barclays Bank PLC and/ or proving in such winding-up. On a winding-up or other return of capital (other than a redemption or purchase by Barclays Bank
PLC of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, permitted by the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC and under applicable law), the assets of
Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders shall be applied in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares and any other class of shares in the
capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking junior to the £1 Preference Shares on such a return of capital and pari passu on such a return of capital
with the holders of any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue (other than any class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank
PLC then in issue ranking in priority to the £1 Preference Shares on a winding-up or other such return of capital), in payment to the holders of the £1
Preference Shares of a sum equal to the aggregate of: (1) an amount equal to the dividends accrued thereon for the then current dividend period (and
any accumulated arrears thereof) to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital; and (2) an amount equal to £1 per
£1 Preference Share. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled, the holders of the £1 Preference Shares
wil have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of Barclays Bank PLC and will not be entitled to any further participation in such return of capital.
The £1 Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only , subject to the Companies Act 2006 and its
Articles. Holders of the £1 Preference Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC. 320 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Notes to the accounts
continued
i Called up share capital continued
Euro Preference Shares
100,000 Euro 4.875% non-cumulative callable preference shares of ¤100 each (the 4.875% Preference Shares) were issued on 8th December 2004 for a
consideration of ¤993.6m (£688.4m), of which the nominal value was ¤10m and the balance was share premium. The 4.875% Preference Shares entitle
the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.875% per
annum on the amount of ¤10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2014, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.05% per
annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.875% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only , on 15th December 2014, and on each
dividend payment date thereafter at ¤10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
140,000 Euro 4.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of ¤100 each (the 4.75% Preference Shares) were issued on 15th March 2005 for a
consideration of ¤1,383.3m (£966.7m), of which the nominal value was ¤14m and the balance was share premium. The 4.75% Preference Shares entitle
the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.75% per
annum on the amount of ¤10,000 per preference share until 15th March 2020, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 0.71% per annum
above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only , on 15th March 2020, and on each dividend
payment date thereafter at ¤10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
Sterling Preference Shares
75,000 Sterling 6.0% non-cumulative callable preference shares of £100 each (the 6.0% Preference Shares) were issued on 22nd June 2005 for a consideration
of £743.7m, of which the nominal value was £7.5m and the balance was share premium. The 6.0% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive
Sterling non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 6.0% per annum on the amount of £10,000
per preference share until 15th December 2017, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.42% per annum above the London interbank offered
rate for three-month Sterling deposits.
The 6.0% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only , on 15th December 2017, and on each
dividend payment date thereafter at £10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
US Dollar Preference Shares
100,000 US Dollar 6.278% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$100 each (the 6.278% Preference Shares), represented by 100,000 American
Depositary Shares, Series 1, were issued on 8th June 2005 for a consideration of US$995.4m (£548.1m), of which the nominal value was US$10m and
the balance was share premium. The 6.278% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of
distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.278% per annum on the amount of US$10,000 per preference share until
15th December 2034, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.55% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month
US Dollar deposits.
The 6.278% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only , on 15th December 2034, and on each
dividend payment date thereafter at US$10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
30 million US Dollar 6.625% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each (the 6.625% Preference Shares), represented by 30 million
American Depositary Shares, Series 2, were issued on 25th and 28th April 2006 for a consideration of US$727m (£406m), of which the nominal value
was US$7.5m and the balance was share premium. The 6.625% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash
dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 6.625% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share. 
The 6.625% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only , on 15th September 2011, and on each
dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
55 million US Dollar 7.1% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each (the 7.1% Preference Shares), represented by 55 million American
Depositary Shares, Series 3, were issued on 13th September 2007 for a consideration of US$1,335m (£657m), of which the nominal value was US$13.75m
and the balance was share premium. The 7.1% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of
distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.1% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 7.1% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2012, and on each dividend
payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
46 million US Dollar 7.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each (the 7.75% Preference Shares), represented by 46 million American
Depositary Shares, Series 4, were issued on 7th December 2007 for a consideration of US$1,116m (£550m), of which the nominal value was US$11.5m
and the balance was share premium. The 7.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of
distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.75% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 321
i Called up share capital continued
The 7.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2013, and on each dividend
payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
106 million US Dollar 8.125% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each (the 8.125% Preference Shares), represented by 106 million
American Depositary Shares, Series 5, were issued on 11th April 2008 and 25th April 2008 for a total consideration of US$2,650m (£1,345m), of which
the nominal value was US$26.5m and the balance was share premium. The 8.125% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar
non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 8.125% per annum on the amount of US$25
per preference share. 
The 8.125% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th June 2013, and on each dividend payment
date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
No redemption or purchase of any 4.875% Preference Shares, the 4.75% Preference Shares, the 6.0% Preference Shares, the 6.278% Preference Shares,
the 6.625% Preference Shares, the 7.1% Preference Shares, the 7.75% Preference Shares and the 8.125% Preference Shares (together, the Preference
Shares) may be made by Barclays Bank PLC without the prior notification to the UK FSA and any such redemption will be subject to the Companies Act
2006 and the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC.
On a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC or other return of capital (other than a redemption or purchase of shares of Barclays Bank PLC, or a reduction of share
capital), a holder of Preference Shares will rank in the application of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders: (1) junior to the holder of any
shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking in priority to the Preference Shares; (2) equally in all respects with holders of other preference shares and any
other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking pari passu with the Preference Shares; and (3) in priority to the holders of ordinary shares and any other
shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
The holders of the £400m 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes and the US$1,000m 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes of Barclays Bank
PLC (together, the TONs) and the holders of the US$1,250m 8.55% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$750m 7.375%
Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the ¤850m 7.50% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the £500m 5.3304%
Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$1,350m 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the £500m
6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$1,250m 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments and the
£3,000m 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments of Barclays Bank PLC (together, the RCIs) would, for the purposes only of calculating
the amounts payable in respect of such securities on a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC, subject to limited exceptions and to the extent that the TONs and
the RCIs are then in issue, rank pari passu with the holders of the most senior class or classes of preference shares then in issue in the capital of Barclays
Bank PLC. Accordingly , the holders of the preference shares would rank equally with the holders of such TONs and RCIs on such a winding-up of Barclays
Bank PLC (unless one or more classes of shares of Barclays Bank PLC ranking in priority to the preference shares are in issue at the time of such winding-up,
in which event the holders of such TONs and RCIs would rank equally with the holders of such shares and in priority to the holders of the preference shares).
Subject to such ranking, in such event, holders of the preference shares will be entitled to receive out of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available for distributions
to shareholders, liquidating distributions in the amount of ¤10,000 per 4.875% Preference Share, ¤10,000 per 4.75% Preference Share, £10,000 per 6.0%
Preference Share, US$10,000 per 6.278% Preference Share, US$25 per 6.625% Preference Share, US$25 per 7.1% Preference Share, US$25 per 7.75%
Preference Share and US$0.25 per 8.125% Preference Share, plus, in each case, an amount equal to the accrued dividend for the then current dividend period
to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital. If a dividend is not paid in full on any preference shares on any dividend
payment date, then a dividend restriction shall apply .
This dividend restriction will mean that neither Barclays Bank PLC nor Barclays PLC may (a) declare or pay a dividend (other than payment by Barclays PLC
of a final dividend declared by its shareholders prior to the relevant dividend payment date, or a dividend paid by Barclays Bank PLC to Barclays PLC or to
a wholly owned subsidiary) on any of their respective ordinary shares, other preference shares or other share capital or (b) redeem, purchase, reduce or
otherwise acquire any of their respective share capital, other than shares of Barclays Bank PLC held by Barclays PLC or a wholly owned subsidiary , until the
earlier of: (1) the date on which Barclays Bank PLC next declares and pays in full a preference dividend; and (2) the date on or by which all the preference
shares are redeemed in full or purchased by Barclays Bank PLC.
Holders of the preference shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC. Barclays Bank PLC
is not permitted to create a class of shares ranking as regards participation in the profits or assets of Barclays Bank PLC in priority to the preference shares,
save with the sanction of a special resolution of a separate general meeting of the holders of the preference shares (requiring a majority of not less than
three-fourths of the holders of the preference shares voting at the separate general meeting) or with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths
of the preference shares.
Except as described above, the holders of the preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of Barclays Bank PLC. 322 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Notes to the accounts
continued
j Reserves
Other reserves Available Cash flow
for sale hedging Translation
reserve reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2009 (1,249) 132 2,840 1,723
Net gains from changes in fair value 1,506 287 – 1,793
Net gains transferred to net profit (642) (92) – (734)
Currency translation differences – – (1,223) (1,223)
Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 670 – – 670
Changes in insurance liabilities (67) – – (67)
Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging (123) – – (123)
Tax (179) (75) (2) (256)
At 31st December 2009 (84) 252 1,615 1,783
Retained earnings Retained
earnings
£m
At 1st January 2009 22,457
Profit attributable to equity holders 9,993
Equity-settled share schemes 298
T ax on equity-settled shares schemes 156
Other taxes 32
Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes (80)
Dividends paid (103)
Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders’ equity (599)
Capital injection from Barclays PLC 4,850
Other movements 85
At 31st December 2009 37,089
At 1st January 2008 14,222
Profit attributable to equity holders 4,846
Equity-settled share schemes 463
T ax on equity-settled shares schemes (4)
Other taxes (52)
Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes (437)
Dividends paid (1,160)
Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders’ equity (502)
Capital injection from Barclays PLC 5,137
Other movements (56)
At 31st December 2008 22,457
Transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the income statement were: interest income £22m loss (2008: £4m loss), interest expense £272m gain
(2008: £74m loss), net trading income £165m loss (2008: £119m gain) and administration and general expenses of £7m gain (2008: £60m loss).
k Other shareholders’ equity
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1st January 2,564 2,687
Appropriations – 23
T ax credits 47 44
Other movements (52) (190)
At 31st December 2,559 2,564
Included in other shareholders’ equity are:
Issuances of reserve capital instruments which bear a fixed rate of interest ranging between 7.375%-8.55% until 2010 or 2011. After these dates, in the
event that the reserve capital instruments are not redeemed, they will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London or European
interbank rates. These instruments are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June or December 2010
or 2011. The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the reserve capital instruments for any period of time. Whilst such deferral is continuing,
neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
Issuance of capital notes which bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates. These notes are repayable in each case,
at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date. The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its capital notes if, in the preceding
six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 323
l Non-controlling interests
2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of year 2,372 1,949
Share of profit after tax 296 403
Dividend and other payments (132) (134)
Equity issued by subsidiaries – 4
Available for sale reserve: net (loss)/ gain from changes in fair value (12) (1)
Cash flow hedges: net (loss)/ gain from changes in fair value (19) 76
Currency translation differences 285 59
Additions 9 –
Disposals (91) (11)
Other 66 27
At end of year 2,774 2,372
m Dividends
2009 2008
£m £m
On ordinary shares
Final dividend – 1,030
Interim dividends 103 130
Dividends 103 1,160
These dividends are paid to enable Barclays PLC to fund its dividends to its shareholders.
Dividends paid on preference shares amounted to £477m (2008: £390m). Dividends paid on other equity instruments as detailed in Note k amounted 
to £122m (2008: £112m).
n Financial risks
The only significant financial instruments that are held by Barclays Bank PLC and not Barclays PLC are investments in Barclays PLC ordinary shares, dealt
with as trading portfolio equity assets, debt securities and available for sale financial investments as appropriate.
There consequently are no significant differences in exposures to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and the fair value of financial instruments between
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and no differences in the manner in which these financial risks are managed. Therefore the disclosures regarding
financial risks appearing in Notes 46 to 49 are in all material respects the same for Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC.
o Capital
The Barclays Bank PLC Group’ s policies and objectives for managing capital are the same as those for the Barclays PLC Group, disclosed in Note 52.
The table below provides details of the Barclays Bank PLC Group at 31st December 2009 and 2008.
2009 2008
Basel II Basel II
£m £m
Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 49,722 37,101
Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 14,620 22,356
Total deductions (880) (964)
Total net capital resources 63,462 58,493
p Segmental reporting
Segmental reporting by Barclays Bank PLC is the same as that presented in Note 53 to the Barclays PLC financial statements, except for:
– the difference in profit before tax of £26m (2008: £42m) between Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC is included in Head office functions 
and other operations; and
– the difference in total assets of £219m (2008: £49m) is represented by holdings of Barclays PLC shares held by the businesses. 324 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Barclays Bank PLC data
Financial data
Selected financial statistics IFRS
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
% %%%%
Attributable profit from continuing operations as a percentage of:
– average total assets 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4
– average shareholders’ equity 6.5 12.1 14.5 18.8 15.9
Average shareholders’ equity as a percentage of average total assets 2.9 2.0 2.2 2.2 2.2
Selected income statement data £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Interest income 21,236 28,010 25,296 21,795 17,217
Interest expense (9,567) (16,595) (15,707) (12,662) (9,157)
Non-interest income 18,256 9,975 11,948 11,433 8,631
Operating expenses (16,712) (13,387) ( 12,096) 11,723 (9,748)
Impairment charges (8,071) (5,419) (2,795) (2,154) (1,571)
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 34 14 42 46 45
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 188 327 28 323 –
Gains on acquisitions 26 2,406 – – –
Profit before tax from continuing operations 4,559 5,094 6,254 6,483 4,772
Profit for the year from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571 384 351
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent from:
Continuing operations 3,228 4,259 4,218 4,578 3,385
Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531 336 310
Selected balance sheet data £m £m £m £m £m
T otal shareholders’ equity 58,699 43,574 31,821 27,106 24,243
Subordinated liabilities 25,816 29,842 18,150 13,786 12,463
Deposits from banks, customer accounts and debt securities in issue 534,803 603,869 506,623 447,453 417,139
Loans and advances to banks and customers 461,359 509,522 385,518 313,226 300,001
T otal assets 1,379,148 2,053,029 1,227,583 996,503 924,170 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 325
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges – Barclays Bank PLC
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
(in £m except for ratios)
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges
Fixed charges
Interest expense 20,962 38,197 37,903 30,385 20,965
Rental expense 256 235 158 135 124
T otal fixed charges 21,218 38,432 38,061 30,520 21,089
Earnings
Income before taxes and non-controlling interests 4,559 5,094 6,254 6,483 4,772
Less: Unremitted pre-tax income of associated companies and joint ventures (43) (19) (45) (41) (28)
4,516 5,075 6,209 6,442 4,744
Fixed charges 21,218 38,432 38,061 30,520 21,089
T otal earnings including fixed charges 25,734 43,507 44,270 36,962 25,833
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 1.21 1.13 1.16 1.21 1.22
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preference shares – Barclays Bank PLC
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
(in £m except for ratios)
Combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations
Interest expense 20,962 38,197 37,903 30,385 20,965
Rental expense 256 235 158 135 124
Fixed charges 21,218 38,432 38,061 30,520 21,089
Preference share dividends and similar appropriations 646 583 345 395 304
T otal fixed charges 21,864 39,015 38,406 30,915 21,393
Earnings
Income before taxes and non-controlling interests 4,559 5,094 6,254 6,483 4,772
Less: Unremitted pre-tax income of associated companies and joint ventures (43) (19) (45) (41) (28)
4,516 5,075 6,209 6,442 4,744
Fixed charges 21,864 39,015 38,406 30,915 21,393
T otal earnings including fixed charges 26,380 44,090 44,615 37,357 26,137
Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges, 
preference share dividends and similar appropriations 1.21 1.13 1.16 1.21 1.22 326 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 328 Shareholder information
335 Shareholder enquiries
336 Annual Report Index
338 Glossary of terms
Shareholder
information 328 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Shareholder information
Dividends on the ordinary shares of Barclays PLC
Barclays PLC has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year since its incorporation in 1896.
As announced on 10th November 2009, the Board resumed dividend payments with an interim cash dividend of 1p per ordinary share paid on 
11th December 2009. A final cash dividend for the full-year ended 31st December 2009 of 1.5p per ordinary share was announced on 16th February 2010
for payment on 19th March 2010.
The dividends declared for each of the last five years were:
Pence per 25p ordinary share 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Interim 1.00 11.50 11.50 10.50 9.20
Final 1.50 – 22.50 20.50 17.40
Total 2.50 11.50 34.00 31.00 26.60
US Dollars per 25p ordinary share 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 ˆ
Interim 0.02 0.20 0.23 0.20 0.16
Final 0.02 – 0.45 0.41 0.31
Total 0.04 0.20 0.68 0.61 0.47
The gross dividends applicable to an American Depositary Share (ADS) representing four ordinary shares, before deduction of withholding tax, 
are as follows:
US Dollars per American Depositary Share 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Interim 0.07 0.82 0.93 0.80 0.65
Final 0.09 – 1.78 1.64 1.24
Total 0.16 0.82 2.71 2.44 1.89
For years prior to 2009, final dividends expressed in Dollars have been translated at the Noon Buying Rates in New Y ork City for cable transfers in Pounds
Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New Y ork (the Noon Buying Rate). From January 2009, the Federal Reserve Bank of
New Y ork discontinued the publication of Noon Buying Rates. The final dividend for 2009 is expressed in Dollars translated at the closing spot rate for
Pounds Sterling as determined by Bloomberg at 5pm in New Y ork City (the ‘Closing Spot Rate’) on 5th March 2010 (the latest practicable date for inclusion
in this report). No representation is made that Pounds Sterling amounts have been, or could have been, or could be, converted into Dollars at these rates.
Trading market for ordinary shares of Barclays PLC
The nominal capital of Barclays PLC is divided into 20,996,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each (ordinary shares), 0.4 million Sterling preference shares of
£100 each, 0.4 million US Dollar preference shares of $100 each, 150 million US Dollar preference shares of $0.25 each, 0.4 million Euro preference shares
of ¤100 each, 0.4 million Y en preference shares of ¥10,000 each and 1 million staff shares of £1 each. At the close of business on 31st December 2009,
11,411,577,230 ordinary shares were outstanding.
The principal trading market for Barclays PLC ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange. Ordinary share listings were also obtained on the New Y ork
Stock Exchange (NYSE) with effect from 9th September 1986. 
Trading on the NYSE is in the form of ADSs under the symbol ‘BCS’. Each ADS represents four ordinary shares and is evidenced by an American Depositary
Receipt (ADR). The ADR depositary is J P Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Details of trading activity are published in the stock tables of leading daily newspapers 
in the US.
There were 891 ADR holders and 1,595 recorded holders of ordinary shares with US addresses at 31st December 2009, whose shareholdings represented
approximately 12.08% of total outstanding ordinary shares on that date. Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADRs were held by brokers or other
nominees, the number of recorded holders in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of residence. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 329
The following table shows the high and low sales price for the ordinary shares during the periods indicated, based on mid-market prices at close of business
on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low sale price for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
American
25p ordinary shares Depositary Shares
High Low High Low
pp US$ US$
2010
By month:
January 320.6 265.0 21.1 17.0
February 316.3 262.0 19.9 16.3
2009
By month:
July 314.8 287.0 20.9 18.4
August 380.3 322.6 24.7 22.2
September 380.0 351.3 25.4 22.9
October 383.6 319.0 25.2 20.6
November 342.9 291.1 23.2 19.6
December 304.5 264.3 20.1 17.4
By quarter:
First quarter 184.6 51.2 11.0 3.1
Second quarter 316.3 157.0 20.5 9.3
Third quarter 380.3 287.0 25.4 18.4
Fourth quarter 383.6 264.3 25.2 17.4
2008
First quarter 506.4 382.3 41.4 32.3
Second quarter 490.8 291.5 39.9 23.2
Third quarter 389.0 260.5 32.5 20.8
Fourth quarter 368.0 127.7 25.9 7.4
2008 506.4 127.7 41.4 7.4
2007 790.0 474.5 62.5 39.9
2006 737.0 586.0 61.5 41.8
2005 615.0 520.0 47.0 37.2
2004 586.0 443.0 46.0 32.8
This section incorporates information on the prices at which securities of Barclays PLC have traded. It is emphasised that past performance cannot be relied
upon as a guide to future performance.
Shareholdings at 31st December 2009
a
Number of Percentage Shares held Percentage
shareholders of holders (millions) of capital
Classification of shareholders
Personal holders 732,028 97.34 762.49 6.68
Banks and nominees 18,083 2.40 9,537.83 83.58
Other companies 1,859 0.25 1,111.18 9.74
Insurance companies 12 – 0.05 –
Pensions funds 18 – 0.03 –
Totals 752,000 100.00 11,411.58 100
Shareholding range
1-100 30,251 4.02 1.28 0.01
101-250 230,779 30.69 48.54 0.43
251-500 238,196 31.68 81.45 0.71
501-1,000 116,153 15.45 81.71 0.72
1,001-5,000 104,331 13.87 215.08 1.88
5,001-10,000 17,538 2.33 123.89 1.09
10,001-25,000 10,192 1.36 154.08 1.35
25,001-50,000 2,296 0.31 78.57 0.69
50,001 and over 2,264 0.30 10,626.98 93.12
Totals 752,000 100.00 11,411.58 100
United States holdings 1,595 0.21 3.39 0.03
Note
a These figures include Barclays Sharestore members. 330 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Shareholder information
continued
Articles of Association
The Company was incorporated in England on 20th July 1896 under the
Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by shares and was
reregistered in 1982 as a public limited company under the Companies Acts
1948 to 1980. The Company is registered under company number 48839.
The Company was reregistered as Barclays PLC on 1st January 1985.
The objects of the Company are set out in full in clause 4 of its
Memorandum of Association which provides, among other things, that the
Company’ s objects are to carry on business as an investment and holding
company and the business of banking in all its aspects. The Memorandum
of Association is treated as forming part of the Company’ s Articles of
Association as of 1st October 2009 by virtue of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may , by Special Resolution, amend its Articles of Association.
The Company is proposing to adopt new Articles of Association at its Annual
General Meeting (AGM) in 2010, to update its Articles of Association following
implementation of the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the proposed changes may be found in the Notice of Meeting
that accompanies this report.
The following is a summary of the current Articles of Association.
Directors
(i) The minimum number of Directors (excluding alternate Directors) is five.
There is no maximum limit. There is no age limit for Directors.
(ii) Excluding executive remuneration and any other entitlement to
remuneration for extra services (including service on board committees)
under the Articles, a Director is entitled to a fee at a rate determined 
by the Board but the aggregate fees paid to all Directors shall not exceed
£1,000,000 per annum or such higher amount as may be approved 
by an ordinary resolution of the Company . Each Director is entitled to
reimbursement for all travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred
by him/her in or about the performance of his/her duties.
(iii) No Director may act (either himself/herself or through his/her firm) 
as an auditor of the Company . A Director may hold any other office of the
Company on such terms as the Board shall determine.
(iv) At each AGM of the Company , one third of the Directors (rounded
down) are required to retire from office by rotation and may offer themselves
for re-election. The Directors so retiring are those who have been longest in
office (and in the case of equality of service length are selected by lot). Other
than a retiring Director, no person shall (unless recommended by the Board)
be eligible for election unless a member notifies the Company Secretary in
advance of his/her intention to propose a person for election.
(v) The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a casual
vacancy amongst the Directors. Any Director so appointed holds office until
the next AGM, when he/ she may offer himself/herself for re-election.
He/ she is not taken into account in determining the number of Directors
retiring by rotation.
(vi) The Board may appoint any Director to any executive position or
employment in the Company on such terms as they determine.
(vii) A Director may appoint either another Director or some other person
approved by the Board to act as his/her alternate with power to attend Board
meetings and generally to exercise the functions of the appointing Director
in his/her absence (other than the power to appoint an alternate).
(viii) The Board may authorise any matter in relation to which a Director has,
or can have, a direct interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with, the
Company’ s interests. Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being
considered will be able to authorise the relevant matter and they may impose
limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
(ix) A Director may hold positions with or be interested in other companies
and, subject to legislation applicable to the Company and the FSA ’ s
requirements, may contract with the Company or any other company in
which the Company is interested. A Director may not vote or count towards
the quorum on any resolution concerning any proposal in which he/ she (or
any person connected with him/her) has a material interest (other than by
virtue of his/her interest in securities of the Company) or if he/ she has a
duty which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the Company ,
unless the resolution relates to any proposal:
(a) to indemnify a Director or provide him/her with a guarantee or security
in respect of money lent by him/her to, or any obligation incurred by
him/her or any other person for the benefit of (or at the request of),
the Company (or any other member of the Group);
(b) to indemnify or give security or a guarantee to a third party in respect of
a debt or obligation of the Company (or any other member of the Group)
for which the Director has personally assumed responsibility;
(c) to obtain insurance for the benefit of Directors;
(d) involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the Company
pursuant to an offer to existing holders of securities or to the public;
(e) that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the Company
(or any of its subsidiaries);
(f) concerning any other company in which the Director is interested as an
officer or creditor or shareholder but, broadly , only if he/ she (together
with his/her connected persons) is directly or indirectly interested in less
than 1% of either any class of the issued equity share capital or of the
voting rights of that company; and
(g) concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of employees of the
Company (or any other member of the Group) under which the Director
benefits or stands to benefit in a similar manner to the employees
concerned and which does not give the Director any advantage which
the employees to whom the arrangement relates would not receive.
(x) A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any resolution
which concerns his/her own employment or appointment to any office of
the Company or any other company in which the Company is interested.
(xi) Subject to applicable legislation, the provisions described in sub-
paragraphs (ix) and (x) may be relaxed or suspended by an ordinary
resolution of the members of the Company or any applicable governmental
or other regulatory body .
(xii) A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having a
nominal value of at least £500, which currently equates to 2,000 Ordinary
Shares unless restricted from acquiring or holding such interest by any
applicable law or regulation or any applicable governmental or other
regulatory body. A Director may act before acquiring those shares but
must acquire the qualification shares within two months from his/her
appointment. Where a Director is unable to acquire the requisite number
of shares within that time owing to law, regulation or requirement of any
governmental or other relevant authority , he/ she must acquire the shares
as soon as reasonably practicable once the restriction(s) end.
(xiii) The Board may exercise all of the powers of the Company to borrow
money , to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property and uncalled capital
and to issue debentures and other securities.
Classes of share
The Company only has Ordinary Shares in issue. However, the Company has
authorised but unissued preference shares of £100, $100, $0.25, ¤100 and
¥10,000 each (together, the Preference Shares) which may (pursuant to a
resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company at the AGM) be
issued by the Board from time to time in one or more series with such rights
and subject to such restrictions and limitations as the Board may determine.
The Company also has authorised but unissued staff shares of £1 each.
The Articles of Association contain provisions to the following effect:
(i) Dividends
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and applicable legislation, the
Company in General Meeting may declare dividends on the Ordinary Shares
by ordinary resolution, but such dividend may not exceed the amount
recommended by the Board. The Board may also pay interim or final
dividends if it appears they are justified by the Company’ s financial position. 
Each Preference Share confers the right to a non-cumulative preferential
dividend (Preference Dividend) payable in such currency at such rates
(whether fixed or calculated by reference to or in accordance with a specified
procedure or mechanism), on such dates and on such other terms as may
be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof.  www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 331
The Preference Shares rank in regard to payment of dividend in priority to
the holders of Ordinary Shares and any other class of shares in the Company
ranking junior to the Preference Shares. 
Dividends may be paid on the Preference Shares if, in the opinion of the
Board, the Company has sufficient distributable profits, after payment in full
or the setting aside of a sum to provide for all dividends payable on (or in the
case of shares carrying a cumulative right to dividends, before) the relevant
dividend payment date on any class of shares in the Company ranking pari
passu with or in priority to the relevant series of Preference Shares as regards
participation in the profits of the Company . 
If the Board considers that the distributable profits of the Company available
for distribution are insufficient to cover the payment in full of Preference
Dividends, Preference Dividends shall be paid to the extent of the
distributable profits on a pro rata basis. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Board may , at its absolute discretion,
determine that any Preference Dividend which would otherwise be payable
may either not be payable at all or only payable in part.
If any Preference Dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid, or 
is only paid in part, for the reasons described above, holders of Preference
Shares will not have a claim in respect of such nonpayment.
If any dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid in full on the
relevant dividend payment date, a dividend restriction shall apply . The
dividend restriction means that, subject to certain exceptions, neither the
Company nor Barclays Bank may (a) pay a dividend on, or (b) redeem,
purchase, reduce or otherwise acquire, any of their respective ordinary
shares, other preference shares or other share capital ranking equal or junior
to the relevant series of Preference Shares until the earlier of such time as
the Company next pays in full a dividend on the relevant series of Preference
Shares or the date on which all of the relevant series of Preference Shares are
redeemed.
All unclaimed dividends payable in respect of any share may be invested
or otherwise made use of by the Board for the benefit of the Company until
claimed. If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it becoming payable,
it is forfeited and reverts to the Company .
The Board may (although it currently does not), with the approval of an
ordinary resolution of the Company , offer shareholders the right to choose
to receive an allotment of additional fully paid Ordinary Shares instead of
cash in respect of all or part of any dividend.
(ii) Voting
Every member who is present in person or by proxy , or represented at any
general meeting of the Company and who is entitled to vote has one vote
on a show of hands. On a poll, every member who is present or represented
has one vote for every share held. Any joint holder may vote in respect of
jointly owned shares, but the vote of the senior holder (as determined by
order in the share register) shall take precedence. If any sum payable
remains unpaid in relation to a member’ s shareholding, that member is not
entitled to vote that share or exercise any other right in relation to a meeting
of the Company unless the Board otherwise determine.
If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any of 
the Company’ s Ordinary Shares, is served with a notice under Section 793 
of the Companies Act 2006 and does not supply the Company with the
information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute discretion,
may direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any
meeting of the Company .
The Board may further direct that if the shares of the defaulting member
represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of the relevant class, that
dividends or other monies payable on those shares shall be retained by the
Company until the direction ceases to have effect and that no transfer of those
shares shall be registered (other than certain specified ‘approved transfers’).
A direction ceases to have effect seven days after the Company has received
the information requested, or when the Company is notified that an ‘approved
transfer’ to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise determines.
(iii) Transfers
Ordinary Shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated form.
Certificated Ordinary Shares shall be transferred in writing in any usual or other
form approved by the Board and executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
Transfers of uncertificated Ordinary Shares shall be made in accordance with
the applicable regulations. The Board may make any arrangements to regulate
and evidence the transfer of Ordinary Shares as they consider fit in accordance
with applicable legislation and the rules of the FSA.
Registration of Ordinary Shares may be suspended, subject to applicable
legislation, for such periods as the Board may determine (but for not more
than 30 days in any calendar year).
The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly paid Ordinary Shares,
or fully paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by the FSA. The
Board may also decline to register an instrument of transfer of certificated
Ordinary Shares unless it is duly stamped and deposited at the prescribed
place and accompanied by the share certificate(s) and such other evidence
as reasonably required by the Board to evidence right to transfer, it is in
respect of one class of shares only , and it is in favour of not more than four
transferees (except in the case of executors or trustees of a member).
Preference Shares may be represented by share warrants to bearer or be in
registered form.
Preference Shares represented by share warrants to bearer are transferred
by delivery of the relevant warrant. Preference Shares in registered form shall
be transferred in writing in any usual or other form approved by the Board
and executed by or on behalf of the transferor. The Company’ s registrar shall
register such transfers of Preference Shares in registered form by making the
appropriate entries in the register of Preference Shares.
(iv) Return of Capital and Liquidation
In the event of any return of capital by reduction of capital or on liquidation, the
holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive such capital in proportion
to the amounts paid up or credited as paid up on the shares of each class.
Each Preference Share shall confer, in the event of a winding up or any return
of capital by reduction of capital (other than, unless otherwise provided by
their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase by the Company of any of its
issued shares, or a reduction of share capital), the right to receive out of the
surplus assets of the Company available for distribution amongst the
members and in priority to the holders of the Ordinary Shares and any other
shares in the Company ranking junior to the relevant series of Preference
Shares and pari passu with any other class of Preference Shares, repayment
of the amount paid up or treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value
of the Preference Share together with any premium which was paid or
treated as paid when the Preference Share was issued in addition to an
amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends.
(v) Redemption and Purchase
Subject to applicable legislation and the rights of the other shareholders,
any share may be issued on terms that it is, at the option of the Company
or the holder of such share, redeemable. While the Company currently has
no redeemable shares in issue, any series of Preference Shares issued in the
future will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company
on a date not less than five years after the date on which such series of
Preference Shares was first issued. The Company may purchase its own
shares subject to the provisions of applicable legislation, the Articles and the
approval of any class of convertible shares in issue (by special resolution or
written consent of 75% of such class).
(vi) Calls on capital
The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any monies
unpaid on their shares. A person upon whom a call is made remains liable
even if the shares in respect of which the call is made have been transferred.
Interest will be chargeable on any unpaid amount called at a rate determined
by the Board (of not more than 20%). 332 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Shareholder information
continued
If a member fails to pay any call in full (following notice from the Board 
that such failure will result in forfeiture of the relevant shares), such shares
(including any dividends declared but not paid) may be forfeited by a
resolution of the Board, and will become the property of the Company .
Forfeiture shall not absolve a previous member for amounts payable by
him/her (which may continue to accrue interest).
The Company also has a lien over all partly paid shares of the Company for
all monies payable or called on that share and over the debts and liabilities
of a member to the Company . If any monies which are the subject of the
lien remain unpaid after a notice from the Board demanding payment, the
Company may sell such shares.
(vii) Variation of Rights
The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the sanction
of special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the
shares of that class.
The rights of shares shall not (unless expressly provided by the rights
attached to such shares) be deemed varied by the creation of further shares
ranking equally with them.
Annual and other general meetings
The Company is required to hold an AGM in addition to such other general
meetings as the Directors think fit. The type of the meeting will be specified
in the notice calling it. Under the Companies Act 2006, the AGM must 
be held within six months of the financial year end. A general meeting 
may be convened by the Board on requisition in accordance with the
applicable legislation.
In the case of an AGM, a minimum of 21 clear days’ notice is required. The
notice must be in writing and must specify the place, the day and the hour
of the meeting, and the general nature of the business to be transacted.
A notice convening a meeting to pass a special resolution shall specify the
intention to propose the resolution as such. The accidental failure to give
notice of a general meeting or the non-receipt of such notice will not
invalidate the proceedings at such meeting.
Subject as noted above, all shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at
general meetings. The Articles do, however, provide that arrangements may
be made for simultaneous attendance at a general meeting at a place other
than that specified in the notice of meeting, in which case shareholders may
be excluded from the specified place.
Holders of Preference Shares have no right to receive notice of, attend
or vote at, any general meetings of the Company as a result of holding
Preference Shares.
Limitations on foreign shareholders
There are no restrictions imposed by the Company’ s Memorandum or
Articles of Association or (subject to the effect of any economic sanctions
that may be in force from time to time) by current UK laws which relate only
to non-residents of the UK and which limit the rights of such non-residents
to hold or (when entitled to do so) vote the Company’ s Ordinary Shares.
Notices
A document or information may be sent by the Company in hard copy form,
electronic form, by being made available on a website, or by another means
agreed with the recipient. A document or information may only be sent in
electronic form to a person who has agreed to receive it in that form or, in
the case of a company , who has been deemed to have so agreed pursuant
to applicable legislation. A document or information may only be sent by
being made available on a website if the recipient has agreed to receive it
in that form or has been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable
legislation, and has not revoked that agreement.
In respect of joint holdings, documents or information shall be sent to 
the joint holder whose name stands first in the register.
A member who (having no registered address within the UK) has not supplied
an address in the UK at which documents or information may be sent is not
entitled to have documents or information sent to him/her .
Alteration of share capital
The Company may , by way of ordinary resolution: 
– increase its share capital by a sum to be divided into shares of an amount
prescribed by the resolution;
– consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger
nominal amount;
– subject to legislation, sub-divide all or part of its shares into shares of 
a smaller nominal amount and may decide by that resolution that the
resulting shares have preference or other advantage or restrictions; and
– cancel any shares which, at the date of the resolution, have not been
subscribed or agreed to have been subscribed for and diminish the
amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled.
The Company may also, by special resolution, reduce its share capital 
or capital redemption reserve or any share premium account or other
undistributable reserve in any manner authorised by legislation.
The Company may , by ordinary resolution, upon the recommendation of
the Board capitalise all or any part of an amount standing to the credit of
a reserve or fund to be set free for distribution provided that amounts from
the share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any profits not
available for distribution should be applied only in paying up unissued shares
issued to members and no unrealised profits shall be applied in paying up
debentures of the Company or any amount unpaid on any share in the
capital of the Company .
Indemnity
Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or other
officer of the Company (other than any person engaged by the company as
auditor) shall be indemnified by the Company against any liability in relation
to the Company , other than (broadly) any liability to the Company or a
member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
Officers of the Group Date of appointment
as officer
Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 2002
Peter Estlin Group Financial Controller 2008 
Patrick Gonsalves Joint Secretary,Barclays Bank PLC 2002 
Mark Harding Group General Counsel 2003
Antony Jenkins Chief Executive of 
Global Retail Banking 2009
Tom Kalaris Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth 2009
Robert Le Blanc Group Risk Officer 2004
Jerry del Missier President of Barclays Capital and 
Co-Chief Executive of 
Corporate and Investment Banking 2009
Maria Ramos Group Chief Executive, Absa 2009
Rich Ricci Co-Chief Executive of 
Corporate and Investment Banking 2009
Cathy Turner Group Human Resources Director 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 333
Taxation
The following is a summary of the principal tax consequences for holders 
of Ordinary Shares of Barclays PLC, Preference Shares of Barclays Bank PLC
(the Bank), or ADSs representing such Ordinary Shares or Preference Shares,
and who are citizens or residents of the UK or US, or otherwise who are
subject to UK tax or US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect
of such securities, that own the shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax
purposes. It is not, however, a comprehensive analysis of all the potential
tax consequences for such holders, and it does not discuss the tax
consequences of members of special classes of holders subject to special
rules or holders that, directly or indirectly , hold 10% or more of Barclays
voting stock. Investors are advised to consult their tax advisers regarding
the tax implications of their particular holdings, including the consequences
under applicable state and local law, and in particular whether they are
eligible for the benefits of the Treaty , as defined below.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is, for US federal
income tax purposes, (i) a citizen or resident of the US, (ii) a US domestic
corporation, (iii) an estate whose income is subject to US federal income
tax regardless of its source, or (iv) a trust if a US court can exercise primary
supervision over the trust’ s administration and one or more US persons are
authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust. If a partnership
holds the shares or ADSs, the United States federal income tax treatment
of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax
treatment of the partnership. A partner in a partnership holding the shares
or ADSs should consult its tax adviser with regard to the United States
federal income tax treatment of an investment in the shares or ADSs.
Unless otherwise noted, the statements of tax laws set out below are based
on the tax laws of the UK in force as at 5th March 2010 and are subject to
any subsequent changes in UK law, in particular any announcements made
in the Chancellor’ s expected UK Budget in March 2010.
This section is also based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
its legislative history , existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and
court decisions (the Code), and on the Double T axation Convention between
the UK and the US as entered into force in March 2003 (the T reaty), all of
which are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section is based in part upon the representations of the ADR Depositary
and the assumption that each obligation of the Deposit Agreement and any
related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For purposes of the Treaty , the Estate and Gift T ax Convention between the
United Kingdom and the United States, and the Code, the holders of ADRs
evidencing ADSs will be treated as owners of the underlying ordinary shares
or preference shares, as the case may be. Generally , exchanges of shares
for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US federal income tax
or to UK capital gains tax.
T axation of UK holders
T axation of dividends 
In accordance with UK law, Barclays pays dividends on ordinary shares and
preference shares without any deduction or withholding tax in respect of
any taxes imposed by the UK government or any UK taxing authority .
If the shareholder is a UK resident individual liable to income tax only at the
basic rate, then there will be no further tax liability in respect of the dividend
received. If, however, the individual shareholder is subject to income tax
at the higher/highest rates (currently 40%/50%), there will be a further
liability to tax. Higher/highest rate taxpayers are taxable on dividend income
at a special rate (currently 32.5%/42.5%) against which can be offset a tax
credit of one-ninth of the cash dividend received. T ax credits are not
repayable to shareholders with no tax liability .
T axation of shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Where a shareholder elects to purchase shares using their cash dividend,
the individual will be liable for income tax on dividends reinvested in the
Dividend Reinvestment Plan on the same basis as if they had received the
cash and arranged the investment themselves. They should accordingly
include the dividend received in their annual tax return in the normal way .
The tax consequences for a UK individual are the same as described in
‘T axation of dividends’ above.
T axation of capital gains
Where shares are disposed of by open market sale, a capital gain may result
if the disposal proceeds exceed the sum of the base cost of the shares
sold and any other allowable deductions such as share dealing costs and
indexation relief (up to 5th April 1998). T o arrive at the total base cost of any
Barclays PLC shares held, the amount subscribed for rights taken up in 1985
and 1988 must be added to the cost of all other shares held. For this purpose,
current legislation permits the market valuation at 31st March 1982 to be
substituted for the original cost of shares purchased before that date.
The calculations required to compute chargeable capital gains may be
complex. Capital gains may also arise from the gifting of shares to connected
parties such as relatives (although not spouses or civil partners) and family
trusts. Shareholders are advised to consult their personal financial adviser
if further information regarding a possible tax liability in respect of their
holdings of Barclays PLC shares is required.
Stamp duty
Stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% is normally payable
on the purchase price of shares acquired.
Inheritance tax
An individual may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer of ordinary
shares or preference shares. Where an individual is liable, inheritance tax may
be charged on the amount by which the value of his or her estate is reduced
as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other gratuitous transaction made
by them or treated as made by them. 
T axation of US holders
T axation of dividends
Subject to PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder is subject to US federal
income taxation on the gross amount of any dividend paid by Barclays PLC
or Barclays Bank PLC, as applicable, out of its current or accumulated
earnings and profits (as determined for US federal income tax purposes).
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning
before 1st January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be
taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the
holder has a holding period of the shares or ADSs of more than 60 days
during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date
(or, in the case of preference shares or ADSs relating thereto, if the dividend
is attributable to a period or periods aggregating over 366 days, provided
that the holder holds the shares or ADSs for more than 90 days during the
181-day period beginning 90 days before the ex-dividend date) and meets
certain other holding period requirements. Dividends paid by Barclays, with
respect to the ordinary or preference shares or ADSs will generally be
qualified dividend income.
A US holder will not be subject to UK withholding tax. The US holder will
include in gross income for US federal income tax purposes the amount 
of the dividend actually received. Dividends must be included in income
when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary , in the case of
ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be eligible
for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in
respect of dividends received from other US corporations. For foreign tax
credit purposes, dividends will generally be income from sources outside the 334 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Shareholder information
continued
United States and will, depending on a US holder’ s circumstances, be either
‘passive’ or ‘general’ income for purposes of computing the foreign tax
credit allowable to a US holder. 
The amount of the dividend distribution includable in income will be the
US Dollar value of the Pound Sterling payments made, determined at the
spot Pound Sterling/US Dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is
includable in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted
into US Dollars. Generally , any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange
fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is
includable in income to the date the payment is converted into US Dollars
will be treated as ordinary income or loss and, for foreign tax credit limitation
purposes, from sources within the US and will not be eligible for the special
tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
Distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings and profits, as
determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return
of capital to the extent of the US holder’ s basis in the shares or ADSs and
thereafter as capital gain.
T axation of capital gains
Subject to PFIC rules discussed below, generally , US holders will not be subject
to UK tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or
other disposition of ordinary shares, preference shares or ADSs. Generally , a
US holder will recognise capital gain or loss for United States federal income
tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the
amount realised and a US holder’ s tax basis, determined in US Dollars, in its
shares or ADSs. Capital gain of a noncorporate US holder that is recognised
in taxable years beginning before 1st January 2011 is generally taxed at a
maximum rate of 15% where the holder has a holding period of greater
than one year. The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources
within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
T axation of premium on redemption or purchase of shares
No refund of tax will be available under the Treaty in respect of any premium
paid on a redemption of preference shares by Barclays Bank PLC or on a
purchase by Barclays PLC of its own shares. For US tax purposes, redemption
premium generally will be treated as an additional amount realised in the
calculation of gain or loss.
T axation of passive foreign investment companies (PFICs)
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC believe that their respective shares 
and ADSs should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income 
tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is 
made annually and thus may be subject to change. If Barclays PLC or
Barclays Bank PLC were to be treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to
be taxed annually on a mark to market basis with respect to the shares or
ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of their shares or ADSs
would in general not be treated as capital gain.  Instead, for a US holder, such
gain and certain ‘excess distributions’ would be treated as having been
realised rateably over the holding period for the shares or ADSs and would
be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the
gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax
attributable to each such year. With certain exceptions, a US holder’ s shares
or ADSs will be treated as stock in a PFIC if Barclays PLC or Barclays Bank PLC
was a PFIC at any time during such holder’ s holding period in their shares or
ADSs. Dividends that a US holder receives will not be eligible for the special
tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Barclays PLC or Barclays
Bank PLC are treated as a PFIC with respect to such US holder either in the
taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead
will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Stamp duty
No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer of an ADS, provided that the
separate instrument of transfer is not executed in, and remains at all times
outside, the UK.
Estate and gift tax 
Under the Estate and Gift T ax Convention between the United Kingdom and
the United States, a US holder generally is not subject to UK inheritance tax.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders
Other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time 
to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations which would
affect the transfer of capital or remittance of dividends, interest and other
payments to holders of Barclays securities who are not residents of the UK.
There are also no restrictions under the Articles of Association of either
Barclays PLC or Barclays Bank PLC, or (subject to the effect of any such
economic sanctions) under current UK laws, which relate only to non-
residents of the UK, and which limit the right of such non-residents to hold
Barclays securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
Documents on display
It is possible to read and copy documents that have been filed by 
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission at the US Securities and Exchange Commission’ s office of
Investor Education and Advocacy located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington
DC 20549. Please call the US Securities and Exchange Commission at
1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and
their copy charges. Filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission
are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services,
and from the website maintained by the US Securities and Exchange
Commission at www.sec.gov. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 335
Shareholder enquiries
Investors who have any questions about their investment in Barclays, 
or about Barclays in general, may write to the Director, Investor Relations 
at our Head office as follows:
Director , Investor Relations
Barclays PLC
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
or, in the United States of America,
The Corporate Communications Department
Barclays Bank PLC
745 Seventh Avenue
New Y ork, NY 10019, USA
Registered and Head office:
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
T el: +44 (0) 20 7116 1000
Registrar:
The Registrar to Barclays
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
T el: 0871 384 2055*
or +44 (0) 121 415 7004 (from overseas)
Email: questions@share-registers.co.uk
ADR Depositary:
JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
PO Box 64504
St. Paul
MN 55164-0504
USA
T el: 1-800-990-1135 (toll-free for US domestic callers)
or +1 651 453 2128
Email: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com
*Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline. 
Call charges may vary if using other telephone providers. 336 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Annual Report 2009 index
Absa
71 business analysis
70 business description
187 Accountability and Audit
Accounting
203 developments
193-203 policies
203 presentation
Acquisitions
253 notes to the accounts
Allowance for impairment
269 notes to the accounts
141 risk management
150 Annual General Meeting
204 Annual Report and Accounts (approval)
Assets
306 by class of business
222 other
Auditors
191 reports
222 Available for sale investments
Balance sheet
50 average
206 consolidated
312 consolidated (Barclays Bank)
Barclaycard
65 business analysis
64 business description
Barclays Bank PLC 
310 consolidated accounts
324 financial data
315 notes to the accounts
Barclays Capital
73 business analysis
72 business description
Barclays Commercial Bank
63 business analysis
62 business description
Barclays Global Investors
75 business analysis
74 business description
186 BGI Equity Ownership Plan (EOP)
Barclays Wealth
77 business analysis
76 business description
Capital adequacy data
42 total assets and risk weighted assets
45 capital management
45 capital ratios
45-46 capital resources
303-304 Capital management
Cash flow statement 
208 consolidated
314 consolidated (Barclays Bank)
212 notes to the accounts
248 Competition and regulatory matters
272-274 Concentrations of credit risk
246-247 Contingent liabilities and commitments
48 Contractual obligations
Corporate governance
151-169 corporate governance report
155 attendance at board meetings
86 Corporate sustainability
269-282 Credit risk
55-57 Critical accounting estimates
194 Currency of presentation
286-287 Currency risk
Derivatives and other financial instruments 
219-221 notes to the accounts
Directors’ and officers’ 
10-12 biographies
148 emoluments
148 interests
256-260 notes to the accounts
147-150 Directors’ report
212 Dividends
217 Earnings per share 
128-129 Economic capital
26 Economic profit
Emerging Markets
69 business analysis
68 business description
Employees
149 equality and diversity
149 involvement
260 Events after the balance sheet date
12 Executive management structure
293-302 Fair value of financial instruments
218 Financial assets designated at fair value
3 Financial and operating highlights
228 Financial liabilities designated at fair value
30-79 Financial review
268 Financial risks
Global Retail and Commercial Banking
58-59 business analysis
338-342 Glossary 
225 Goodwill 
6-9 Group Chairman’s statement
14-19 Group Chief Executive’s review
Head office functions and other operations
79 business analysis
78 business description
Impairment charges
214 notes to the accounts
102 risk management
Income statement
204 consolidated
310 consolidated (Barclays Bank)
228-230 Insurance assets and liabilities
213 Insurance premiums and insurance claims and benefits
226 Intangible assets
284-285 Interest rate risk www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 337
Investment Banking and Investment Management 
58-59 business analysis
224 Investment in associates and joint ventures
26-29 Key performance indicators
249-250 Leasing
247 Legal proceedings
Liabilities
228 other
287-292 Liquidity risk
Loans and advances to banks
135 interest rate sensitivity
135 maturity analysis
221 notes to the accounts
Loans and advances to customers
135 interest rate sensitivity
138 maturity analysis
221 notes to the accounts
283-287 Market risk
330 Memorandum and Articles of Association
246 Non-controlling interests
Net fee and commission income
212 notes to the accounts
32 summary
Net interest income
212 notes to the accounts
32 summary
266-268 Off-balance sheet arrangements
Operating expenses
214-215 administration and general expenses
214 staff costs
35 summary
Ordinary shares, share premiums, and other equity
242-244 called up
Other income
213 notes to the accounts
33 summary
24 Our people
209-211 Parent Company accounts (Barclays PLC)
Pensions
178 directors
236-242 notes to the accounts
255-256 Principal subsidiaries
Principal transactions
213 notes to the accounts
33 summary
103 Potential credit risk loans
190 Presentation of information
227 Property, plant and equipment
235 Provisions
256-260 Related party transactions
176-186 Remuneration report
244-245 Reserves
58-79 Results by business
82-86 Risk factors
Risk management
87-93 Barclays approach to risk management
94-121 credit risk management
122-126 market risk management
127-129 capital risk management
130-132 liquidity risk management
133-134 operational risk management
135-144 statistical information
145-146 supervision and regulation 
45 Risk weighted assets
222 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchase 
and reverse repurchase agreements
235-236 Securitisation
Segmental reporting
304-308 by class of business
308 by geographical segments
260-265 Share-based payments
327-335 Shareholder information
47 Short-term borrowings
Statement of comprehesive income
205 consolidated
311 consolidated (Barclays Bank)
230-235 Subordinated liabilities
Tax
216 notes to the accounts
333-334 shareholder information
42 Total assets 
217 Trading portfolio
203 Trust activities
UK Retail Banking
61 business analysis
60 business description
Western Europe
67 business analysis
66 business description 338 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Glossary of terms
‘ ABS CDO Super Senior’ The super senior tranches of debt linked to
collateralised debt obligations of asset backed securities (defined below).
Payment of super senior tranches takes priority over other obligations. 
See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Absa’ Refers to the results for Absa Group Limited as consolidated into
the results of Barclays PLC; translated into Sterling with adjustments for
amortisation of intangible assets, certain head office adjustments, transfer
pricing and non-controlling interests. 
‘ Absa Capital’ The portion of Absa’ s results that is reported by Barclays
within the Barclays Capital business.
‘Absa Card’ The portion of Absa’ s results that arises from the Absa credit
card business and is reported within Barclaycard. 
‘ Absa Group Limited’ Refers to the consolidated results of the South African
group of which the Parent Company is listed on the Johannesburg Stock
Exchange (JSE Limited) in which Barclays owns a controlling stake.
‘ ABX Index’ An index tracking the yields of a basket of credit default swaps
linked to sub-prime mortgages, widely used in the industry .
‘ ABX.HE Index’ An index referencing the yield on a basket of 20 subprime
mortgage-backed securities, widely used in the industry .
‘ Adjusted Gross Leverage’ The multiple of adjusted total tangible assets
over total qualifying Tier 1 capital. Adjusted total tangible assets are total
assets less derivative counterparty netting, assets under management on
the balance sheet, settlement balances, goodwill and intangible assets.
See ‘Tier 1 Capital’ below.
‘Alt-A ’ Loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but with higher risk
characteristics than lending under normal criteria. See Risk Management
section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘ Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR)’ is the sensitivity of annual earnings to
shocks in market rates, at approximately 99th percentile for change over
one year. For interest rates this equates to a 2% parallel shift in rates.
For equity indices, it equates to a 25% change from one-year end to
the next, or 15% from one-year end to the next year’ s average.
‘Arrears’ Customers are said to be in arrears when they are behind in
fulfilling their obligations with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid
or overdue. Such a customer is also said to be in a state of delinquency .
When a customer is in arrears, his entire outstanding balance is said to be
delinquent, meaning that delinquent balances are the total outstanding
loans on which payments are overdue.
‘ Asset backed products’ As used in Note 50, asset backed products are debt
and derivative products that are linked to the cash flow of a referenced asset.
This category includes asset backed loans; collateralised debt obligations
(CDOs); collateralised loan obligations (CLOs); asset backed credit
derivatives (ABS CDS); asset backed and mortgage backed securities.
‘ Asset Backed Securities (ABS)’ Securities that represent an interest in an
underlying pool of referenced assets. The referenced pool can comprise any
assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools
of residential or commercial mortgages and, in the case of Collateralised
Debt Obligations (CDOs), the referenced pool may be ABS or other classes
of assets. See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘ Assets margin’ Interest earned on customer assets relative to the average
internal funding rate, divided by average customer assets, expressed as an
annualised percentage.
‘Average balances’ which make up the average balance sheet are based
upon daily averages for most UK banking operations and monthly averages
outside the UK.
‘ Average base rates’ Average of the official base rate.
‘ Average net income generated per member of staff’ T otal operating income
compared to the average number of employees for the reporting period.
‘Backstop facility’ A standby facility , that is a liquidity arrangement whereby
another party agrees to make a payment should the primary party not do so.
‘Basis point’ One hundredth of a per cent (0.01%), so 100 basis points is
1%. Used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
‘CMBS Index Products (CMBX)’ The CMBX is a series of CMBS credit default
swap indices. It allows investors to take diversified exposure (long or short)
synthetically across rating categories. CMBX is administered by Markit,
which serves as the calculation and marketing agent for CMBX.
‘CMBS IG Index’ An index compiled by Barclays Capital, which measures the
return for CMBS securities with an original deal size of $500m or greater,
combined with a required rating of Baa3/BBB- or higher (investment grade).
In addition, maturity must be equal to or greater than one year and no
floating rate certificates may be included.
‘Collateralised Debt Obligations (CDOs)’ Securities issued by a third party
which reference Asset Backed Securities (ABSs) (defined above) and/ or
certain other related assets purchased by the issuer. CDOs may feature
exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.
CDO
2
securities represent investments in CDOs that have been securitised
by a third party . See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
Term used in Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accounts Financial statements
Allotted Issued
Attributable profit Net income
Called up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid
Capital allowances T ax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances
Cash at bank and in hand Cash
Class of business Industry segment
Finance lease Capital lease
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity
Loans and advances Lendings
Loan capital Long-term debt
Net asset value Book value
Profit Income
Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable)
Shares in issue Shares outstanding
Write-offs Charge-offs www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 339
‘Collateralised Loan Obligation (CLO)’ A security backed by the repayments
from a pool of commercial loans. The payments may be made to different
classes of owners (in tranches). See Risk Management section – Credit
Market Exposures.
‘Collateralised Synthetic Obligation (CSO)’ A form of synthetic collateralised
debt obligation (CDO) that does not hold assets like bonds or loans but
invests in credit default swaps (CDSs) or other non-cash assets to gain
exposure to a portfolio of fixed income assets.
‘Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities (CMBS)’ Securities that represent
interests in a pool of commercial mortgages. Investors in these securities
have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments (interest
and/ or principal). See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Commercial Real Estate’ Includes office buildings, industrial property ,
medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land,
multifamily housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial
properties. Commercial real estate loans are those backed by a package
of commercial real estate assets. See Risk Management section –
Credit Market Exposures.
‘Commercial Paper’ An unsecured promissory note issued to finance
short-term credit needs. It specifies the face amount paid to investors 
on the maturity date. 
‘Commodity products’ As used in Note 50, these products are exchange
traded and OTC derivatives based on a commodity underlying (e.g. metals,
precious metals, oil and oil related, power and natural gas).
‘Compensation:income ratio’ Staff compensation based costs compared
to total income net of insurance claims.
‘Conduits’ A financial vehicle that holds asset-backed debt such as
mortgages, vehicle loans, and credit card receivables, all financed with
short-term loans (generally commercial paper) that use the asset-backed
debt as collateral. The profitability of a conduit depends on the ability to roll
over maturing short-term debt at a cost that is lower than the returns
earned from asset-backed securities held in the portfolio. See Risk
Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Core Tier 1 capital’ Called-up share capital and eligible reserves plus equity
non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and deductions relating to
the excess of expected loss over regulatory impairment allowance and
securitisation positions as specified by the FSA. 
‘Core Tier 1 capital ratio’ Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk 
weighted assets.
‘Cost:income ratio’ Operating expenses compared to total income net
of insurance claims.
‘Cost:net income ratio’ Operating expenses compared to total income net
of insurance claims less impairment charges. 
‘Coverage ratio (CRL)’ Impairment allowances as a percentage of 
CRL balances. 
‘Credit conversion factors (CCFs)’ The portion of an off-balance sheet
commitment drawn in the event of a future default. The conversion factor
is expressed as a percentage. The conversion factor is used to calculate
the exposure at default (EAD).
‘Credit Default Swaps (CDS)’ A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby
the credit risk of an asset (the reference asset) is transferred from the buyer
to the seller of protection. A credit default swap is a contract where the
protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments in return
for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer in the event of a
defined credit event. Credit events normally include bankruptcy , payment
default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency .
‘Credit Derivative Product Company (CDPC)’ A company that sells
protection on credit derivatives. CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
However, unlike monoline insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Credit market exposures’ Relates to commercial real estate and leveraged
finance businesses that have been significantly impacted by the continued
deterioration in the global credit markets. The exposures include positions
subject to fair value movements in the Income Statement, positions that are
classified as loans and advances and available for sale.
‘Other credit products’ As used in Note 50, these are products linked to the
credit risk of a referenced entity , index or a basket. This category includes
collateralised synthetic obligations (non-asset backed CDOs) and OTC
derivatives. The OTC derivatives are namely , CDS single name; CDS index;
CDS index tranche and Nth to default basket swaps (in which the payout is
linked to one in a series of defaults, such as first-, second- or third-to-default,
with the contract terminating at that point).
‘Credit Risk Loans (CRLs)’ A loan becomes a credit risk loan when evidence
of deterioration has been observed, for example a missed payment or other
breach of covenant. A loan may be reported in one of three categories:
impaired loans, accruing past due 90 days or more or impaired and
restructured loans. These may include loans which, while impaired, are still
performing but have associated individual impairment allowances raised
against them.
‘Credit spread’ The yield spread between securities with the same coupon
rate and maturity structure but with different associated credit risks, with
the yield spread rising as the credit rating worsens. It is the premium over
the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to accept a lower
credit quality .
‘Credit Valuation Adjustment (CV A)’ The difference between the risk-free
value of a portfolio of trades and the market value which takes into account
the counterparty’ s risk of default. The CV A therefore represents an estimate
of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to
incorporate the credit risk of the counterparty due to any failure to perform
on contractual agreements.
‘Customer deposits’ Money deposited by all individuals and companies that
are not credit institutions. Such funds are recorded as liabilities in the Group’ s
balance sheet under Customer Accounts.
‘Daily Value at Risk (DVaR)’ An estimate of the potential loss which might
arise from market movements under normal market conditions, if the
current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day ,
measured to a confidence level. (Also see VaR).
‘Debit Valuation Adjustment (DV A)’ The opposite of credit valuation
adjustment (CV A). It is the difference between the risk-free value of a
portfolio of trades and the market value which takes into account Barclays
Group’ s risk of default. The DV A, therefore, represents an estimate of the
adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate
the credit risk of Barclays Group due to any failure to perform on contractual
agreements. The DV A decreases the value of a liability to take into account
a reduction in the remaining balance that would be settled should Barclays
Group default or not perform in terms of contractual agreements.
‘Debt restructuring’ This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding
debt agreements are changed. This is often done in order to improve cash
flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt. It can involve altering
the repayment schedule as well as reducing the debt or interest charged
on the loan.
‘Delinquency’ See ‘ Arrears’.
‘Dividend payout ratio’ Y early dividends paid per share as a fraction of
earnings per share. 
‘Economic capital’ An internal measure of the minimum equity and
preference capital required for the Group to maintain its credit rating based
upon its risk profile.
‘Economic profit’ Profit after tax and non-controlling interests excluding
amortisation of acquired intangible assets less a capital charge representing
adjusted average shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests
multiplied by the Group cost of capital. 340 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Glossary of terms
continued
‘Equity products’ As used in Note 50, these products are linked to equity
markets. This category includes listed equities, exchange traded 
derivatives, equity derivatives, preference shares and contract for 
difference (CFD) products.
‘Equity structural hedge’ An interest rate hedge which functions to reduce
the impact of the volatility of short-term interest rate movements on equity
positions on the balance sheet that do not reprice with market rates.
‘Expected loss’ The Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures
captured under an internal ratings based credit risk approach for capital
adequacy calculations. It is measured as the Barclays modelled view of
anticipated loss based on Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default
(LGD) and Exposure at Default (EAD), with a one-year time horizon.
‘Exposure in the event of default (EAD)’ The estimation of the extent to
which Barclays may be exposed to a customer or counterparty in the event
of, and at the time of, that counterparty’ s default. At default, the customer
may not have drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the
principal, so that exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
‘FICO score’ A credit score, based on the Fair Isaac Corporation (being the
US rating company that wrote the software that calculates the scores).
‘First/Second Lien’ First lien: debt that places its holder first in line to collect
compensation from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a
default on the loan. Second lien: debt that is issued against the same
collateral as higher lien debt but that is subordinate to it. In the case of
default, compensation for this debt will only be received after the first lien
has been repaid and thus represents a riskier investment than the first lien.
See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Full time equivalent’ Full time equivalent employee units are the on-job
hours paid for employee services divided by the number of ordinary-time
hours normally paid for a full-time staff member when on the job (or
contract employee where applicable).
‘Funds and fund-linked products’ As used in Note 50, this category 
includes holdings in mutual funds, hedge funds, fund of funds and fund
linked derivatives.
‘Funded/unfunded’ Exposures where the notional amount of the
transaction is either funded or unfunded. Represents exposures where a
commitment to provide future funding has been made and the funds have
been released/not released.
‘FX products’ As used in Note 50, these products are derivatives linked to
the foreign exchange market. This category includes FX spot and forward
contracts; FX swaps; FX options.
‘Gain on acquisition’ The amount by which the acquirer’ s interest in the
net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities,
recognised in a business combination, exceeds the cost of the combination. 
‘Global Retail and Commercial Banking – Absa’ The portion of Absa’ s results
that is reported within the Global Retail and Commercial Banking business.
‘Home Loans’ A loan to purchase a residential property which is then used
as collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan. The borrower gives the
lender a lien against the property , and the lender can foreclose on the
property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Also known as a residential mortgage.
‘Impaired loans’ Loans are reported as Credit Risk Loans (defined above)
and comprise loans where individual identified impairment allowance has
been raised and also include loans which are fully collateralised or where
indebtedness has already been written down to the expected realisable
value. The impaired loan category may include loans, which, while impaired,
are still performing.
‘Impairment allowances’ A provision held on the balance sheet as a result
of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred loss inherent in the
lending book. An impairment allowance may either be identified or
unidentified and individual or collective.
‘Income’ T otal income net of insurance claims, unless otherwise specified.
‘Individually/Collectively Assessed’ Impairment is measured individually
for assets that are individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio
comprises homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical
techniques are available.
‘Interest rate products’ As used in Note 50, these are products with a payoff
linked to interest rates. This category includes interest rate swaps,
swaptions, caps and exotic interest rate derivatives. 
‘Investment grade’ A debt security , treasury bill or similar instrument with
a credit rating measured by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
‘Jaws’ The difference between the growth in cost and the growth in income.
‘LCDX Index’ The Loan Credit Default Swap Index, a generally accepted
loan-only credit default swap index created by CDSIndexCo. The LCDX index
is a tradeable index with 100 equally-weighted underlying single-name
loan-only credit default swaps (LCDS).
‘Leveraged Finance’ Loans or other financing agreements provided to
companies whose overall level of debt is high in relation to their cash flow
(net debt: EBITDA) typically arising from private equity sponsor led
acquisitions of the businesses concerned.
‘Liabilities margin’ Interest paid on customer liabilities relative to the average
internal funding rate, divided by average customer liabilities. Expressed as
an annualised percentage.
‘Liquidity and Credit enhancements’ Credit enhancement facilities are used
to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due
to asset default. Two general types of credit enhancement are third-party loan
guarantees and self-enhancement through over collateralization. Liquidity
enhancement makes funds available if required, for other reasons than asset
default, e.g. to ensure timely repayment of maturing commercial paper .
‘Liquidity pool/buffer’ The Group liquidity pool comprises cash at central
banks and highly liquid collateral specifically held by the Group as
contingency to enable the bank to meet cash outflows in the event
of stressed market conditions.
‘Loan loss rate’ Defined as total credit impairment charge (excluding
available for sale assets and reverse repurchase agreements) divided by
gross loans and advances to customers and banks (at amortised cost).
‘Loan to deposit ratio’ The ratio of wholesale and retail loans and advances
to customers net of impairment allowance divided by customer deposits.
‘Loan funding ratio’ The ratio of wholesale and retail loans and advances
to customers net of impairment allowance, divided by the total of customer
accounts, long-term debt (>1 yr) and equity .
‘Loan to value ratio (LTV)’ The amount of a first mortgage lien as a
percentage of the total appraised value of real property . The LTV ratio is
used in determining the appropriate level of risk for the loan and therefore
the price of the loan to the borrower. LTV ratios may be expressed in a
number of ways, including origination LTV and mark to market (MTM) LTV.
Origination LTVs use the current outstanding loan balance and the value
of the property at origination of the loan. MTM LTVs use the current
outstanding loan value and the current value of the property (which is
estimated using one or more external house price indices).
‘Loans past due’ Loans are past due when a counterparty has failed to make
a payment when contractually due. 
‘Loss Given Default (LGD)’ The fraction of Exposure at Default (EAD)
(defined above) that will not be recovered following default. LGD comprises
the actual loss (the part that is not expected to be recovered), together with
the economic costs associated with the recovery process. 
‘Markit LCDX Index’ An index compiled by Markit Inc, a specialist securities
market researcher, compiled by reference to first lien loans issued by 
100 entities listed on the Markit Syndicated Secured List, widely used 
in the industry .
‘Medium Term Notes (MTNs)’ Corporate notes continuously offered by a
company to investors through a dealer. Investors can choose from differing
maturities, ranging from nine months to 30 years. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 341
‘Monoline’ An entity which specialises in providing credit protection to the
holders of debt instruments in the event of default by a debt security
counterparty . This protection is typically held in the form of derivatives such
as credit default swaps (CDS) referencing the underlying exposures held.
See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Monoline Wrapped’ Debt instruments for which credit enhancement or
protection by a monoline insurer has been obtained. The wrap is credit
protection against the notional and principal interest cash flows due to the
holders of debt instruments in the event of default in payment of these by
the underlying counterparty . Therefore, if a security is monoline wrapped
its payments of principal and interest are guaranteed by a monoline insurer.
See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS)’ Securities that represent interests
in a group of mortgages. Investors in these securities have the right to cash
received from future mortgage payments (interest and/ or principal).
See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Mortgage vintage’ The year the mortgage was issued.
‘Mortgage related securities’ Securities which are referenced to underlying
mortgages. See RMBS, CMBS and MBS.
‘Net Asset Value per Share’ Computed by dividing shareholders’ equity
excluding non-controlling interests by the number of issued ordinary shares.
‘Net Equity’ The change in shareholders’ equity between one period
and another.
‘Net Interest Income’ The difference between interest received on assets
and interest paid on liabilities including the interest income on Group equity . 
‘Net Interest Margin’ The margin is expressed as annualised net interest
income for GRCB and Barclays Wealth divided by the sum of the average
assets and average liabilities for GRCB and Barclays Wealth.
‘Net Tangible Asset Value per Share’ Computed by dividing shareholders’
equity excluding non-controlling interests less goodwill and intangible
assets, by the number of issued ordinary shares.
‘Non-asset backed debt instruments’ As used in Note 50, these products
are debt instruments. This category includes government bonds; US agency
bonds; corporate bonds; commercial paper; certificates of deposit;
convertible bonds; corporate bonds and issued notes.
‘Non-investment grade’ A debt security , treasury bill or similar instrument
with a credit rating measured by external agencies of BB+ or below.
‘Notional Collateral’ Collateral based on the notional amount of 
a financial instrument.
‘Over the counter derivatives (OTC)’ Contracts that are traded (and privately
negotiated) directly between two parties, without going through an
exchange or other intermediary . They offer flexibility because, unlike
standardised exchange-traded products, they can be tailored to fit 
specific needs.
‘Own Credit’ The effect of the Group’ s own credit standing on the fair value
of financial liabilities.
‘PCRL Coverage ratio’ Impairment allowances as a percentage of total CRL
(credit risk loan) & PPL (potential problem loan) balances. See CRL and PPL.
‘Potential Credit Risk Loans (PCRLs)’ Comprise the outstanding balances
to Potential Problem Loans (defined below) and the three categories of
Credit Risk Loans (defined above).
‘Potential Problem Loans (PPLs)’ Loans where serious doubt exists as to
the ability of the borrowers to continue to comply with repayment terms
in the near future.
‘Prime’ Loans of a higher credit quality and would be expected to satisfy
the criteria for inclusion into Government programmes.
‘Principal transactions’ Principal transactions comprise net trading income
and net investment income.
‘Private equity investments’ As used in Note 50, private equity is equity
securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange.
Investment in private equity often involves the investment of capital in
private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in
the delisting of public equity . Capital for private equity investment is raised
by retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment strategies
such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed
investments and mezzanine capital. 
‘Probability of default (PD)’ The likelihood that a loan will not be repaid
and will fall into default. PD may be calculated for each client who has a loan
(normally applicable to wholesale customers/ clients) or for a portfolio
of clients with similar attributes (normally applicable to retail customers).
T o calculate PD, Barclays assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other
counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating. Multiple rating
methodologies may be used to inform the rating decision on individual large
credits, such as internal and external models, rating agency ratings, and for
wholesale assets market information such as credit spreads. For smaller credits,
a single source may suffice such as the result from an internal rating model.
‘Product structural hedge’ An interest rate hedge which functions to reduce
the impact of the volatility of short-term interest rate movements on-balance
sheet positions that can be matched to a specific product, e.g. customer
balances that do not reprice with market rates.
‘Renegotiated loans’ Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either
as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse
change in the circumstances of the borrower. In the latter case renegotiation
can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans
under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to genuinely
distressed borrowers. This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue
and will be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of
interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the
asset. In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new agreement, which
is treated as a new loan. 
‘Repo/Reverse repo’ A repurchase agreement that allows a borrower to
use a financial security as collateral for a cash loan at a fixed rate of interest.
In a repo, the borrower agrees to sell a security to the lender subject to a
commitment to repurchase the asset at a specified price on a given date.
For the party selling the security (and agreeing to repurchase it in the future)
it is a repo; for the party on the other end of the transaction (buying the
security and agreeing to sell in the future) it is a reverse repurchase
agreement or reverse repo.
‘Residential Mortgage Backed Securities (RMBS)’ Securities that represent
interests in a group of residential mortgages. Investors in these securities
have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments (interest
and/ or principal). See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Restructured loans’ ‘Impaired and restructured loans’ comprises loans
where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor’ s financial
difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that would not
otherwise be considered. Where the concession results in the expected
cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate being less than
the loan’ s carrying value, an impairment allowance will be raised. 
‘Retail Loans’ Loans to individuals rather than institutions. This includes both
secured and unsecured loans such as mortgages and credit card balances.
‘Return on average economic capital’ Profit for the year attributable
to equity holders of the Parent divided by average economic capital.
‘Return on average shareholders’ equity’ Calculated as profit for the year
attributable to equity holders of the Parent divided by the average
shareholders’ equity for the year, excluding non-controlling interests. 
‘Risk asset ratio’ A measure of the risk attached to the assets of a business
using definitions of capital and risk weightings established in accordance
with the Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the FSA.
‘Risk weighted assets’ A measure of a bank’ s assets adjusted for their
associated risks. Risk weightings are established in accordance with the
Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the FSA. 342 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Glossary of terms
continued
‘Securitisation’ A process by which debt instruments are aggregated into a
pool, which is used to back new securities. A company sells assets to an SPV
(special purpose vehicle) who then issues securities backed by the assets
based on their value. This allows the credit quality of the assets to be
separated from the credit rating of the original company and transfers risk
to external investors.
‘SIV Lites’ Are SPEs (Special Purpose Entities) which invest in diversified
portfolios of interest earning assets to take advantage of the spread
differentials between the assets in the SIV and the funding cost. Unlike SIVs
they are not perpetual, making them look more like CDOs, which have fixed
maturity dates. See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Special Purpose Entities (SPEs)’ Entities that are created to accomplish a
narrow and well defined objective. There are often specific restrictions or
limits around their ongoing activities. Transactions with SPEs take a number
of forms, including:
– The provision of financing to fund asset purchases, or commitments
to provide finance for future purchases.
– Derivative transactions to provide investors in the SPE with a specified
exposure.
– The provision of liquidity or backstop facilities which may be drawn upon
if the SPE experiences future funding difficulties.
– Direct investment in the notes issued by SPEs.
‘Structural hedge’ An interest rate hedge which functions to reduce the
impact of the volatility of short-term interest rate movements on positions
that exist within the balance sheet that carry interest rates that do not
reprice with market rates. See also equity structural hedge and product
structural hedge. 
‘Structured Investment Vehicles (SIVs)’ SPEs (Special Purpose Entities)
which invest in diversified portfolios of interest earning assets to take
advantage of the spread differentials between the assets in the SIV and the
funding cost. See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Structural liquidity’ The liquidity available from current positions – principally
unpledged marketable assets and holdings of term liabilities with long
remaining lives.
‘Structured finance/notes’ A structured note is an investment tool 
which pays a return linked to the value or level of a specified asset or index
and sometimes offers capital protection if the value declines. Structured
notes can be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and
foreign currency .
‘Subordination’ The state of prioritising repayments of principal and interest
on debt to a creditor lower than repayments to other creditors by the same
debtor. That is, claims of a security are settled by a debtor to a creditor only
after the claims of securities held by other creditors of the same debtor have
been settled. 
‘Subordinated liabilities’ Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or
liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and
other creditors of the issuer.
‘Sub-Prime’ Defined as loans to borrowers typically having weakened credit
histories that include payment delinquencies and potentially more severe
problems such as court judgements and bankruptcies. They may also
display reduced repayment capacity as measured by credit scores, high
debt-to-income ratios, or other criteria indicating heightened risk of default.
See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Tier 1 capital’ A measure of a bank's financial strength defined by the FSA.
It captures Core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, but is
subject to a deduction in respect of material holdings in financial companies.
‘Tier 1 capital ratio’ The ratio expresses Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk
weighted assets.
‘Tier 2 capital’ Defined by the FSA. Broadly , it includes qualifying subordinated
debt and other Tier 2 securities in issue, eligible collective impairment
allowances, unrealised available for sale equity gains and revaluation
reserves. It is subject to deductions relating to the excess of expected loss
over regulatory impairment allowance, securitisation positions and material
holdings in financial companies.
‘Top-line income’ Income before own credit gains/losses and credit market
write-downs.
‘T otal shareholder return (TSR)’ Defined as the value created for shareholders
through share price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend payments.
‘Value at Risk (VaR)’ An estimate of the potential loss which might arise from
market movements under normal market conditions, if the current positions
were to be held unchanged for one business day , measured to a confidence
level. (Also see DVaR).
‘Whole loans’ A mortgage loan sold in its entirety when the buyer assumes
the entire loan along with its rights and responsibilities. A whole loan is
differentiated from investments in which the buyer becomes part owner of a
pool of mortgages. See Risk Management section – Credit Market Exposures.
‘Write-Down’ After an advance has been identified as impaired and is
subject to an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby 
it is concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery . 
Write-downs will occur when, and to the extent that, the whole or part 
of a debt is considered irrecoverable. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 343
Notes 344 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Notes  Report Cover: Produced using 50% recycled fibre
and pulp bleached using Elemental Chlorine Free
(ECF) process. Report Text: Produced from 1 00%
de-inked post consumer waste. The printer and both
mills are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental
management standard.
© Barclays Bank PLC 2010
Registered office: 
1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP 
Registered in England. Registered No: 48839
9910941
